Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Bristol

 Unit of Assessment: 26: Modern Languages and Linguistics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context and structure of the School of Modern Languages (SML)
Since 2014, SML has pioneered work in key emerging areas of Modern Languages:
transnationalisation, and intermediality, by introducing new objects of study and innovative
methodologies. We are investigating new directions in areas such as literary studies,
sociolinguistics, and discourse analysis; and have forged interdisciplinary connections in and
beyond the arts and social sciences via themes of global concern, from mental health to climate
change. We have expanded our range of beneficiaries, locally and internationally, and fostered
projects in which research and impact are generated simultaneously in partnerships of equals.

SML comprises five Departments (French, German, Hispanic Portuguese and Latin American
Studies, Italian, and Russian), with the disciplines of Linguistics and Translation Studies operating
cross-Departmentally. Research in the School spans twelve languages (Catalan, Chinese, Czech,
French, German, Italian, Occitan, Portuguese, Russian, Scots, Slovak and Spanish). It extends
from the Medieval period to the contemporary, reaching beyond Eastern and Western Europe to
large areas of Latin America and Africa (Francophone, Lusophone and Italian-colonial). The study
of languages, cultures, and their multiple interactions across historical periods, across global
geographies and across all forms of media is at the center of its inquiry.

The School’s research identity is defined by three interconnected themes, which unite all SML
researchers:

Transcultural encounters
Transcultural encounters, which emphasise cultural difference and diversity yet also
interconnectedness and mutual influence, are explored within and beyond Europe, including in
uneven colonial, pre-colonial, and postcolonial contexts, vertically and transversally (between
localities that circumvent persistent narratives of ‘West’ and ‘East’ or ‘North’ and ‘South’). SML
views transnational entanglements through reception, transfer, translation, and migration as central
to Modern Languages as a discipline today, which it has helped to shape nationally and
internationally.

Visual Culture and Intermediality
Building on its excellence in word and image studies, film, and theatre, the School has diversified
its research in visual culture to include auditory and intermedial culture, expressed in such cultural
artefacts as video games, graphic novels, manga, landscape design and artwork from video
installation to graffiti; a rare profile in Modern Languages units. Intermedial research in SML
typically analyses how media are referred to, transposed (as in visual poetry or film adaptation of
literature), or combined (as in installation art or illuminated manuscripts) – or how a work shifts
from one format to another (the transformation of street performances to digital video works, for
example). Our research is frequently also transmedial: aesthetics or ideas are compared across a
range of media.




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Language, Form, and Society
SML research explores how languages evolve, how the materiality of discursive genres (artistic
and otherwise) shapes the message, and how literary and discursive practices interact with social,
political, and professional contexts. Formal literary analysis and research in sociolinguistics are
enhanced by the history of material and digital texts, studies in reception and adaptation, and the
study of translation practices and technology.

Research in these three areas intersects with the study of social and political histories, often but
not always considered through the lens of cultural expression. Here it breaks new ground by
connecting research and practice, for example by developing participatory methodologies of oral
history or interacting with non-academic stakeholders in the creative industries.

These distinct disciplinary approaches intertwine, and are supported, through collaborative
research activities and a School seminar series (detailed below). SML researchers also collaborate
across five Research Centres in the Faculty of Arts and four of the University’s Research Institutes
(see REF5a). The School currently leads the Faculty’s Centre for Medieval Studies (co-directed by
Ailes) and the Bristol Poetry Institute (co-directed by Kosick). The co-founder/-director of the
Centre for Material Texts is Daniels. SML researchers also play active or leading roles in the
Centre for Black Humanities, the Centre for Health, Humanities and Science, and the Centre for
Environmental Humanities, as well as the University’s Brigstow Institute, Cabot Institute, Migration
Mobilities Bristol, and Elizabeth Blackwell Institute (EBI) for Health Research (REF5a). SML is a
major contributor to the University’s strategic initiatives fostering global citizenship, intercultural
understanding and global engagement.

SML’s collaborative research culture is underpinned by a tight organisational structure. Research
activities are co-ordinated by its School Research Director (SRD), who is a member of the Senior
Management Group (SMG) and chairs the Research Planning Group (RPG). The SRD (who sits
on the Faculty Research Committee) determines School Research Strategy in consultation with the
Head of School (HoS, who sits on Faculty Board). These two individuals work closely with the
School Impact Director (SID), the disciplinary leads (a Head of Subject in each Department and the
Director of Translation), the Dean, the Faculty Research Directors (FRD) and the Faculty Research
Committee. The School Research Strategy is thus informed by the Faculty Research Strategy
whose objectives it reflects and helps to formulate. Research matters are considered at School
level by termly meetings of RPG (comprising HoS, SRD, SID, Heads of Subject, Director of
Translation and an early career researcher (ECR) representative).


Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact:
At the time of REF2014 the School prioritised the following strategic objectives:
       •   Consolidate visual and screen studies, word and image studies, comparative studies,
           linguistics, and translation;
       •   Develop fresh and emerging areas in modern languages research;
       •   Broker more activity with regional partners;
       •   Build rapidly on work with colleagues at Bristol and within the wider community;
       •   Target larger research grants;
       •   Enhance PhD recruitment and strengthen our postdoctoral base;
       •   Continue to plan for investment in early-career appointments.


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
SML has achieved these objectives. It has developed research strengths and contributed to setting
the agenda nationally and internationally in Modern Languages, particularly in the key emerging
areas of transnationalisation and intermediality, through strategic staff recruitment, enhanced
research activity, and grant capture. It has integrated collaboration, partnerships and impact into its
research practices and significantly increased postgraduate research student (PGRs) and
postdoctoral recruitment. In quantitative terms the School has:
   •   Built capacity through the recruitment of 16 open-ended lecturers, particularly in the areas
       of translation, sociolinguistics, transcultural encounters, and intermedial and visual research
       (against four retirements or resignations and, tragically, one death in service)
   •   Enhanced its research income from £1,005K to £4,615K, a more than threefold increase
       per annum
   •   Expanded its PGR community, with 52 PhD completions compared to 6.5 in the previous
       cycle
   •   Recruited 10 postdoctoral researchers (PDRs)

Since 2014 the School has also made a strong professorial appointment from an external chair:
Schönle, Fellow of the British Academy (FBA), Queen Mary University London (QMUL), Head of
School since 2018. The presentation of SML’s research identity has evolved to reflect such new
appointments and respond to new directions explored by researchers in the School.

The School has grown its research income from £1,005,813.45 to £4,615,389.21. Two major
externally funded interdisciplinary projects have been fundamental to forging SML’s research
identity and agenda: the large Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) projects ‘The History
of the French Language in Russia’, led by Emeritus Professor Offord, and ‘Transnationalising
Modern Languages’, led by Burdett. Burdett’s collaborative project, which has helped to shape the
emerging view of transnationalism and mobility as central to Modern Languages, enhanced
international recognition of the School as a leader in the discipline. SML’s reputation in this area
was cemented by further externally funded collaborative projects, including those of Brown,
O’Rawe, Ailes, Nafafe, and Schönle (while still at QMUL), individual awards (Bush, Davies and
Tomlinson), and major discipline-shifting publications such as Doak’s co-edited Transnational
Russian Studies. Transnational connections are central to further projects involving countries in
and beyond Africa (Peters, Shilton), Europe (Hurcombe, Pinfold, Siviter, a participant in two major
France-based grant projects), and Latin America (Crow, King, Merchant and Randall). Our
increasing investigation of transversal (South-South) encounters will be taken forward by projects
such as Bush’s European Research Council (ERC)-funded ‘The Creative Lives of African
Universities: Pedagogies of Hope and Despair’, connecting universities in Senegal, Ivory Coast,
Benin and Cameroon.

As stated above, SML is also distinctive in its range of visual and intermedial research. Through
funded projects (such as O’Rawe’s AHRC standard grant ‘Italian Cinema Audiences: 1945-60’),
outputs, and a series of new appointments, it has strengthened further its long-established
reputation for research in word and image studies (Harrow, Kosick, Vilain), theatre (Davies, Kitts,
Siviter) and film (Fox, Knight, O’Rawe, Randall), while expanding to encompass auditory culture
(Fox), digital video and other art forms – from performance and installation art to graphic novels
and graffiti (King, Merchant, Shilton), and the media (Earlie), as well as adaptations to musicals,
manga and video games (Stephens). There are strong connections with research in History of Art;
for example, medieval manuscripts (Dent and Williamson (HoA); Ailes and Kay (SML)),
decolonising art history (Price, Robles, Arends (HoA); Shilton (SML)) and ‘transnational

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
modernisms’ (Hoare, Price, Robles (HoA); Harrow, Shilton, Vilain (SML)). (Arends, Dent, Hoare
and Price, from History of Art, have been included in the current submission.)

Research on language, form and society includes a sociolinguistic focus on minority languages
such as Catalan (via Hawkey’s British Academny (BA) Fellowship), Occitan (Mooney), and Scots
(Havinga); literary studies maintains its chronological diversity, from medieval manuscripts (Ailes)
to the long eighteenth and nineteenth centuries (Davies, Doak, Kitts, Schönle, Stephens),
modernist poetics (Harrow, Vilain) and contemporary novels and poetry (Kosick). It now includes
the study of material and digital texts (Daniels, King). Research in translation studies has
expanded to include machine translation (Vieira), film subtitling (O’Sullivan), and video game
localisation (Zhang).

SML’s research in histories has expanded to include projects on masculinities (Stephens, Doak),
race (Crow, Lingna Nafafé, Peters), heritage (Ailes, Schönle), political cultures (Allinson,
Hurcombe, Raymond, Schönle), intellectual history (Coates, Crow, Kitts), book history (Bush,
Daniels), urban humanities (Glynn, Harrow, Schönle), and sport (Brown, Hurcombe). It also
explores new areas of research in diaspora (through Nafafé’s ERC project with social scientists)
and exile (via Davies’ Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship), as well as the history of fascism
(through Foot’s Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship).

A further area of increasing strength is the co-production of research with industries (e.g. Vieira’s
work with the Institute of Translation and Interpreting to raise professional standards for language
translators); organisations (e.g. from Brown working with governments and non-governmental
organisations (NGOs), or Foot with mental health institutions, to Hurcombe with local cycling
activists); and creative practitioners (e.g. through the conference and exhibition ‘Press Play’, which
Shilton co-organised at the British School at Rome, Siviter’s work with professional actors to
explore eighteenth-century acting styles, and King’s work with artists in Bristol, Brazil and
Cameroon to explore new ways of connecting print media to digital audio).

Interdisciplinary research in SML now also goes beyond the arts and humanities and social
sciences. Environmental concerns were central to Williams’s Global Challenges Research Fund
(GCRF) project with earth scientists on volcanic eruptions. Merchant’s AHRC Leadership
Fellowship uses media from film and digital video to poetry to investigate the tension between
territorial and ecological understandings of bodies of water in Chile, Peru and Bolivia. Vice-
Chancellor’s Fellow Finch-Race draws on environmental science to explore images of regional
industrialisation in nineteenth-century French literature and art. Intersections between medicine
and the humanities are explored in projects by Foot, Lewis (Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship
(ECF) until Dec 2018) and Wells. Foot’s research into the closure of the psychiatric hospitals in
Italy includes a volume edited with the leading psychiatrist Tom Burns (OUP 2020). Vailes
(Pathway 3, Teaching & Scholarship) has published two ground-breaking books improving
knowledge of mental health issues in academia and developing well-being among students. The
professional use and ethics of machine translation is the subject of Vieira’s Economic and Social
Research Council (ESRC) grant.

In addition to their involvement in Faculty centres, SML researchers collaborate in a range of inter-
and cross-disciplinary Faculty-wide research clusters. Examples include leadership of the ‘Urban
Humanities’ cluster (Glynn), ‘Bodies of Water’ (Merchant) and ‘Research in Rhetoric’ (Earlie).
O’Rawe, as co-lead of the Screen Research Cluster (2013-present), has co-organised events on,

                                                                                               Page 4
    Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
    for example, new directions in screen research, The Battle of Algiers, girlhood, and male stars.
    Daniels is co-founder of the ‘Books’ cluster (2013-2017), co-founder of ‘Early Italian Studies at
    Bristol’ cluster (2013 to present), and member of the Early Modern Studies research group (2013
    to present). Stephens and Doak co-founded ‘Men and Masculinities in Culture and Society’ (2016),
    which grew to include around 100 researchers across the UK and beyond. Bush’s GCRF project
    on ‘AWA: la revue de la femme noire’ has sparked activities among clusters dealing with Black
    Humanities and Colonial and Postcolonial studies in Bristol and beyond.

    Major conferences hosted at Bristol also reflect SML’s themes and broader ambitions for the
    discipline; for example, Hurcombe’s Modern Humanities Research Association (MHRA)-funded
    ‘Occupation/Liberation: Cultural Representations of 1944-45 and its Legacy’ (2014) and
    conferences organised by Hawkey, such as ‘Anglo-Catalan Society Conference’ (with Kitts, 2018),
    and the ‘Association for French Language Studies Conference’ (with Mooney, 2019). SML also
    hosted the annual conference of the Association of German Studies (2019).

    Connections between colleagues at Bristol and academic and non-academic collaborators and
    partners have developed and diversified significantly since 2014. These ongoing collaborations
    have provided pathways to impact in various areas, such as health and wellbeing (Foot), creativity,
    culture and society (Kosick), social welfare (Brown), public policy (Burdett) or influenced
    practitioners in the delivery of professional translation services and enhanced performance (Vieira).
    Since 2014 we have diversified our range of local and regional partnerships, working closely with
    the Africa Writes festival (Bush) and the street art organisation Upfest (Pinfold), the Letterpress
    Collective (Daniels), and the Martin Parr Foundation (King), for instance, while consolidating
    existing collaborations (continuing to work with the Pervasive Media Studio and the Festival of
    Ideas). Our Impact Case Studies (ICSs) highlight the transnational reach of SML’s research to
    countries in Europe, Africa and Latin America. They, and other projects in the School, embrace
    new participatory methodologies and involve co-production with a wide range of beneficiaries from
    governments and NGOs to creative practitioners, curators, translation companies, mental health
    institutions and mental health patients (see Section 4).

    The recruitment of PGRs developing projects that resonate with SML’s cross-disciplinary themes
    has further enriched its research culture. Examples include explorations of the representation of
    Islam in the French media, Tunisian women’s life-writing, and the use of textiles in transcultural art
    in Germany (see Section 2).

    The School’s PDR recruitment has helped to strengthen connections between the School and
    Faculty Centres/University Institutes, particularly through projects in the Black Humanities,
    Environmental Humanities and Health, Humanities and Science (see Section 2).

    Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact
    Our key objective is to develop the School’s research profile and reputation regionally, nationally
    and international, building directly on our achievements since 2014:

•   We will consolidate and develop further our contribution to the discipline of Modern Languages,
    particularly in the emerging areas of transcultural encounters and intermediality.

•   We will continue to shape emerging directions in Modern Languages by expanding further into the
    Digital Humanities, under the aegis of the University’s new Bristol Digital Futures Institute (see

                                                                                                   Page 5
    Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
    REF5a) and transversal (South-South) studies, developing our work with the Centre for Black
    Humanities and Migration Mobilities Bristol by extending our reach in Africa, the Middle East and
    Asia. We will achieve this objective through our projects with local and international communities
    (academic and non-academic), further grant capture (from, for example, GCRF) and further
    recruitment.

•   We will develop further our grant-capture record., building on our recent major successes and
    continuing to foster a culture of timely grant-writing application. Internal support processes have
    already been developed (see below).

•   We will maximise the impact of our research, expanding our range of beneficiaries and extending
    the international reach of our projects.

    The School will continue to foster projects in which research and impact are generated
    simultaneously in a partnership of equals. We will develop our external non-academic partnerships
    and alliances via new networking initiatives and pump-priming funds, which allow more space and
    time for impact activities. We will seek to co-produce research questions and activities with
    partners and other potential beneficiaries. To achieve these aims we will build on the example of
    our ICSs in which dialogue with potential beneficiaries and partners is embedded within every
    stage of the research. In Brown’s ‘Quipu Project,’ for instance, providing a platform for victims of
    forced sterilisation in Peru was central to planning (ascertaining the needs of campaigners),
    methodology (collaborative intervention into public memory) and impact (reinforcing a collective
    voice and energising their fight for justice). Taking our ICSs as models, we will look to reinforce
    and expand the impact of our research in line with four categories (see Section 4).

       •   We will continue to support pro-actively research careers at all stages via the range of
           mechanisms we have to support grant-writing, impact activity, research outputs, research
           planning, and career development (detailed below).

    Research Ethics
    SML promotes the highest standards of ethical, scholarly and professional integrity with the
    support of the Faculty Ethics Committee (of which Ailes is Vice Chair). It has led changes to
    University delivery of GCRF projects as regards ethics and co-production by applying the learnings
    from collaborations in Africa and South America led by Bush and Brown, who sits on the University
    Ethics of Research Committee.

    Open Research
    In line with the University’s policy on open access, the SRD works with SML researchers and the
    library’s open access team to ensure that journal articles are made public and that the policy and
    process are understood. Datasets (e.g. produced by the AHRC projects led by Burdett and Offord)
    are made open via the University’s Research Data Repository. Colleagues in SML edit Open
    Access journals, e.g. Doak is on the editorial board for AvtobiografiЯ, Glynn and O’Rawe are on
    the editorial advisory board of G/S/I: Gender/Sexuality/Italy and Shilton is co-editor of the French
    and Francophone section of Modern Languages Open (MLO). MLO will publish the introductions of
    all the volumes produced by the Transnational Modern Languages project, including Transnational
    Russian Studies (co-ed. Doak). Colleagues have published chapters / articles in open access (OA)
    publications by, e.g. MLO, Open Book Publishers (Cambridge), Cahiers d'études africaines,
    Francosphères and SEQUENCE and the widely read The Conversation (Brown, Glynn, Foot,

                                                                                                   Page 6
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Hurcombe and O’Rawe), and Foot’s Wellcome Trust (WT) research was made fully OA on medical
journal catch-all sites.



 2. People

Since 2014 SML has significantly developed support mechanisms for staff, PDRs and PGRs via:
writing/grant writing retreats; mock AHRC panels; a PGR hub for training and academic
development; a mentoring scheme for PDRs; and reinvigorated supportive mentoring and career
development process. Researchers are now more fully integrated into SML research culture
through interdisciplinary events and School Research Seminars. The School strongly supports and
promotes equality and diversity via the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers, initiatives such as the Returning Carers’ Scheme, and the development of female
promotion profiles: 5/11 Professors in SML are female (versus 1/9 in 2014).

Staffing strategy and staff development
We continue to have a dual recruitment objective: to seek the strongest quality candidates and to
optimise ‘fit’ in an integrated research culture. We have made a series of very high-calibre senior
and early-career appointments (we now have 9 ECRs (Category A Staff)).

Staff-development strategy: we stress the importance of developing the research careers of all
colleagues. Mentoring for all researchers, including PDRs, at disciplinary and School levels, and
through the Bristol Women’s Mentoring Network, offers a range of expertise, advice and supportive
input on research plans and academic trajectories both short- and long-term. This takes place
partly through Annual Research Review meetings (ARR). These career-development discussions
between the staff member and their Head of Subject and the SRD/HoS address mid- and long-
term research objectives, scope out plans, and answer questions in relation to research projects,
grant capture, outputs and impact. Detailed feedback is given on outputs prior to submission by the
Head of Subject or a designated reader in the author’s field.

The Faculty research leave scheme is implemented by the HoS in consultation with the SRD, SID,
Heads of Subject, School Education Director (SED) and the FRD. A provisional 5/6-year advance
planning rota is made available to all researchers to facilitate research and career planning.
Research leave is based on the Faculty policy of one semester in seven (with one full year for
those who have completed a major School or Faculty role). There is flexibility regarding the timing
of ECRs’ first research leave, to support them, for example, in their completion of a monograph.
Plans for research leave are discussed at RPG and revisions made if necessary. Colleagues are
encouraged to work on extended projects such as a monograph, a series of substantial articles, an
impact case study, or a balance between substantial academic and impact-/policy-related outputs.
The development of a funding bid is encouraged as part of the study leave plan of work.
Colleagues are also encouraged to apply internally for a University Research Fellowship which
provides an additional semester of leave. The Faculty’s Time for Research policy gives teaching
buyouts to those on full economic costing (FEC) grants. The overall time allocated to research is
41%-46% (the range is due to extra allocation for ECRs). There is supportive monitoring of leave
outcomes and onward plans following the return to full duties. For colleagues not on research
leave the implementation of a workload model protects research time and all colleagues have one
weekly research day in term time.


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
All researchers are fully integrated within the research culture of the University. SML’s
interdisciplinary research culture is supported internally by series of regular School-wide seminars
(initiated 2014). These encourage reflection on methodologies and on shared research identity.
The series on Intermediality (since 2019) includes panels exploring subjects such as ‘Latin
American Comics and Artists’ Books: Multi-Model Texts in the Digital Age’. The concurrent series
on Decolonising Modern Languages (since 2020) encourages responses to academic texts on the
subject that serve as a launchpad for cross-Departmental discussion on future research practice.
(Panels include staff and postgraduate students.) Another key seminar theme has been the
integration of research, collaboration, and impact. Researchers leading pioneering impact projects
have been invited to share their insights. These include Thea Pitman (University of Leeds) on
working with Brazilian indigenous communities, and Derek Duncan (St. Andrews) discussing
collaborations on language teaching with primary schools. School research events are
supplemented by Departmental seminar series and lectures.

The School promotes active participation in SML events and Faculty/University initiatives and
centres: Faculty clusters; local / regional groupings and projects, especially GW4 partnerships (a
consortium uniting the research-intensive Universities of Bath, Bristol, Cardiff and Exeter);
Worldwide Universities Network (WUN); and Bristol’s Institute for Advanced Studies. Knowledge of
the wider interdisciplinary research context of Modern Languages is disseminated directly to
members of School through plenary and Departmental meetings. The participation of colleagues in
the work of the University Council for Modern Languages (UCML), the MHRA and in individual
subject and research associations is another vital conduit.

ECRs are fully integrated into SML’s research ethos and culture. Regular meetings are held with
an individual mentor, their Head of Subject and the SRD or HoS to discuss developing research
plans and achievements, to identify opportunities, and to assess research and publishing
strategies. ECRs are pro-actively supported in their bids for grant schemes and prizes run by
charities (Leverhulme Trust) and scholarly societies. They are encouraged to take forward themes
in dialogue with other Faculty colleagues. They are integrated into Faculty Centres and research
clusters on an equal footing with senior colleagues and may lead a cluster (current cluster leaders
are Earlie, Merchant and Siviter). Initial lighter workloads for ECRs are standard; they receive 10
supplementary workload credits for research (equivalent of one teaching module) and may be
awarded a research leave after 5 terms of teaching. ECRs also receive training for teaching and
student support via the CREATE programme (Cultivating Research and Teaching Excellence: see
REF5a), as well as the Faculty ECR network and initiatives such as termly Faculty grant-writing
retreats which are available for all colleagues, as are mock AHRC panels.

Career progression is the object of regular discussion in ARR meetings, as well as in annual
University-wide Staff Review and individual meetings with the HoS. Colleagues are encouraged to
think pro-actively about career development: since 2014 there have been six promotions to
professorships (Ailes, Brown, Glynn, Hurcombe, O’Rawe, Shilton – four females, two males), to
readerships/associate professorships (Coates, O’Sullivan, Stephens – two females, one male), and
accelerated promotions to senior lectureships (Bush, Hawkey, Kay, King, Mooney, Nunes Vieira).
Staff gain advice and input on promotion applications from the HoS and two professorial promotion
mentors. Equal opportunities are built into the promotion process, with staff encouraged to declare
on applications any ways in which their career progression may have been impacted by protected
characteristics; by this means we are breaking the ‘maternal wall’. The EDI (Equality, Diversity and



                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Inclusivity) Officer sits on the School Senior Management Group and the EDI committee includes
representatives of all academic pathways.

The School has recruited 10 postdoctoral researchers (PDRs) since 2014 through funding
schemes including BA and Leverhulme ECFs and Marie Skłodowska Curie fellowships, and
through large AHRC and ESRC grant projects. There has also been one Vice Chancellor’s
Fellowship (VCF:REF5a). PDRs frequently contribute to the vitality of the subjects and to
interdisciplinary culture by organising conferences (a two-day conference (2018) was led by Lewis,
for example). They contribute to research management via membership of RPG (Ragni).
Intellectual input and career-planning advice are provided in regular meetings with officially
appointed mentors (permanent staff in their subject disciplines) and at ARR. SML places great
importance on giving PDRs opportunities to develop their subject-specific teaching skills. All PDRs
with teaching responsibilities are required (like new lecturers) to attend the University’s CREATE
Starting To Teach programme. PDRs are supported by the University’s ‘Bristol Clear’, which offers
a range of resources, including 1:1 coaching, mentoring, writing retreats, and career drop-ins
(REF5a). Our PDRs are developing highly successful careers. Examples include former VCF
Finch-Race, now Research Fellow in Environmental Humanities at Università Ca’ Foscari (Venice)
and former BA Fellow Mereu Keating, now a Research Associate on a major ERC project in the
UoB’s Department of Film and Television.

Support for impact has also been reinforced since 2014. A full review of our impact support
structures was held in 2015. It involved Faculty Research and Enterprise Development (RED) /
impact staff in the creation of a more robust system to provide much more support for the SID,
including the recruitment of a Research Impact and Knowledge Exchange (KE) Manager to
stimulate and support impact work across the Faculty. This system has enabled the SID – working
closely with the Faculty Research Impact and KE Manager, the KE team in RED, PolicyBristol and
the Public Engagement team – to drive a shift in SML research culture regarding the collective
understanding, planning, and delivery of impact. The support available to SML researchers in this
REF cycle includes: regular 1:1 meetings between project leads, the SID and support staff; grant-
writing retreats focused on developing pathways to impact; workload credits for those leading an
ICS; and financial support for working with research beneficiaries at every stage of projects (see
Section 3). In collaboration with RED, the Faculty Partnership Manager and the Brigstow Institute,
SML researchers organise regular networking events both to consolidate connections with existing
external partners in the arts and third sector (see Section 4) and to foment new partnerships.
Further support has also been given to those leading ICSs by employing researchers to help
gather evidence and shape the impact narrative. The range of training available has also increased
and diversified to include: media training; regular workshops run by UoB researchers and
academic partners to share best practice; policy engagement training; and talks from local,
regional and international collaborators such as museums, lobby groups and educational
facilitators. Future training needs are also identified through ongoing discussions between
researchers, the SID, the Faculty Research Impact and KE Manager and other support staff. Since
2014 a Faculty Engagement Officer has worked with SML to develop its outreach activities with
local and regional Widening Participation schools.




                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Postgraduate activity and recruitment

Recruitment
The School has dramatically raised its number of PhD completions from 6.5 in the previous REF
cycle to 52. In the current REF cycle, SML made 66 awards, including 1 MLitt, 22 MPhils, and 40
PhDs. A further 12 PhDs were awarded to students registered outside SML but with SML
supervisory involvement.

In the current cycle, SML enrolled 80 research postgraduates, including 30 MPhils and 47 PhDs.
SML pursues an active policy of recruitment of the best doctoral students. This strategy is linked to
the MA Comparative Literatures and Cultures (on-stream since 2015) and the revamped MPhil
programme, but also to the continuing success of the MA Translation Studies. Masters-level
students are actively targeted through annual marketing events. Since 2017 these students have
benefitted from a 10% reduction in fees (six in SML). Alumni may also apply for a Faculty of Arts
Alumni Bursary (typically worth £10,000): six have done so successfully. The School has benefitted
from alumni donations to support postgraduate research: examples include full financial support
offered by an alumnus of Russian Studies to two PhDs and one MPhil over the REF period, and
the Brook PhD Scholarship comprising a fees waiver, bursary, and guaranteed teaching for an
applicant to French. The School additionally has a presence at UoB’s annual Postgraduate Open
Days.

The dramatic increase in recruitment is thanks to a sustained strategic effort to secure and mentor
applications to all available funding streams (applicants receive intensive support from potential
supervisors to develop proposals). SML targets the full range of funding routes for PGRs, capturing
three AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Awards (involving partnerships with English Heritage, The
British Library and the British Museum) and 13 scholarships through the AHRC South-West and
Wales Doctoral Training Partnership (SWW DTP). In total, 16 were funded by the AHRC, one by
the ESRC, two by Comisión Nacional de Investigación Científica y Tecnológica (CONICYT, Chile),
and one under the British Council Higher Education Scholarships for Palestinians (HESPAL)
scheme. The School is actively pursuing further sources of funding (including this HESPAL
scheme, as well as PhD bursaries or ‘graduate teaching fellowships’). It has also established ‘co-
tutelle’ arrangements (co-supervision with an overseas partner institution, the Université de
Toulouse). Seven PGRs won a prestigious UoB Faculty of Arts scholarship. Many others are self-
funded, and these may take advantage of part-time study arrangements. The University rolled out
a distance learning pathway for research degrees from 2019, which obviates the need for
international students to obtain visas and offers opportunities for applicants with family or work
commitments elsewhere in the UK, or with protected characteristics that prevent frequent travel, to
study at Bristol. (This has the additional benefit of reducing our carbon footprint.) This programme
will prove attractive to nationals of countries connected to SML’s research and teaching enterprise.
The steep rise in the School’s overseas PG recruitment (11 EU and 7 overseas) demonstrates our
global standing.

The School works with Disability Services to help students with protected characteristics to access
postgraduate study. Applicants are encouraged to declare any disability to the service prior to
commencing their studies. Once at Bristol they receive a support package whose delivery is
overseen by the Faculty’s Disability Coordinator and the School’s Senior Tutor.




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Supervision, training, and support

Supervision
All research postgraduates in SML benefit from two supervisors, a primary and a co-supervisor or
secondary supervisor. This arrangement allows ECRs to gain supervision experience as
secondary supervisors under the mentorship of the primary supervisor. (They are also encouraged
to take the Research Supervision unit of the University’s CREATE programme for professional
academic development. ECRs gain experience in examining theses by acting as internal
examiners under the supervision of an Independent Chair.)

Academic training and support networks
Supervisors are situated in and supported by a comprehensive network operating at and across
University, Faculty, and School levels. The University-wide Bristol Doctoral College (BDC) curates
a Personal Professional Development (PPD) programme of workshops, seminars, and online
resources designed to provide PGRs with practical help and support in areas such as: writing and
referencing; planning, managing, and promoting research; responsible research; systems and
software; teaching; professional and career development; and personal development and
wellbeing. It stages high-profile motivational events such as the annual PGR festival ‘Research
without Borders’ and the ‘Three Minute Thesis’ competition. It manages the STaR online tool for
the facilitation of record-keeping, communication, and progress management (including Annual
Progress Monitoring) by students and their supervisors. Its website hosts a well-curated
Postgraduate Information Hub; it produces a fortnightly email newsletter (the BDC Bulletin), runs a
blog, and has a lively social media presence. The Faculty of Arts complements the BDC’s provision
with a training offer tailored to the needs of PGRs in the arts and humanities, its own dedicated
information hub (‘Faculty of Arts PGR Support’) hosted on Blackboard (the University’s virtual
learning environment), and provision of dedicated study space. It also runs a full-day induction
event for all incoming Arts PGRs.

At School level, PGRs are under the care of the Postgraduate Research Officer (PGRO), who acts
as an Academic Personal Tutor, with oversight of questions related to supervision and academic
progress. The PGRO runs a School-level induction event and organises fortnightly term-time
seminars where students present their latest work, discuss texts, receive additional training input,
and socialise. He/she acts as a mediator to resolve issues with the supervisory relationship and a
point of support for students struggling with key academic decisions such as suspension or
extension of studies. In 2020-21 a weekly online social facilitated the identification of specific
COVID-related barriers to individual students’ progress which the PGRO was able to take forward
(e.g. access to a legal virtual private network (VPN) for Chinese nationals temporarily based in
China. The PGRO acts on data supplied by the Faculty to facilitate timely submission of theses
through written reminders to supervisors about upcoming deadlines and has oversight of the
appointment of examiners.

Research environment
SML provides a rich research environment for its PGRs. In addition to the PGR Seminar Series,
PGRs are encouraged to participate in the many research events of the Faculty, School, and home
Department, by attending and contributing to research seminars, workshops, symposia, and
conferences. PGRs often organise their own events, such as the highly successful interdisciplinary
SML Literary and Visual Landscapes Seminar (since 2012). SML PGRs are encouraged to attend
and present at conferences, for which they receive financial support via the SML Overseas Travel

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Grant, and the Alumni Foundation Travel Grants Scheme. The first of these also supports research
trips, for example to access archives.

Teaching opportunities and skills development
SML places great importance on giving PGRs who aspire to academic careers the opportunity to
develop their subject-specific teaching skills during the second and third years of their degree
programmes. All PGRs with teaching responsibilities are required to attend the University’s
CREATE Starting To Teach programme. They are also mentored by experienced members of staff
in their subject disciplines. PGRs (like PDRs) have the opportunity to supplement subject-specific
teaching with participation in the University’s outreach programmes to school pupils from
disadvantaged groups (Access to Bristol, Sutton Trust Summer School, Insight into Bristol), and to
teach on the Bristol Futures programme, which promotes interdisciplinary learning across
undergraduate programmes, under the guidance of unit directors (units include ‘City Futures:
Migration, Citizenship, and Planetary Change’ and ‘Sustainable Development’). The School’s PGR
seminar programme includes a popular session on pathways into an academic career in which
SML ECRs share their own diverse experiences. The School recognises that not all PhD students
will become academics and has worked with the Careers Service to develop its excellent support
package tailored to PGR. We encourage students to access it, inviting careers advisers to present
at the PGR seminar. A PGR sits on the EDI committee. This committee is developing a research
project to encourage aspiration among PGRs (as well as students and staff from all backgrounds):
‘Towards an Inclusive Understanding of Success’.

Student voice
SML greatly values student feedback on its PGR programmes. Mechanisms for gathering feedback
include sessions within the SML PGR Seminar series, chaired by the PGRO, and the Faculty of
Arts PGR Staff-student Liaison Committee chaired by the Faculty Graduate Education Director
(GED) and attended by elected PGR representatives. This meets three times a year and posts its
minutes on the Blackboard PGR Support site. Student voice is additionally captured by
participation in PRES (the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey). Feedback informs the
PGR Annual Programme Review, and from 2019-20 the Faculty of Arts PGR Education Action
Plan (EAP): a live, iterative document that drives improvements in education provision across the
Faculty.

Health and wellbeing
SML recognises the importance of meeting the distinctive pastoral needs of PGR students, many
of whom live some distance from the University, are mature students, are working, and/or have
caring responsibilities. In addition to access to the University’s Student Health Service, Student
Counselling Service, Disability Services, and other support mechanisms, SML PGRs may seek
support from the Senior Tutor, and from 2018 the Student Wellbeing Advisers, who are embedded
in the School. The School strongly supports any applications for suspension or extension of study
due to maternity, adoption, paternity, or shared parental leave, as it does applications on attested
grounds of changes in family circumstances, illness, bereavement, or unforeseen events such as
COVID-19.

SML PhD students are highly successful in securing employment; for example, Amy King is now
Lecturer in Italian at UoB, Maria Tomlinson is Leverhulme ECF in the Department of Journalism,
University of Sheffield, and Lydia Wooldridge is Associate Lecturer Cultural Studies at Falmouth
University.

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Equality and Diversity
SML pro-actively supports and promotes equality and diversity. We have a strong concern for
equal opportunities in making appointments, promotion, and electing role holders. All members of
Appointments Boards undergo Equality training. We seek to minimise unconscious bias through
the gender balance of our recruitment panels. Panellists receive unconscious bias awareness
training and interviews and are reminded by Panel Chairs of the issue. Our UoA Committee (two
female and three male colleagues) also begins with this reminder. We implement Codes of
Practice (e.g., the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers), HR legislation
on Diversity and Equality, and Faculty policies. The School conducts a yearly gender audit to
monitor progress in ensuring gender parity at all levels (currently six male professors against five
females; even distribution of Associate Professors/Readers and Senior Lecturers). The School has
an absolute commitment to ensure equal opportunities with respect to research leave and research
support irrespective of gender, age, and career status. We seek to ensure inclusive participation in
structures, processes and decision-making; for example, in the composition of committees from
RPG to the UoA Committee and in the allocation of internal reading and evaluation of REF outputs
and ICSs. Appointment to major internal roles now follows a formal application process open to all,
including an interview. Colleagues have also benefited from the UoB Returners’ Scheme (Bush,
Kosick, Tomlinson), which has been used to allow P1 staff to devote more time to research when
returning from maternity leave to offset any impact on promotion prospects; all UoB staff are
encouraged to raise any EDI issues which may have affected research in promotion applications;
our EDI officer sits on the Faculty Promotions Board. The School and the University are committed
to accommodating personal circumstances in the timetabling process, including flexible working
and working from home, where possible, ensuring protected time for research.

The School has an EDI committee (currently chaired by Ailes), which works with the Faculty EDI
Director and SED to embed good practice (e.g. in curriculum design) through events at School
level and communicates Faculty initiatives at the termly School Plenary. The EDI Committee also
organises training opportunities (e.g. in unconscious bias awareness) and, since 2019, has run
regular EDI climate audits, the results of which inform new initiatives. In the 2019-20 inaugural
climate audit on inclusion and micro-aggression among staff and students, participants were asked
about experiences of discrimination or microagression in respect of: race, ethnicity, immigration
status, social class, regional background, gender, sexual orientation, gender reassignment,
pregnancy and maternity, marriage and civil partnership, learning/developmental disability, mental
health, physical disability, age, religion/belief, union membership, other. There were no reported
instances in most categories and just eight in total over all categories. The findings were fed into a
new EDI strategy and action plan to be implemented in 2020-21. Ailes and the School Manager
coordinated with IT to ensure all staff and students were able to borrow laptops and peripherals to
enable working from home during COVID-19. Staff disproportionately affected because of caring
responsibilities were advised to state this in promotion papers. The current ARR specifically
addresses how the pandemic has affected research and any further support required.

The School works with the Faculty Gender Equality Committee (formerly chaired by Wells) and
with individual researchers to develop female promotion profiles, addressing equality objectives in
the Faculty. The distribution at Reader/Associate Professor and Senior Lecturer levels is now even
and it is almost even at professorial level, as the figures above demonstrate.




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

The School’s research environment has been transformed in this cycle through grants and
fellowships that have shaped key areas of the discipline. Its external research income in the REF
period averages £659,341.316 p/a, compared to £201,162.69 p/a in the last REF period. Its
infrastructure has expanded, and new initiatives and refinement of processes provide strong
support for research and impact.

Income
Facilitated by experienced Faculty research managers in RED, and working closely with expert
Faculty finance support staff, the School seeks to maximise research income from a variety of
external sources (research councils and charities).

Examples of major research grant successes as Principal Investigator (PI) include Offord’s ‘French
in Russia’ (£800K, AHRC); Burdett’s ‘Transnationalizing Modern Languages’ (£1.7m, PI, with St
Andrews and Warwick, AHRC); Schönle’s Leverhulme Research Grant, ‘The Creation of a
Europeanized Elite in Russia’ (won while at QMUL: PI, with Prof. Andrei Zorin, Oxford, £216K);
Brown’s ‘Tying Quipu's Key Knots’ (£199K, AHRC); and Nunes Vieira’s ‘Improving Products and
Processes in Translation Technology Use’ (£239K, ESRC). Important research grant successes as
Co-I include ‘Italian Cinema Audiences’ (O’Rawe with Exeter & Oxford Brookes, £670K, AHRC),
‘Film Studios: Infrastructure, Culture, Innovation in Britain, France, Germany and Italy, 1930-60'
(O’Rawe with PI Prof. Sarah Street, Film/TV (UoB), €2.5m, ERC) and ‘Modern Marronage? The
Pursuit and Practice of Freedom in the Contemporary World’ (Nafafe with Prof. Julia O’Connell
Davidson, £1.39 million).

There have also been many significant individual successes. Highlights include two-year
Leverhulme Trust Major Research Fellowships (Davies, Foot), a Leverhulme International Network
grant (Ailes, PI; partners in UK, US and Iceland), AHRC Leadership Fellowships (Daniels, Glynn,
Merchant, Tomlinson), Leverhulme Research Fellowships (Harrow, Kay, Nafafe, Romero Salvadó,
and Siviter), a BA Fellowship (Hawkey) and a BA Mid-Career Fellowship (O’Rawe), an AHRC
Translating Cultures Research Innovations Award (Chitnis) and a BA Rising Stars Engagement
Award (Doak).

The School has had further success with GCRF grants, led by Bush (AHRC) and Williams (Natural
Environment Research Council, NERC). Williams’s interdisciplinary work with colleagues in Earth
Sciences was also funded by the AHRC Research Networking Scheme (‘Risk, Hazards, Disasters
and Cultures: Exploring an Integrated Humanities, Natural Sciences and Disaster Studies
Approach’).

Further significant collaborative successes include ACILA (2018): ‘Addressing Culture and
Inequality in Latin America’: this project put cultural work and creative methodologies at the centre
of attempts to address development challenges around inequality (Brown, Crow, Merchant, Peters,
King, £49,908). In addition, Foot led a nine-university consortium bid to the SWWDTP AHRC
(UKRI) DTP2 (2016-18). He also participated in the internal competition with Exeter to ensure DTP
remains based in Bristol (estimated value over £10 million; awarded 2018).

Our external research income is set to increase further, given recent major successes including
Ruth Bush’s ERC Starting Grant: ‘The Creative Lives of African Universities’ (€1.5m).

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Infrastructure

Scholarly infrastructure
Our assets include the unique War and Culture Studies Archive and the world-class Bristol
University Theatre Collection, a key resource for intermedial, film, visual culture and adaptation
studies. Colleagues also benefit from our outstanding Arts and Social Sciences Library, including
focused input from its Subject Librarians. Plans for a new state-of-the-art library are at an
advanced stage and include new facilities for the use of the special collections, including the
Penguin Archive and medieval manuscripts. The School has a member (Ailes) on the Special
Collections Steering Group and Daniels is Faculty representative on the New University Library
Readiness Board and Library Advisory Group. SML research is also supported by the School’s
excellent Multimedia Centre, which includes a film collection and mini cinema, viewing rooms,
project rooms, computing facilities, language reference books and international press, as well as a
specialist audio-visual technician.

Since 2014, this scholarly infrastructure has been tailored specifically to support impact work.
Research facilities are regularly used for encounters between researchers, external partners and
their publics. As academic lead for the Centre for Material Texts, Daniels collaborates with both the
Theatre Collection and Special Collections in research activities that range from temporary
exhibitions in university buildings to workshops with local artists and independent publishers. SML
researchers have also run workshops on the Feminist Archive South, which is housed in the
Special Collections, together with students, researchers and the public. Furthermore, the
expansion of expertise in support of impact outlined in Section 2 (the recruitment of dedicated
impact experts and the tightening of connections between researchers and support staff in RED,
Policy Bristol and the Public Engagement team) has led to a significant infrastructural shift in
favour of impact. PolicyBristol supported Impact Case Studies such as Burdett’s Transnationalising
Modern Languages project and Brown’s Quipu project by producing briefings and reports on the
public policy implications of their research findings. This has been reinforced by the proliferation of
internal funds made available to support impact projects at every stage of the process. These
range from the Research and Impact Support Fund which provides small amounts of funding for
exploring ideas and engaging with partners through to Arts Impact Awards (2017-18) and the KE
Fund (2019-20) to scale up projects (awardees include Viera, Brown, Burdett and Havinga),
through to the larger Impact Acceleration Account awards (which has been used by Bush, Crow,
Hurcombe, Brown and King). In addition to these individual awards £17,970 was awarded to the
School by RED for ICS development.

Operational infrastructure
Faculty Research support staff offer a highly developed and pro-active framework for the
development of research projects. SML researchers are strongly supported by specialist advisors
in RED via workshops, seminars, and presentations on research-project management and
development. In addition to one-to-one personal information sessions, the Faculty Research Office
organises 14 training sessions annually targeted at all academic career-stages, with topics ranging
from grant writing to project-costing, digital data management, and impact and public engagement.
(Further details of support for staff development in grant writing are provided in Section 2.)

Additionally, the Research Office also manages REAP (Research Excellence Advisory Panel), an
internal academic peer-review system that monitors quality and adds value to large project grant
applications, supporting the applicant and maximising potential to secure funding. The REAP

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
process is mandatory for draft research funding applications. Heads of Subject, an assigned
academic mentor from the Faculty, and the SRD operate to improve bids prior to submission to the
Faculty REAP process (an advisory panel is organised by the SRD for large bids, while
Fellowships are reviewed by one member of REAP). There is also a team within RED to support
bids from ECRs, including postdoctoral researchers, and a separate process to support
applications to the ERC.

The University’s Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS) has supported international exchanges and
collaboration. IAS awards University Research Fellowships (six since 2014: Crow, Daniels,
Hawkey, Kosick, Shilton, O’Sullivan), thereby supporting significant book and article publications.
IAS has funded three SML workshops and has awarded nine Benjamin Meaker Visiting
Professorships to bring distinguished international collaborators to SML.

All members of the academic staff of the Faculty of Arts who are contributors to their Department's
profile in the REF (including p/t and fixed-term staff) may apply for assistance from the Faculty’s
Conference Fund and Research Fund (maximum £1500 per academic year across the two funds).
They may also apply to the Conference and Event Management Fund when organising events to
be held at UoB (maximum across the three funds £2000). The EDI Committee is monitoring the
access to conferences for those with caring responsibilities and other impediments.

The BDC described above provides an intellectual forum, PG education, skills training, and a
supportive social community for our postgraduates who contribute intellectually and socially to a
regular programme of events, and thus develop fruitful connections with peers studying in other
disciplinary areas. This College includes the PGR Hub, a cross-disciplinary research collaboration
space, which facilitates connections between research students from across the University (it
includes a Training Space, a Collaborative Space, and a BDC office;
https://www.bristol.ac.uk/doctoral-college/current-research-students/pgr-hub/). In addition to the
support and training provided for PGR within SML, detailed in Section 2, there is also a School
research visit and conference fund dedicated to our postgraduate students, which is managed by
RPG (up to £400 per year per student). Students can also apply to the University’s Alumni Fund.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

The School’s significant contribution to the central research themes highlighted above is
exemplified not only by major grants and outputs in leading presses and journals but also
by numerous examples of distinction, including awards and prizes – from the African
Literature Association First Book Award (Bush) to the BA’s prestigious Serena medal
(Foot). SML’s collaborative research has had a profound influence on the discipline of
Modern Languages, as is best evidenced by Burdett’s ICS. The School’s local and
international connections and partnerships beyond academia have had a transformative
impact on key aspects of cultural, political or social life for communities in Europe, West
Africa and Latin America.

Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
Owing to the nature of the School, all researchers have extensive international research networks.
These include several commercial links. Many events have been organised for Inside Arts at the
Watershed; Hurcombe is collaborating with Life Cycle; Bush is a member of the board of Beacon

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Books; Foot works with Mental Health Organisations and with the WT ; the Transnationalising
Modern Languages project (PI Burdett) organised exhibitions with the Italian Cultural Institute,
British School at Rome and centres in New York, Addis Ababa and Melbourne. Pinfold’s schools
liaison work lays the basis for her ‘Beyond Nazi and Stasi’ project. Her work is also intended to
encourage take up of German at secondary level. She worked with ten local schools on the Upfest
/ Bristol Wall project in 2015. Brown’s work for the Quipu project has been recognised by the
University for the importance of its impact. As co-director of the Bristol Poetry Institute Kosick has
ties with the Poetry Foundation in Chicago and many local organisations; O’Sullivan is involved
with collaborative research with a wide range of organisations concerned with translation; Randall
is a member of the Research Network on Domestic Work in Latin America (RITHAL), and of the
Digital Latin American Cultures (DLAC). The School has also fostered international collaborations
by hosting University Benjamin Meaker Visiting Professors from, for example, UC Santa Barbara,
Louisiana State University and Venezuela’s Universidad Central. Projects in development are
building international partnerships with a range of anticipated impact beyond academia, including:
the French National Sport Museum; Paris Musées; the Institute of Translation and Interpreting
(ITI); the Belgian Ros Beiaard Parade in Dendermonde; and the Bristol-Bordeaux-Hannover
Twinning Association.

The School embraces new methodological approaches predicated on co-production in which
research and impact are generated simultaneously in a partnership of equals. The strengths of
existing collaborative projects reside in the following four categories:

   •   ‘Giving communities a voice and access to justice.’ Alongside work on his ICS, Brown has
       ongoing partnerships with the Colombian Truth Commission, the Universidad Nacional de
       Colombia, and the Colombian National Library, which have catalysed dialogue between
       campaigning organisations working in post-conflict societies across the region and bringing
       their work to broader international audiences (Ruta Pacifica, Red de Lugares de la
       Memoria, Rodemos el Dialogo). The success of these projects has been recognised by
       funding from the AHRC of over £700K. Randall has worked with Peru’s National Human
       Rights Council as part of her research on the treatment and representation of domestic
       workers in Latin America. An exhibition of creative works produced by domestic workers is
       planned for 2021.

   •   ‘Understanding the past to shape the future.’ Several projects work with a range of non-
       academic partners to explore how historical perspectives can shape public understanding
       of current debates and issues. As part of a project supported by an ESRC Impact
       Accelerator Account grant, Crow has worked with the Regional Museum of Araucanía in
       Temuco, Chile, in consultation with the Chilean Ministry of Education to develop an
       educational toolkit with which to encourage school children to learn about the history of
       indigenous leaders in the region (hitherto a striking absence from the national curriculum).
       With funding from the Brigstow Institute, Ailes is working with the Churches Conservation
       Trust to explore how historical perspectives dating back to the Medieval period might inform
       contemporary innovation in rural community building. As part of a project funded by the WT,
       Foot’s research on the radical anti-psychiatry movements in Italy during the 1960s and
       1970s has helped inform current psychiatric practice through discussions with practitioners
       at the World Psychiatry Conference and a three-day public event in Perugia organised by
       the Umbrian regional government.



                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
   •   ‘Languages in transnational and technological contexts.’ Researchers working from a
       number of disciplinary perspectives, including linguistics and translation studies, are
       exploring the changing politics of languages in an increasingly transnational and
       technologised world. Working with a range of partners including the British School at Rome,
       Burdett’s ICS has been instrumental in shifting the focus of Modern Languages teaching
       and research from a national to a transnational framework. Indicators of the project’s
       success include Liverpool University Press’s ‘Transnational Modern Languages’ series
       produced in collaboration with the project. In 2018-19 SML developed its relationship with
       GW4 partners via a series of talks and panels addressing connected themes. Its GW4
       workshop on ‘Language Learning after Brexit’ allowed further exploration of three of SML
       themes: transcultural encounters, translation, and linguistics. As part of a project funded by
       an ESRC New Investigator Grant, Vieira is working with the Institute of Translation and
       Interpreting, Spanish translation company Tatutrad and world-leading translation
       technology provider SDL to examine attitudes among translators to the use of technology in
       professional translation. SDL has already incorporated insights stemming from the project
       into the development of new commercially available translation software. In collaboration
       with colleagues from Anglia Ruskin University and the Universities of Birmingham,
       Cambridge and Westminster, Anna Havinga's AHRC OWRI-funded 'Linguistics in Modern
       Foreign Languages' project assesses the potential for the inclusion of linguistics in the
       Secondary Education MFL curriculum.

   •   ‘Shaping creative and curatorial practices.’ Working closely with academic and non-
       academic partners including the Henriette-Bathily Women’s Museum in Senegal and the
       Writivism Festival, Bush’s ICS has shaped the archiving and curating of women’s writing in
       the region and strengthened training and professional networks for literary translators. Price
       worked closely with curators to shape public understanding of the role played by women
       artists in German modernism. For example, she acted as a consultant for the 2018 Tate
       Britain exhibition ‘Aftermath’ and co-curated an exhibition on Chantal Joffe in The Lowry
       (Salford). Working together with UoB mathematicians (including Florian Bouyer and
       Dominic Verdon) and the independent publisher Small Press Books, Kosick has used
       funding from the Brigstow Institute to publish a collection of ‘Maths Poems’ that explore
       intersections between mathematics and poetry. In a series of workshops (also funded by
       Brigstow) held in Bristol, São Paulo and Yaoundé organised in collaboration with the
       creative media company Grapevine, King worked with visual artists and writers to develop
       prototypes of creative works that connect print media to digital audio in new ways. As part
       of a project funded by a BA/Leverhulme Small Research Grant, Siviter organised a public
       workshop in 2019 together with five professional actors to explore approaches to acting in
       eighteenth-century France and how these might inform contemporary practice.

SML continues to develop a range of international connections with universities within and beyond
Europe. It is developing links with Hamburg University through Davies, the University of Lisbon via
Peters and Infante, Losev House via Coates, and the Higher School of Economics, Moscow/St.
Petersburg via Doak, the Universities of Dakar and Montpellier through Bush, and the Université
de Clermont Auvergne via Siviter. Raymond has arranged a doctoral co-tutelle agreement with the
Université de Toulouse. Crow has been the University's regional ambassador for Chile. She is
developing links thanks to GCRF funding with the Universidad Católica (Lima, Peru) and has an
ongoing collaborative project (Mapping Intercultural Conversations) with the Universidad Catolica
(Chile) funded by the British Academy, a Newton Fund, as well as internal Brigstow and ESRC

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Impact Acceleration funding. Peters is actively involved with Post-Archive: Politics of Memory,
Place and Identity (PI Dr Monica Miranda, University of Lisbon) and UNESCO Slave Route Project
– Portugal (PI Prof. Isabel Castro Henriques, University of Lisbon). Romero Salvadó has produced
publications and workshops funded by Spain’s Ministry of Education.

Indicators of wider influence
The School’s research profile and reputation have been strengthened further since 2014 by many
indicators of wider influence, and contributions to and recognition by the research base, including
the following selected highlights:

14 prizes were awarded to colleagues in SML, including the First Book Award (Scholarship) of the
African Literature Association (Bush, 2018), the Tibesar Prize from the journal The Americas
(Williams, 2015), the Christopher Seton Watson Prize from the journal Modern Italy (O’Rawe,
2017), the UCL Press Open Access Award (King, 2017), the Best Teaching Edition from the
Society for the Study of Early Modern Women (Brice, 2016), the Music and Letters Award (Siviter,
2019), the Susan Hayward Prize (Fox, 2014), and the International Wendelin Schmidt-Dengler
Prize (Havinga, 2016). Offord, Rjéoutski and Argent were awarded the Marc Raeff Book Prize and
the R. Gapper Book Prize (2019). Foot’s The Archipelago: Italy since 1945 (2018) was nominated
as a Daily Telegraph Book of the Year and he was awarded the BA’s prestigious Serena medal
(2019).

Colleagues in the School hold distinguished positions. For example, Schönle was made FBA (from
2017); Harrow is Officer in France’s Ordre des palmes académiques (since 2011); Foot is Fellow of
the Royal Historical Society (since 2016); and Glynn is a member of the Faculty of Archaeology,
History, Letters, British School at Rome (2018-22). Several have also held visiting research
fellowships or professorships at, for example, Australian Catholic University, EUI, and University of
Rome (Foot), Fordham University (O’Rawe), the Schoenberg Institute for Manuscript Studies
(Daniels), the LSE/Cañada Blanch Centre (Romero Salvadó), Lilly Library, Bloomington and
Auckland University (O’Sullivan).

Colleagues have served on peer-review and other advisory panels on numerous occasions for
research councils and major research projects, as well as for other universities. Since 2014, there
have been eight members of the AHRC Peer Review College (Foot, Harrow and Vilain are also
Strategic Reviewers for the AHRC and Vilain and Ailes are on the International PRC) (all figures
refer to current staff / SRFs). Colleagues have served on 13 panels for grant schemes. Examples
include Schönle’s membership of the standing committee of Section 6, BA and the Philip
Leverhulme Prize committee. Foot was Director of the SWWDTP (2015-18) and Vilain is current
Director (since August 2020), while Harrow and Schönle are members of the Sub-Panel REF 2021.

SML researchers have served on the advisory boards (17) and editorial boards (35) of high-profile
international outlets. For example, Davies is an Editor of German Life and Letters, Vilain was
Germanic Editor of MLR (2013-16), Glynn is Senior Co-Editor of Italian Studies; Hurcombe is Co-
Editor of the Journal of War and Culture Studies; and O’Sullivan was Editor in Chief of Translation
Studies (2016-19). Colleagues in SML have also served as executive members of 14 Modern
Languages societies. Highlights include Williams’s role as President of the Society for Latin
American Studies (2013-15).




                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Researchers in SML have delivered 83 distinguished keynote lectures since 2014 at fora such as
the Annual Conferences for The Society for French Studies (Harrow), The Society for Italian
Studies and The Australian Centre for Italian Studies, Sydney (Foot) and The Society for
Francophone Postcolonial Studies (Dorothy Blair Memorial Lecture, Shilton), and at diverse sites,
from the British Film Institute (Fox) and the Institute of Orthodox Christian Studies (Coates) to the
Universities of Las Palmas and Rioja (Romero Salvadó), Bari, Rome, Bologna, Turin, New
Hampshire, The Ohio State University and Bowdoin College, Maine (O’Rawe). Researchers in
SML have, in addition, delivered 265+ invited research papers at many Universities in the UK and
internationally, from Gothenburg and Europa-Universität Flensburg to Harvard, John Hopkins and
City University of New York Graduate Centre.

Researchers in the School also receive regular invitations to give expert opinion in wide-ranging
public contexts in the UK and internationally. Highlights include Raymond’s numerous media
interventions as expert on French politics for outlets including the BBC, Washington Post, France
24 and Russia’s Radio Sputnik. Hawkey has provided expert opinion on the Catalan independence
movement via interviews on Sky News and BBC Radio, as has Kitts, for ‘Global Watch’, Chinese
Global Television Network and ‘World Today’ (2017). King participated in BBC Radio 3’s Free
Thinking Programme (2016). Merchant was interviewed on ocean conservation policy in Chile for
Geographical Magazine (2018). Peters was interviewed by Monocle Radio in the run-up to the
Angolan presidential elections (2017) and gave expert opinion on Cuban-African relations for Al
Jazeera (2016). Randall was interviewed about her research by UOL in Portuguese, Shilton spoke
on photography and Algeria at the Mosaic Rooms (2016), and Bush is on the board for the Africa
Eye Festival.

As these selected examples highlight, SML at Bristol plays an influential role in national
and international fora, leading and shaping agendas and influencing decision-making.




                                                                                              Page 20
