Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Anglia Ruskin University

 Unit of Assessment: 18

 1. Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact Strategy

 Context and Structure

 Since our REF2014 submission, the Law School has pursued an ambitious strategy
 underpinned by a move from traditional research groupings towards profession- and
 community-facing research. We established three research clusters to develop our core
 strengths in public and private law, and to align directly with the university priority area of safe
 and inclusive communities. These research clusters are:

 (1) Law and Society
 (2) Digital Economy and Arbitration Law
 (3) Criminal Justice.

 We began the process of organising our research within these clusters in early 2014 and
 culminating with the establishment, in 2019, of the Centre for Access to Justice and Inclusion
 (CAJI), led by Zammit Borda. The establishment of CAJI has given our unit a focal point,
 enabling researchers within the three clusters to focus especially on the challenges of access to
 justice and inclusion in their respective areas. Since its establishment, the university has
 invested over £20,000p.a. in CAJI. The decision to build critical mass around CAJI and these
 research clusters was taken to reflect the core strengths of our unit, to focus resources, to
 respond to regional needs and to encourage research that responds to the needs of our
 community. This furthered the 2018 move of the unit from the more theoretically-focused Faculty
 of Arts, Laws and Social Sciences to a professions-facing Faculty of Business and Law (FBL),
 reflecting the unit having gained greater critical mass and expertise in practice-based research.
 Since then, our unit has been located within FBL, with 87.5% of our research staff from the
 School of Economics, Finance and Law and 12.5% from the School of Management. This
 structure has fostered greater interdisciplinarity, with CAJI providing multiple channels for
 communication and collaboration between researchers in the two Schools and beyond.

                Fig. 1. Illustration of how CAJI brings together our research clusters




                                            Law & Society



                                        Human Rights/          Bridging Digital
                                          Vulnerable           Divide / Privacy
                                         Communities
                                                        CAJI

                                                    Cyber-crime    Digital Economy/
                          Criminal Justice          / Counter-
                                                    terrorism       Arbitration Law



                 Fig. 1



                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our Law and Society researchers address contemporary social issues in human rights and
 vulnerable communities, family law, Sharia law and the regulation of sports. This research
 ranges from the impact of Brexit on the welfare rights of EU Roma migrants in the United
 Kingdom, to parents’ rights over their children’s religious upbringing in the context of the UK
 government’s PREVENT strategy, and issues of family law and the legal regulation of intimate
 relationships.

 Our Digital Economy and Arbitration Law researchers have engaged with the pressing legal
 and regulatory implications of developments in the areas of International Arbitration, as well as
 Information and Communication Technologies, including strategies for bridging the digital divide,
 the regulation of online behavioural advertising on Facebook and other social networking sites,
 digital copyright reform, and fundamental questions relating to authority and authorisation in
 international investment dispute settlement.

 Our Criminal Justice researchers have engaged with the global challenges of international
 counterterrorism and the prosecution of members of Islamic State for international crimes
 against the Yazidis. This research strand has also focused on issues of criminal procedure, such
 as the role of precedent in international criminal courts and tribunals and the impact of scientific
 evidence, such as DNA evidence, on the criminal trial.

 We have embarked on an ambitious recruitment drive to attract research talent in the three
 research clusters. Of the eight staff returned in this cycle, six were appointed in the census
 period. This strategy of focusing recruitment to areas of research strengths was accompanied by
 strengthening research leadership and sustaining a supportive research environment
 within which researchers at different stages of their career can thrive. As a result, in the census
 period, we have grown the breadth and depth of our research activities considerably and this
 has led to an increase in the number of research outputs published since 2014. Even though we
 are a small unit, over the census period, our researchers have published on average 10 outputs
 per researcher (or over 80 outputs in total).

 Many of the research projects undertaken by our researchers are interdisciplinary and have a
 strong profession and community focus. Both Kariyawasam's work in copyright reform in China
 and Zammit Borda's work with the Yazidi community has informed the unit’s impact case studies
 in these areas.

 Research Strategy – Looking Back

    1. Develop our Early Career Researchers (ECRs) and support existing staff to complete
       doctorates.

 In REF2014, we undertook to develop our ECRs and to support existing staff to complete
 Doctorates. We have achieved this objective by supporting the adoption of a new ARU Charter
 for ECRs (discussed below in Section 2). This was accompanied by a significant investment of
 resources for training, mentoring and supporting ECRs. We have supported staff completing
 doctorates (e.g. Mandelbaum). 12.5% of researchers submitting in our unit are ECRs.

    2. Increase external funding for our research by 10% per annum.

 We also undertook to increase external funding for our research by 10% per annum. We
 achieved this funding target, growing our overall external income generated from £38,067
 2014 to £73,034 in the census period. Moreover, in 2018/19, the university invested £37,500
 of QR funds in the unit to drive forward priority initiatives and projects. This was higher than in
 previous years (2016 and 2017 where QR investment was circa £29,000) and reflected an
 increase in support for research activity (mini sabbaticals and independent research projects)
 both for ECRs and more senior staff. This money was also invested to promote innovative and
 interdisciplinary research and to help with bid-writing activities. By supporting staff in these ways,
 we have diversified our external research funding streams to include EU and UK sources such

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as the Marie Curie Fellowships scheme, the Arts & Humanities Research Council, Economic &
 Social Research Council, the British Academy, Leverhulme Trust, and the University Association
 for Contemporary European Studies (UACES).

    3. Strengthen external research networks (UK and international).

 We have strengthened our external research networks (UK and international) by working to
 enhance the external profile and networks of our staff. We achieved this goal by providing
 training on networking and investing QR funds in network-building events. In 2015-17,
 Kariyawasam signed AHRC collaboration agreements with Peking University Law School
 (Beijing) and Xi'an Jiatong University Law School (Xi'an), Tier 1 research institutions in
 China, to develop a new regulatory model for fair use terms, completing a review of Chinese
 domestic laws and international trade treaty terms on fair use exceptions (see the related impact
 case study). In 2018-19, working within the Roma Research Group, Dagilytė developed
 interdisciplinary collaborations with non-governmental organisations and human rights
 advice organisations (e.g. the Rosmini Centre, Wisbech) to map the current state of Roma
 rights in Europe and to develop future research agendas for strengthening such rights.

    4. Recruit more research students (increase by 10% per annum) and expand the
       supervisory pool (at least five more staff qualified to act as first supervisors by 2018).

 In line with our REF2014 strategy, we embarked on an ambitious drive to recruit more research
 students and expand the supervisory pool. We have sought to attract and recruit highly
 motivated doctoral students, interested in conducting research in areas of our unit’s research
 strengths, by offering a mix of academic researcher-designed PhD projects and Vice Chancellor
 Doctoral studentships.

 As a result, we have increased our doctoral student body from 21 doctoral students in
 2007-13 to 51 doctoral students in the census period. This drive was accompanied by an
 ambitious strategy to attract research talent. As noted, of the eight staff returned in this cycle, six
 were appointed in the census period, all of whom have received supervisor training and
 have served as first supervisors.

    5. Support staff leadership of research and practitioner networks.

 Finally, in 2014, we undertook to support staff leadership of research and practitioner networks.
 By investing in our people and training staff, several members of the unit have been
 appointed to key research leadership positions. Zammit Borda, who in the REF2014 cycle
 was submitted as an ECR, has progressed to hold the role of REF Research Co-Convenor and
 Director of the Centre for Access to Justice and Inclusion. Kariyawasam holds the role of REF
 Research Co-Convenor and (formerly) Faculty Director of Research. Mandelbaum holds the role
 of Chair of the Faculty Research Ethics Panel. Keglevic-Steffek has served as PGR Student Co-
 ordinator within the School of Economics, Finance and Law.

 In terms of supporting practitioner networks, Zammit Borda’s research on the Yazidis led to his
 appointment as Research Leader for the Yazidi Justice Network, a practitioner network
 comprising the Bar Human Rights Committee, the International Bar Association - Human Rights
 Initiative and Accountability Unit. The main aim of this network is to seek justice and
 accountability for the Yazidis.

 Research Strategy – Looking Forward

 In the next REF period, through the Centre for Access to Justice and Inclusion, we will
 strengthen and enhance access to justice locally and globally, by:

    1. Growing the number of high-quality research outputs, aiming for a 10% per annum
       increase in our world-leading and internationally excellent research

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    2. Continuing to diversify income streams and grow research income (by 10% per annum)
    3. Continuing to enhance the development of our ECRs through training workshops
       focussed on publications, profile-building, funding applications, and PGR supervision, to
       support and nurture their career development (see also our specific ECR development
       package outlined in Section 2)
    4. Strengthening our community of post-graduate researchers by 5% per annum
    5. Building and developing stronger and more productive relationships with collaborators
       and stakeholders.

 In 2017, the university invested £276,600 in a multi-award-winning Law Clinic, providing free
 legal advice to vulnerable groups in Chelmsford, Cambridge and Peterborough and enhancing
 local community access to justice and inclusion. As part of our future research strategy, CAJI
 researchers will work closely with our Law Clinic to leverage future research pathways to impact,
 connect research and practice, and promote profession and community focused research. As a
 basis for developing funding proposals, this has already begun, with CAJI researchers engaging
 with the Law Clinic to identify access to justice challenges and changes in legal needs brought
 about by the Covid-19 pandemic.

 Maximising the Impact of Our Research in Our Community

 In the census period, researchers within our unit have been supported in their research and
 impact activities through strategic investments of QR funds and professional development
 (our ‘QR funding model’ covering mini-sabbaticals, independent research grants, and
 impact research grants - see Section 3 below). Senior members of staff have led mentoring
 and training activities, and all research-active staff have received impact training, including by
 external providers RAND Europe). In addition, a Research Impact Co-ordinator was employed
 by the University to support colleagues within the unit, focusing on maximising the impact of their
 research. This has enabled our researchers to develop and strengthen the impact of our
 research for this REF cycle such as investing QR funds to enhance the impact of our research
 in the areas of influencing policy development across the international digital divide
 (Kariyawasam) and international criminal justice and the Yazidis (Zammit Borda), underpinning
 our two impact case studies. Also, we have put in place strategies to continue to grow our
 impact going forward by making available QR funds and training to colleagues undertaking
 promising research to develop the skills necessary for future impact case studies and to
 think strategically about pathways to impact. Dagilytė’s research into United Kingdom
 welfare benefit reforms has been aided by QR funding support for a research assistant, awarded
 under the independent project sub-budget and impact funding in 2016. In 2017, Dagilytė
 received conference funding for presenting at the young researcher's symposium in Helsinki and
 to expand her professional network by attending the Westminster Policy Forum and
 Parliamentary Researchers conference in 2019.

 In the next five years, we will further strengthen the impact and reach of our research by:

    1. Strategically investing QR funds to grow our existing areas of impact strength and
       maximise the impact of our research for the communities that we serve
    2. Mainstreaming activities that facilitate impact, including promoting public engagement
       and knowledge exchange
    3. Strengthening our profession and community focused research by developing the Law
       Clinic, both as an anchor for practice-relevant research on inclusion and access to
       justice, and as a pathway to impact for CAJI’s underpinning research
    4. Harnessing institutional and faculty-level opportunities and making strategic use of
       available University resources such as training and support for impact, open access
       funds and repositories (such as ARU’s research data repository Figshare), to enhance
       impact.




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Interdisciplinary Research

 Fostering greater interdisciplinary research has been an important objective of the unit, and the
 strategic decision to relocate and integrate the unit into the Faculty of Business and Law
 has allowed for closer interdisciplinary collaborations to emerge. We have also made strategic
 use of QR funds to achieve this aim. We have invested QR funds to promote collaborative
 projects and sandpit events. Kariyawasam (Law) has worked alongside Giovannetti (Economics,
 returned to UoA17) to design a distributed digital copyright hub that will facilitate the licensing of
 copyright for creative artists. Within our unit, interdisciplinarity is considered a priority for
 applications for internal research funding, such as pump-priming. This is also the case with
 respect to our Vice Chancellor’s studentship scheme and the innovative projects for which
 prospective PhD students are invited to apply. For instance, Zammit Borda (Law) and Guha
 (Sociology) have worked together to offer a PhD in reproductive violence, that crosses the
 disciplines of law and sociology (feminist theory).

 Open Access

 Since 2014, we have progressed into an open research environment to maximise the
 dissemination of our research findings and data. Our members benefit from the University-wide
 annual £100,000 Open Access Fund for gold open access, with members of the unit
 successfully applying for this fund (e.g., Serby, Zammit Borda). This has enabled research
 which would otherwise have been locked behind publisher paywalls to be freely and
 readily available from the date of publication. We also provide the facility for green open
 access on the Anglia Ruskin Online Repository (ARRO). All staff are expected to submit their
 research outputs to ARRO, which is accessible to staff, postgraduate research (PGR) students
 and the wider research community. All our PGR students are also encouraged to use this online
 repository from an early stage, and it is a requirement that Doctoral Theses be deposited there.
 We use our Symplectic Current Research Information System, which is integrated with ARRO, to
 help monitor research outputs and open access compliance.

 Research Integrity and Ethics

 We have a robust system around ethics and research integrity in the unit, in line with the
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity (revised in July 2018). The university provides
 mandatory training and support mechanisms to all our researchers, which are overseen by
 ARU’s Research and Innovation Development Office (RIDO), and the Research Ethics and
 Integrity Manager. All staff and research students must complete the Epigeum Online Ethics
 training courses. Staff must also complete the Epigeum Research Integrity course which
 supports research-active colleagues in their decision-making process throughout the life cycle of
 their research projects. Within the unit, all ECRs have been assigned a mentor, who can advise,
 amongst others, on research integrity and ethics. Moreover, the chair of the Faculty Research
 Ethics Panel, Mandelbaum, is a member of CAJI and is available to advise the unit on issues of
 research ethics with respect to specific projects.

 All research proposals are subject to scrutiny and several rounds of peer review,
 conducted both internally within the unit and externally by the Faculty Research and Innovation
 Committee. These peer reviews include assessments of methodological approaches and data
 collection procedures, to instil a culture of reproducibility, and to provide a critique of data
 analysis approaches in a structured way. Indeed, enabling the reproducibility of research is
 keenly supported and encouraged by our unit.

 All our funding proposals are submitted to ethics panels, which provide support with a view
 to determining the design of the research and whether the proposed data sets can be delivered
 by the methodologies described. Our ethical clearance process is overseen by Faculty- and
 University-level Ethics Committees, to scrutinise the research and ethical implications of all our
 research proposals. In addition to staff, all postgraduate and undergraduate research students


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 are required to undertake compulsory ethics training and complete questionnaires on their
 research which are submitted for clearance to the Faculty’s Ethics Committee. It is notable that,
 in view of our reputation for high ethical standards, the chair of the Faculty Research Ethics
 Panel has consistently been a member of our unit (currently Mandelbaum).

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 In line with our strategy to develop critical mass in our three research clusters of the eight staff
 returned in this cycle, six were appointed in the census period. Our staffing strategy has
 reflected the teaching-intensive, research-active nature of our university. In the next five
 years, we will continue to focus on a balanced recruitment between research and practice, and
 where research informs practice. Recognising that not everyone can excel in all areas, we will
 recruit a mix of staff with applied, as well as theoretical, research strengths in our key areas of
 expertise. As part of this strategy, we will also aim to recruit, retain and nurture talented ECRs,
 supporting their career development within the institution (through the unit’s ECR development
 package discussed below).

 All staff with significant research responsibility are allocated at least one day of protected
 research time per week in their annual Academic Workload Balancing Model (AWBM). In line
 with ARU's institutional strategy ‘Designing Our Future, 2017-2026’, workload models are
 adjusted to enable our most productive researchers to focus on research and impact-related
 activities related to our three core research clusters. Also, as detailed below, our Faculty offers
 all staff significant staff development support.

 Within the ambit of CAJI, and drawing on broader institutional support, such as that provided by
 RIDO, we have provided training, support and mentoring for staff to develop their promotion
 applications and applications for research sabbaticals. Our staff within the unit have been
 highly successful in winning competitive institutional research sabbaticals. Awards of up
 to £10,000 are made on a competitive basis, to support researchers in undertaking a significant
 amount of high-quality research for a period of up to 15 weeks. During the census period, four
 researchers within the unit were awarded research sabbaticals to support their research:
 Kariyawasam (2017/8, to develop a funding bid); Dagilytė (2017/8, to develop outputs and a
 funding bid); Zammit Borda (2018/9, to finalise a monograph); and Mandelbaum (2019/20, to
 develop outputs and a funding bid). In addition, Serby (2014/5) was awarded a sabbatical to
 support completion of his doctorate.

 Additionally, the unit has invested QR funding to offer staff mini sabbaticals, which provide an
 extra layer of flexibility over and above the University sabbatical funding, through enabling staff
 to focus on research only for one semester. This scheme has been used by some staff (e.g.
 Kariyawasam, Dagilytė) to develop funding bids or complete journal articles.

 Early Career Researchers

 ECRs have a specific package to protect their time for research and reflected also in ARU’s
 institutional environment statement at Section 3.9. As a unit, 12.5% of our staff are ECRs, who
 contribute significantly to the research environment across the unit and the University. We have
 taken measures to raise awareness and mentor each of our ECRs to make full use of the
 support that is available to them through our ECR Charter and develop their careers by:
     • making available an individual research account, with £2,000 available to spend over a
          five-year period
     • providing ringfenced time to undertake research, with circa 30% of their time protected in
          years 1 or 2 of their career, and a further 30% in one of years 3, 4 or 5
     • offering access to QR funds across all staff (but with applications from ECRs prioritised)



                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   offering continuing professional development and training opportunities organised at the
        school, faculty and institutional level
    •   appointing ECRs onto research governance committees (eg. on Research and
        Innovation Committees at University and Faculty level, on the Advisory Board of the
        Centre for Access to Justice and Inclusion, and on various other committees within the
        University)
    •   supporting and encouraging ECRs to develop their networks, sabbatical applications,
        applications for studentship funding, and to apply for external funding
    •   providing specific provision to ensure involvement of ECRs on PhD supervisory teams
        and also as internal examiners of PhD vivas.

 Senior academics mentor ECRs through university probation mechanisms, and there is a strong
 culture of collaboration between early-career and established researchers. ECRs (and
 mid-career staff) are offered guidance and support on how research profiles may be developed
 to enhance career prospects. Staff members are also given opportunities to build their CVs and
 experience by, for instance, taking on key research-related roles. Thus, Zammit Borda, who in
 REF2014 was submitted as an ECR, was able to progress his career and be appointed as
 Director of CAJI in 2019.

 This emphasis on staff development is also evident when colleagues depart the unit; they have
 gone on to join other highly ranked universities (e.g. Open University (Gilbert); Aston University
 (Otabor-Olubor); University of Essex (Sallavaci); Royal Holloway, University of London
 (Valladares Pacheco de Oliveira)). In many cases, we have continued to collaborate with these
 colleagues on co-authored papers and funding proposals.

 As regards career development, researchers within the unit benefit from a robust appraisal
 structure. As part of this process, our researchers annually prepare an Individual Research
 Report (IRR), which documents outputs in preparation, submission, and publication stages, as
 well as details of external funding applications and impact activity. IRRs from all staff in the unit
 are reviewed on a biannual basis and this review serves to identify development needs and
 to inform specific researcher-development training.

 Staff development is further sustained through the Staff Researcher Development Programme
 (facilitated by RIDO) which, aligned with the Vitae Researcher Development Framework, offers
 workshops, events and online courses designed and delivered by external expert facilitators and
 internal academic and professional colleagues. A Research Mentoring Scheme for Aspiring
 Readers and Professors further supports colleagues’ career ambitions, and a Professorial
 Review process enables colleagues to progress through professorial career scales. Pathways
 to promotion are clear and transparent and colleagues are supported by a mentorship
 scheme whereby senior colleagues help with career planning and promotion applications.

 Research Students

 All our PGR students are supported through the ARU Doctoral School. At the start of their
 programme, PGRs attend a sector-leading induction programme, which covers key graduate
 capitals to help our PGR students attain the very best outcomes during and after their study. The
 programme focuses on, for example, strategic publishing, developing as a leader,
 entrepreneurship, harnessing research creativity and career development and public
 engagement.

 After completing induction, all PGR students are allocated two supervisors, with the potential for
 third or further advisory expertise support. Within this remit, students are expected to meet
 monthly with their primary supervisors (during the Covid pandemic, this became fortnightly), and
 with their full supervisory teams quarterly. Annual monitoring reviews are undertaken
 independently to the supervisory team to provide open and non-biased discussion on research
 progression. These annual monitoring sessions ensure doctoral research remains on track and
 has led to timely completion. Doctoral students within the unit are supported through an online

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 platform and structured Researcher Development Programme, requiring completion of
 several compulsory courses pertinent to timely progression.

 We have been proactive in ensuring that the unit’s PGR students are fully integrated in our
 research culture, including being affiliated with CAJI (PGR students are able to participate in all
 CAJI activities) and presenting at research group seminars. We have made strategic use of
 research funding to empower our PGR students and enhance the PGR research environment.
 Since 2014, we have appointed, on a rotating basis, our doctoral students to the position of
 PGR Student Support officers with a budget to organise a stimulating calendar of events for
 PGR students (over £14,500 invested since 2014). This position has helped promote
 “ownership” of the research environment to the students themselves, build and develop
 the skills and experience of the post-holders, while also sustaining a vibrant PGR research
 culture in the unit. We have used QR money to support a sustained series of monthly Guest
 Lectures and Networking Events, within the areas of research strength of the unit, for staff
 members, PGR and PGT students. These sessions were organised and hosted by CAJI and the
 invited speakers were members of the House of Lords, Directors of International Organisations,
 civil society leaders etc. Since the Covid pandemic started in March 2020, these have all been
 successfully delivered online to the wider public. A diverse range of topics were covered,
 including human rights in contemporary society; human rights in international commercial law;
 cybercrime and the Commonwealth of nations; theory of state; the challenges of practicing as a
 barrister in the international arena; and the problem of the definition of genocide.

 We organise Annual Research Seminars and other social events for our PGR students. And
 the unit has offered PGR students a conference travel fund to promote PGR students’
 participation at relevant academic conferences, both nationally and internationally (> £2,200 p.a.
 since 2014). Participation in such events has enabled our PGR students to enhance their
 reputations, disseminate their research, and has enabled them to develop contacts with the
 wider community. Overall, the integration of PGR students in our unit’s research environment
 and CAJI has facilitated their development as researchers as evidenced in their Annual
 Monitoring Reviews.

 Moreover, in the census period, we have also been successful in securing funding for three
 highly competitive Vice Chancellor doctoral studentships during 2015-17, which enabled
 three talented PGR students to commence PhDs in areas of research strength within the unit
 (with an overall value of £30,000).

 As a result of these structures, we have seen a step increase in PhD completions, from 8 in the
 previous REF cycle to 20 completions in this period. At the time of writing, the unit has a
 total of 24 registered PhD students. In 2019-20, we also awarded one Professional Doctorate
 in Law (though this programme has now closed because of a clear preference for PhD law
 programmes).

 The collaborative culture between researchers in the unit extends also to doctoral students,
 resulting in significant outputs and/or successful research funding bids. For instance, in
 2019, a PGR student (Kadir) collaborated with Murray (now departed) to publish an article on
 ‘Resource Nationalism in the Law and Policies of Indonesia: A Contest of State, Foreign
 Investors, and Indigenous Peoples’ in the Asian Journal of International Law. A PGR student
 (Hosen) was recruited as a Research Assistant on a grant awarded by the BA/Leverhulme Small
 Research Grant (2019, £9,903), to work on a project, led by Zammit Borda, on the Impact of
 Delayed Prosecutions in Fighting Impunity in Bangladesh.

 Finally, the unit is extremely successful in using the undergraduate research internship
 schemes, funded by the university, to promote successful research collaborations between staff
 members and UG students. Students selected for this scheme work alongside academics on
 research projects, helping to develop research grants and academic outputs. In the census
 period, five supervisors successfully received funding (some multiple times), leading to the
 recruitment of 16 student interns. This experience has enabled students to develop their skills

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and has given rise to a pipeline towards research degrees, with a number of these students
 going on to pursue a postgraduate degree at ARU or beyond.

 Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion

 As a unit, we are strongly committed to promoting the values of equality, diversity and inclusion
 in our research activities, providing a supportive environment where everyone is treated
 with courtesy, dignity and respect. We receive strong institutional support in this area, given
 that our institution received an Athena SWAN Bronze award in 2015 and renewed in 2018. EDI
 values are high priorities in recruitment and career development. Decisions concerning the
 recruitment and career progress of employees, and the admission, academic progress and
 support of students, follow strict HR policy and are made solely on the basis of previously
 published objective criteria. Furthermore, the University operates in the Jobs Interview
 Guarantee Programme (JIGS) and all our staff participating in recruitment panels receive
 specific training on EDI. Moreover, all staff of our unit have completed the ‘Diversity in the
 workplace’ course. Our unit also engages closely with staff inclusivity networks who provide
 support and guidance to colleagues: Women’s; LGBT; BME; Disabled; and Part-time and
 Flexible working.

 To promote inclusion in the workplace, we support staff who wish to utilise the University’s
 flexible working policy. This means, for instance, that research events and meetings are
 typically scheduled later in the morning or in the early afternoon to facilitate participation from
 those with caring responsibilities. For instance, we made sure to schedule all our monthly Guest
 Lectures and Networking Events, discussed above, for the early afternoon.

 We are supportive of, and provide continued investment in, staff with disabilities, and those
 returning after long-term sick leave or parental leave. In this context, we regularly run
 awareness-raising campaigns within the unit to ensure all staff are aware of the
 University returner scheme. This scheme makes available £4,000 worth of support, which can
 be used to engage teaching cover, a research assistant, attend a conference, training / refresher
 courses or other relevant support. This enables returners within the unit to re-engage in research
 activity within a shorter period than would otherwise have been possible. In the census period,
 one of our researchers made use of the returner scheme, on her return from maternity leave.

 Furthermore, as a unit, we are strongly committed to supporting researchers with disabilities and
 helping them to progress regardless of their disability, in line with the ARU Disability in the
 Workplace policy. Our research environments and offices are DDA compliant and where
 researchers need support because of a disability this is provided (e.g. we have provided
 specialist works stations to staff). Within the unit, we also promote disability awareness in the
 workplace and have in place several policies aimed at supporting staff with disabilities.
 These mechanisms include staff training for awareness of disability and special learning needs
 and digital resources. ARU is an accredited Disability Confident Employer, and we have
 organised awareness-raising activities within the unit for all our researchers to be aware of
 ARU’s pledges to the Mindful Employer Scheme, committing to support people with mental
 health problems in the workplace, and to the Time to Change Scheme, helping to change the
 way we all think and act about mental health. Finally, to disseminate our research outputs,
 researchers within our unit make use of accessibility guidelines and accessible templates
 available through our Digital Asset Management system.

 Equality, diversity, and inclusion have featured strongly in the preparation of this REF
 submission. We have ensured all staff have been supported in preparing REF returnable
 outputs through specific training with external academics, internal feedback, and regular updates
 on REF preparations in team meetings. Considering our commitment to EDI values, our unit’s
 Research Committee is balanced as far as possible in terms of gender (50%) and includes
 a mix of participation from experienced academics and ECRs, including academics with
 BAME status, to reflect the demographic diversity of the unit. The Co-Convenors for this unit
 have also been appointed from different career stages, with Kariyawasam a Professor and

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Zammit Borda a Senior Lecturer. Both have also undertaken dedicated Equality and Diversity
 training delivered by the Head of Research Excellence and Enhancement, RIDO. All outputs
 selected for inclusion in this REF cycle have been submitted to a process of Quality Review, in
 accordance with the University's REF Code of Practice, and were reviewed by a panel of, at
 least, two internal reviewers and one external reviewer, and balanced as far as possible in
 terms of gender, status and background ethnicity.

 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities

 Income

 In our forward strategy for REF2014, we undertook to increase external funding for our research
 by 10% per annum. To achieve this goal, as noted in Section 1, we first made the strategic
 decision to consolidate our research expertise across three research clusters in 2014,
 and in 2018, we joined the Faculty of Business & Law, a move which has enabled the unit to
 develop more interdisciplinary grant applications (e.g. law, economics and business) for
 submission to a broader range of research funders. The Centre for Access to Justice and
 Inclusion, established in 2019, has also strengthened the unit’s grant capture environment by,
 for instance, facilitating the establishment of interdisciplinary collaborations and research
 teams (e.g. bringing together criminal justice with digital economy researchers in looking at
 internet courts, or law and society and criminal justice in looking at corruption), providing
 training and support, and ensuring peer review, vetting and quality control of funding
 applications. This has led to an increase in the unit’s external funding from £38,067 in 2014 to
 £73,034 in the census period.

 The unit has used QR funding strategically to support researchers at every stage of the
 process of grant capture: from horizon scanning and identifying funding sources (e.g. staff
 from the Research and Innovation Development Office (RIDO) being resourced to work
 individually with staff to develop bids, including Dagilytė, Kariyawasam, Zammit Borda), to bid-
 writing, and post-award management (e.g. Kariyawasam with the AHRC Newton). The unit was
 also able to strategically create a QR Funding Model which directly or indirectly supported
 income generation over the period under review. This included budgets for independent project
 research (£12,000 p.a.), mini sabbaticals (£6,000 p.a.), and impact generation (£4,000 p.a.).
 Although the resources invested under the direction of our research strategy have been modest
 in terms of quantum, the results have been far more than the amount invested in terms of
 successful funding bids. Also, we have supported ECRs, enabling them to learn to build a
 funding profile and track record, to attract HEI and non-HEI collaborators and stakeholders. We
 have done this by facilitating participation in regular research conferences, developing
 collaborations and networks, and annual bid-writing retreats (both at the unit and Faculty level).
 This approach has led to an increase in research bidding activity within the UoA. In parallel with
 this approach, QR funds have been used to support more senior colleagues to develop larger
 grant applications (e.g. Kariyawasam).

 As a result of this approach, the unit has had notable successes in generating external income.
 In 2015-17, Kariyawasam was awarded a £62,208 research grant. He won funding from the
 Arts & Humanities Research Council (Newton Fund), the Ningbo Bureau of Science and
 Technology, and the University of Nottingham, Ningbo China to compare fair use of
 copyright in the digital domain provisions in Chinese domestic law along with several other
 countries, and also to look at provisions in some international trade agreements where China is
 prominent. In 2018-19, Dagilytė was awarded £923 funding by the UACES Small Event
 Grants to lead an international research symposium on Roma rights in Europe. This symposium
 was organised in collaboration with the Roma Research Group (a cross-disciplinary forum). And,
 in 2019-20, Zammit Borda was awarded £9,903 for a British Academy / Leverhulme grant
 for a project in transitional justice in Bangladesh. Going forward, and having regard to the
 institution’s teaching intensive, research active nature, external grant capture will remain one of
 the unit’s key focuses for future growth and development.


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Infrastructure

 The unit has various structures in place to provide support for the generation of research
 income, from the identification of possible sources through to the post-award stage. Our
 researchers work closely with the Research and Innovation Funding Development (RIFD) team
 within the Research and Innovation Development Office (RIDO) to identify available sources of
 funding. Our researchers are each allocated a Funding Manager, with whom they form
 individual relationships, working together to identify funding sources commensurate with the
 stage of their careers. Funding managers also provide support through horizon scanning and
 identification of funding opportunities through, for example, Research Professional, and
 provision of writing support for large and interdisciplinary research bids.

 We then provide support for our researchers with the development of grant applications
 at both the unit and Faculty level. All funding proposals are subject to scrutiny and several
 rounds of peer reviews, conducted both internally, within the unit, and externally, by the Faculty
 Research and Innovation Committee. Within RIDO, a Post Award Innovation and Knowledge
 Exchange Grants Manager and a Post-Award Research Grants Manager support researchers
 once funding has been won. As a result of this robust and supportive system, we have seen a
 broadening of the range of funders targeted by our researchers, which have included: Marie
 Sklodowska Curie research fund, AHRC, British Academy, ESRC, and the UACES.

 Moreover, our unit is embedded within the Faculty of Business and Law, which offers a robust
 infrastructure to support research and income generation. The Deputy Dean (Research and
 Innovation) manages a Director of Business Development and a bid-focused research fellow
 who support researchers within the unit from the outset and throughout the bid-writing process.
 This team works closely with researchers within the unit to develop networks and linkages with
 organisations to support knowledge transfer and public engagement. Faculty-embedded RIDO
 Research & Innovation Funding Development Managers assist throughout the pre-award
 process by identifying and disseminating funding opportunities, offering guidance on eligibility
 and funder requirements (e.g. Kariyawasam's successful bid to the AHRC Newton fund) and
 reviewing research proposals, which includes costing and advice on risk assessment. RIFD
 Managers also organise a variety of different events and training courses, ranging from bid
 writing to costing and identifying funding opportunities.

 Facilities

 Since REF2014, ARU has invested significantly in the infrastructure and facilities available to the
 unit. In 2017, the University invested £276,600 for the establishment of a purpose-built multi-
 award-winning Law Clinic in Cambridge and Chelmsford. The Law Clinic won the
 Excellence in Pro Bono award at the Cambridgeshire and District Law Society’s annual awards
 (March 2019) and it was Highly Commended in the LawWorks National Student Pro Bono
 Awards (May 2019). It was shortlisted for the Law Society’s Excellence in Pro Bono Award
 (August 2019), and it was Highly Commended (out of 280 clinics nationally) in the LawWorks
 Pro Bono Awards (December 2019). We have consciously made use of the Law Clinic to build
 collaborations across the city of Cambridge and beyond. In this respect, the Law Clinic has
 enabled us to develop a direct channel of communication and collaboration between members of
 the UoA, student advisors, pro bono lawyers and the local community. For instance, through the
 work of the Law Clinic, the unit has fostered channels of communication with over 24 national,
 regional and local firms of solicitors and barristers. Through restructuring its operations in
 dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic, the Clinic has been able to continue to see clients on a
 virtual basis throughout the pandemic. The ability of the clinic to respond to Covid-19 has been
 the basis of research bids through CAJI. At the time of writing, the clinic has seen a total of
 1,780 clients and offered in the region of £200,000 of legal advice. PGR students, together with
 other law students, have been able to volunteer to provide pro bono support and gain valuable
 professional experience within this Clinic. As well as providing an important support and service
 for our students and local community, in line with our future research vision, the Law Clinic will


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 serve as an anchor for practice-relevant research on access to justice and inclusion, and as
 a pathway to impact for CAJI’s underpinning research.

 We have developed additional facilities for PGR students within the unit, who have purpose-
 built and dedicated PGR workspaces. PGR students make use of collaborative, Team-Based
 Learning classrooms, which offer a state-of-the-art environment for research staff, PGR
 students, PGT and UG students to pursue their research and studies.

 4. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society

 Collaborations

 Academics in the unit have strong, well-established collaborations with Universities, NGOs,
 professional bodies, and international organisations. These collaborations have been assisted
 by a research strategy within the unit, developed and refined over the census period, to actively
 fund research in our prioritised research clusters of law and society, digital economy/arbitration,
 and criminal justice. For example, with funding both from QR and the AHRC for his work on the
 open society in the digital realm, Kariyawasam collaborated with Tier 1 research institutions
 in China, Peking University Law School (Beijing) and Xi'an Jiaotong University Law School
 (Xi'an), to develop a new regulatory model for fair use terms in China. As part of this project,
 Kariyawasam successfully supervised PhD researchers (3 at Peking University Law School and
 3 at Xi’an Jiatong University Law School) and co-produced a range of outputs, including
 innovative semi-structured surveys using social media and face-to-face interviews with Chinese
 business and judiciary. He received funding of £2,000 from the University’s UG research
 internship scheme to fund two students to complete literature reviews on copyright law for the
 project, allowing for the development of UG research skills in cutting-edge research. Some of
 this project’s work has influenced one of the unit’s impact case studies. The methodology
 developed from this grant has provided a framework for future split-site PhD supervision and
 management for future projects. Moreover, Kariyawasam also has well-established links with
 the World Economic Forum, where he served as an expert member of the E-15 Digital
 Economy Group, advising trade missions, the WTO secretariat, business and academia on
 changes to the WTO rules on the Digital Economy.

 Moreover, Zammit Borda’s collaboration with the Yazidi NGO, the Sinjar Foundation for
 Human Development, provided the legal framework for this NGO to advocate for the
 recognition of the crime of genocide against the Yazidis at the UK Parliament and the UN
 Human Rights Council in 2016. And taking this work forward, Zammit Borda in the criminal
 justice cluster, received funding from QR in the region of £3,000 as part of impact development
 to collaborate further by hosting a conference held at ARU in February 2020, involving
 Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne and the AMAR Foundation on the issue of raising greater
 awareness of the crime of genocide against the Yazidis. This work has informed one of the
 impact case studies for the unit and underpins research for access to justice and inclusion within
 CAJI.

 Home, who retired in 2017 and is now an Emeritus Professor within the unit, collaborated with
 the Japanese International Co-operation Research Institute (a leading promoter of land
 readjustment) and the Thabo Mbeki Leadership Institute (on training programmes). His
 research, which was supported by QR Impact funding in the law and society cluster, has been
 used in two book collections sponsored by the World Bank under its Rule of Law in Africa
 project.

 Building on her previous work in the area of European solidarity, vulnerable EU citizens and their
 rights to welfare benefits, Dagilytė, in the Law and Society cluster, received QR impact funding
 of £640 as part of the unit’s research strategy to fund development of impact case studies for the
 next REF cycle which allowed her to work with non-governmental, organisations and human
 rights advice organisations in her research on migrant rights, and has provided research-


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 informed training to Roma Support Group and Advice on Individual Rights in Europe (AIRE)
 Centre (London) and at the Roma Community Care (Derby).

 Contributions

 Contribution to grant review panels: Staff within our unit have been appointed to grant
 review panels and pools of reviewers. For instance, Zammit Borda is a member of the Review
 Committee for the Newton Prize, and a member of the Peer Review College for the UK
 Research and Innovation (UKRI) Future Leaders Fellowships programme.

 Professional memberships: In view of our strong emphasis on practice, several research-active
 members within the unit are also qualified solicitors or barristers either in the UK or in
 international jurisdictions (Kariyawasam, Serby, Zammit Borda). Noble is an Academic Associate
 of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development. These professional memberships have
 enabled our researchers to draw on both their academic and professional experiences in
 developing practice-based research and have enhanced their ability to serve as experts in
 their respective fields. For instance, in May 2019, Kariyawasam was invited by the International
 Forecasters Organisation to present the results of his research on market competition and
 dominance on the internet at the Predictive Analytics Conference at the University of Cambridge.
 And in October 2020, Dagilytė was engaged by Democracy Reporting International to
 prepare a country report on the Rule of Law in Lithuania, which was subsequently presented
 to members of the Lithuanian Parliament.

 Contributions to journal editorship and preparation: Researchers within the unit regularly peer
 review articles for journals across multiple disciplines. Serby is a Member of the Advisory
 Board, International Sports Law Journal. Zammit Borda was a Member of the Board of Editors of
 the Commonwealth Judicial Journal (2012-2018). Kariyawasam is on the editorial board of the
 Journal for Innovation in the Digital Economy (2014-present). In 2016, the university founded its
 own student law journal, the Ruskin Law Review, which is a biannual publication, that publishes
 research extracts from the best student dissertations, and student articles through competitive
 selection by an editorial board consisting of both students and staff, funded by QR money.

 Conferences and invited presentations: In the period under review, our researchers have
 organised and hosted three international conferences and acted as convenors of sessions.
 For instance, Serby organised a conference focusing on the future of the 'legal autonomy' of
 sport (2016). The conference was attended by leading academics in the area who, at the same
 time, had experience as practitioners in engaging directly with stakeholders in resolving
 disputes, sporting or otherwise. Kariyawasam organised a public conference in Beijing (2016)
 and workshop (2017) funded by the AHRC on revision of China’s copyright laws which attracted
 a wide range of members of industry, lawyers, academics, and judges, including from China's
 Supreme People's Court. Zammit Borda organised a stakeholder conference on the subject of
 ‘The Yazidis and the Crime of Genocide: Seeking Recognition and Accountability’ (2020). This
 conference, which addressed ways in which to secure accountability for the crimes committed
 against the Yazidis, was attended by over 25 key stakeholders, including Members of the UK
 Parliament, public officials, representatives from the United Nations International, Impartial and
 Independent Mechanism (Syria), representatives of the Yazidi community and Yazidi NGOs.

 Moreover, QR funding has been strategically used to support conference and networking
 sessions that promote collaborations and network building. In the census period, several of our
 researchers have been invited to present their research at national and international
 conferences. For instance, in 2020, Dagilytė presented on the issue of Brexit and East European
 agricultural workers in the UK at the Social Dynamics: Inequalities, Integration, Mobility and
 Migration conference in Budapest. And Kariyawasam presented at the International Summit on
 China's One Belt One Road policy at the University of Oxford in 2017 and at the University of
 Edinburgh in 2018 and 2019.



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Finally, our unit works closely with the University’s Press Office, in developing press releases
 about research projects and encouraging our academics to write articles for The Conversation
 and other outlets to communicate our research to broader society. Research produced within the
 unit has received significant press coverage and our researchers regularly provide content for
 The Conversation (Dagilytė, Zammit Borda). Dagilytė’s article on the impact of a delay on the
 settled status scheme for EU citizens was read 18,097 times, and Zammit Borda’s article on
 prosecuting Islamic State fighters was read 25,359 on The Conversation. Other coverage of our
 research includes articles in Reuters, Forbes, Newsweek Europe, the Guardian, The Times, the
 Daily Mail and the Daily Express. It also includes many interviews on radio (BBC Radio 4, BBC
 World Service, and local radio) and television (Russia Today). And our researchers have
 regularly supported external facing events as part of the Festival of Ideas (Dagilytė, Hill), which
 also provide excellent platforms for communicating our research to wider society.




                                                                                            Page 14
