(REF5b) Architecture, Built Environment and Planning
 Institution: Leeds Beckett University

 Unit of Assessment: Architecture, Built Environment and Planning

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and structure
 Research in unit 13 stretches across a range of disciplinary areas related to the built
 environment. This research includes work on building performance and energy, civil engineering
 (materials and water), spatial and neighbourhood planning, women in the built environment,
 construction informatics and digital research and architectural history. Our objective through this
 work is to pursue high-quality built environment-related research that contributes to the
 creation and management of more sustainable built environments. Our research is also
 linked closely to industry through industrial and professional partnerships and activities. The unit
 aims to: (a) build a record of research that is focused on the technological and social
 aspects of sustainable urbanism; and (b) pursue research excellence and research impact
 across the unit’s research areas.

 The unit’s submitted staff are drawn from the School of Built Environment, Engineering and
 Computing (Surveying, Construction and Project Management 9 staff; Engineering 4 staff;
 Planning, Housing and Human Geography 8 staff) and the Leeds School of Arts (Architecture
 and Landscape Architecture 6 staff). The unit incorporates the Leeds Sustainability Institute
 (LSI, 8 staff), established in 2012 (under the directorship of (Gorse).

 Since REF2014 the unit has maintained an upward trajectory of research development. For
 REF2014, the unit returned 18 FTE, submitted 71 outputs, produced 3 case studies, had 2
 doctoral level completions, and generated just under £1.9 million of external research income.
 For REF2021 we have improved on these indicators. The unit is returning 33.7 FTE (35
 headcount), submitting 84 outputs, 3 case studies, has 18 doctoral level completions, and
 generated external research income of c£3.4 million.

 Building on our REF2014 submission we have further enhanced our research environment and
 community through:

    •   Creating a strong interdisciplinary community of staff and students, which includes
        social scientists, psychologists, building physicists, statisticians, and construction
        professionals.

    •   Growing success in securing significant research funding from major funders including:
        The Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC); the Economic
        and Research Council (ESRC), Innovate UK; the British Academy; Department for
        Business, Energy, and Industrial Strategy (BEIS); Department for Communities and
        Local Government (CLG); and the European Union.

    •   Conducting high quality research that is directly relevant to, and has impact on, practice
        (for example, our work with the Construction Industry Training Board) and policy,
        such as our work on energy performance with the Department of Energy and Climate
        Change (DECC), Department for Business, Energy, and Industrial Strategy (BEIS)
        and the International Energy Authority (IEA).

    •   Developing effective national and international research collaborations with organisations
        such as the Department for Business, Energy, and Industrial Strategy (BEIS),
        Historic England, Friends of the Earth, the International Energy Agency and the
        United Nations.




                                                                                               Page 1
(REF5b) Architecture, Built Environment and Planning
    •   Providing a vibrant and dynamic research culture through continued success in
        developing and retaining talented research students and researchers.

    •   Establishing a Director of Research post leading research in the unit, as well as creating
        research fora such as the Professors and Readers group and School-based research
        committees (BEEC and LSA).

 Research strategy
 Our research strategy has prioritised high quality and impactful research that produces pure and
 applied knowledge contributing to the creation and management of more sustainable built
 environments. Post 2014 we reviewed our strategy to help sharpen our focus on the
 technological and social dimensions of urban sustainability. Our approach to developing
 strategy was collaborative and established through consultation with the unit’s Professors and
 Readers group, the research committees of BECC and LSA and with unit staff, through School
 away days and individual research meetings. Our strategy and performance are subject to
 annual scrutiny and review through School Accountability meetings with University senior
 management.

 In 2017 the University strategically appointed Directors of Research in each REF unit to lead the
 growth and sustainability of our research environment. This change saw the Directors of
 Research work closely with newly appointed Deans of School, Heads of Subject and Directors of
 Research Centres to ensure that all academic staff are aligned with, and contribute to, our
 collective research excellence & academic enterprise. The Director of Research (Strange) role
 is key here, establishing a link between the unit and the DVC Research, as well as providing
 strategic research leadership and a research management position to guide and oversee the
 direction of the unit’s work.

 Our research strategy has been focused on the following aims:

    •   To maintain and develop a team of high-quality research active staff whose outputs
        and impact is transmitted to our research partners, users, and beneficiaries.

    •   To strengthen and improve the quality of the research outputs of individual staff
        members.

    •   To further develop the value (financial and academic) and range of external
        research income, with clear plans for dissemination of research projects and their
        impacts.

    •   To establish a strong ‘community of researchers’ and vibrant research
        environment. This includes members of academic staff, but also growing our numbers
        of research students who contribute to the development of our unit’s research and
        research culture.

 Achieving our strategic aims

    •   Appointing highly qualified research leaders. All new academic appointments are
        now made related to the research profile and ability of applicants to integrate within the
        research strategy of the Unit. Since 2014, we have appointed 4 Professors (2 of which,
        Akintoye, Dulaimi, were external appointments) and 8 Readers (Ajay, Ahmed, Fylan,
        Glew, Oyegoke, Parker, Swan, Zulu).

    •   Valuing the research contribution of existing staff is recognised and demonstrated
        through the annual internal promotion round to a Professorial Chair or Readership. Of the
        Professors and Readers appointed since 2014, 1 Professor (Paul) and 8 Readers (Ajay,
        Ahmed, Fylan, Glew, Oyegoke, Parker, Swan, Zulu) came through this route.


                                                                                              Page 2
(REF5b) Architecture, Built Environment and Planning
    •   Creating opportunities for staff to apply for University QR research funding
        annually. The unit receives funding of approximately £150,000 per year in QR monies.
        This investment is agreed against a plan of expenditure on the unit’s research objectives
        and plans. It has supported conference attendance, research networking events,
        seminar/symposium events, research group funding, research leave awards and
        research impact development.

    •   Reviewing bids for external income. In line with university policy, all draft bids are
        internally reviewed by senior research staff within and beyond the unit before submission
        is approved. We have increased R&E income to c£3.3m and we are now competing for
        and winning more grants from diverse funding agencies, including research councils,
        government departments and other high-profile research funders.

    •   Expanding our postgraduate research student community (primarily at PhD level)
        and the introduction of a Professional Doctorate Programme. The unit has increased
        its number of PGR students to 72. There have been 18 Doctoral completions between
        2014-20 (traditional route PhDs). A smaller number of doctorates have also been
        awarded by existing published works for staff. In 2019 the School established a series of
        Professional Doctorates in the Built Environment. These professional doctorates
        expanded existing provision within the School, such as the DEng programme. The
        professional doctorates widen the range of available professional and practice-based
        research opportunities for study within the School, focusing on key areas of staff
        research expertise. In addition to the DEng, there are professional doctorates in Built
        Environment, Construction Law and Dispute Resolution, Planning and Housing, Civil
        Engineering and Project Management.

    •   Establishing clear lines of access to internal support for research funding. Staff
        have been able to request funding for research support (conferences, APCs, research
        leave, research related equipment), strategic areas of research have received investment
        and our PGR community and provision has grown.

    •   Enabling the development of staff research agendas via annual Personal
        Development Review (PDR) meetings (staff appraisal). These include research
        objectives that align with the unit’s strategy, identify support needs, and that are realistic
        (see Section 2).

    •   Ensuring research time and deployment allocation for research active staff. All staff
        identified as research independent and with significant responsibility for research have a
        minimum of 20% of their workload allocated for research. The research activities
        associated with this deployment are agreed through PDR and deployment process.

 Impact strategy
 Our institutional research strategy sets a context for the unit’s work and research impact. The
 university’s mission as a ‘civic university’ is concerned with reaching different publics and
 engaging our local, national, and international communities. Its research strategy engages with
 the ‘grand challenges’ facing us in terms of the sustainability of our society and its economic,
 community, political and physical structures. The unit’s research is at the heart of this strategy,
 reflecting its significance and importance for the institution and making a positive impact on the
 built environment through technological and social interventions towards more sustainable
 places and spaces. We have three major principles for achieving impact form our research (1)
 promoting collaborative research with diverse stakeholders and encompassing dissemination
 events with users; (2) presenting our research at conference and events aimed at practitioners
 and end users; and (3) utilising print, broadcast, and social media to engage with our
 stakeholders and others about our research.

 The unit’s research is producing significant research-driven impacts on the built environment that
 cuts across economic, social, policy and cultural domains. For example, our work continues to

                                                                                                 Page 3
(REF5b) Architecture, Built Environment and Planning
 focus on bringing quality of life benefits to many by improving the quality of basic drinking water
 in the global South. In 2015 our water research on improving water quality in Malawi was
 awarded first prize at the UK Research Councils Water Research Impact Awards 2015 –
 Process Technologies. Equally, our engagement with industry is well developed through work
 with major utility and construction companies such Balfour Beatty, ASDA, and Earthsense
 Systems for example. Our research is also contributing to better informed public policy making
 and evaluation, for example through providing evaluation studies of university Economic and
 Social Research Council research centres (Strange) and the Technology Strategy Board
 Future Cities Demonstrator Programme project (Strange); spatial plan analysis and
 neighbourhood planning (Bradley); and participation in high level national policy groups (for
 example those established by the Technology Strategy Board, Innovate UK, DECC and BEIS)
 (Glew, Gorse, Johnston).

 Our commitment to having research impact that improves the sustainability of built environments
 flows through our work and through each of the impact case studies. The case studies
 highlight this impact, showcasing not only the range of work contained in the unit, but also its
 excellence. The case studies also demonstrate the differential scale and reach of our research
 and its impact, while underscoring the longevity of the unit’s research. For example, the
 underpinning research for the case study on Increasing energy efficiency and reducing the
 performance gap in buildings stretches back to the late 1990s. Research from this case study
 directly led to Building Regulations changes to reduce heat loss from homes. These changes
 have saved 5 million tons of CO2 and resulted in lower fuel bills for hundreds of thousands of
 new build homes worth over £100 million pounds during this REF period. The “co-heating”
 research method developed by staff in the building performance group has been adopted as the
 de-facto approach to understand the true energy efficiency of buildings.

 The research supporting the work in the case study on Sustainable development of water
 quality infrastructure and operational reliability of rural community water points in
 developing countries extends back to 2005. Multidisciplinary research work conducted by LBU,
 and partner organisations, has helped improve the water supplies for rural people in southern
 Malawi, and has led to the establishment of the country’s first postgraduate course on water
 management. Graduates are now working in-country on water improvement projects as well as
 the development of new policy to promote and implement good practice.

 The case study on Neighbourhood and community planning highlights research at national
 and local scale and is a clear response to policy changes within the planning system since 2012.
 With its concentration on civic and public engagement in the betterment of urban
 neighbourhoods and communities, the research of this case study has focused on increasing the
 capacity of neighbourhood groups in England to change statutory planning policy, enabling them
 to input into the renewal of the neighbourhoods in which they live. The research has brought
 about a four-fold increase in the percentage of urban neighbourhoods participating in statutory
 planning policy and changed planning policy decisions, empowering urban communities across
 the north of England to plan and create safer and greener environments and to build a strong
 sense of place.

 Future direction and strategic approach
 Our future strategic research aims will cultivate and grow further those we have been pursuing
 through the current REF period. Specifically, our aims for the next REF cycle are:

    •   To recruit research leaders that can contribute to and strengthen our research.
    •   To build on our growing success and reputation in income generation from academic,
        government and industry funders.
    •   To maintain our record of publishing in high-ranking academic journals and producing
        outputs that progress academic debate and inform and develop policy.
    •   To preserve and sustain our vibrant community of researchers by providing a well-
        resourced and institutionally supported research environment.


                                                                                               Page 4
(REF5b) Architecture, Built Environment and Planning
    •   To use our internal investment strategy (through strategic use of QR) to provide a strong
        platform for existing and emerging areas of research.
    •   To embed pathways to impact and impact as a key driver of all research.

 Our research focus will be on activity that offers technological and social solutions to the
 problems and challenges of urban sustainability. While we are mindful of sustaining the
 international reach and impact of our work, particularly in relation to the challenges of water
 purity and energy production and access in developing countries, we will also continue to push
 forward on research that impacts on, and influences UK policy, in relation to the sustainable
 performance of buildings. Equally our research on planning for better and more socially cohesive
 local communities will remain a core part of our engagement with local communities and which
 contributes to our wider civic and local role. Finally, while our work on gender and the built
 environment/women in planning and construction informatics has emerged during this REF
 period, we see these as growth areas with potential to make significant contributions to our
 research culture and to policy debates and action for more diverse and inclusive places and
 more digitally informed construction. In sum, we will align our work to the ‘grand challenges’ that
 face our built environments, nurturing mutually productive links with industry and local
 communities as we expand our contribution to practice, policy, the academy and our
 communities.


 2. People

 Staffing Strategy
 Staff are our key resource and are at the heart of our research activities and strategy to create a
 thriving research community. This staff-centred approach is recognised and encouraged by the
 Schools’ and University’s commitment to promoting research and is reflected in LBU’s policy and
 practice for staff recruitment, staff development and support.

 The University’s staffing strategy is concerned with enabling all colleagues to achieve the best
 they can for themselves and for our university. In addition to the University’s People Strategy, at
 local level the unit provides a supportive and stimulating environment within which academic
 staff can develop their research interests and capabilities. Our unit is committed to the principles
 of equality, diversity, and social justice. Our success and competitiveness rests upon our ability
 to draw from the broadest population of researchers to conduct research that makes a significant
 contribution to society. We expect our researchers and partners to demonstrate that equality,
 diversity, and inclusion are embedded in their everyday business and practice. Our unit aims to:

    •   Be consistent and transparent in our strategy for excellent research and evidencing good
        practice using Leeds Beckett Equality benchmarks, such as the Race Equality Charter
        Mark, Athena Swan, Stonewall Index, REF, TEF and other equality standards.
    •   Lead a sustainable culture change in relation to equality and diversity especially in
        underrepresented and under-served areas.
    •   Optimise the potential of our researchers by recruiting, retaining, developing, and
        promoting from the most diverse possible demographic.

 Unit Staffing
 The unit has 7 Professors (Akintoye – Dean of BECC -, Dulaimi, Gorse, Johnston, Paul,
 Simson and Strange), 1 emeritus Professor (Bell), and 9 Readers (Ahmed, Ajay, Glew, Fylan,
 Oyegoke, Parker, Pritchard, Swan and Zulu). The remaining unit staff are senior lecturers and
 those at an earlier stage of their research careers. The recruitment and promotion of excellent
 research staff is key to the success and sustainability of the unit and its research aims. Indeed,
 in the hiring of new appointments, the candidates’ potential to contribute to our aims with a
 successful research trajectory is considered an essential criterion. The Director of Research
 (Strange) or another Professor, participates in all recruitment panels to ensure that we attract
 excellent researchers and/or those with significant research potential. Recruitment strategy and


                                                                                              Page 5
(REF5b) Architecture, Built Environment and Planning
 decision-making on appointments are undertaken locally with consultation and support from
 Dean(s) of School.

 Over the REF period, the unit has strengthened its research leadership with the internal
 promotion of (Paul, Simson) to Professorships, the appointment of 2 external Professors
 (Akintoye, Dulaimi) and the internal promotion to Readerships (Ahmed, Ajay, Glew, Oyegoke,
 Fylan, Parker, Swan and Zulu). Our strategy over this REF period has been to grow the
 complement of FTE staff in our areas of research strength. Since 2014 the staff base of the unit
 has grown. We have appointed staff in construction and surveying, in engineering, in planning,
 and research assistant posts for externally funded projects. These appointments have been
 made with the intention of increasing our research capacity for future research strength at the
 intersections of the technical and social dimension of built environment research and education.
 Strategic investment in staffing associated with construction and engineering reflects our aim to
 support these key areas of our activity and to further develop our reputation in STEM related
 aspects of built environment research. In academic years 19/20 and 20/21 we invested over
 £100,000 in strategic QR investment into STEM research in the unit (see Section 3) and this is
 planned to continue as we strengthen and develop our STEM related activity.

 Staff development
 Our approach to staff development is to facilitate, enable and support research such that
 individual staff research aspirations can be met and which in turn support and help achieve the
 research aims of the unit. One key area of research support is through annual quality research
 (QR) funding. The unit receives funding of approximately £150,000 per year in QR monies.
 Since 2019 the unit has also received an additional allocation of £100,000 per year from a
 University-wide strategic allocation fund. This has enabled the unit to develop key areas of work
 that brings together staff within the unit on STEM focused research, for example work on urban
 heat islands in Leeds undertaken by staff in the LSI and in the Planning, Housing and Human
 Geography subject group, or the match funding of two PhD studentships with YORhub and staff
 in the Construction group. Indeed, internal investment in research (in addition to our growing
 external research income) is an important contributor to improving our research structures,
 facilities and equipment, our research profile, our reputation, and the development of our staff.

 Opportunities are offered for staff to apply for funding available through the unit. Indicatively this
 has included:

    •   Research and Enterprise Services offered research cluster, early-career, and mid-career
        funding opportunities in the early part of this REF cycle. The following unit staff were
        awarded funding from these schemes (Bradley, Glew, Parker, Swan).

    •   The unit offers funding for research leave. The following staff have benefitted from this
        funding: Swan (FP7 AGUASOCIAL project and REF case study), Hope (Tomorrow’s
        Cities UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF)
        Urban Disaster Risk Hub programme), Bradley (Neighbourhood planning REF case
        study), Edwards (Women in the built environment) and Horwood (Women in Planning
        Network).

    •   The unit has an internal research funding process for the development of research, with
        the objective of supporting and developing both existing and emerging areas of research.

 Our approach to staff development is underpinned by mentoring, research partnering, team
 working and inter-institutional collaborations. All staff participate as necessary in the University’s
 staff development programme and research training support offered by Research and Enterprise
 Services. Equal support is also given to research officers and research fellows as well as to
 academic staff, and this has allowed several research fellows to continue their education to
 doctoral level whilst working on research projects and producing outputs (Fletcher, Brooke-
 Peat). Research Mentoring is available to all colleagues according to need, whether they are
 early-career academics, or whether they are mid-career or senior researchers. This process is

                                                                                                 Page 6
(REF5b) Architecture, Built Environment and Planning
 managed by the Professors and Reader across the unit and is available either as a request from
 an individual, or as a targeted action arising from a PDR meeting.

 All members of staff have an annual PDR meeting with their line manager where clear and
 achievable research objectives are set and embedded into the forthcoming years’ work activity.
 These reviews provide the basis for monitoring progress and identifying individual support
 needs, for example, the allocation of research time, conference attendance, and/or research
 training requirements. The PDR is therefore not only an important opportunity to support the
 professional and personal development of staff, but also a key mechanism for monitoring the
 effective use of research time and outputs. Linked to the annual deployment round, which makes
 research a core part of academic workloads, time spent on research articulated through the PDR
 process is thus clear and accountable. All staff identified as research independent and with
 significant responsibility for research have a minimum of 20% of their workload allocated for
 research.

 Equality and diversity
 LBU is a Disability Positive employer, holds institutional Athena Swan accreditation, has
 received Stonewall Top 100 employer status, and is a member of the pilot group of universities
 for the Race Equality Charter Mark. Both BEEC and LSA is fully committed to the University’s
 protocols on equality and diversity viewing them as essential to a progressive and empowered
 research environment. We monitor equality and diversity through the School’s Equality and
 Diversity committee. Both BEEC and LSA are seeking Athena Swan accreditation. This work is
 led by (Edwards) in BEEC and (Schiffer) in LSA. The unit’s gender balance 7 females and 28
 males (headcount). Of the senior staff, one reader is female. Ten colleagues identify as
 Asian/Asian British or Black/Black British, while the remaining staff are of White ethnicity.

 To determine our REF submission, a panel comprising the Director of Research, 3 Professors
 and a Senior Lecturer, internally assessed staff’s research independence. Our Code of Practice
 (CoP) emphasises transparency, consistency, accountability, and inclusivity as its core
 principles. In-line with this, our CoP was shared with staff through presentations and a Q&A and
 is available digitally and in print to all staff. The University established an independent Equality
 panel to consider requests from staff with complex circumstances. An Appeals panel adjudicated
 any potential appeals resulting from our processes. All staff were invited to submit for research
 independence, with the unit panel assessing whether staff had a responsibility for research and
 were independent researchers or were working towards research independence. Demonstrating
 our commitment to inclusivity, all staff rated 1* - 4* through our internal assessment are included
 in our submission. There were no appeals in Unit 13.

 Postgraduate research community
 The unit has experienced considerable success through its industrial, professional and
 community engagement in attracting students. Sectors previously outside the traditional
 research arena are increasingly interested in the unit’s research agenda. Indeed, part-time
 research undertaken in collaboration with partners is an important element of our PGR provision.
 As such, a key objective for the unit is to maintain and enhance its ‘community of researchers’
 and postgraduate students. This includes retaining and recruiting research active staff, but also
 increasing research student numbers. For REF2014 the unit had 25 enrolled research students.
 In the current REF period, the unit has increased this number to 72 enrolled research students
 and there have been 18 Doctoral completions, compared to 2 completions in the previous REF
 cycle. The unit has also established a Doctorate in Engineering (DEng) programme with 4
 cohorts of students enrolled. To build on the success of this programme and to meet a demand
 for professional doctoral opportunities from a wider range of students, the School established a
 suite of part-time Built Environment professional doctorates in 2019. In addition to the DEng,
 there are now professional doctorates in Built Environment, Construction Law and Dispute
 Resolution, Planning and Housing, Civil Engineering and Project Management. The unit has
 funded 12 bursaries (full fee waiver) for students from practice or industry on the doctoral
 programme. We have also used QR allocation strategically to offer five 50/50 matched-funded
 PhD studentships with industry partners, including Citu Leeds (Parker) YORhub (x2) (Dulaimi),

                                                                                              Page 7
(REF5b) Architecture, Built Environment and Planning
 Saint Gobain (Glew) and the Property Care Association (Brooke-Peat), capitalising on our
 research relationships with these organisations.

 The unit also takes the development of staff without doctorates seriously and funds all staff that
 do not hold doctoral level awards to undertake a programme of PhD study. All staff PhD
 students have an allocation of 150 hours in their deployment, which is in addition to their
 automatic allocation of 155 hours for Research and Scholarly Activity. Staff PhD projects reflect
 both staff interests and supervisory research expertise. All PhD enrolled staff are expected to
 publish work as the research develops to help build their research profiles and post-doctoral
 research development. In some cases, such staff PhD work is building into a substantial body of
 research that will be ripe for inclusion in future research excellence framework assessments. For
 example, the PhD work of Stott and Warren (Architecture) in the pedagogical field of
 architecture live projects, although not included in this submission, is particularly promising as a
 future case study demonstrating local community engagement and impact at the neighbourhood
 development level.

 All research students take part in a University Induction programme on the commencement of
 their programme of study. This is organised and managed by the Graduate School. As they
 progress, students are required to undergo a ‘Confirmation of Registration’ viva (4 months for FT
 students and 6 months for PT students) where their research proposals are considered and
 assessed. Each student also has an annual progression meeting where they are required to
 formally report on their progress to a panel of academic staff in the School. Research student
 training is accessed via different routes. In addition to a central programme of events, there is a
 Research Training Programme (RTP) delivered via the University’s Graduate School. Initial
 training needs are identified as part of the Confirmation of Registration process. Students are
 alerted to the RTP events from their compulsory Induction onwards, and in consultation with
 their research supervisor they are also encouraged to identify other relevant training. All full-time
 research students are provided with a laptop and office space and have access to funding for
 one conference visit per year during their period of registration. Part-time students receive the
 same benefits, except for the laptop, on a pro-rata basis. Research students are also
 encouraged to attend staff research seminars provided by the research groups, as well as
 participate in the School of Built Environment and Engineering Research Seminar Series. As
 well as providing a space for research presentations, the seminar series also allows research
 students to present on methodology and emerging research issues as part of their training.
 Structured research sessions are also provided for students on the Professional Doctorate
 Programme, the sessions are also open to other research students associated with unit staff.
 Student research skills are further developed through a personal research training needs
 analysis and programme which is available to students via the online student portal. The unit
 also hosts an annual Postgraduate Research Symposium in May, when students present work
 to staff and other research students. As well as traditional research presentations, session are
 provided on key aspects of research student learning, research skills, teaching and career
 development.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 External income

 Since 2014 our external income trajectory has developed substantially and grown sustainably.
 HESA-guided returns for 2014-20 show that our external research income exceeded £3.4m. The
 funding source of this income is from a diverse range of funders including industry, central
 government departments, the European Union and charities and UK research funding councils
 (see Table 1).




                                                                                                Page 8
(REF5b) Architecture, Built Environment and Planning
 Table 1: Research Income 2013-14 – 2019-20
  Income         2013-14 2014-15 2015-16             2016-17    2017-18     2018-19    2019-20
  Source
  BEIS                                £19,000        £179,000 £148,000 £1,000          £18,469
  Research
  Councils
  UK-based       £39,000   £48,000
  charities
  (open
  competitive
  process)
  UK-based                                                                  £9,000     £22,735
  charities
  (other)
  UK central     £209,000 £141,000 £247,000          £87,000    £80,000     £300,000 £832,120
  government
  bodies/local
  authorities,
  UK industry,   £127,000 £100,000 £267,000          £68,000    £29,000     £88,000    £27,400
  commerce,
  and public
  corporations
  UK other                                           £1,000                 £6,000
  sources
  EU             £101,000 £125,000 £59,000           £6,000     £9,000      £5,000
  government
  bodies

 The range and quality of research projects undertaken since REF 2014 has been substantial
 and we have undertaken over 50 externally funded research projects. We have a success in
 securing significant research funding from major funders such as the European Union,
 Department for Business, Energy, and Industrial Strategy (BEIS), Department for
 Communities and Local Government (CLG), Innovate UK, the Economic and Social
 Research Council, the Engineering and Physical Research Council, and the British
 Academy. Much of the work funded through these routes produces research that is directly
 relevant to, and has impact on, practice, such as our key work on energy performance with the
 Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC), Department for Business, Energy,
 and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) and the International Energy Authority (IEA). Some key
 projects are listed in Table 2 below.

 Table 2: Key Projects
  Project                             Funder                                Income received
  Leeds Core Cities Green Deal        Department of Energy & Climate        £157,000
  Go Early                            Change

  DECC Extension Project              Department of Energy & Climate        £107,723
                                      Change

  Knauf Insulation Energy             Knauf Insulation                      £56,388
  Performance Challenge

  Thin Internal Wall Insulation       Department for Business Energy and £52,000
  BEIS                                Industrial Strategy

  Demonstration of Energy             Department for Business Energy and £981,729
  Efficiency Potential (DEEP)         Industrial Strategy


                                                                                          Page 9
(REF5b) Architecture, Built Environment and Planning
 To meet our aim ‘to develop the value of external research income’ staff are supported by our
 Research and Enterprise Services (RES). All prospective applications are entered into the
 University’s internal financial management package, REMS (Research and Enterprise
 Management System). The REMS system ensures that applications are kept centrally in RES.
 Drafts of applications for externally funded projects pass through an internal peer-review
 process, providing supportive commentary and evaluation for applicants. This process is
 administered by RES and led by the Director of Research (Strange) with support from
 Professors and Readers in the unit. RES also offers one-to-one support and advice on
 applications for funding schemes and calls, as well as regular workshops (often led by unit staff)
 on topics including Proposal Writing, Research Impact and Benefit, and Networking and
 Mentoring. Further support includes e-mail briefings through Researcher Connect on new
 funding opportunities, application ‘surgeries’ for those at an early stage of preparing applications,
 and general research funding advice.

 Quality Research funding
 The unit receives annual Quality Research (QR) funding through a clear process of allocation.
 The unit is automatically allocated annual QR income based on its performance in REF 2014.
 The unit receives funding of approximately £150,000 per year in QR monies. This investment is
 agreed against a plan of expenditure on the unit’s research objectives and plans. It supports
 activities such as conference attendance, research networking events, seminar/symposium
 support, research group funding, research leave awards and research impact development.
 Investment such as this is key to the unit’s growth, as it allows for local and context dependent
 decision-making allowing the allocation of funds within the unit that can best support research
 development of staff and enhance the research environment.

 Since 2019 the unit has also been able to bid for strategic QR investment with competitively
 allocated funds designed to strengthen key areas of the unit’s work or support the development
 of new and innovative areas of research. The unit has secured approximately £200,000 of
 internal strategic investment, alongside its annual QR funding. The strategic funding has been
 STEM focused and used to develop work that bridges our energy performance research and
 planning research, focusing on the impact of urban heat islands in cities and how best to capture
 and use data associated with the spatial variation in urban heating. This funding has extended
 research from the project Innovate UK Green Urban Infrastructure Assets in Urban Heat
 Island (2018-2021) (Gorse, Parker, and Simson) funded under the Innovate UK – Shanghai-
 UK Industrial Challenge Programme. The second area of investment has focused on
 developing civil engineering research. Here it has supported REF case study development, the
 purchase of essential computing equipment and proposal/bidding support. The latter has
 resulted in a successful Innovate UK collaborative MANTIS project bid (£86k) with
 Environmental Monitoring Solutions Ltd.

 Impact of QR investment
 Since 2014 then, our QR funding has allowed research in unit 13 to continue its growth
 trajectory. Staff have been able to request funding for research support (conferences, APCs,
 research leave, research related equipment), strategic areas of research have received
 investment and our PGR community and provision has grown. QR has supported the unit to
 achieve the following:

    •   Research and Enterprise Prestige: increase research income, with approximately £3.3
        million of research income since 2014.
    •   Research Intensity: 33.7 FTE staff to REF with 84 outputs in Unit 13.
    •   Research Environment: increase the PGR student offer and community, with an
        increase in FT student numbers and growth in the numbers of students enrolled on the
        Professional Doctorate.

 We will continue to use QR allocation and strategic investment funding to support ongoing
 research commitments and activity. We also plan to invest QR to:


                                                                                              Page 10
(REF5b) Architecture, Built Environment and Planning
    •   create opportunities for strategic collaboration funding proposals and projects.
    •   support match-funded studentships.
    •   establish a new research impact funding post for research impact development.
    •   support the development of new areas of research activity.

 Infrastructure and facilities
 Dedicated research and office space are available for staff based either in Northern Terrace
 (Built Environment and in Broadcasting Place (Architecture) at our City Campus. Those areas
 that undertake more technically oriented work (in civil engineering for example) have direct
 control over a large amount of equipment for scientific field work and testing. This is particularly
 the case for work in civil engineering which has two specialised laboratory facilities (approx. 550
 m2 of floor space in total).

 Research Infrastructure and Governance
 Overall responsibility for Research at LBU is under the remit of the Deputy-Vice-Chancellor
 (DVC) for Research and Enterprise. The DVC is supported by the Director of Research and
 Enterprise Services who leads the different research-related teams (the Graduate School for
 PGRs, The Research Service which supports bidding activity and the development of impact,
 and the Enterprise Service which has oversight of the institution’s academic enterprise activity).
 Directors of Research provide the interface between these central services and the Schools.

 The work of the Research and Enterprise Services is the core business of our University’s
 Research and Enterprise Committee, which reports directly to Academic Board, and which also
 has oversight of the work of the University’s Postgraduate Research Degrees Sub-Committee,
 and the Research Ethics Committee. The Research and Enterprise Committee scrutinises
 policy, procedure and practice relating to research and makes recommendations to Academic
 Board for implementation. All Directors of Research are members of this committee, alongside
 representatives from Research and Enterprise Services, the Library Service, and the PGR
 student body. The specific policies relating to Ethics, Open Access, Research Concordance, the
 HR policies that attach to HR Excellence in Research, and the policies deriving from UKCGE for
 PGRs are debated and defined by this Committee structure.

 Ethics infrastructure
 All research projects, whether staff or student, must gain ethical approval before they begin. All
 researchers are required to undertake training in ethics to ensure that they understand their
 obligations. Research Ethics Online provides a simple one-stop repository for all ethical
 approvals. Simple approvals for desk-based research which does not involve human subjects
 are approved locally, by the research supervisor for students, or the Local Research Ethics Co-
 ordinator (LREC) for staff. More complex cases are considered by LRECs, and where they feel
 that there are issues of concern that arise from the project, it may be referred to the University
 Ethics Committee for final decision. Annual audits of research ethics compliance are undertaken
 to ensure that we are meeting our ethical obligations to all human participants, and to the
 general ethos of good governance across the whole of our activity. Ethics approvals are also the
 location of our ‘risk assessments’ where a given research project may involve risk to the
 researcher, the participant, or the university.

 Open access
 The university has a fully searchable open access repository, the Leeds Beckett Repository,
 which is an online collection of Leeds Beckett research outputs. The Open Access Research
 Policy can be accessed via our library’s information pages. The institutional Open Research
 Policy, which encourages staff to deposit, where copyright allows, any output type, will increase
 the volume of other outputs openly available.




                                                                                              Page 11
(REF5b) Architecture, Built Environment and Planning
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our collaborative approach
 A strategic objective is to provide research support to the construction industry and built
 environment professions, as well as to the academic community and those beyond academia.
 As a result, a key research aim has been to orientate our work towards the following areas:
 building performance and energy; civil engineering (materials and water); spatial and
 neighbourhood planning; women in the built environment; and construction informatics.
 The unit has placed significant investment into a range of research projects in these areas which
 have attracted significant industry and professional interest. This is evidenced by the
 international scope of a significant amount of the work and activities of staff in the unit, as well as
 our focused project work undertaken for UK central government and UK based industry. The
 following sections highlight examples of unit staff research activity in working with international,
 national, and local research partners and collaborators to achieve our strategic aims and
 objectives.

 International collaborative research
 The unit has increased its international profile across broad fields of sustainability and energy
 efficiency with some notable international research impact. For example, Simson’s EMonFUr
 project is establishing a monitoring network to assess lowland forest and urban plantations in
 Lombardy and urban forests in Slovenia (EMoNFUr - A LIFE+ Project. LIFE 10 ENV/IT/000399).
 In this project (Simson) is working on linking environmental with social aspects in studying and
 managing urban forests (GreeInUrbs) and working with partners across 37 other countries.

 Other aspects of our collaborative work similarly focus on the urban environment and its green
 assets. For example, our Innovate UK project on urban heat islands (UHI) (Gorse, Parker)
 funded as part of the ‘Shanghai-UK Industrial Challenge Programme – Future Cities’ (with
 VRM Technologies Ltd, University of Hull and East China Normal University) focuses on
 how the use of vegetation, termed Green infrastructure assets (GIAs), offers a potential low-cost
 strategy for mitigation of UHI impacts to help improve the quality of life for urban citizens. There
 is limited data available relating to the localised performance of GIAs in UHIs and even less of
 this type of data is available to the citizens adversely affected. This project is applying a low-
 cost, flexible methodology that integrates a variety of novel imaging sensors with real-time
 environmental data to enable quantification of the effects of different GIA layouts. LBU is leading
 the data analysis and modelling elements of this work, with a focus of UHI characterisation and
 evaluating high risk areas using big-data analysis and machine learning techniques.

 Water research is also providing significant opportunities for collaborative international work. For
 example, WETS is a University funded interdisciplinary research cluster (Paul, Pritchard,
 Schiffer, Swan) drawn from across LBU with a common focus upon water issues within
 developing regions of the Global South. Members of the cluster are currently engaged in
 research projects across Africa (Paul, Pritchard, Sawn) and South America (Schiffer, Swan). In
 terms of funding, members of the cluster received a £30k Research Cluster Development
 Award; a £10k HEIF Enterprise award; and a £5k Innovate UK award to produce a report on
 ‘Collaborative ‘R&D’ activities towards a prototype of an adaptable low-cost monitoring tool for
 water projects in the developing world. Staff (Schiffer, Swan) have also been participants in the
 FP7 AGUASOCIAL project. AGUASOCIAL is a 5-partner network between the Universita degli
 Studi Roma Tre (Italy), LBU, the Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona (Spain), Universidade
 Federal do Para and the Universidade do Estado do Amazonas Fundao (Brazil), focusing on
 water quality in the developing South.

 Materials research into more sustainable use of highways construction is also underway.
 Indeed, work on sustainable alternatives to concrete for utilisation in highways application has
 recently been funded through the Newton Fund (Ahmed) to investigate the viability of using
 agricultural waste derived from rice harvesting (rice husk ash). The project is in collaboration
 with the highways industry and Sriwijaya University, Indonesia. Following the research findings
 from the project, successful trials have taken place on the UK motorways network by using the

                                                                                                Page 12
(REF5b) Architecture, Built Environment and Planning
 low carbon high strength concrete (based on rice waste) developed by (Ahmed). On completion
 of additional field testing the findings will feed into the UK Design Manual and Specification for
 Road Building thus creating global exposure as many countries globally follow this manual.

 This international work is complimented by the research of (Schiffer) in its exploration of how a
 human-centered design can help create more sustainable energy futures. Since 2010, her
 research has been predominately focused on rural Gambia where she employs immersion,
 mapping, and co-design methods. This has led to insights into energy practices and the
 culmination of socio-political, socio economic, socio-technical, socio-environmental, and socio-
 cultural factors that shape it. Recently, Schiffer’s research has received funding through the
 H2020 SHAPE Energy Research Design Challenge and the British Academy. Her research
 has been adapted for a policy ask listed in the Friends of the Earth International People Power
 Now Manifesto which was launched at the December 2018 climate change conference (COP24).
 It thereby contributes to closing the gap between dominant techno-centric approaches and the
 lived experience of the everyday.

 The unit’s research has also begun to focus on post-disaster planning. (Hope) is part of
 Tomorrow’s Cities UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) Global Challenges Research Fund
 Urban Disaster Risk Hub programme. International partners include teams in Istanbul, Nairobi,
 Kathmandu, and Quito. Hope’s research involves working with the humanitarian agency
 Concern Worldwide to develop an aftershock forecasting tool to inform humanitarian emergency
 planning and response. Rapid community response to aftershocks is crucial to prevent
 subsequent loss of life in earthquake-stricken areas. Yet local response can be delayed or
 inhibited by social, cultural, and political factors. To enable local populations to collect data and
 respond effectively to actionable forecasts the research is identifying the specific cultural, social,
 and political factors that impede communication between the different communities of practice,
 distort risk perception and reduce information and technological uptake post disaster.

 As well as these specific examples, unit staff have established research connections and
 partnerships with institutions such as the Ecole des Ponts et Chaussees, Paris (Gorse); Central
 University of Technology – South Africa (Ahmed); The University of Malawi, The Polytechnic
 (Pritchard); Stellenbosch University – South Africa; Southern University Utah USA; and the
 National University in Singapore on the development of an Environmental Rating System for
 Assessing Infrastructure Projects in the Middle East (Dulaimi). Through the International Energy
 Agency, (Gorse, Johnston, Parker) are taking a lead on Annex subtasks and international
 standards (IEA EXCCS Annex 58 - Full Scale Building Energy Characterisation, IEA EXCCS
 Annex 67 Energy Flexibility and a new working with a CEN Technical Committee 89, working
 group 13 to develop a new CEN standard for whole building testing).

 National policy and industry research collaboration

 Building Performance
 Research on building performance in the LSI has significantly developed over this REF period.
 For example, major contracts have been undertaken with Technology Strategy Board (Innovate
 UK), BRE, Joseph Rowntree Foundation and the Zero Carbon Hub. The research is also
 collaborative with staff working with global companies, such as Knauf Insulation and Saint
 Gobain, advancing the performance of building material and test methods. The knowledge
 gained from Passivehaus field trials, the TSB Gentoo, and Lancaster Cohousing projects, has
 similarly advanced understanding of buildings capable of meeting net zero carbon standards.
 Work has also been undertaken in Northern Ireland through the Innovate UK ‘Simpler’ project,
 exploring the thermal upgrade project in collaboration with technology providers Tensor
 Systems, VRM Technology and the Building Research Establishment.

 Researchers in the unit continue to have a significant impact in the field of Building Performance,
 advising government (DECC, CLG) and informing Building Regulations. For example, (Glew)
 secured a secondment with DECC, working 2 days per week from 2015 to 2017. This work was
 extended by BEIS between 2017-2019, with (Glew) working on the project Measuring Energy

                                                                                               Page 13
(REF5b) Architecture, Built Environment and Planning
 Performance Improvements in Dwellings Using Thin Internal Wall Insulation. Building
 performance research continues to deliver energy saving measures and identify heat loss
 mechanisms that were previously unrecognised (see impact case study). Staff in this group have
 also secured other significant projects with BIES, for example the Smart Meter Enabled
 Thermal Efficiency Ratings (SMETER) Technical Assessment Contractor (TAC) (2018-20)
 project with partners in the University of Loughborough and University College London.
 Researchers have also been involved in BEIS funded work on Party Wall investigation:
 Measuring U-values in-use and validation through whole building analysis. Working with
 colleagues at Cambridge Energy and Bridgewater Surveys, our role here has been on the
 evaluation of the potential energy savings from insulating cavity party walls.

 In 2019 the LSI was chosen as lead partner for a £2.7 million project funded by the Department
 for Business, Energy, and Industrial Strategy (BEIS). The Demonstration of Energy
 Efficiency Potential (DEEP) project is one of the largest single retrofit projects to have ever
 been attempted in the UK. The results on risk and performance will guide future retrofit policy,
 specifically around the accuracy of existing assumptions used in government carbon modelling
 and forecasting, as well as highlighting the benefits of whole house retrofits compared to piece
 meal retrofits (in terms of reducing carbon emissions and reducing the risk of moisture problems
 in homes). The project is undertaking 30 retrofits in homes across the North of England to
 measure the improvements in energy efficiency that are achieved. Building performance
 evaluation (BPE) field trials (including the Leeds Beckett Co-heating Test and novel assessment
 methods such as the QUB and Pulse testing equipment) will be used to measure and explore
 how single measure and whole house retrofit impact homes.

 Construction Informatics and Digital Research
 Research related to construction informatics is developing considerably. Our activity here
 focuses on the investigation, design, development, deployment and use of digital technologies
 and solutions such as BIM, digital twin, big data analytics, IoT and Machine Learning, among
 others, to address various issues affecting productivity, sustainability and/or efficiency in the
 AEC industry. We are currently working with a range of industry (Balfour Beatty Construction
 Plc, White Frog Publishing Ltd, Earthsense Systems Ltd) and academic partners
 (Hertfordshire University) on two Innovate UK funded projects Big Data and Machine
 Learning-enabled Automated BIM for Projects (Auto-BIM): A Common Data Collaborative
 System for Improved Project Performance (Ajay) and Live Visualization of Emission -
 Towards Avoidance of Pollution Hotspot (LiVE-TAP) (Ajay). Both projects take forward our
 construction informatics work in their application of digital technologies in construction with a
 specific focus on Building Information Modelling (BIM) and digital twins, the built environment as
 an enabler of healthy living, and the development of the Smart City.

 Engaging with communities - Neighbourhood Planning, Gender and Place
 Neighbourhood planning is a key aspect of the unit’s research. For example, (Bradley’s) work
 that has helped to establish a support network around the 35 neighbourhood planning groups in
 Leeds, including the development of a programme of workshops and seminars since 2015. This
 assistance has helped correct some of the inequalities in the take-up of neighbourhood planning
 and has meant that Leeds now has the highest number of deprived communities participating in
 neighbourhood plans of any metropolitan borough outside London. In 2017 the neighbourhood
 planning research cluster held three public events, and its conference Neighbourhood Planning
 in One City (May 2017) was featured in a case study published by RTPI Planning Aid England.
 The latest project for the cluster is research into the Save Greater Manchester Green Belt
 campaign, a movement of 60 local groups set up to influence the Combined Authority’s Greater
 Manchester Spatial Framework. The research aims to investigate how local groups network to
 mirror the spatial constructions of governance and particularly to analyse how local issues of
 place attachment translate across scale and networks to become universal concepts of
 environmental protection.

 Our heritage focused work (Edwards, Strange) has direct connections with policy and practice.
 Working with colleagues in the School of Cultural Studies and Humanities at LBU, unit staff

                                                                                            Page 14
(REF5b) Architecture, Built Environment and Planning
 (Edwards, Strange) were CO-PIs on an Historic England funded project on LGBTQ
 heritage, Pride of Place (2015). Pride of Place was designed to be an innovative project that
 connected LGBTQ history to the built environment and landscape, focusing on public
 engagement and providing Historic England and the wider heritage sector with on-line
 knowledge and the methodological tools for the continuing development of LGBTQ heritage. The
 project’s key objectives were to show that LGBT heritage is a fundamental part of our national
 heritage and to improve knowledge of, and access to, this history. The project explored the
 relationship between lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) history and the country’s
 buildings and spaces.

 The unit’s research on women and the built environment (Edwards, Horwood) brings to the fore
 our focus on diversity in the built environment. This work has brought together women and men
 across the University who share research interests related to the themes of women and built
 space (buildings and the broader built environment), thinking about women as designers /
 planners / builders, and looking at spaces inhabited by women, designed for them, and adopted
 by them, both the occasional and the everyday. The primary focus on 'women' rather than
 'gender' is important in addressing contemporary societal concerns, for example the Gender Pay
 Gap and #MeToo campaign, and the university sector's efforts to address gender inequality.
 This focus on gender also speaks to the compelling case for researchers within built
 environment subject areas to turn their attention to women, as part of an overdue and concerted
 effort to address significant underrepresentation and inequalities in most of the built environment
 professions. Despite some important beginnings, women and the issue of gender are
 significantly under-researched in built-environment studies. The focus on women
 additionally reflects a strong thread of feminist perspectives and methodologies running through
 the research and responds to the distinctiveness of women's historical and contemporary
 relationship with built space.

 Building on this work the unit hosted the Women and Planning Conference in May 2019
 (Horwood). The themes of the conference included the histories of women and planning, and
 the current activities of women in planning including examples drawn from practice. Contributors
 from academia included Prof Clara Greed, Prof Marion Roberts, and Dr Janice Morphet,
 alongside practice-based perspectives from Charlotte Morphet MRTPI (Co-founder of Women in
 Planning) and Natalya Palit MRTPI (winner of the RTPI 2019 George Pepler International
 Research Fund). The conference also led to the launch of the Women and Planning Research
 Group (WaPRG). Horwood is editing a special edition of Town Planning Review which will
 feature papers from the conference.

 Discipline engagement and contributions to practice
 Staff act regularly as expert peer reviewers for research funders. These include the ESRC
 (Strange); Swiss National Science Foundation (Strange), the EPSRC (Akintoye, Glew,
 Gorse), the British Council Newton Fund (Pritchard); the Norwegian Research Council (Ajay);
 and UKRI Future Leaders Programme (Ajay). They also provide guidance and advice to
 government bodies, agencies and NGOs such as, the British Standards Institution (Johnston),
 Leeds Climate Change Commission (Fylan, Glew, Gorse), Ofgem Technical Advisory Panel for
 Innovation in ECO3 Policy (Glew); the All Party Parliamentary Group on Healthy homes and
 Buildings (Glew – contributor); BEIS (Glew); the United Nations (Special Advisor in Urban
 Forestry) (Simson); DEFRA (Simson); the Belgium, South African and Hong Kong Research
 Councils (Akintoye); Road Safety Scotland (Fylan); UKROEd (Fylan); and the Abu Dhabi
 Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Dulaimi).

 Unit staff also carry-out editorial panel duties for academic journals including: The Journal of
 Architecture (Bernath); the International Journal of Building Pathology and Adaption (Gorse);
 Construction Research and Innovation (Gorse); Built environment Journal (Gorse); Urban
 Forestry and Greening (Simson); the International Journal of Urban Forestry (Simson);
 Infrastructure Asset Management Journal (Dulaimi); the Journal of Financial Management of
 Property and Construction (Akintoye); Remote Sensing (Pritchard); and the International
 Journal of Materials Science (Ahmed).

                                                                                            Page 15
(REF5b) Architecture, Built Environment and Planning

 More broadly, staff knowledge and expertise is called upon frequently through reviewing for
 academic journals including Building Research and Information, Built Environment Project and
 Asset Management, Buildings Journal, Energy and Buildings, Construction Management and
 Economics, Construction Innovation: Information, Process and Management Journal,
 Construction Information Quarterly, Construction Management and Economics, Environmental
 Monitoring and Assessment Housing Studies, Information, Process and Management Journal,
 International Journal of Materials Science and Engineering, Journal of Environmental
 Management, Planning Practice and Research, Remote Sensing Journal, The Australasian
 Journal of Construction, Economics and Building, The West Indian Journal of Engineering, Town
 Planning Review, Urban Design International, and Urban Studies.

 Staff representation within professional institutes and societies is strong, with the majority of
 submitted staff holding full or associate membership of their professional bodies. Indicatively
 these include: The Royal Town Planning Institute (Bradley, Horwood); The Chartered Institute
 of Housing (Bradley); The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (Akintoye); The Royal
 Institute of British Architects (Bernath, Epolito, Mills, Molinari); The Architectural Humanities
 Research Association (Molinari); The British Council (Pritchard); The Chartered Institute of
 Building (Akintoye, Dulaimi, Gorse); The Association of Researchers in Construction
 Management (Brooke-Peat, Gorse); The Association for Project Management (Gorse);The
 International Society for Environmental Geotechnology; The International Council for Research
 and Innovation in Building and Construction; The Landscape Institute (Simson); the
 Arboricultural Association (Simson).

 Staff also play key roles in professional boards and committees, for example, the Association of
 Researchers in Construction Management (Gorse – Chair); the Chartered Institute of Building
 (Akintoye, Dulaimi); and the Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists (Brooke-Peat –
 vice chair); Joint Chair of CEN Technical Committee 89 Working Group 13 (CEN TC/89/WG 13)
 (Johnston); Director of CIB MENA Research Network (Dulaimi); and the Building Simulation
 and Optimisation 2020 Scientific Committee (Parker). Equally, staff hold visiting positions and
 fellowships including (Simson) Visiting Professor at the University of Florence and University of
 British Columbia, Vancouver; (Ajay) Visiting Fellow of the Big Data Enterprise and Artificial
 Intelligence Laboratory (BIG-DEAL), Bristol; (Dulaimi) Visiting Professor at the School of
 Engineering and Built Environment, Glasgow Caledonian University; (Bernath) Visiting/Summer
 school co-director, AAVS Budapest; (Molinari) British Academy Fellowship funded by the
 Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei.

 We have also established an international conference - SEEDS (Sustainable, Ecological,
 Engineering and Design for Society). The inaugural SEEDS conference took place in
 September 2015. The conference has been held at LBU, except for 2018 (TU Dublin) and 2019
 (University of Suffolk) and has grown to be a major research gathering in the discipline. The
 conference has provided a strong international research platform and to date we have published
 3 edited books based on presented research papers (Gorse, Strange). Staff within the unit have
 also instituted new research awards related to sustainability research – Research, Innovation,
 Sustainability, and Innovation Awards (RISE). The inaugural RISE Award event was held in
 Leeds in September 2015 and these have been held annually from that date. The awards are
 sponsored by one of our key research and industrial partners, Saint-Gobain. The award event
 attracts over one hundred guests bringing together our researchers with industry partners from
 local, regional, and national companies.

 Future research, discipline engagement and contribution
 Our research will continue to focus on activity that contributes and offers both technological and
 social solutions to the problems and challenges of urban sustainability. Our future strategic aims
 for the unit will remain and allow us to cultivate those we have been pursuing through the current
 REF period. We will:



                                                                                            Page 16
(REF5b) Architecture, Built Environment and Planning
    •   Appoint research leaders that can contribute to and strengthen our research focus.

    •   Build on our success and reputation in income generation from government, industry,
        and academic research funders.

    •   Maintain our record of publishing in high-ranking academic journals and producing
        outputs that progress academic debate and inform and develop policy.

    •   Preserve and sustain our vibrant community of researchers by providing a well-
        resourced and institutionally supported research environment.

 We will work to sustain the international reach and impact of our work, particularly in relation to
 the challenges of water purity and energy production and access in developing countries.
 We will also continue to push forward on research that impacts on, and influences UK policy, in
 relation to the sustainable performance of buildings. Our research on planning for better
 and more socially cohesive local communities will remain a core part of our civic
 engagement work and which contributes to our wider societal regional and local role. We see
 our developing work on gender and the built environment and construction informatics as
 growth areas, with potential to make significant contributions to our research culture and to
 policy debates and action for more diverse and inclusive places and more digitally
 informed construction. In all these endeavours we work to maintain and strengthen mutually
 productive links with business, industry, and local communities, expanding our contribution to
 practice and to academic enterprise in the construction and built environment sectors.




                                                                                             Page 17
