Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Southampton

 Unit of Assessment: 19 Politics & International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Highlights
    The Department of Politics and International Relations (PAIR) is a growing group of dynamic
    scholars who punch above their weight to deliver world class research and impact. Notable
    achievements over the REF-cycle include:
    •   Doubling staff numbers from 13.54 FTE to 28.30 FTE since its strong REF2014
        performance in which it was ranked 15th overall and 5th for research outputs. This
        investment both follows from our successful 2014 performance and strategy while also
        allowing us to be more ambitious in our planning for the next REF cycle;
    •   Investing in permanent staff who specialise in quantitative (Spada, Smith, Turnbull-
        Dugarte, Bunea and Ibenskas) and qualitative (Corbett, Kennedy) research methods, while
        also adding leadership in international relations (Enemark);
    •   Developing research leaders, securing prestigious fellowships: UKRI Future Leader
        Fellowship (Ryan), ERC Investigator Award (Bunea), ERC Consolidator Award (Enemark),
        British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship (Havercroft), Leverhulme Fellowship (Armstrong,
        Strong), Fulbright Fellowship at Harvard University (Iusmen), Jean Monnet Chair (Zwolski)
        and SSS Visiting Professorship at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton (Owen);
    •   Increasing the quantity, quality and scope of our impact activities, both in the UK and
        abroad, and led the development of the impact agenda at Southampton as evidenced by
        our leadership in founding and providing the first director (Stoker) of Public
        Policy│Southampton (PP|S) a research facility that connects researchers and
        policymakers (see REF5a §2.9). Impact was an area we had identified as requiring
        improvement in our 2014 submission and we are delighted with this progress;
    •   Retaining an internationalised staffing profile. 43% of PAIR staff are from countries
        other than the UK. We have also increased the number of staff with a disability (from 0%
        to 7%) and maintained our gender balance (increased from 29% to 30% female since
        REF2014);
    •   Sustaining our average annual research income (from £0.32M to £0.28M per annum)
        in an increasingly competitive grant environment and amidst considerable staff turnover.
        Indeed, while we experienced a dip in income in the middle of the assessment period
        (2016-17) we have seen a substantial increase in the last two years (average £0.75M) that
        is projected to continue into the next cycle; and
    •   Doubling the size of our doctoral program with 34 PhD completions over the
        assessment period compared to 12 during REF2014.

 1.2 Objectives
    PAIR’s central goal throughout the assessment period has remained ‘the pursuit of excellence
    in research which makes a difference’, supporting the wider institutional vision of ‘changing
    the world for the better’. We followed through on the strategic objectives outlined in 2014, while
    also adapting to the changing conditions of the research environment, both internal and

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    external, to build our interdisciplinarity and impact. We remain firm in our belief that there are
    plural kinds of research problems (e.g., conceptual, theoretical, methodological, historical,
    evaluative, normative) and that research takes different forms that engage with non-academic
    audiences in different ways and across different sites and time scales.

 1.3 Context and Research Strategy
    Our 2014 strategy was built around a single research hub - Centre for Citizenship,
    Globalisation and Governance (C2G2) - with cross-cutting research themes designed to
    support intra- and inter-disciplinary collaboration, both within the School and the wider Faculty,
    to address problem-driven research and user engagement. Our stated future ambitions were
    to (a) expand research capacity, (b) grow the resource base, and (c) deepen and widen user
    engagement. We have achieved these objectives to a significant degree and now aim to push
    further. The next phase of our strategy thus focuses on:
   1.3.1 Sustaining a ‘diverse’ research portfolio
    Our current submission is made up of 30 staff (21 male and 9 female). We doubled in size
    over the assessment period and this allowed us to both deepen and broaden our research and
    impact capacity. Our ambition for the next REF cycle is to continue this trajectory by investing
    in areas of core strength (e.g., democratic futures, quantitative and qualitative methods) while
    also expanding our inter-disciplinary range. The University strongly backed us after success
    in REF2014 and we anticipate further support should we retain that momentum in REF2021.
   1.3.2 Growing our international networks
    Achieving our strategic goals requires the targeted development of international networks with
    academic research centres and user groups (governmental and non-governmental). Over the
    coming REF period we aim to consolidate existing networks and to convert contingent links
    into sustainable relationships. Examples include:
    •   The ESRC-GCRF funded network (Riggirozzi and Owen) ‘Redressing Gendered Health
        Inequalities of Displaced Women and Girls in contexts of Protracted Crisis in Central and
        South America (ReGHID)’ brings together academic (University of York,
        FLACSO/Honduras, University of Maranhao, Fiocruz and Universidad de los Andes) and
        user groups including NGOs (Medics Sans Frontiers/MSF, Mexico; Brazilian Association
        for Collective Health/ABRASCO), regional and national governmental organisations
        (International Organisation for Migration/IOM; Council of Ministries of Health of Central
        America/ COMISCA) and Ministries of Health (Columbia and Brazil).
    •   The Centre for Political Ethnography (Rhodes, Corbett, Boswell, Iusmen and Kennedy)
        are global leaders in interpretive research methods for political science. The strength of
        their research has led to their being invited to provide training for PhDs and early career
        scholars for the US National Science Foundation-funded Institute for Qualitative and Multi-
        Method Research (Syracuse University), and the UK’s National Centre for Research
        Methods (NCRM). The team currently receive funding from the European Consortium for
        Political Research (ECPR) to incorporate their students in the NRCM course and have
        plans to teach into ECPR training programs during the next REF cycle.

    •   PAIR staff are internationally recognised experts on migration (Owen, Margheritis,
        Kennedy). We are heavily involved in IMISCOE, Europe's largest interdisciplinary research
        network in the field of migration, integration and diversity studies (Margheritis co-ordinates
        Standing Committee on Migration, Citizenship and Political Participation). PAIR staff have


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        also been at the forefront of co-ordination of the ongoing campaign for Southampton to be
        accredited as a University of Sanctuary.

    •   PAIR’s strengths in democratic innovations (Ryan, Spada, Boswell and Owen) includes
        playing a key role in Participedia, an international consortia of 33 universities and research
        organisations that has developed a crowdsourcing platform for researchers, activists,
        practitioners interested in democratic innovations (Ryan is an executive committee
        member and chair of research).

 1.4 Impact Strategy
    To improve our impact performance, we developed and implemented the following strategy
   1.4.1 Invested in Key Personnel
    We invested in strategic fractional hires of eminent public figures (see 2.2.2) to increase our
    profile among policy communities and to act as an interface between researchers and research
    users. We recruited staff with direct policy experience (e.g. Smith, Kennedy, Corbett) and have
    sought to develop them as a new generation of impact leaders (Corbett is the dedicated Impact
    Champion). We also encouraged and supported existing staff to secure ESRC-funded Impact
    Acceleration Funding (Riggirozzi, Jennings, Ryan, Chu, Iusmen, Margheritis). As a
    consequence, while research developed at Southampton during the previous assessment
    period by researchers such as Stoker and Smith continues to have impact, staff who played a
    supporting role in the 2014 REF have taken a leading impact role this time around (e.g.,
    Jennings, who led the successful bid for the University’s ESRC Impact Acceleration Account).
    This natural progression reflects both the extent to which our research environment is
    conducive to generating exceptional and sustainable impact, and how impact activities enrich
    the research we do.
   1.4.2 Incentivised Impact
    We recognise that there are costs of time and money to engagement in activities that lead to
    impact-generation and we support these through the departmental budget as well as
    leveraging access to School and Faculty funding. PAIR treat impact activity as a significant
    element within the annual appraisal process as well as in supporting promotion. We have also
    sought to improve services that facilitate impact across the university to reduce the burden on
    staff seeking to undertake these activities (see 1.4.3).
   1.4.3 Built Impact Capacity Across the University
    Since REF2014, PAIR has helped to lead the University’s agenda to strengthen its impact
    support. For example, Professor Stoker was the prime mover and founding director of
    PublicPolicy│Southampton (PP|S), which provides specialist policy support to researchers.
    PAIR’s embrace of the impact agenda is further evidenced by, for example, its partnering with
    the Open Innovation Unit of the Cabinet Office. PAIR has also actively utilised a second new
    unit - the Public Engagement with Research unit (PERu) – initiated within the University to
    inform, consult and collaborate with the public, including via the media and expert briefings
    (see Section 4 below).
   1.4.4 Increased Collaboration, Partnerships and Co-production
    We pride ourselves on being a civic department with a responsibility to interact with local,
    national and global actors and institutions. These range across governmental bodies from
    Southampton City Council (Boswell, Ryan, Jennings) and Hampshire County Council
    (Boswell, Ryan) to Parliamentary Committees and Government Departments in Australia

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    (Corbett, Rhodes), Brazil (Riggirozzi), Chile (Margheritis), Columbia (Riggirozzi, Owen),
    Ecuador (Margheritis), New Zealand (Corbett, Rhodes), UK (Chu, Jennings) and Uruguay
    (Margheritis) to regional bodies such as the European Union (Enemark, Iusmen, Zwolski) and
    the Union of South American Nations (Riggirozzi) through to international organisations such
    the IoM (Owen, Riggirozzi), Commonwealth Secretariat (Corbett) and World Bank (Ryan) as
    well as charities such as Age UK and the Joseph Rowntree Foundation (Boswell, Denham,
    Ryan) and NGOs such as MSF (Owen, Riggirozzi).
   1.4.5 Pursued Impact Leader Sustainability
    PAIR works with the Public Engagement with Research unit (PERu) and PP|S to provide
    training and support for staff in identifying routes to impact for their research including liaising
    with policy makers. Our aim is to cultivate impact generation activities across our research
    portfolio.
    The current submission includes ICS on our headline impact achievements: 1) informing the
    practice and understanding of election polling, especially via our contribution to the 2015-16
    General Election Opinion Poll Inquiry (Jennings); 2) shaping the national agenda on place,
    including our role in the establishment and work program of the Centre for Towns (Jennings
    and Stoker); and 3) pioneering citizens assemblies as democratic innovations to facilitate
    deliberation on issues ranging from Brexit and climate change to adult social care, town
    regeneration, traffic congestion, and air quality (Jennings, Stoker, Boswell, Ryan, Iusmen, and
    Spada).
    In addition to these achievements, PAIR staff have also impacted public debate on major
    societal trends and challenges such as:
    •   AI, drones and international security: Christian Enemark’s ERC Consolidator Grant has
        made PAIR an international hub for research on this topic. In the last year alone Enemark
        has given talks to audiences ranging from business (BMT Defence & Security UK Ltd),
        politicians (All-Party Parliamentary Group on Drones), and policy-makers (Chatham
        House).
    •   The rise of China: Chu is a regular commentator and speaker on issues pertaining to the
        strategic motivations of China’s Belt and Road Initiative, Sino-US rivalry over the disputed
        South China Sea, the impact of technology on the changing balance of power for
        audiences ranging business (e.g. Sibos 2009, a global financial industry event with more
        than 9000 delegates) to politicians and policy makers (e.g. the House of Lords Select
        Committee on International Relations).
    •   Gender, Migration and Human Rights: Riggirozzi recently produced a manual on human
        rights to health for use by community health agents In Brazil. The manual supports
        community health workers everyday work with poor and vulnerable women and forms part
        of her GCRF funded project.
    •   Devolution and English Identity: Denham, currently co-director of the Southern Policy
        Centre and leader of the English Labour Network, former cabinet minister and MP for
        Southampton Itchen from 1992 to 2015, joined PAIR during this REF cycle. He is a leading
        public figure in high profile debates about the future of the United Kingdom and England’s
        place within it.




                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    This strategy has ensured we had a much greater depth of impact activities from which to draw
    case studies for this assessment period.

 1.5 Structure
    Our staff growth prompted a reorganisation during the assessment period. PAIR sits in the
    School of Economic, Social and Political Sciences (SESPS) as part of the Faculty of Social
    Sciences (FSS). To increase our profile, impact and grant success we focused on identifying
    common research themes across SESPS and building inter-disciplinary research partnerships
    as well as more targeted engagement to generate sustainable relationships with user-groups.
    In making this shift PAIR staff now play leadership roles in School-based interdisciplinary
    Research Centres. Riggirozzi co-directs the Centre for Global Health and Policy (GHaP), Ryan
    co-directs the Centre for Democratic Futures (CDF), Rhodes directs the Centre for Political
    Ethnography (CPE), and Denham directs the Centre for English Identity and Politics (CEIP).
    PAIR staff also lead and participate in university research networks including
    Migration@Southampton, an interdisciplinary research network led by Margheritis;
    Southampton Ethics Centre on which Owen serves on the steering committee; and
    Southampton Marine and Maritime Institute (SMMI) of which Armstrong, Corbett, Margheritis,
    and Owen are all members. This diverse set of external facing activities have replaced the old
    multipurpose research centre C2G2.
    Our new approach encourages external engagement. But we retain sub-disciplinary research
    clusters internally (Political Theory, Public Policy, Political Analysis, International Relations)
    for: mentoring; peer review of draft publications; advice on which journals or publishers to
    submit outputs; and critical guidance on research grant and fellowship applications.
    Combined, this re-organisation represents a modification of the strategy outlined in REF2014
    that allows us to nurture staff research development within PAIR, interdisciplinary research
    themes across SESPS, and university-wide research networks.

 1.6 Open Research
    The UOA is enthusiastic in promoting a culture of Open Access (OA) at Southampton and
    more widely. All research is made available OA where possible, with staff and postgraduates
    taking advantage of University-wide resources, including ePrints, its online repository, Pure,
    its research information system, and OA deals with publishers (see REF5a §2.4), as well as
    funds from UKRI. PAIR staff also actively use University funding available to pay Article
    Processing Charges for Gold Open Access for UKRI-funded research.
    These measures help to make our research accessible to non-academic audiences –
    encouraging impact. They also make it available to disadvantaged groups with limited access
    to the resources available to institutions such as Southampton – thereby promoting inclusivity.
    PAIR staff are also active on the editorial teams for OA journals (Corbett; Saunders) and, as
    board members of subject associations and learned societies like the PSA (Jennings), play
    leading roles in discussions relating to the future of dominant publishing models and
    alternatives to them, and to decision-making relating to policies and strategies for supporting
    OA.

 1.7 Research Integrity and Ethics
    The UOA is active in maintaining and advancing a culture of research integrity and ethics in
    accordance with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. The Faculty provides regular
    training to ensure staff understand the principles of research ethics and the process of applying

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    for ethical approval. Training in research ethics and integrity is mandatory for postgraduate
    researchers.
    Throughout the assessment period PAIR staff have served on the Faculty Research Ethics
    Committee (Enemark, Strong) and also write and publish on research ethics as it relates to
    health in particular, and in doing so contribute to both university and sector-wide debates about
    norms, principles and standards of best practice (Saunders).


 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
    Our staffing strategy has been (1) to strengthen and enhance our research capacity through
    ensuring a careful balance between maintaining our core disciplinary strengths and enhancing
    inter-disciplinary capacity, while improving equality, diversity and inclusion, (2) to build our
    capacity for bridging the academic/policy divide and (3) to invest in future leadership and
    nurture talent. To achieve this, we look to appoint permanent research staff wherever possible.
    The success of this strategy is evidenced in the growth of the UoA over the assessment period.

 2.2 Recruitment strategy
    2.2.1 Addressing gaps and augmenting core strengths
   We prioritised recruiting ECRs and committed ourselves to mentor and develop them into world
   class scholars. We made one key senior appointment to enhance leadership in the
   International Relations cluster while also augmenting capacity in core research areas of public
   health and security (Enemark). But our main investments were ECRs who enhance our
   strengths in quantitative (Bunea, Ibenkas, Murphy, Ryan, Smith, Spada, Turnbull-Dugarte) and
   qualitative (Corbett, Kennedy) methods while also strengthening core research areas of
   democratic governance and innovation (Boswell, Corbett, Ryan, Spada), comparative politics
   (Bunea, Ibankas, Smith, Turnbull-Dugarte) and security (Kennedy). The strategy of appointing
   and developing ECRs has been rewarded by a UKRI Future Leader Fellowship (Ryan) and an
   ERC Investigator Award (Bunea). During the assessment period the UoA has also hosted two
   ERC Research Fellows (Chengata and Clark), one ESRC post-doctoral fellow (Altman) plus
   seven ESRC Research Fellows (Gaskell, Devine, Kenny, McKay, Roescu, Or, and Cintra).
    2.2.2 Strategic Hires
   In support of our revised impact strategy, we have appointed John Denham on a part-time
   fixed-term (renewable) contract to direct CEIP and to support impact design and delivery
   across PAIR. This commitment is also evidenced in a key permanent appointment from the
   security sector (Steve Chisnall, formerly Deputy Director in Defence Policy, MOD, seconded to
   the Cabinet Office) alongside a part-time fixed-term appointment transitioning into a permanent
   Visiting Professorship (Sir Jon Day, former Chairman of the Joint Intelligence Committee and
   Head of the Joint Intelligence Organisation at the Cabinet Office). These latter two
   appointments are also part of a forward-looking strategy to support the academic leadership of
   Enemark and Zwolski (supplemented by the appointment of Kennedy) in developing
   ‘International Security and Risk’ as a future research centre and building capacity for problem-
   based and user-engaged research in security.
    2.2.3 Career Development
   Our strategy for maintaining and securing senior leadership by nurturing in-house talent has
   been supported through a proactive approach to the career development of our staff through

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    the University’s involvement in the Centre for Higher Education Practice (CHEP), a SESPS
    Workload Model, which calculates teaching and administrative services over a rolling three-
    year period, and a system of annual appraisals which are conducted by the Head of
    Department and, for Professorial staff, the Head of School (see REF5a §3.5). All permanent
    PAIR staff are eligible for research leave every four years (see REF5a §3.2). Jennings, Corbett,
    and Riggirozzi (who started in the department as a teaching fellow prior to REF2014) have
    been promoted to Professor in this assessment period, while Boswell, Iusmen, Ryan and
    Zwolski have been promoted to Associate Professor.

 2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
    PAIR’s commitment to Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion is embedded throughout its activities.
    The UOA has a dedicated EDI Lead, and EDI is a standing item on the agenda of our research
    committee and teaching boards. It is mandatory that all researchers - staff and PGRs -
    complete EDI training. A member of PAIR sits on the Faculty EDI Committee and thereby
    contributes to decision-making and policy beyond the UOA. PAIR is located in SESPS which
    recently achieved a Bronze Athena Swan Award and all female staff in PAIR are supported
    through mentoring by senior female colleagues in a School-wide scheme.
    PAIR is a very international department (43% of staff are from countries other than the UK)
    with permanent staff from Argentina, Australia, Canada, Ecuador, Ireland, Italy, New Zealand,
    Poland, Romania, Taiwan and the USA. This diversity reflects our commitment to appointing
    from a wide range of ethnicities and nationalities and without regard of religious view or sexual
    orientation. Despite our cultural diversity, our recruitment of BAME staff (6 of 30) can improve.
    Two of our post-doctoral fellows are BAME and this will be a priority area for recruitment in the
    next REF cycle following a similar strategy to gender (discussed below).
    During the assessment period we have seen considerable growth (13%) in the 36-45 age
    bracket. Many of these staff have caring responsibilities. We have therefore become even more
    stringent during this assessment period in ensuring that meetings and events are scheduled
    within working hours. The HoD liaises with colleagues to enable flexible and remote working
    where possible. We follow University procedures for supporting staff returning to work after
    sickness or maternity/paternity/parental leave.
    The one area of our staff profile that has proven stubbornly resistant to improvement is gender
    balance (up from 29% to 30% female over the assessment period). After the last REF, we
    committed ourselves to two primary policies that we hoped would result in our achieving gender
    parity:
    2.3.1 Prioritising top women candidates for shortlisting and appointments
    We have had some success: our most recent three staff appointments have resulted in the
    appointment of two women (and one openly gay man), while we have also been successful in
    recruiting five female post-doctoral fellows.
    2.3.2 Strategically allocating high-profile roles to support promotion for senior staff
    This has been a partially successful strategy that has resulted in promotion for female
    candidates such as Riggirozzi (who co-directs GHaP and is HoD).
    Despite these efforts and some gains, we are yet to reach gender parity. Our single greatest
    challenge has been recruitment and retention of top female staff. We made unsuccessful offers
    to women candidates for both the single Level 7 post we advertised during the assessment
    period and several Level 5 posts. One of our high performing hires (Bunea) who we supported

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   in winning an ERC Starter Grant was a non-UK EU citizen who (together with Ibenskas, her
   husband and also a non-UK EU citizen) left to pursue her career outside of the UK. Another of
   our senior female colleagues (Kelso), who was on the cusp of promotion to Professor, left the
   sector.
   We will redouble our efforts over the next cycle. We will also supplement these strategies by:
   2.3.3 Improving gender balance in the PGR program
   We will encourage high performing female undergraduates to apply for a 1+3 pathway. During
   the assessment period 45% of our PhD enrolments were female, compared with 20% in the
   final year of the previous REF. Our aim is to have a 50/50 balance by 2022 while increasing
   BAME recruitment into the PGR programme through the same mechanism. We have a track
   record of appointing our top PhDs (Ryan).
   2.3.4 Ensuring fair representation of salient identity-based diversity in external
   speakers and promoting the recognition of diversity across our curriculum.
   The research leadership of PAIR was acutely aware of EDI principles related to gender in
   particular when developing our submission (see REF5a §3.8 & 4.5). Specifically, we recognise
   and acknowledge the dangers of unconscious biases that may play a role in the quality-review
   and selection of outputs and impact case studies, as well as in the support and priority given
   to different areas of research. We have therefore approached both the support of research
   during the assessment period and the selection of material for REF conscious of these dangers
   and the need to counter them actively. For example, staff leading the submission completed
   bespoke EDI training, focusing on implicit bias. We also ensured the external reviewer pool of
   REF outputs was more than 50% female to attempt to counter any unconscious bias in internal
   reviewing.

 2.4 Support for ECRs
   Our efforts to recruit and develop ECRs as part of our staffing strategy, informed by the
   Researcher Development Concordat, have nurtured a thriving community of ECRs within the
   UoA, including 5 permanent lecturers and 7 post-doctoral fellows. We support them by:
   2.4.1 Access to Internal Research and Impact Funds
   ECRs are prioritised in the award of departmental funds for conference travel, in the School's
   competitive seed funding competition (the Strategic Research Development Fund) and the
   Faculty’s Strategic Interdisciplinary Research Development Fund. The University has also
   instituted the ‘Adventures in Research Competition’ open to ECRs. ECR colleagues in the UoA
   have been successful in all of these schemes during the assessment period. For example, Chu
   was awarded to conduct high-level interviews for her research on geopolitical drivers of
   personal data (£4k) and on China and AI (£7k), Smith was supported (£2k) for a workshop on
   gender and UK elections, while Iusmen (£9K) and Ryan (£10K) gained funds to support
   research impact activities prior to their recent promotions.
   2.4.2 Intensive Feedback
   Feedback is provided on research outputs and impact activities via dedicated mentoring within
   the research clusters as well as ‘good cop/bad cop’ seminars in which work in progress is
   subject to collegial peer review, internal writing workshops, support identifying project-
   appropriate research funders, and peer review of grant bids.




                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   2.4.3 Individual Mentoring
   Each ECR is assigned a senior colleague in their research cluster who guides them through
   probation and advises them on their research plans and promotion strategy. They also benefit
   from a formal mentoring system where a mentor (who is not their line manager) advises them
   on career aspirations and research careers. Additionally, mentors support ECRs in identifying
   and addressing training and development needs that can be supported through University and
   School provision of a diverse range of research workshops (e.g. applying for your first UKRI
   grant etc.) and on participation in the annual interdisciplinary ECR conference.
   2.4.4 Dedicated Research Time
   In addition to research leave every four years, new ECR staff are provided with teaching buyout
   of up to 40% in year one if taking the Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice delivered
   by CHEP (see REF5a §3.6), up to 20% in year two, and up to 10% in year three. They are also
   given light administrative responsibilities. We also protect research time by prioritising modules
   taught by ECRs for the support of PhD students who have chosen to seek teaching experience;
   a strategy which is also designed to support PhD students by aligning them with staff who are
   closest to them in relevant experience of acting as Teaching Assistants.
   2.4.5 Supervision training through practice
   We supervise through research teams of at least 2 people to ensure that new lecturers
   undertake joint supervision of research students until they have gained sufficient experience to
   serve as lead supervisors.
   PAIR’s sustainability and long-term succession planning is underpinned by our commitment to
   prioritising permanent appointments and staff development. Our commitment to developing
   and retaining staff with good potential has been the key to our progress since the last REF and
   our stability. The calibre of our staff means that they regularly attract external offers, however
   only three have chosen to go to other HEIs even amidst an unstable UK political and higher
   education environment (Castaneda, UCL; Ibenskas and Bunea, Bergen). We have also
   successfully placed two of our post-doctoral fellows in permanent positions at other institutions
   (Devine at Oxford and Or at City University of Hong Kong).
   Our commitment to ECRs extends beyond this formal category to staff on short-term teaching
   contracts who are themselves typically seeking more secure research-active employment. We
   currently employ only 1 FTE staff on a short-term teaching-only contract. This member of staff
   is integrated within all of the department’s research activities. Providing these opportunities for
   all staff is a core part of our departmental culture. Our most recent HoD, Professor Riggirozzi,
   who was originally appointed as a teaching fellow in PAIR in the previous REF cycle, both
   exemplifies and vindicates our policy and the environment of support we aim to provide.

 2.5 Research students
   PAIR’s PGR programme has grown with the department (from 12 to 34 PhD completions.
   There were no Research-based professional doctorates awarded over the assessment
   period). We are proud of our capacity to attract excellent candidates, provide a supportive and
   engaging research environment, and enable them to leverage a range of training opportunities.




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                                  Academic Year
    Degree Type
                       13/14   14/15   15/16   16/17    17/18   18/19    19/20       Total

    PhD                 0      8.50    5.80     3.90    5.50     5.10     5.50       34.30

   Our growth strategy has encompassed:
   2.5.1 Recruitment
   The majority of funded students are on RCUK studentships; recent graduates and a handful of
   candidates currently near completion received funding via the ESRC Doctoral Training Centre
   or the EPSRC Web Science DTC; and current 1st, 2nd and +1 year candidates received funding
   via the new South Coast ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership.
   In addition to external funding from RCUK, EU, overseas governments, charities and NGOs,
   the Faculty and University offer several competitive postgraduate studentship schemes, and
   we have had significant success in helping students to secure funding from these sources. For
   example, PAIR researchers were awarded the Caroline Thomas Scholarship (Akullo) and the
   Hansard Society studentship (Rek), while PAIR has also gained PhD funding scholarships from
   the SMMI.
   2.5.2 Mentoring
   To foster an enriching and supportive research environment for PGRs, each student has, at
   minimum, a primary supervisor and secondary supervisor, and additional supervisory support
   is provided as required. This ensures that students have extra and varied sources of input to
   develop their projects, and that they have continuity of support in the event of faculty
   departures. Students on interdisciplinary projects draw on supervisors from across other
   departments and faculties to ensure appropriate expertise is covered (e.g., Vilcan’s doctoral
   research on resilience and flooding had additional supervisors from Environmental Science
   and Geography, while Rouse’s on geoengineering had further supervision from
   Oceanography). Our multi-person supervisory teams within PAIR enable junior staff to develop
   supervisory experience and skills under the guidance of more senior staff, and helps the
   Department to build the long-term sustainability of mentoring internally. Mentoring is also
   carried out collectively through dedicated slots in our @sotonpolitics seminar series for PGR
   presentations as well as through internal writing workshops, where PGR students work
   alongside ECR staff in providing careful and constructive feedback on draft papers.
   The infrastructure to support this environment is drawn from the Faculty Graduate School that
   oversees doctoral research activity and is responsible for policy and quality assurance
   associated with doctoral education. PAIR is doubly represented in the management of the
   Graduate School through the Deputy Director (Saunders) who oversees graduate training and
   the Director of Postgraduate Research in PAIR (Boswell) who is a key bridge between the
   Faculty, the Graduate School and the PGR community, where an important part of this role is
   to provide additional pastoral support for students.
   2.5.3 Skills development
   Skills development is at the heart of the PGR experience. Throughout the REF period, our
   students have had easy access to specialised training on a wide variety of research skills on
   campus – for example, advanced statistical training via Southampton Statistical Sciences
   Research Institute (S3RI); specialised courses on data collection and analysis techniques via
   ESRC DTC research methods training courses as well as additional opportunities via the ESRC

                                                                                        Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    National Centre for Research Methods; and a range of project management, communication
    and personal development offerings via Southampton’s Doctoral College (DTP) (see REF5a
    §3.7).
    The shift to the South Coast ESRC DTP structure during the REF period has further enhanced
    the vibrancy and variety of what is on offer at PAIR. The DTP runs workshops, discussion
    groups and other innovative events (e.g., the 3-minute thesis competition) focused on
    celebrating student research, preparing students for employment opportunities inside and
    outside of academia – some across the board, some bespoke to thematic pathways. PAIR
    students have been at the forefront in taking advantage of these opportunities and more:
    travelling on overseas research trips to universities and public institutions in China, South Africa
    and Iceland; taking up visiting student positions at prestigious international centres of
    excellence in Belgium and Australia (Devine and Valgardsson); attending research retreats at
    Cumberland Lodge; and taking up internships at NGOs and public bodies (Tyers).
    In addition to these offerings at Faculty, School and DTP/pathway level, PAIR also runs a series
    of bespoke events targeted to particular student needs in PAIR. In line with our commitment to
    providing a supportive environment, PAIR staff offer their expertise and experience through a
    departmental mentoring programme for PGR students (and open to ECRs). Sessions offered
    include publishing in political science with current and former journal editors, advice on applying
    for postdoctoral funding sources from previous winners and panellists and CV ‘clinics’ with
    faculty staff who have recently served on a selection committee. We also bring in external
    experts to offer workshops for PGR students and ECR staff; for example, Caroline Wintersgill,
    a commissioning editor with more than twenty-five years of experience working for academic
    publishers including Routledge, Continuum and Bloomsbury, offers a biannual ‘thesis-to-book’
    publishing workshop (and, on request, 1-2-1 sessions with ECR staff developing book
    proposals).
    Collectively, this approach to recruitment, mentoring and skills development has made the
    programme very successful in helping students to finish on time and produce high quality PhDs.
    We have an excellent record in supporting our students to transition into research work.
    Graduates from the current REF period have gone into academic roles (e.g. Barr, Ryan,
    Rainsford, Vilcan, Aranda, Devine, Valgardsson, Or, Killick), private sector and think tank
    research (e.g., Rek), or NGO or government roles (e.g. Tyers, Thompson).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income
    Our research income has been consistent, averaging £0.32 million annually in the preceding
    period and £0.28 million in this cycle, with a total income of just under £2 million. However, the
    final years of the assessment period clearly demonstrate our upward trajectory, with more than
    £2.80 million already secured for the next REF cycle. The slow start to the current cycle can
    be attributed to heavy staff turnover in the period immediately preceding REF2014 (itself
    testimony to our success in nurturing research excellence) combined with a significant level of
    overseas and ECR recruitment. Once established, these staff have contributed significantly to
    the upturn in our income generation since 2017.




                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                             PAIR Southampton Research Income
           £2,500,000


           £2,000,000


           £1,500,000


           £1,000,000


            £500,000


                  £0
                        2013/14   2014/15   2015/16   2016/17      2017/18   2018/19   2019/20

                                            Income    Cumulative


   Members of our research centres have won funds, either individually or as part of
   interdisciplinary teams, from Age UK, Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade,
   Australian and New Zealand School of Government, Australian Research Council, British
   Academy, Chiang-Kuo Foundation, ERC, EPSRC, ESRC, Fulbright, GCRF, Joseph Rowntree
   Foundation, Leverhulme Trust, MRC, SSHRC, Taiwan Ministry of Foreign Affairs, UKRI in
   addition to funds for specific training sessions or symposia granted by BISA, ECPR, IMISCOE,
   and PSA.
   Our growth in research income is a direct result of:
   3.1.1 Rigorous internal procedures to improve bid quality
   In addition to University wide demand management and bid-enhancement protocols on ESRC
   /ERC standard grants, PAIR undertakes rigorous internal peer review of all applications with a
   total value of >£40,000. PAIR is therefore submitting more high-quality grants, which has
   translated into increased success.
   3.1.2 Diversifying our grant income streams
   As UK based funding has retracted, PAIR has actively targeted overseas schemes, both in
   Europe and beyond. We have also sought to develop interdisciplinary research collaborations
   through Research Centres, which has in turn led to our winning grants from non-traditional
   sources as well as GCRF.
   In addition to funding high quality research, our intention is to augment both strategies further
   over the next assessment period by:
   3.1.3 Leveraging the expanding networks of our interdisciplinary research centres
   This includes targeting UKRI councils such as NERC and the MRC. Specifically, we consider
   there is considerable potential for scholars such as Armstrong (natural resource justice) and
   Corbett (climate change and small states) to be part of interdisciplinary teams funded by NERC.
   Likewise, while we have had some success with winning funding from the MRC (Riggirozzi),
   and as part of consortia developed via the SMMI (Corbett) and in collaboration with Web
   Sciences (Ryan; Murphy), these links can be more fully developed. We think there are further
   opportunities for researchers with a public health background (Boswell; Enemark; Riggirozzi)
   as well as those working on citizen consultations and democratic innovations (Ryan; Spada) to


                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   be part of future MRC bids. One aim of both the CGH (co-directed by Riggirozzi) and the CDF
   (co-directed by Ryan) is to develop these links.
   3.1.4 Consolidating and growing our international networks
   Working through Research Centres we will consolidate and grow our international networks,
   thus improving our capacity to bid for GCRF and overseas funding. We have had success with
   GCRF (e.g., Riggirozzi £2.2 million) as well as other funders external to the UK and the EU
   and are actively pursuing interdisciplinary bids in this area.
   Grant success has further augmented our impact strategy (discussed above). Examples
   include developing a toolkit of indicators for mapping access to medicines for UNASUR
   (Riggirozzi); providing training materials for the Chiefs of Staff in the Australian Government
   (Rhodes) and the Australian and New Zealand School of Government (Corbett); shaping the
   agenda of the Australian Government Funded Developmental Leadership Program (Corbett);
   instituting a government and civil society debate on expatriate voting in Uruguay that led the
   Foreign Affairs Ministry to issue a formal declaration stating that the project is of ‘ministerial
   interest’ (a rare distinction) and to invite further collaboration as well as to acting as an invited
   expert on the issue of expatriate voting for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ecuador
   (Margheritis); sitting on the British Polling Council/Market Research Society appointed inquiry
   into the performance of the pre-election polls at the 2015 general election (Jennings); co-
   ordinating the NHS Citizen Research Network (Boswell); collaborating with the Southern Policy
   Centre and Joseph Roundtree Foundation on evaluating anti-poverty policy (Boswell & Ryan);
   founding and directing the Centre for Towns (Jennings); and delivering award-winning citizens
   panels and citizen science projects for Southampton City Council (Ryan).

 3.2 Research Infrastructure
   PAIR operates within a research governance structure organised through the University’s
   research governance (see REF5a §1.3) and consists of three layers of Research and
   Enterprise committees at University, Faculty, and School levels with PAIR leading the School
   committee through Jennings’ role as Deputy Head of School (Research). This structure
   provides multiple layers of support (e.g. scoping for funding opportunities, mentoring, peer
   review and demand management) for the purpose of maximising the success of our external
   research grant applications which PAIR has utilised as part of its research strategy.
   The School Research and Enterprise Committee (chaired by Jennings) provides a
   representative forum charged with developing the School's research strategy and administers
   seed-corn funds through the Strategic Research Development Fund for pilot research projects
   and research network formation and consolidation. PAIR’s leadership of this committee has
   meant that PAIR staff are expertly supported in making applications to it. For example,
   established and early career researchers can access funds for building research networks,
   seed-funding for developing research projects, or small pilot projects and this enabled
   Riggirozzi to access £30,000 that made possible the co-design of the ReGHID project through
   a multi-partner project planning meeting in Southampton which eventuated in a £2.2 million
   GCRF award. This committee spearheads research policy and strategy and liaises with the
   Associate Dean (Research & Enterprise) and the University Research and Innovation Services
   (RIS) to exploit interdisciplinary opportunities; it is central to the establishment of
   interdisciplinary School Research Centres and PAIR staff have led the transition from C2G2 to
   CGH, CDF, CPE and CEIP through seed funding from the School as well as successfully
   gaining support for the appointments of Denham, Chisnall and Day.


                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    PAIR (aided by the School and Faculty) supports the research infrastructure through:
    3.2.1 Developing our staff
    Use of the SESPS Workload Model annual appraisal system to take responsibility for ensuring
    that staff have sufficient time to develop and realise individual research plans. It is supported
    by use of the school-wide workload model to ensure transparency and equity. For levels 4-6
    staff, this is the responsibility of the Head of Department; for level 7 staff it is the responsibility
    of the Head of School.
    3.2.2 Funding support
    Making funding available within the department to support research activities, conference
    attendance, visiting academics and guest speakers. Funds are boosted by sharing overheads
    on grants between the School and grant holders, providing funding for international
    conferences and for bridging funding for fixed-term Research Assistants and Research Fellows
    to extend their contracts to undertake specific pieces of work in between one grant ending and
    another commencing. Support funding is also available for Research Centres and for journal
    editorships (e.g., Havercoft’s co-editorship of Global Constitutionalism, Owen’s review
    editorship of Political Theory).
    3.2.3 Rigorous ethics approval procedures
    Requiring all research (including undergraduate research) to undergo a rigorous ethics
    approval procedure directed through PAIR’s Ethics Advisor (Strong) who is a member of the
    Faculty’s Ethics Committee in order to maintain high standards of research quality and integrity
    (see REF5a §2.8). The University ensures that all reviewers and members of Ethics
    Committees are kept up to date with all relevant legislation, codes of practice, professional
    guidelines, etc., that affect all aspects the research process.
    3.2.4 Dedicated PGR support
    Working with the Postgraduate Research Office in the Faculty Graduate School through our
    PGR Director (Boswell) to provide dedicated support for PGR matters, including the
    administration of student training awards, bursaries, our annual post-graduate conference, and
    to cooperate with the ESRC DTP hub on studentships.
    3.2.5 RIS support
    Utilising the University’s Research and Innovation Service (RIS) to provide bid support,
    including advice on proposal guidelines, supporting pathways to impact and justification of
    resources for UKRI and EU applications as well as specialist advice on ethical aspects of
    research and supporting colleagues through the Ethics and Research Governance Online
    system; contract management, including drafting University template contracts, liaising with
    third parties; training and workshop sessions for ECRs.
    3.2.6 Underwriting fellowships
    Upholding a commitment to underwriting successful applications to external bodies for post-
    doctoral fellowships, such as Leverhulme Trust and British Academy Fellowships, and ESRC
    Future Leaders.

 3.3 Facilities
    Academic staff and researchers have access to world-class research facilities including the
    University’s High Performance Computing facility as well as the University library. Our policy is
    that every full time PGR student will have access to a desk with lockable storage facilities,


                                                                                                   Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   access to a password protected, internet-linked desktop computer and appropriate relevant
   software for the duration of their registration, with appropriate relevant software as agreed with
   their supervisors. Part-time PGR students have access to a computer and shared desks. PGR
   student facilities are located in the same building as academic supervisors and the departments
   and/or research centres they are affiliated with. We undertake regular refurbishment of
   postgraduate facilities.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaboration
   PAIR has a number of formal collaborations, joint grants and impact activities. At the university
   level we are a member of WUN and PAIR staff (Boswell and Ryan) have benefitted through
   funded visiting fellowships (Auckland and Canberra). Rhodes (Utrecht) and Stoker (Canberra)
   split their time with other institutions and PAIR has benefitted substantially from these
   connections, including the development of joint publications, peer reviewing and visiting
   speakers. PAIR staff hold honorary or visiting appointments across the world, including:

    •   Boswell is an Associate Member of the Centre for Deliberative Democracy and Global
        Governance, Canberra, and the SKAPE Research Centre, Edinburgh.
    •   Corbett holds honorary appointments at the ANU and Griffith. He has also been a Visiting
        Fellow at Melbourne, Sheffield and Malta.
    •   Iusmen has been Visiting Scholar at Hertie School of Governance (Berlin) and University
        of Bergen, and a Fulbright Fellow at Harvard University.
    •   Jennings is a Research Associate, Centre for the Analysis of Risk and Regulation, LSE,
        and has been a Visiting Fellow at the University of Canberra (2016) and a Visiting Professor
        at the University of Vienna (2017) and was on the Advisory Board for CMIST, University of
        Manchester (2014-2018).
    •   Margheritis is an Associate Fellow of Institute of Latin American Studies, School of
        Advanced Studies, UCL, and has been a Visiting Scholar at FLACSO Quito and University
        of Turin.
    •   Owen is SSS Visiting Professor at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton 2020-21
        (invited for full year, accepted for semester 1) and a member of the advisory board of The
        Cedar Trees Institute at the University of Victoria, B.C.

    •   Rhodes is an Adjunct Professor at Griffith University and Honorary Professorial Fellow at
        the University of Melbourne.
    •   Ryan has been a Visiting Fellow at the University of Canberra.
   PAIR staff are also involved in cross-institutional research grants and projects such as the UK
   Policy Agendas Project (2008-present) of which Jennings is co-director, and Participedia of
   which Ryan is the executive member directing research methods. Margheritis serves as a
   country expert for the Global Citizenship Observatory and is part of The Migration and
   Transnational Social Protection in post-crisis Europe Project at University of Liège and the
   Immigrant Welfare Rights Project at the Global Dynamics of Social Policy Centre, Universität
   Bremen as well as co-coordinator of the IMISCOE Standing Committee on Migration,
   Citizenship and Political Participation, and founding co-coordinator of a new IMISCOE research
   group on ‘Revisiting mobilities between Europe and Latin America’. On the policy front, Zwolski

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   is a member of the EU Non-Proliferation Consortium, while John Denham is director of the
   English Labour Network and co-director of Southern Policy Centre.

 4.2 Contribution to the economy and society
   In addition to the previously noted examples of PAIR’s impact (see 1.4), our researchers have
   also contributed to the economy and society via the media, with PAIR researchers active
   across multiple print and online platforms.
   Jennings is our most prominent television performer as an Election Analyst for Sky News and
   has worked on their coverage of the 2017 general election, 2018 local elections, 2018 midterm
   US Congressional elections, 2019 general election and was Sky News’ representative on the
   2019 BBC/ITV/Sky exit poll. He also jointly heads up their Sky Data polling division. John
   Denham is regularly interviewed on BBC News programmes, including Newsnight concerning
   both Labour Party politics and the politics of English Identity related to elections. PAIR
   researchers have also provided interviews and background for outlets like the BBC (Boswell;
   Chu; Havercroft; Riggirozzi; Margheritis; Chu), CNN (Jennings) and Al Jazeera (Margheritis).
   A wide range of our staff participate in radio programmes in the UK and abroad, for example,
   BBC National (Iusmen); BBC 5 Live (Havercroft; Jennings); BBC South (Denham; Ryan;
   Iusmen; Boswell); BBC Jersey (Saunders); Radio Solent (Havercoft; Riggirozzi; Ryan; Smith);
   BBC Wiltshire (Havercroft); BBC Ulster (Havercroft); Radio Wave 2015 (Havercroft;
   Riggirozzi); Australian Broadcasting Corporation (Corbett; Jennings); Radio DelSol
   (Margheritis); Radio Uruguay (Margheritis); Radio 4 Vienna (Margheritis). We are increasingly
   engaged in podcasting, whether through academic lectures such as Owen’s podcast for the
   Centre for Refugee Studies Oxford or two appearances on the ‘Talking Migration’ podcast,
   while Jennings has featured in such prominent podcasts as Guardian Politics Weekly, Polling
   Politics, and Sky News All Out Politics.
   PAIR staff write for, or have been featured in, prominent newspapers, including: The Times
   (Jennings); The Guardian (Jennings, Denham), Clarin (Riggirozzi); Pagina/12 (Riggirozzi); El
   Portal 180 (Margheritis); Sunday Express (Margheritis); Daily Echo (Iusmen); The Telegraph
   (Denham); BBC News Online (Chu); South China Morning Post (Chu), FD (Kenny) and The
   Australian (Jennings).
   We have also contributed to more intellectual magazines: for example, New Statesman
   (Denham); Renewal (Jennings, Owen); Prospect (Jennings, Denham); Americas Quarterly
   Issue and Global Americans (Riggirozzi); Political Insight (Corbett); Economia (Corbett);
   Centre Write (Jennings).
   In the digital sphere, PAIR staff contributed posts to: The Conversation; The Washington
   Post’s Monkey Cage; Sky News Online; Huffington Post; Democratic Audit; OUP Blog; LSE
   Blog; LSE Brexit Blog; LSE EUROPP, Polity Blog; PSA Blog; Open Democracy; Presidential
   Power Blog; Development Policy Centre Blog; Crick Centre Blog; Academics Against Poverty
   Blog; Project Syndicate; EUDO Citizenship Observatory and its successor Global Citizenship
   Observatory Forum Debates; The Mandarin; YouGov, and Australian Outlook.
   We see media engagement as having a multiplier effect for PAIR: it showcases our research,
   which creates opportunities for collaboration and impact, which in turn provides the basis of
   grant applications and future publications. All PAIR staff are offered media training and
   neophytes are advised by more experienced media performers in developing the skills for
   successful media engagement.


                                                                                        Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.3 Contribution to the research base
    4.3.1 Leadership
   PAIR places a high value on our contribution to the discipline. PAIR staff have played
   leadership roles in:
   Professional Associations including: APT (Owen was a member of the Founding Executive
   and served as Secretary); BISA (Havercroft convened two workshops); ECPR (Ryan co-
   convenes the section on democratic innovation); EISA (Margheritis serves as a Section Chair);
   ISA (Enemark serves on the executive of the Global Health section), PSA (Jennings served
   on the executive and as a trustee, while Boswell, Corbett and Rhodes convened specialist
   groups), SLAS (Margheritis is a member of the Executive Committee and lead organiser of its
   2018 annual conference).
   Prize Juries Owen served on the Prize Jury for the APSA David Easton Award 2017-18, while
   Havercroft served on the ISA International Theory book prize jury 2015-16. Jennings served
   on the Haldane Prize Committee for Public Administration in 2015, PSA Awards Committee in
   2015, PSA McDougall Prize Committee in 2018 and the Harrison Prize Committee for Political
   Studies in 2018.
   Editorships PAIR staff also edit or co-edit several book series with presses such as University
   of Hawaii Press (Corbett); Manchester University Press (Owen; Rhodes) Palgrave (Owen;
   Rhodes; Stoker) and Routledge (Corbett). Havercroft is the lead editor for Global
   Constitutionalism and staff play editorial roles or serve on the boards of the following journals:
   American Review of Public Administration; Australian Journal of Public Administration;
   Basiliade; British Journal of Politics and International Relations; British Journal of Political
   Science; British Politics; European Journal of Political Theory; European Political Science;
   Global Constitutionalism; Global Governance; International Journal of Sport Policy and Politics;
   Journal of European Public Policy; Journal of Nietzsche Studies; Journal of Political
   Philosophy; Journal of Public Deliberation; Journal of Social Philosophy; Max Weber Studies;
   Migration and Diaspora; New Nietzsche Studies; Policy and Politics; Political Insight; Political
   Studies; Political Theory; Public Administration; Public Opinion Quarterly; Public Policy and
   Administration; Revista de Estudios Internacionales; Romanian Journal of Political Science;
   Small States and Territories Journal; The European Legacy.
    4.3.2 Prizes, Honours and Esteem
   Prizes: Boswell and co-authors were awarded the Ken Young Prize for best paper in Policy
   and Politics 2017. Jennings won the PSA ‘Best Democratic Innovation’ award for the ESRC
   ‘Democracy Matters’ project 2016 and the University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam School of
   Communication Research, Baschwitz Article of the Year Award prize 2017. He also co-directs
   the UK team of the Comparative Agendas Project which received the APSA Comparative
   Politics Section’s ‘Lijphart/Przeworski/Verba Dataset award in 2019. Havercroft was the winner
   of the 2020 British Academy Brian Barry Prize in Political Science for the essay “Why is there
   no just riot theory?”
   Honours: Jennings (2018) and Owen (2020) became Fellows of the Academy of Social
   Sciences; Rhodes (2014) received a PSA Special Recognition Award for outstanding
   contribution to British political science as well as a Lifetime Achievement Award (2015) from
   the ECPR for an outstanding contribution to European political science.



                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Esteem (publications): Armstrong’s book Justice and Natural Resources: An Egalitarian
   Theory was the subject of symposia at Goethe University, Frankfurt; Hertfordshire Law School;
   and the University of Bristol and a review symposium in a special issue of Global Justice:
   Theory Practice Rhetoric. He was also awarded a Leverhulme Fellowship for 2018-19 and was
   the winner of the York Political Theory Manuscript competition in 2020. Corbett’s book
   Democracy in Small States: Persisting Against All Odds was the subject of a symposia at
   QMUL with the proceedings published in Small States and Territories Journal. Owen’s book
   What do we owe to refugees? is subject to a review symposium at the ECPR General
   Conference 2020. Rhodes had a collection of essays devoted to his work: Turnbull, N (2016)
   ‘Interpreting Governance, High Politics and Public Policy: Essays Commemorating ‘Interpreting
   Governance’ London: Routledge.
   Esteem (invited talks/workshop presentations/plenary lectures): Members of PAIR have
   also been invited to speak at more than 80 different universities across more than 20 countries
   during the assessment period.
   4.3.3 Wider Services to the Research Community
   As part of our civic ethos, PAIR staff have engaged in a range of wider services to support the
   research infrastructure of the academy. This includes reviewing for a global range of research
   councils and funders including Australian Research Council, Austria Science Fund, British
   Academy, CONICYT, ESF, ESRC, FCO Chevening, Global Research Network on Parliaments
   and People, Icelandic Research Council, Independent Social Research Foundation, Israel
   Science Foundation, Leverhulme, MRC, NWO, Public Health England, RCHSS, Riksbanken
   Jubileumsfond, Ser Cymru, SSHRC. In addition, Owen, Corbett, Margheritis and Riggirozzi all
   serve on the ESRC-GCRF Peer Review Group.
   PAIR also contribute to other HEIs in terms of selection and promotions. For example, Owen
   served on the external advisory committee for the UPS Foundation Professor, Institute of
   Advanced Study, Princeton. Staff have also engaged in external tenure and promotion reviews
   for universities including Cornell; McGill; UNSW; Ottawa; UCLA; UCSB; UPS; Princeton;
   Edinburgh; Hafia; KCL; Northeastern; Stockholm; Portland State.
   Further contributions have been made through the examination of PhDs at more than 25
   different universities in more than 10 countries.
   PAIR is not a large department, but we aim to punch above our weight as a contributor to our
   discipline, to the research community, and to society. At a time when much of civic life seems
   threatened, we remain wholly committed to the value of acting as a participant in civic life and
   to exemplifying the civic ethos of the University in our research and our relationships.




                                                                                           Page 18
