Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Newcastle University

 Unit of Assessment: 27: English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Introduction

 Our Unit works at the intersection between Literature and Creative Writing. What unites our
 critical and creative research is an overarching interest in how literature is produced, circulated
 and consumed. We work across periods, genres and regions, but our work is particularly
 informed by:

     •   a distinctive understanding of archives as historical formations capable of informing
         future modes of engagement with ‘text’.
     •   the use of digital and scholarly editing, book history and print culture to explore how
         literary objects move, change and translate across time and place.
     •   a focus on reception and performance locally and transnationally, both to understand
         the social and historical impacts of literature, and as part of our commitment to taking
         writing into the world today.
 We are pioneers in new models of research impact and collaborate, often at a very foundational
 level, with a range of regional, national and international partners. In 2015 we were awarded the
 first Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) to be held by an English department, one of three
 such awards from InnovateUK in this REF cycle (See Section 4). A core aim of our research is
 the co-production of outcomes with partners that bring direct benefits to a wide and diverse
 range of stakeholders, communities and institutions, including archives and libraries, publishers
 and production companies, cultural organisations and the creative industries.

 The Unit has grown from 32.1FTE at REF2014 to 46.9FTE at REF 2021. This 46% increase in
 our research capacity is the result of a programme of strategic investment by the University,
 building on the UoA’s strong REF2014 performance. Research informs everything we do in the
 Unit, including teaching, and we have recruited new Teaching and Research (T&R) colleagues
 in successive staffing rounds. Additionally, we have secured over £2m from the University’s
 competitive funding schemes to invest in staff and infrastructure in areas of strategic priority.
 This internal investment includes the Research Excellence Academy (REA; £735k, 2016-2021;
 see REF5a, 3.2.2), the Research Investment Fund (RIF; £832k, 2015-2021; see REF5a,
 4.1.3), and the Newcastle University Academic Track Fellowships scheme (NUAcT; see
 REF5a, 3.2.4) through which we appointed a tenure-track postdoctoral fellow in 2019 (c.£300k
 over five years; Hone).

 External grant income totalling £2,700,569 in this cycle has further extended our staff base,
 bringing 2 Leverhulme Visiting Professors (with 2 more awarded for 2021); 2 Leverhulme
 Early Career Fellows; 2 Marie Skłodowska-Curie postdoctoral fellows; a British Academy
 Postdoctoral Fellow; a British Academy Global Professor; and 24 postdoctoral project
 researchers to the Unit, significantly enhancing our research environment and capacity for
 impact and innovation.

 Structure

 Our Unit is based in the School of English Literature, Language and Linguistics (SELLL), which
 forms one of nine Schools in the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences (HaSS). School
 staff who research linguistics are returned to UoA26 but we benefit from the connections
 between our disciplines, and a combined School-level Research Committee allows us to share
 ideas and best practice. The Unit is home to a University Research Centre, the Newcastle
 Centre for the Literary Arts (NCLA). Established in 2009 under the direction of Anderson OBE,
 NCLA is a world-class centre of excellence in creative writing, with a mission to enhance the

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 cultural life of the North-East via a regular programme of readings, performances and outreach
 work. With extensive links to the regional, national and international literary arts scene, NCLA
 helps to maximise wider literary engagement, particularly through its annual Newcastle Poetry
 Festival (see Section 4).

 The Unit’s research is well integrated within the wider interdisciplinary architecture of the Faculty
 and University. Our staff have been central to the foundation of the first wave of Newcastle
 University Centres of Research Excellence (NUCoREs; REF5a, 2.2), bringing together
 researchers from across the entire University in areas of world-leading strength and depth (See
 Section 3). Grenby sits on the steering committee of the Centre for Heritage, Whitehead’s
 expertise in medical humanities has led to a role with the Centre for Cancer, and Cummings and
 Richards lead the ‘Text’ strand in the Centre for Data. Pearson is co-lead on the developing
 NUCoRE in Childhood and Youth. These roles increase the Unit’s capacity for interdisciplinary
 research while broadening funding opportunities. Colleagues also convene the University’s
 Medical Humanities Network and Performance Research Network and Faculty cross-disciplinary
 research groups, including Medieval and Early Modern Studies (MEMS), the Gender Research
 Group (GRG), and the Postcolonial Research Group (NPRG). Cross-disciplinary research is
 supported by the three Research Institutes (REF5a, 2.2.3): for Creative Arts Practice (NICAP);
 Social Science (NISS), and Humanities (NUHRI). The founding and current directors of NUHRI
 are both based in the Unit. Working with the British Academy’s SHAPE policy team, the
 Institutes fund, support and promote our pioneering cross-disciplinary collaborations.

 Our staff play key leadership roles across the University: Sanders (HaSS Pro-Vice-Chancellor
 2015-18; Deputy Vice-Chancellor 2018-); Grenby (founding Director of NUHRI, 2014-18 and
 HaSS Dean of Research and Innovation 2018-); Chedgzoy (HaSS Director of EDI, 2017-);
 Richards (NUHRI Director 2019-); Morrissey (Director of NCLA, 2017-); and Gillis (Chair of NU
 Women, 2019-22 and UCU Equalities Officer 2019-2021).

 Research and Impact Strategy

 Our overarching strategic objective has been, and remains, to provide an environment in which
 all colleagues can achieve their full potential. All staff, as well as student representatives, are
 involved in the Unit’s development of strategies, including those relevant to research, impact and
 engagement. Policy is made at the School’s Research Committee (meeting 6 times a year),
 comprising Director of Research (Chair), School Research Administrator, Head of School,
 Director of Research in Linguistics, Research Centre Directors, Director of Impact, Subject
 Heads, EDI Chair, PGR Director and Early Career Research (ECR) staff. Our mission is to foster
 an enabling and resilient research culture that has the confidence to embrace creativity and
 innovation, including risk-taking where appropriate, and to understand failure openly as an
 inevitable and productive part of the research process (recently this has included ‘How to Fail
 Well’ workshops). We recognise further work is required to ensure the diversity and equality of
 our Unit. An Athena Swan award in 2016 (the first English department to be awarded Athena
 Swan status) has provided a welcome first step in this context, enabling us to reflect upon and
 begin revising our structures (see Section 2).

 At REF2014 we identified three core aims: (i) to integrate critical and creative work; (ii) to
 deepen our scholarly focus on the contexts of literary production; and (iii) to use and develop
 archival sources. In the period since 2014, these aims have become central to our ethos, have
 guided our strategy for investment, and have been successfully embedded in our activities (see
 research clusters below). Building on this, our strategy for the next five years is as follows:

    1. To diversify our staff base while responding to the uneven impacts of the pandemic on
       research to ensure all colleagues are given equal opportunity to recover from
       interruptions to active research.
    2. To fully embed our research within an increasingly interdisciplinary landscape while
       promoting work across sub-disciplines within English studies at a national level.


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    3. To scale up our research by working in larger teams on collective, cross-disciplinary
       challenges that are grounded in, but capable of reaching beyond, English studies.
       ‘Engaged English’ is central to our vision for the field’s future (see Section 4).
    4. To extend our commitment to social justice over the next decade as a defined pathway
       into postgraduate research and future doctoral work. Social justice is a cross-cutting
       theme that unites all of our 5 clusters of research strength below.
    5. To expand our work on the life cycles of ‘texts’, their composition, production, and
       reception, including through performance and reading, and the technologies on which
       they rely: the voice, hand, printing press, electronic media using digital design to engage
       new audiences.

 We are committed to the support of our substantial ECR community both as an ethical
 imperative, and for our future sustainability. These values both shape and are shaped by the
 intellectual agendas of the Unit, which has cross-period research strengths in decolonisation and
 issues relating to race, slavery, sexuality, gender, and childhood. Recent research projects and
 publications have made direct interventions on decolonising School and University curricula in
 ways that are shaping ongoing research, teaching and impact across and beyond the Unit (see
 ICS 3&4). Likewise, Unit staff played a prominent role in ‘Freedom City 2017’, a programme of
 events marking the 50th anniversary of Martin Luther King’s 1967 visit to Newcastle to accept an
 honorary degree, including the launch of a major new poetry anthology edited by NCLA poets
 addressing the themes of his speech: The Mighty Stream (see Section 4).

 We take an organic approach to impact and engagement activity to accommodate relatively long
 gestation periods, supporting work that has the capacity to evolve over 10+ year cycles. By
 adopting a holistic approach to impact, our research strategy allows for the capture of impact in
 a sustainable, inclusive manner, while remaining alert to the often unanticipated opportunities,
 and consequences, of public-facing research. Our impact strategy is underpinned with the
 appropriate resources to support the communication, recording, evaluation and delivery of
 impact. We have created a new Director of Impact role (part of the Director of Research role until
 2018) and work closely with the Faculty Impact Officer to offer best-practice training on recording
 impact.

 We recognise that our research benefits from reproducibility and the importance of our role in
 sustaining this practice. As such we operate an open research environment, one that is
 underpinned by the values of integrity, accessibility and transparency. We are fully committed to
 publishing via Open Access. We embrace FAIR principles and open data via data.ncl (REF5a,
 2.33) alongside discipline-specific considerations for responsible research.

 Core to our ambition is the value that we place on the variety of our research activity. We have
 distinguished researchers producing pioneering research across 8 centuries, covering subjects
 from early English drama (Cummings) to African American literature and cinema (Durkin); from
 critical theory and contemporary British fiction (McLaughlan; Whitehead) to cultural histories of
 regional theatre (Haslett); from James Hogg and Romantic literary networks (O’Halloran; Orr) to
 fin-de-siècle modernism (Gillis; MacLeod). Increasingly, our researchers are engaged in literary
 research that is simultaneously working at the cutting-edge of cross-disciplinary approaches.
 For example, in Victorian literature, colleagues work variously on nineteenth-century economy
 (Dzelzainis), ecocriticism and science (Mershon), and ageing in relation to empire (Jewusiak).

 Other multi-disciplinary projects, such as Grenby’s AHRC-funded Eighteenth-Century Political
 Participation and Electoral Culture (ECPPEC; 2020-23 £948,383), work at the intersections of
 Medical, Environmental and Digital Humanities. ECPPEC puts the ‘big data’ of parliamentary
 election votes into correspondence with the cheap print, sermons, songs and ceremonies that
 accompanied early elections, and has brought to the Unit the work of Packham on electioneering
 literature and Harris (returned in UoA28) on electoral politics. Nafde’s AHRC-funded
 Manuscripts after Print c.1450-1550: Producing and Reading Books during Technological
 Change (2019-2020 £177,474) challenges successional models of book production in order to
 consider the ongoing significance of handwriting in a digital age so as to examine the future of

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 book production. Facilitated by the Unit’s Animating Text (ATNU) cluster (see below), which
 helps to turn ideas into digital pilots, and to build projects through disciplinary translation with
 data scientists and software developers, Nafde’s new knowledge informs our ambition to
 strengthen our links with Data Science, and the case we are making for the social value of
 collaboration with English studies to the sciences more generally. This ambition manifests itself
 through the development of bespoke training for future researchers – ATNU’s series of
 workshops titled ‘Coding for Humanists’, available online to anyone with digital access – or the
 new MSc module that our Unit will be offering to computer scientists in 2021-22: ‘Data and
 Truth’. The Unit is poised over the next 5 years to redefine English as an interdisciplinary partner
 that can work across the critical, creative and scientific interfaces.

 Our strategy identifies five cross-period clusters of strength which have been, and will remain,
 important to our planning, particularly in relation to our ambition to continue to drive the
 development of our discipline internationally. Three of these (1, 2 and 3) are now well-
 established in our Unit; the fourth unites established period-based clusters around a particular
 and distinctive approach; the fifth is an emerging strength. Each cluster has benefited from
 significant archival acquisitions (see section 3) during this REF period, either as the result of
 internal investment or major donations that recognise the substance and sustainability of the
 Unit’s research. Our clusters do not operate in isolation but seek to foster further cross-
 pollination. This is particularly true at the intersection between our critical and creative work: for
 instance, in Whipday’s uses of creative writing alongside archival research to recover lost female
 voices of the sixteenth century; Hewitt’s critically-acclaimed A Revolution of Feeling (2017),
 which adds to our long-established expertise on the Godwin-Wollstonecraft-Shelley circle
 (Coffey, Grenby, Kirkley, Rossington); or Hone’s Paper Chase (2020), which turns eighteenth-
 century bibliographical research into an adventure story of politics, philosophy and printing from
 the age of Queen Anne.

 Research Clusters

 1. Poetry
 This cluster exemplifies both the Unit’s commitment to integrating critical and creative practice
 research and our wider interest in archives as cross-disciplinary sites of investigation. The
 AHRC-funded Poetics of the Archive (Anderson: 2013-2015 £475,919) paved the way for
 rethinking archives as an artistic resource that connects critical and creative research in all
 clusters (see ICS1). The Unit is home to some of the most celebrated poets of our generation:
 Bergin (T.S. Eliot Prize, the Forward Prize, and Irish Times Poetry Now Award shortlisted);
 O’Brien (three-times winner of Forward Prize, and T.S. Eliot shortlisted in 2015 and 2018);
 Forché (National Book Award Finalist, 2019; Windham Campbell, 2020; James Tait Black Prize
 shortlisted); Herbert (Dundee Makar, 2013-18); Kay (The Scots Makar, 2016-present); Morrissey
 (winner of T.S. Eliot Prize, 2014 and Forward Prize, 2017); Polley (winner of T.S. Eliot Prize,
 2016). We also nurture leading critical work on poetry ranging from Ben Jonson (Connolly),
 Alexander Pope (Hone), Percy Shelley (Rossington) and Gerard Manley Hopkins (Dubois), to
 modern poets including Elizabeth Bishop (Anderson), Basil Bunting (Niven) and Charles Olson
 (Byers), Una Marson and Louise Bennett (Procter).

 Funded projects in this cycle are transforming translation practice, as in the case of Poetry
 Translation in Poet-Advisor-Poet Trios (Herbert: AHRC 2016-18 £332,145) which in
 collaboration with the Dutch Foundation for Literature combines the skills of bilingual translators,
 critics and creative practitioners. Others are rethinking how we tell family history through creative
 non-fiction that fuses poetry, prose, personal recollection and socio-political analysis, as in
 Morrissey’s Seeing Red: An Anatomy of an Irish Communist Childhood (Leverhulme 2019
 £54,943). Our work has led to substantial impact (see ICS 1&2) but is also embedding poetry as
 a central plank of the University’s larger Research Strategy. The appointment of Imtiaz Dharker,
 one of the most celebrated Bloodaxe poets, as Chancellor of the University in January 2020
 forms part of a longer history of institutional support, including the award of £832k through the
 University’s Research Investment Fund in 2015 to develop our poetry archives strategy (see


                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 3) and secure NCLA’s future leadership: appointing Morrissey in 2017 to succeed
 Anderson.

 2. Children’s literature
 The Children’s Literature Unit (CLU) is a major centre for the study of children’s books, with
 research spanning Renaissance and eighteenth-century childhood reading (Chedgzoy, Grenby,
 Marazzi, Richards), illustrated books (Tancini), children’s theatre (Freshwater), modern and
 contemporary writing (Pearson, Reynolds, Sheeky Bird), black British children’s literature
 (Sands-O’Connor), and global children’s literature (Murphy), as well as creative writing (Coburn,
 Cooper). The vitality of the CLU’s research is sustained through its unique and long-standing
 partnership with Seven Stories, The National Centre for Children’s Books, the first UK museum
 and archive dedicated to children's books (see ICS 3, and Section 4). Funded projects in this
 cycle include two Marie Skłodowska-Curie fellowships: ‘Nineteenth-Century European Picture-
 Books in Colour’ (Tancini, 2018-21, €195,455) and ‘Children and Transnational Popular Print,
 1700-1900’ (Marazzi, 2019-21, €212,934). Another postdoctoral fellow (Gribling, returned to
 UoA28) works on Grenby’s ‘Children and Heritage’ project, funded through NU's Research
 Investment Fund (2018-20) to develop a new history of young people's engagement with the
 built historic environment. Since REF2014, the cluster has diversified its range through the
 appointment of Sands-O’Connor, a world-leading authority on black British children’s literature,
 first as Leverhulme Visiting Professor (2015-16), then British Academy Global Professor (2019-
 2024). An AHRC/NPIF-funded six-month postdoctoral fellowship in an associated project on
 ‘Networked voices, connecting BAME activism in children’s literature’ (2018) augments these
 interests. In 2021, the CLU will be further enriched by the arrival of a second Leverhulme
 Visiting Professor, Kristen Bluemel, whose work on rural modernity as manifested in children’s
 culture will deepen links between the Unit and the new National Innovation Centre for Rural
 Enterprise (REF5a, 2.2.4). In 2020/21 the work of researchers in Children’s Literature (Pearson
 and Sheeky-Bird) with Seven Stories featured prominently in the British Academy policy team’s
 submission to government on the social impacts of Covid-19; this will shape the future direction
 of the CLU, and their work with Seven Stories, using literature to improve the lives of young
 people.

 3. Postcolonial and Black Atlantic
 The Unit has a distinguished record of research in postcolonial and diasporic literatures, with
 particular expertise in African (Kay; Newell), Caribbean (Procter; Webb), South Asian
 (Srivastava; Taneja), black Atlantic and black British writing (Durkin; Kay; Procter; Sands-
 O’Connor; Sweeney; Webb). Work in this cycle has yielded a series of high profile discoveries
 on African slavery and the Windrush generation (see Section 4 and ICS 4), and has produced
 major research outputs, including Durkin’s book on Josephine Baker and Katherine Dunham;
 Newell’s work on histories of dirt in West Africa, Procter’s Leverhulme-funded research (2013-14
 £44,962) on West African and West Indian writers at the BBC; Sands-O’Connor’s work on black
 British publishing; Srivastava’s Leverhulme-funded (REF2014 cycle) monograph on Italian
 colonialism (2018); Sweeney’s Curran-funded work on black Abolitionists and the periodical
 press 1840-65; and Webb’s on Haiti and the British imagination, 1847-1915. A distinctive feature
 of this cluster’s research into the legacies of empire and slavery, is its inter-medial emphasis on
 archives and audiences across different forms and media, notably cinema, music, periodicals
 and newspapers, radio, and visual culture. The cluster established the ‘Postcolonial Print
 Cultures’ International Network with New York University in 2016 to recover the ways in which
 print and intersecting media negotiate a literature of decolonisation. Supported by awards from
 the University’s Research Excellence Academy (Research Associate, Webb; 2018-20), and a
 Leverhulme Visiting Professorship (2019 £146,813) to bring Newell, the foremost
 international scholar on African print culture, from Yale in 2019, this additional capacity is now
 shaping a new initiative on ‘the black archive’ which brings our collective expertise to bear on
 both transnational repositories and Newcastle’s own Special Collections. These include the
 papers of Malawian writer, Jack Mapanje; Pakistani poet Moniza Alvi; and Anne Walmsley,
 editor of African-Caribbean literature at Faber and Longman and amanuensis of the Caribbean
 Artists Movement.


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Book History, Scholarly Editing and Animating Texts
 The Unit has established expertise in book history and scholarly editing (Byers, Connolly, De
 Rycker, Grenby, Hone, Kirkley, MacLeod, Nafde, Niven, Pearson, Richards, Rossington,
 Sanders). Research for the following externally-funded projects was undertaken in this cycle and
 will culminate in major new editions of Thomas Nashe (De Rycker, and Richards (PI), AHRC-
 funded (2015-2020 £750,180); the poems of Alexander Pope (Hone); Volume III of the letters of
 William Godwin (Grenby); Volume 5 of The Poems of Shelley (Rossington, funded by the
 Modern Humanities Research Association (2014-15 £23,000); poems of Ben Jonson
 (Connolly); Tom Raworth (Byers); and Basil Bunting’s letters (Niven). Coffey’s British Academy
 Postdoctoral Fellowship is looking at The Reception History of Percy Bysshe Shelley 1851-
 1922 (2020-23 £257,442).

 Common to many of these projects working at the intersection between editing and book history,
 is a re-conception of texts as mobile, lively, dynamic, and a shared ambition to explore the
 opportunities of the digital to demonstrate this. This insight led to the establishment in 2016 of
 Animating Texts Newcastle University (ATNU), funded by £476k from the University’s
 Research Investment Fund. ATNU began as a collaboration between scholarly editors, data
 scientists, and software developers; it has expanded to include creative writers. ATNU members
 provide mentoring and networking opportunities for researchers building projects with a digital
 component (see Section 2). Pilot projects experiment with new ways of visualising literary
 composition; working with environmental scientists to create interactive digital books of
 Renaissance bees to protect today’s endangered pollinators; mapping the history of feminism
 and its books in eighteenth-century Europe; tracing transatlantic intellectual networks in the
 Romantic era. Funded projects include Nafde’s AHRC-funded ‘Manuscripts after Print’ project
 (see above) and Cummings’ Mellon-funded contribution to the Digital Edition Publishing
 Cooperative Project based at Brown University (£42,310). A Leverhulme Visiting
 Professorship (£144,527) will bring Prof Bruce Smith, University of Southern California to
 Newcastle in 2021-22. His input will allow us to co-design an ambitious training programme for
 the next generation of researchers, extending the material turn in textual scholarship to
 encompass digital books as ‘3D’ experiences. The inclusion of ATNU in the University’s Data
 NUCoRE in 2020 has brought scholarly editors and book historians into the heart of Data
 Science, enabling new approaches to ‘data’ and its interpretation.

 5. Theatre and Performance
 This emerging cluster comprises award-winning playwrights (Cooper; Polley; Whipday),
 dramaturgs, script consultants, and researchers working on a wide range of contemporary and
 historical performance, including regional and community theatre (Haslett), eighteenth-century
 acting theory (Harriman-Smith) and vocal delivery (as in Richards’ AHRC-funded Research
 Network, Voices and Books 1500-1800 (2013-15 £28,485). Research areas range from digital
 editing of medieval performance records (Cummings), the cultural geography of early modern
 drama (Sanders) and analyses of audience response to contemporary theatre (Freshwater,
 Understanding Audiences for the Contemporary Arts project (2017-20 £342,831) with
 Sheffield University). The appointment of four new colleagues in the current cycle, along with
 Robinson (from February 2021), all with major strengths in theatre and performance, now gives
 this cluster the critical mass to make significant interventions in the field.

 Post-pandemic theatre presents fresh challenges and opportunities for engagement. This was
 demonstrated recently by Craddock’s (REA-funded RA) pioneering work with the Gateshead
 International Festival of Theatre (GIFT) to bring a wider variety of performances to the North-
 East by creatively repurposing the 2020 Festival for online delivery during the pandemic:
 described by the Guardian as ‘a solid blueprint for transitioning to digital in this strange and
 scary limbo’. Building on a programme of ongoing archival acquisitions initiated by Haslett (e.g.
 Northern Stage, Live Theatre, Open Clasp), and co-produced research with local arts
 organisations such as November Club, the People’s Theatre, Sage, Darlington Operatic
 Society and the Amber Collective, this cluster is particularly well-placed to lead the next phase
 of our Unit’s impact strategy.


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing Strategy

 The Unit’s commitment to an ethical and inclusive research culture begins with our recruitment
 strategy which takes a holistic, long-term approach to planning while reducing reliance on
 precarious contracts (18% of new appointments were converted from fixed-term contracts during
 the current cycle, with 95% now on open-ended contracts). The Unit has moved towards the
 provision of training and investment that fosters a level playing field for researchers. Decisions
 around new appointments are informed by our research clusters’ future research ambitions and
 place a renewed emphasis on the mutually constitutive character of the ‘T’ and ‘R’ in T&R
 contracts. 22 researchers have joined the Unit as additional strategic appointments since August
 2013 (15 female; 7 male; comprising 16 lecturers, 3 SL/Readers and 3 professors), representing
 a 46% increase in our research capacity. 75% of our new appointments are ECRs, ensuring a
 dynamic Unit that properly represents the future of our discipline.

 Many of our recent appointments have already held prestigious fellowships and awards. Hone
 held fellowships at Harvard, Yale and London before joining the Unit in 2019 as a NUAcT fellow
 (REF5a, 2.2); both Hewitt and Taneja arrived as AHRC New Generation Thinkers and
 Leverhulme ECFs; Mershon was formerly an A.W. Mellon Postdoctoral Fellow; Whipday was a
 further Leverhulme ECF. We are working simultaneously to improve the diversity of our staff
 and student body.10-15% of NUAcT awards are intended for BAME groups: our Unit has
 identified this as an opportunity to target under-represented staff, while international fellowships
 will be proactively targeted to diversify our current demographic. We introduced a BME PG
 studentship in 2020, and our commitment to staffing diversity is written into our School Strategic
 Plan for 2020-25, and our Athena Swan renewal application (due Nov 2021). New research and
 teaching appointments are made on the basis of open, international searches with all staff
 networks utilised to ensure a wide and varied pool of applicants. All colleagues are encouraged
 to participate actively in the selection process, including PGRs whose presence at the
 presentations both informs the collective decision-making of the Unit, and provides students with
 valuable professionalisation opportunities. Recruitment panels are convened to ensure gender
 and career balance, and members are required to take unconscious bias training. Adverts are
 scrutinised for bias while promoting our values of inclusivity. There is full parity of esteem
 between T&S and research staff, with equal promotional opportunities and flexibility to transfer
 between ‘Scholarship’ and ‘Research’ depending on staff motivations at different career stages.

 Staff Development

 From induction to mentoring and training, we invest heavily in developing the future potential of
 our research community and the Unit has robust processes in place to identify the skills,
 knowledge and experience needed to sustain colleagues throughout their careers. Induction
 includes orientation; available support structures (e.g. Colleague Support and Wellbeing;
 Research Support) and integration into the wider academic community through, for example, the
 Faculty researcher network. It is the University's policy to treat all people equally (REF5a, 3.4):
 all new staff are informed of the University's policies and code of practice and are expected to
 complete training in Equality, Diversity and Inclusion as part of their induction programme. The
 mentoring programme is recognised in workload planning and involves a minimum of 6 hours of
 meetings in the first year. It aims to support the development of a mentee’s goals and pathways
 to achieve these. We have had staff (Richards) contribute to the Oakleigh Report (AHRC 2014)
 on the issues facing Arts and Humanities researchers immediately following completion of a
 PhD, and we ensure mentors understand the situation ECRs currently face. Developing the
 research career and leadership potential of each member of staff is part of the Unit’s mission, a
 commitment that extends beyond ECRs to include the full lifecycle of staff at all career stages.

 For the first 3 years, new staff are afforded an extra allowance (equivalent to 4 weeks) in the
 School’s workload model to take up research training opportunities, including the Faculty
 Futures and PI Development courses, workshops and sandpit events organised by the

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Organisational Development Unit. Other Faculty programmes support diversity such as Race
 Equity Charter, Stone Wall Champions, and EEA Settlement Scheme. Staff networks,
 including NUWomen, NUParents and the BAME network, provide more informal support
 structures. We adhere to the Concordat (REF5a, 3.2.3) to support the progression of fixed-term
 researchers, for instance providing ten days per year (pro rata) for career development.

 The School runs Performance and Development Reviews (PDR) for all staff on an annual
 basis, with a mid-year review available to new starters. The purpose of the PDR is to recognise
 staff achievements, identify future training and development needs, and to agree a set of
 priorities for the year ahead. A confidential, two-way exchange designed to foster collaborative
 development, the PDR process is underpinned by the University’s vision of diversity and
 inclusion to ensure that everyone is given the freedom and opportunity to succeed and reach
 their full potential (REF5a, 2.1.2). Additionally, all staff engage in the annual Personal Research
 Planning (PRP) process, which unlike PDR, is dedicated entirely to research. PRPs involve
 one-to-one conversations with the School’s Director of Research and form an integral part of our
 mentoring strategy. PRPs are used to agree support mechanisms required to achieve longer
 term research ambitions; set realistic priorities for key research objectives, discuss opportunities
 for external funding and advise on bid planning and preparation. Meetings are also used to
 encourage more speculative blue-skies research ideas that build in an element of risk.
 Rather than a discrete event in the Unit’s annual calendar, PRP is used to join up individual
 researchers with wider cross-disciplinary networks, training programmes, workshops and
 initiatives as appropriate. For example, the PRP process generates a list of impact and
 engagement activities across the Unit which are arranged into ‘established’, ‘emergent’ and
 ‘early’ stages of development. This list guides our priorities around investment and future
 support for the year ahead through dedicated support from the Unit’s Director of Impact. Bi-
 annual ‘work-in-progress’ sessions invite colleagues to discuss impact-related elements of their
 research conducted during sabbaticals. Such activities help ensure that colleagues at all stages
 are engaged with impact and see it as integral, rather than supplementary to their research.

 Sabbaticals are core to the support we offer staff. In this cycle, a larger percentage of colleagues
 have secured sabbatical leave than ever before. Since REF2014 we have supported 60
 separate requests for a full semester of leave. Sabbaticals are based on a flexible rota to ensure
 equitable distribution, but are awarded by application via the Research Leave Committee. This
 ensures oversight of sabbatical plans so that colleagues can make the most productive use of
 their time informed by PRPs and PDRs. On returning from sabbatical, colleagues present on the
 progression of their work, fostering an organic, developmental understanding of research,
 beyond end-driven outputs, and providing an opportunity to openly share wrong turns as well as
 successes.

 The Unit’s introduction of a Workload Allocation Model (WAM) in 2008-9 has been regularly
 updated in order to deliver benefits to researchers and manage research priorities. The Unit
 recognises that time is key to all excellent research in our field, where extended forms such as
 the monograph remain central. Our WAM helps us manage the balance between colleagues’
 research time (40%) and other commitments, and ensure fair distribution of load. Work to ensure
 parity between Professional Services, PGRs, T&S and T&R staff continues, most recently
 through having PS colleagues attend School meetings not as facilitators, but as key contributors.
 In addition to paid parental leave and the University’s Returners Programme (REF5a, 3.4.2),
 colleagues with caring responsibilities have been supported during the pandemic by the
 University’s Emergency Leave and Dependency Leave provision (REF5a, 3.3.1). We support
 colleagues with additional needs and disabilities through the Government’s ‘Access to Work’
 scheme, and through the University’s employee assistance programme and Occupational Health
 (REF5a, 3.3.1). The Unit’s establishment of a Research Response Fund during the pandemic
 provides further support to mitigate Covid’s uneven effects, with particular focus on, for example,
 carers, ECRs, and women.

 The success of our support structures is evident in the outstanding record of promotions since
 2014, a process supported in this cycle by a senior colleague in the Unit who sits on University

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Promotions Committee (2014-20). The Unit has successfully supported 12 internal promotions
 (83% female), 4 to Personal Chairs, 2 to Readerships, and 6 to Senior Lectureships.

 Postgraduate Research

 60 PGR students have graduated since August 2013, down from 78 in REF2014. This reduction
 was carefully planned, reflecting the Unit’s desire to improve the student experience by giving
 graduates the best possible preparation for an increasingly diverse and fast-changing workplace.
 It also aims to support the sustainability of the sector by reducing a culture of casualisation
 through over-supply. While a relatively high proportion of our graduates (43%) have gone on to
 secure open-ended academic posts as University lecturers and senior lecturers in UK and
 internationally (India, Japan, Thailand, United States, China, Malta), we recognise that an
 academic career is not necessarily the main destination, or driver, for our PGRs. Of our
 remaining graduates in this REF cycle, 7% went into University management and professional
 services positions, while 25% went into the creative industries where they work variously in
 journalism, editing, publishing, and as freelance writers. Other PGR destinations include school
 teaching, the Civil Service and social work (4%).

 Our Unit’s distinctive bridging of critical and creative research has proved a particularly fertile
 environment for the diverse directions of our PGR community, including an already distinguished
 group of PGRs who are not pursuing conventional pathways into academia, but seeking to
 enrich and extend their chosen careers as practicing artists and poets. Examples include prize-
 winning poets such as Malika Booker (2020 Forward Prize winner); Hannah Lowe (Michael
 Murphy Memorial Award (2015) for Best First Collection); Linda France (appointed New Writing
 North/NU Climate Writer in Residence post-PhD); Toby Martinez de las Rivas (shortlisted for
 Forward Prize); Olivia McCannon (Carcanet poet, translator from the French for Penguin
 Classics); and Jake Morris-Campbell (AHRC/BBC New Generation Thinker).

 We believe that humanities research is crucial to the future of the UK social and cultural
 economy, and we take seriously our responsibility to both support and guide our PGRs on their
 futures, providing opportunities for placements in a range of sectors. The Unit places a strong
 emphasis on developing outward-facing researchers through a variety of external partnerships,
 placements and international networks. The Northern Bridge Consortium gives students
 access to placements of up to six months with non-academic partners in the UK or
 internationally. Arranged with a strategic partner or by PGRs in consultation with the Academic
 Directors, these opportunities strengthen, and widen, students’ future career prospects. Our
 Renwick Scholarship supports a PGR residency at the British School at Rome (BSR), and
 our students have been the recipients of awards from the AHRC International Placement
 Scheme (e.g. to the Huntington Library), and Fulbright (Duke University). Others have
 undertaken placements at Keats-Shelley House, Rome, with an emphasis on researching
 archival holdings and outreach work with schools in Rome and other parts of Italy. The
 partnership with Seven Stories has been significant in attracting doctoral students: funded
 projects include two Collaborative Doctoral Awards with Seven Stories, and a third awarded
 jointly with Architecture to analyse new child-centred exhibition possibilities (Goodricke). Two
 National Productivity Investment Fund/AHRC awards are supporting PhD projects as part of
 the Government’s Industrial strategy: ‘Children, Heritage and Digital Technology’ (Wilson, 2017-)
 and ‘Creative Digital Interventions into Poetry’ (Hebden, 2017-).

 At the same time, our first priority remains to provide our PGRs with a firm intellectual and
 scholarly foundation that is informed by the example of world-leading researchers in the
 students’ chosen field. Each student has a supervisory team which comprises the main
 supervisor and at least one other member of academic staff from the School (or, in cases where
 expertise from a different field is required, another School). A rigorous scrutiny process at each
 stage of the doctoral programme (from Learning Agreements and Project Approval to Annual
 Progress Reviews) works to support timely completion. All of our students receive
 comprehensive training with both core/compulsory and optional elements to meet more
 specialized needs. Training provides both core transferable skills required by all researchers

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 while promoting interdisciplinary research across the arts and humanities in particular. 9 of our
 PGRs in this cycle were funded through the University’s competitive REA scheme, with a further
 24 receiving doctoral awards through the Northern Bridge Doctoral Training Partnership (NB)
 with Durham and QUB, and from 2019, Northumbria, Sunderland, Teesside and Ulster. NB gives
 students access to tailored training and placements, and an evolving suite of specialised
 courses delivered face-to-face and online. The partners collaborate in offering a series of annual
 cohort development events (including an Autumn Conference, a Summer School and a
 Completion and Leadership Workshop for final year candidates). These opportunities encourage
 staff and students to share best practice and acquire key professional skills.

 The School’s PG Student-Staff Committee (PGSSC) has always been a dynamic forum in this
 context. In response to PGR feedback, the School established a Postgraduate Culture Group
 in 2019. By definition student-centred, this group works to foster a diverse portfolio of research
 collaborations across the Unit with the aim of deepening our connections, and ensuring cross-
 pollination and platform-sharing between students and academic staff (e.g. writing groups and
 professional development sessions). PGRs are encouraged to play a full part in the academic
 and social life of the School by, for example, nominating speakers for our regular programme of
 visiting lectures (held within core hours to be inclusive of those with caring responsibilities),
 sitting on School committees, and working in close partnership with academic leads on cross-
 disciplinary research groups and networks. Together these interactions work to promote a sense
 of shared ownership across the Unit and foster students as future leaders within and beyond
 academia.

 The Unit has a dedicated PG Suite occupying an entire floor of the Percy Building including a
 fully accessible Computer Cluster, and mixed social and learning spaces. All PGRs get support
 with travel and research expenses, Organisational Development training and conference funds.
 The School awards over £20k annually to its PGR students in order to help promote their
 research, including conference attendance, archive visits, and engagement work with non-HEI
 partners. Separate funds support PGR placements with research partners (two £500 bursaries
 p.a.) and writing up for those in financial need. To ensure parity, the School’s Research
 Training Support Fund offers self-funded students the opportunity to attend Northern Bridge
 training events and other national training events, run for example by the British Library. PGRs
 are entitled to 50 inter-library loan tokens per year. The School’s Royal Literary Fellows offer
 intensive one-to-one support with writing and presentation skills while the Writing Development
 Centre in Newcastle University Library provides further PGR support and guidance on academic
 skills. The University’s Careers Service provides career advice and support to PGRs while they
 are studying, and for three years after graduation.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 Working with all members of the Unit to build an aspirational and collaborative culture, one
 based on fairness and equality is fundamental to our strategy. EDI issues are considered at
 every level and we work closely with the newly established Inclusive Newcastle Knowledge
 Centre (INKC) to tackle inequities in access, success and progression in Higher Education.
 Since our Athena Swan bronze award in 2016, the Unit has:

    •   Instituted an EDI committee with full terms of reference and a statutory membership (by
        role) with a flat and open structure that allows any member of the School to attend
        meetings or table items. EDI is now a standing item on all committees.
    •   Introduced formal exit interviews to understand the reasons for colleagues leaving the
        School and to consider the data at intervals at School Executive Committee (SEC).
    •   Attended carefully to the composition of interview panels by seeking an appropriate mix
        of staff, while ensuring the wording of advertisements are open and inclusive.
    •   Undertaken biennial reviews of data on promotions, staff turnover and gender,
        nationality, ethnicity and protected characteristics of all staff to identify any patterns and
        to track the impact of EDI initiatives.


                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The EDI committee and our Athena-Swan self-assessment team have responsibility respectively
 for leading on EDI agendas and on tracking the impact of initiatives designed to improve
 equality. They consult and work in co-operation with University staff networks (REF5a, 3.4.2) to
 establish best practice and policy for the School’s research environment, including for example,
 the constitution of the Research Committee membership. In conjunction with REF2021,
 colleagues were supported to report circumstances that had impeded their research in
 compliance with the REF Equality and Diversity Advisory Panel process; although remaining
 confidential the anonymised themes are informing our future policies and practices.

 The School has established pathways to ensure these policies inform all decision-making
 processes in the School. The statutory membership of the EDI committee includes the Head of
 School, Director of Admissions, Director of Impact, the School’s Athena-Swan Chair, and a
 nominated EDI representative from the PGR Staff-Student Committee. The Athena Swan Self-
 Assessment team includes the Head of School, the School Manager, Research Director and the
 chair of the EDI committee as statutory members, and has representatives of colleagues
 working on all grades and contracts across the School.

 This range of representation is designed to ensure that all communities in the School are able to
 contribute to policy and development on EDI, the agendas and processes of which inform
 decision-making at the highest level by providing a clear route for the referral and examination of
 policy in both directions. All of the School’s key decision-making groups are fully integrated into
 EDI networks. UoA staff determining ICS and output selections undertook EDI training and
 complied with NU’s Code of Practice (REF5a, 3.4.1), ensuring that decisions were based on the
 principles of collective excellence and EDI guided adjustments. Peer review scores and
 feedback were shared with authors and ICS leads to ensure transparency.

 Strong staff retention (just 4 permanent staff left to take up new academic posts in the current
 cycle) suggests that these processes, and the inclusive culture they foster are widely recognised
 in the Unit. 4 colleagues have retired in the current cycle, while 6 moved onto fractional
 contracts, a fact which embodies our ethos of supporting colleagues’ life choices where possible
 through flexible/phased retirement.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 During the census period the Unit’s external grant income has increased from £1,052,928 in
 REF2014 to £2,700,569 in REF2021 (average income per FTE (46.9): £57,581). The total value
 of these awards is substantially higher (in excess of £5.5 million), reflecting both the limited
 capacity for expenditure during the pandemic, and a sharp increase in award values in recent
 years (£1.8million and £1.2 million in 2018 and 2019 respectively):

  Value of awards by Funder                  Number          Value
  AHRC                                                  16              £3,800,001.02
  Arts Council England                                   2                 £60,000.00
  British Academy                                        6               £927,175.18
  Clore Duffield                                         1                  £7,000.00
  ESRC                                                   1                 £17,369.20
  European Commission                                    3               £388,752.34
  Folger Library                                         1                  £1,410.00
  Huntington Library                                     2                  £3,921.00
  Leverhulme                                             7               £569,073.00
  Modern Humanities Research
  Association                                            1                 £23,000.00

  TOTAL:                                                                £5,798,001.74


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our application success rate stands at 36% with over 50 externally funded awards secured
 since August 2013. While 70% of these awards are derived from the most recognised funding
 sources in our field (AHRC, Leverhulme Trust, British Academy) we have also significantly
 diversified our funding sources over this period in ways that help ensure sustainable growth.
 These diverse sources now include awards from InnovateUK (Knowledge Transfer
 Partnerships); EU Horizon2020 (Marie Skłodowska-Curie); the Clore Duffield Foundation;
 Mellon Foundation, and the National Productivity Investment Fund (British Academy
 Global Professorships funded through the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial
 Strategy).

 Research Support and Infrastructure

 All research staff in the Unit are allocated an annual allowance from Research Support Funds
 (RSF), increased from £900 to £1400 in 2019/20. It is used to support conference attendance,
 archival visits or other research costs. RSF is partly funded from research grant overheads to
 build a sense of collective benefit flowing from external awards. During the pandemic, when
 libraries closed, this was extended to include the purchase of books and journals critical for
 current research projects. Additionally, an annual Research Response Fund (£10k) was
 introduced to allow staff in the School to bid competitively for further support, helping the Unit to
 remain agile in responding to unanticipated research opportunities within the context of Covid-
 19. The overall budget our Unit allocates to research has more than doubled from £50,175 in
 REF2014 to £104,230 in 2019-20.

 Academic staff receive research support from the School Manager (0.2 FTE dedicated to
 research) and Research Administrator (0.4 FTE). PGRs in the School are supported by a
 dedicated Professional Services colleague. The NCLA research and impact is supported by a
 further member of the Professional Services team. The Director of Research is a senior
 academic who receives release from other duties via the School’s workload model. Research
 applications are further supported by two Research Funding Development Managers based in
 the HaSS Faculty, who provide one-to-one surgeries, regular drop-ins and bespoke training
 responsive to particular funding opportunities. The Faculty’s Impact Officers, Ethics Officer,
 Business Development Team, and Knowledge Transfer Partnership Unit help the Unit
 realise the public-facing potential of its research through external partnerships and other impact-
 related work.

 At Faculty level, several schemes exist to catalyse and support research projects. The Faculty
 Research Fund is a competitive scheme offering up to £5k to produce outputs or pump-prime
 new projects (£29,977 awarded to the Unit since 2014); the Bid Preparation Fund offers up to
 £10k as seed-corn funding for major grant applications (£43,071 awarded since 2014); and the
 Faculty Impact Fund offers up to £20k for work with non-HEI partners (£74,807 awarded since
 2014); the Faculty Institutes’ Pioneer Award Fund to support collaborative, interdisciplinary
 projects (£16,646 awarded since 2014). These opportunities have proved particularly effective in
 nurturing ECR research ambitions, giving them enhanced capacity to build intellectual networks
 and external partnerships in advance of bid submission, or to trial untested ideas and
 demonstrate proof of concept. The base of external funding applicants has broadened
 substantially since 2014 to include 30 different award holders (65% of our FTE), one third of
 them ECRs.

 Other subject-specific groups bring together PGRs and staff from Newcastle and other
 Universities in the region: the North-East Forum for 18th-century and Romantic Studies, the
 North-East PG Research group for the Long 19th Century (NENC), and the Postcolonial
 Reading Group. Led or co-led by students, these groups provide research seminars, host blogs
 and run events. Student-led conferences are an annual highlight of our calendar and typically
 focus on shared research interests across the staff-student body, e.g. ‘Anonymity Unmasked:
 Identity, Agency, Responsibility’ (2017) and ‘Sex, Death, Disease & Conflict: The State and
 Morality, 1864-1964' (2018).


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Facilities

 The entire School is housed in the Percy Building on the main University campus, supporting our
 cohesion as a community, and cross-fertilisation of research. The four-floor building contains
 offices for academic and professional services staff; common rooms for staff and students; a
 whole floor dedicated to postgraduate study, storage and meeting space; the NCLA office and a
 student-led café as well as lecture halls and seminar rooms.

 Newcastle University Library is a member of Research Libraries UK, a consortium of the leading
 research libraries in the UK. We have a dedicated Subject Librarian with whom we work closely
 to ensure that book and periodical purchase corresponds to developing and established
 research activities. All our University Libraries operate a carefully considered Disability Policy to
 ensure that their collection of 0.8 million print books, 0.5 million e-books, 42,000 e-journal titles
 and 300 online databases (including JSTOR/MLA International/OED/Scopus) are as accessible
 as possible to all researchers. Since 2014, the Library has considerably enhanced its textual
 resources by the purchase of audio-visual and data collections such as Box of Broadcasts and
 Mass Observation Online which particularly support the Unit’s research in aspects of culture, film
 and social history. The Unit’s research environment also continues to benefit from the expert and
 dedicated involvement of the Library staff, notably of the Arts and Humanities Liaison Librarian
 who is, for example, heavily involved with the Researcher Development Programmes for our
 PGR students which are offered at both Unit and Faculty levels.

 The library also supports the Unit in ensuring Open Access eligibility, enabling free online
 access to research publications to maximise the visibility and impact of our research, while
 meeting research funder requirements, and archiving publications in ePrints. Since REF2014,
 the library has responded to changes in website accessibility legislation (2018) as well as the
 information landscape, opening the Marjorie Robinson Library in 2016: a truly digital library.
 Simultaneously it continues to build on a rich heritage of rare book, manuscript and archival
 collections. The latter are managed by a team who in 2018 achieved Archive Service
 Accreditation, a UK-wide quality standard. Working with NCLA and ATNU on digitisation
 projects, and building on its leadership of the NE Archives Partnership (consisting of 10 active
 and accredited members from local authority, University, and specialist archives in the NE), the
 library’s Special Collections are currently doubling the capacity of its digital suite, with the
 ambition to become a regional digital hub.

 The Unit continues to be at the forefront of the Faculty’s Archive Strategy and has been
 proactively involved in the acquisition, use and development of a range of archival sources,
 including the appointment of a literary archivist (supported through RIF until July 2020).
 Acquisitions in the REF2021 cycle include the papers of individuals (e.g. Sean O’Brien, Jack
 Mapanje, Moniza Alvi, Selima Hill, Anne Walmsley) and organisations including Bloodaxe Books
 (ongoing since 2013), Northern Stage, Live Theatre and Open Clasp Theatre Company
 (accessioned respectively in 2016, 2017 and 2020). Our researchers benefit from access to
 Seven Stories’ internationally significant collection which has been developed in tandem with
 Newcastle’s own significant research holdings in children’s literature, which range from the 19 th
 century to the present day. They include the BookTrust deposit collection of UK children’s books,
 and the collection and archive of noted bibliographer, collector and critic Brian Alderson (held
 jointly with Seven Stories). The Unit actively supports doctoral research on archives e.g. through
 the National Productivity Investment Fund (NPIF) for work on the Bloodaxe Archive, and our
 ongoing programme of archival acquisitions is helping to shape our future research. Current
 PGR projects include: Joicey’s AHRC-funded PhD research on the Northern Stage Archive;
 Hebden’s practice-based research investigating how the presentation of poetry through digital
 media affects the audience’s encounter with the text, and Kate Sweeney’s REA-funded PhD
 exploring video practice in literary archives.




                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our Unit has a long track record of collaboration, working closely with partners who share our
 commitment to improving lives through literature. Co-creating with organisations over time
 ensures our research evolves organically with users and beneficiaries in order to address real
 world challenges. Uniquely within the discipline, colleagues have secured three Knowledge
 Transfer Partnerships in this cycle (KTPs; total value £253,856). Funded through InnovateUK,
 KTPs help organisations grow by providing new skills and the latest academic thinking to deliver
 specific, strategic goals. With leading poetry publisher, Bloodaxe Books, this has involved
 developing digital capability that allowed the company to publish in new formats and media,
 while re-animating Bloodaxe’s major poetry archive to position it within a range of professional
 development activities (ICS 1). With house-building company Bussey & Armstrong we
 embedded text-based creative practice as core to the arts strategy of residential property
 development in the North-East (ICS 2). The Seven Stories KTP developed a research-led
 exhibition and collection management strategy, and won the Times Higher Education Award for
 Knowledge Transfer of the year in 2017 (ICS 3).

 This latter partnership, between Seven Stories and the CLU, was recognised in 2015 through
 the Vital North Partnership (renewed in 2018 for a further five years), a strategic collaboration
 uniquely funded by Arts Council England (£25k annually), and match-funded by the University
 REF5a, 4.2.2). Through an emphasis on co-production, the VNP has supported innovative
 research and impact initiatives, often cross-disciplinary in nature. For example, our Unit has
 collaborated with researchers in cultural heritage who have supported the development of Seven
 Stories’ galleries, and with colleagues in architecture who have worked with Seven Stories to
 ask children how they see the future of their cities. The partners share the ambition that
 Newcastle becomes a centre for excellence in children’s literature, for outstanding research,
 learning, collections, engagement and professional practice.

 We are committed to the University’s Engagement and Place Strategy (REF5a, 2.1.2) which, in
 line with our EDI commitments and civic mission, ensures our research remains inclusive and
 directly engages diverse audiences. In addition to the Unit’s prominent collaborations with two of
 the North’s most celebrated cultural events during the last decade – Hull City of Culture (2017;
 see ICS 1) and the Great Exhibition of the North (2018; see ICS 4) - Newcastle’s own
 reputation as the “UK Capital of Poetry” was consolidated during this period by NCLA’s
 extensive live literature programme which, between October 2014 and March 2020, hosted over
 150 events with combined audience figures of 11,560. In 2015, NCLA founded the Newcastle
 Poetry Festival, currently one of four main UK poetry festivals (alongside StAnza, Ledbury
 Poetry Festival and The Verve), attracting growing audiences of over 5,000 across 5 years.

 The Newcastle Poetry Festival has an established reputation for internationalism, for
 showcasing work in translation, and for the diversity of its programming which is reflected in the
 range and reach of NCLA’s partnerships. For example, in collaboration with Bloodaxe Books,
 NCLA has contributed to the ground-breaking Complete Works project designed to help
 younger poets from BAME backgrounds into print. Between 2013 and 2020 Herbert mentored
 Inua Ellams, Sarah Howe (winner of the T. S. Eliot Prize 2015), Yomi Sode (published in Ten:
 Poets of the Next Generation, Bloodaxe 2014), and Seraphima Kennedy, thus playing an
 influential role in the current diversification of UK poetry publishing. A successful ACE
 application in 2020 has seen NCLA and Bloodaxe establish The James Berry Poetry Prize
 (after the pioneering Windrush poet): the first national poetry prize for young BAME writers to
 include mentoring and book publication. The launch of NCLA’s Bloodaxe anthology, The Mighty
 Stream: Poems in Celebration of Martin Luther King (eds. Kay and Forché) in November 2017
 as part of ‘Freedom City’ marked the 50 th anniversary of Dr King’s visit to Newcastle to accept



                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 his honorary degree. A city-wide event that was also livestreamed around the world by The
 Space and BBC Radio 3, the launch attracted an audience of 100,000.

 The Unit’s wider and long-established commitment to questions of decolonisation, race,
 gender/sexuality and childhood means that addressing societal and global needs is foundational
 to all five clusters of research strength (see Section 1). An underlying commitment to social
 justice and widening participation drives all of our partnerships, which are informed by an
 understanding of collaboration as constitutive, rather than supplementary to research, from
 Hewitt’s AHRC-funded Women in the Hills, 1800 to Present (2020-22 £36,322) partnerships
 with the John Muir Trust and Pelvic Roar which are informing her forthcoming monograph, In
 Her Nature, to our track record in the preservation of archives, which is informed by co-
 production with regional theatre communities. For example, Live Theatre, which celebrates its
 50th anniversary in 2023, is the subject of ongoing community-based research by Haslett
 supported by a Catherine Cookson Award (£2,073) as is our collaboration with Open Clasp
 Theatre Company, which has received international acclaim for its participatory ‘theatre for
 social change’ work with women and girls, enhancing its work with disempowered communities
 to deliver social and economic benefits while shaping approaches to theatre practice nationally.
 Along with Northern Stage, these collaborations focus on developing preservation and access
 strategies for archives to enable their use as a living resource for researchers and creators. This
 ongoing work is exemplified by one of the Unit’s AHRC-funded CDA projects: ‘Engagement,
 Place and Identity: the Social Value of the Arts in Newcastle, 1968-2015’ (co-supervised by
 the School of Architecture, Planning and Landscape).

 Our commitment to an open research culture extends to sharing our archives, resources and
 expertise as widely as possible. As a result, our research is increasingly well integrated beyond
 the walls of the University in ways that ensure its wider utility and legacy. For example, working
 in partnership with the British Library in 2018, the AHRC-funded Out of Bounds project
 (Procter: 2015-17 £77,380) produced a series of poetry films for an installation for at the
 Library’s celebrated Windrush Anniversary Exhibition, Windrush: Songs in a Strange Land
 (June-October 2018; 154,813 visitors). The British Library’s Sound Archive has subsequently
 acquired the complete Out of Bounds Poetry Collection as part of the British Library’s own
 diversification agenda. The Assessment and Qualifications Alliance (AQA), which sets over half
 of all GCSEs and A-Levels nationally, is now incorporating the Out of Bounds’ teaching
 resources into its free online course for GCSE English teachers in connection with its drive to
 decolonise the curriculum (ICS 4).

 During the same period, Unit researchers have worked with the British Library and Seven
 Stories in a series of Knowledge Exchange Workshops to design and curate a major new
 educational web resource, Discovering Children’s Books. The resource, featuring essays co-
 written by Unit staff and children’s authors such as Michael Rosen, received 534,000 unique
 users from February to July 2020, with an unprecedented 55% of UK traffic coming from outside
 of the South East of England. Across the Atlantic, Durkin’s pioneering archival research which
 identified the last known African survivors of the transatlantic slave trade, has attracted
 extensive international media coverage. In 2019 she worked with the Discovery Channel to
 produce a web documentary on slavery for schools and was interviewed in July 2020 by
 Hiztorical Vision Productions, a non-profit organisation in Alabama that makes short film
 documentaries highlighting untold African American histories for classrooms. She now serves as
 an adviser to the Alabama Historical Commission.

 Research base

 We see ourselves as citizens of the discipline, and create space in our workload model to
 support service and advocacy work. We are committed to national advocacy, and ready to pivot

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 our work in support of the discipline. Most recently Sanders and Richards launched a series of
 events in 2021 with the English Association, University English and IES to support current and
 future leaders at a time of uncertainty: ‘Speaking for English Studies’. We have been fully
 engaged with national debates, and in advocacy for English studies within funding bodies like
 the AHRC (5 Peer Review College Members since 2014, plus an advisory board member) and
 our subject associations for many years (e.g. Richards is the Chair of the English Association
 HE Committee, 2015-). We co-hosted the first English ‘Shared Futures’ conference in
 Newcastle in 2017, with 600 attendees drawn from nearly every UK Department of English, over
 150 panel sessions, workshops from sixteen scholarly societies, and a vibrant cultural fringe
 (including readings from three poets laureate).

 In addition to regularly peer reviewing for journals and publishers, and external examining both
 nationally and internationally, colleagues are editors of major monograph series’ (e.g. Early
 Modern Literary Geographies, English at the Interface, Studies in the Eighteenth Century) and
 international journals (e.g. Renaissance Studies; Interventions: International Journal of
 Postcolonial Studies; International Research in Children’s Literature). At a national and
 international level, we contribute to the research base both across the discipline, and beyond the
 HE sector (see below):

 Indicative examples of service beyond academia

  Sector            Organisation          People         Date         Role
                    Scottish Parliament   Kay            2016-20      Scots Makar (national
                                                                      poet of Scotland)
  Government
                    Dundee City           Herbert        2013-18      Dundee Makar
                    Council

  Charities and     Globe Theatre         Sanders        2020-        Trustee
  Learned           RSA                   Sanders        2020-        Fellow
  Societies         Royal Society of      Anderson       2020-        Fellow
                    Literature            Herbert;       2015-
                                          Hewitt;        2018-
                                          Morrissey;     2019-
                                          O’Brien;       2007-
                                          Polley
                    Royal Society of      Kay            2016         Fellow
                    Edinburgh
                    Seven Stories         Grenby         2016-        Trustee
                    Northern Stage        Sanders        2016-        Trustee
  Publishing        Forward Prize         Bergin         2019         Judge
  and Literary      T.S Eliot Prize       Herbert        2017         Judge (Chair)
  Prizes                                  Morrissey      2019         Judge
                    Caine Prize for       Kay            2014         Judge (Chair)
                    African Writing
                    Stephen Spender       O’Brien        2016-18      Judge
                    Prize


 Looking Ahead

 Developing new collections, exploring literature as dynamic and mobile across multiple editions,
 locations and communities, and working with new audiences, will continue to define and shape
 our research identity over the next decade. Building on RIF Funding (£832k; see Section 1) to

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 develop our archival and digital strategies, and the additional capacity provided by a recently
 awarded fellowship (Leverhulme Visiting Professor: Smith, 2021), will build on our determination
 to be at the forefront of digital scholarly editing. Another Leverhulme Visiting Professor (Prof
 Bluemel, 2021) builds on our ambitions to lead the development of the emerging rural
 humanities field. Along with our new Head of School (Robinson) who works on rural touring
 theatre, Bluemel will catalyse our relationship with Newcastle University’s new National
 Innovation Centre for Rural Enterprise (REF5a, 2.24). More broadly, we will extend our long-
 standing interests in the relationship between text and technologies (from voice to the digital) as
 we work increasingly across disciplines to better understand literature’s place in the world; how it
 touches people’s lives today, and how it might better tell their stories in the future.

 As we develop our vision for ‘Engaged English’ that is embedded both across and beyond our
 Unit, we are collaborating with the Humanities Research Institute on the City of Literature
 project. Centred on literature and literacy, and the cultural practices associated with them
 (reading, writing, publishing, performance, digital, libraries, learning) City of Literature aims to
 work with writers, promote festivals, research and teach literary and social history, in order to
 support literacy in children and adults. The ambitions of this partnership go beyond the
 operational aspects of literacy and literature into quality of life, work and employment, culture
 and community well-being. Over the next two years, the project will assess the potential for
 coordination in city-wide Open Forums, while also exploring opportunities for collaboration
 between our Unit and the School of Education, with projects linking the history of reading with
 the scientific recovery of the internal voice of readers; and the exploration of social science
 methodologies, especially ‘participatory research’, for our work on children’s archives.

 At Newcastle, strategic investment and careful planning have built an environment that
 encourages and supports a very wide range of research and impact activity. Our aim has been
 to ensure that all the UoA’s researchers can flourish, whether working individually on highly
 specialised literary scholarship or in large teams on cross-disciplinary and cross-sector projects.
 The critical research we are producing puts us at the forefront of current global research
 agendas, across a full range of periods, genres and regions, with specialisms in still developing
 fields like digital scholarly editing, postcolonial studies and children’s literature. Our creative work
 is read and valued by readers around the world, both for the pleasure it brings and for its
 capacity to change the way we think and act. All our research advances in tandem with our work
 to reach and benefit users outside academia: our impact drives our research, just as our
 research drives our impact.

 Integral to this is our determination to use creative, critical and historical approaches to explore
 the life cycles of texts, from composition and production through to reception, performance and
 influence. Locally, nationally and internationally we have built a series of sustainable and
 balanced partnerships with organisations such as Bloodaxe Books, Seven Stories, Northern
 Stage, British Library and the British School at Rome. Our conviction is that these, and other
 partnerships now in development in theatre and other areas, will enable us to continue to
 provide leadership for our discipline by showing how research in English can be innovative,
 relevant to today’s concerns, and of very significant benefit to individuals, and institutions, and to
 society as a whole.




                                                                                                 Page 17
