Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
    Institution: University of Bristol

    Unit of Assessment: 10: Mathematical Sciences

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Overview and highlights
1.1     The Unit of Assessment (UoA) is a world-leading centre for research that spans the breadth
of modern mathematical sciences. Our vision is to engender impactful, cutting-edge research,
delivered by outstanding and diverse staff, who are supported by an excellent environment. The
following are some of the highlights during the assessment period:
      •   The renewal, development and growth of the partnership with the UK Government
          Communications Headquarters (GCHQ) through the Heilbronn Institute for Mathematical
          Research (HIMR) (see 1.5).
      •   The move to a building specifically designed for mathematical sciences. The extensively
          remodelled and refurbished Fry Building (£33M) co-located all UoA staff for the first time in
          over a decade and enabled expansion through associated recruitment to new permanent
          academic positions. Together these initiatives broaden our portfolio of research and
          evidence major investment by the University of Bristol (UoB) in mathematical sciences (see
          1.6, 1.17, 3.5).
      •   The creation of new cohort training programmes for postgraduate research, including the
          Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) Centre for Doctoral
          Training (CDT) in Computational Statistics (COMPASS, 2019-, £11M1) and the Heilbronn
          Doctoral Partnership (HDP, 2020-), as well as academic involvement and leadership of
          CDTs hosted in other departments (Quantum Engineering, 2014-, Complexity Sciences,
          2011-18, Future Communications, 2016-23). Taken together, these support at least 25 PhD
          students per annum (see 2.20-2.21)
      •   The embedding of knowledge transfer, its support and facilitation into the core of the UoA’s
          strategy as evidenced by the initiatives in cybersecurity, national security and quantum
          computing; the breadth of our impact case studies and other engagement activities that
          span mathematical science; and the appointment of a UoA Knowledge Exchange (KE)
          Manager (2019-) (see 1.18-1.21).
      •   A strong commitment to equality and diversity, as evidenced by the award of Athena SWAN
          (Silver, 2018) and the adoption of unit-wide strategies to support an inclusive environment
          (see 2.25-2.30).
      •   The creation of new strategic partnerships in data science with the Jean Golding Institute,
          UoB (JGI) and the Alan Turing Institute (ATI), including theme leadership, and the
          establishment of a new EPSRC Prosperity Partnership with Google (£5.5M) and key
          leadership roles in the national Quantum Computing and Simulation Hub (£24M).
      •   Outstanding levels of research funding, featuring £33.2M reported in Ref4b, a 27%
          increase per annum from REF2014.



1
 Throughout we cite the full value of awards including partner and university contributions,
aggregated across institutions.
                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)




        Figure 1: UoA highlights and the new catalyst for future work, the Fry Building.

    •    The award of prizes (Fröhlich, Whitehead, Leverhulme and others, see 4.10), competitive
         fellowships (8 European Research Council (ERC) and 7 EPSRC) and election to Fellow of
         the Royal Society (FRS) (Marklof2).
1.2    These highlights testify to many changes within the UoA, including new directions in
research, new partnerships, and a new physical environment. We are a large, research-focussed
UoA, based in the School of Mathematics (SoM), which sits within the Faculty of Science. At
census date, the UoA includes 89 staff (85.9 FTEs); 62 are permanent research-and-teaching staff
(21 Professors, 24 Associate Professors/Senior Lecturers, 17 Lecturers) and 27 are independent
research fellows (2 Professors, 3 Senior Research Fellows, 22 Research Fellows), including 2 UoB
Vice-Chancellor Fellows, which are prestigious 4-year awards. The submission includes 28 early
career researchers (ECRs). The UoA additionally hosts 23 postdoctoral researchers (PDRs) and
67 PhD students. There has been recruitment to over 30 permanent positions during the
assessment period; the UoA is now larger than at REF2014. In the run-up to the census date there
was a higher turnover of senior staff than anticipated, but through an extensive recruitment
programme, we have evolved and expanded our research programme, while sustaining our core
strengths. (A detailed commentary on these changes is given in 1.7-1.16).
1.3    We are a research-intensive UoA, authoring over 1600 outputs during the assessment
period. Our staff publish in leading international journals including Annals of Mathematics, Annals
of Probability, Annals of Statistics, Communications in Mathematical Physics, Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences and Nature. We collaborate internationally; every permanent

2
 Current academic staff at census date are written in bold, and those appointed within the
assessment period with *.
                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)




   Figure 2: Aggregated locations of the UoA’s international co-authors (2014-19).


member of staff has co-authored outputs with colleagues outside of the UK, including 46 of the top
50 institutions for mathematics (QS World University Rankings). Figure 2 depicts the locations of
international co-authors and illustrates our global reach. UoA Staff are provided with modern digital
and physical research infrastructure (see 3.5-3.10) and outstanding administrative and technical
support, including expert advice from UoB’s division for Research Enterprise and Development
(RED) (see 3.11 and REF5a). Our commitment to work on societal challenges is demonstrated by
the appointment of a UoA Research Impact and KE Manager (see 1.18iii). Together these facts
evidence a dynamic and vibrant environment, which facilitates high-quality research outputs,
success with applications for external funding and work that is impactful.

Organisation and Context
1.4      Research activities of the UoA are coordinated through 5 research institutes: Applied
Mathematics; Mathematical Physics; Probability, Analysis & Dynamics (PAD); Pure
Mathematics; and Statistical Science. This themed structure, created in 2016, replaced the
longstanding, traditional division into ‘pure’, ‘applied’ and ‘statistics’ groups to differentiate research
leadership from teaching and departmental administration. The institutes deliver the strategic aims
of promoting: deep intradisciplinarity, through thematically-coherent and agile research clusters;
career development, particularly of ECRs; and broad interdisciplinary research, fostering outward-
looking initiatives, a longstanding feature of the UoA (see 1.22-1.23). Importantly, research is not
siloed; many staff have a secondary affiliation besides their primary institute. This flexibility
catalyses interactions: approximately 5% of our submitted outputs are co-authored by staff from
different institutes, such as between mathematical physicists (Snaith, Keating) and number
theorists (Booker, Conrey). The Institute Directors (Wiggins; Mezzadri; Dettmann & Toth;
Walling; Johnson) exercise leadership in research, together with the Head of School (Robbins),
Directors of Research (Liverpool), Impact (Dokchitser) and Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
(Ganesh, Machin), Associate Chair of HIMR (Burness) and School Manager (Clark). They
formulate and implement the research strategy (see 1.6) and steer the recruitment of staff and
postgraduate students. Institutes convene high profile international meetings in Bristol. For
example, PAD has organised a series of landmark conferences (PAD-2014,2018,2022) with over
half of the speakers as International Congress of Mathematicians (ICM) lecturers, including Fields

                                                                                                   Page 3
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Medalists Hairer and Figalli. This event is now co-funded by the Clay Institute for Mathematics.
Each institute has its own budget (combined value £63k per annum), which directors deploy to
support these and other initiatives.
1.5      Our partnership with GCHQ through HIMR is arguably one of the largest and most
successful programmes of KE in mathematics world-wide. Established in 2005 and renewed in
2014, HIMR is a key component in GCHQ’s strategy for delivering national security. It provides a
focused means for world-leading researchers to address operational issues of national security
that are of utmost importance to the UK. HIMR has evolved into an internationally-renowned centre
for mathematical research. UoB is its largest partner: the Chair (Keating, 2016-20; Grimmett,
2020-) and Associate Chair (Burness) are employed by UoB; the UoA hosts 22 of the 32 current
Heilbronn Research Fellows (HRFs), including, since 2019, HIMR Data Science Fellows; and the
UoA created and employs the Heilbronn Chairs in Arithmetic and Algebraic Geometry
(Dokchitser), Probability (Toth), Data Science (A. Lee*, Whiteley) and Readership in
Combinatorics (Ellis*). Additionally, the UoA employs three Senior Heilbronn Fellows (Bober*,
Crane, Patashnick*), who split their time equally between independent research and HIMR and
facilitate a sustainable pathway to impact.

Review of REF2014
1.6     Our REF2014 submission reported the strategic aim to address both intra- and inter-
disciplinary challenges in mathematical sciences, motivated by the vision that many exciting and
fundamental challenges lie between traditional boundaries in academic disciplines and sub-
branches of mathematics. The new research institutes are part of our delivery of this aim (see 1.4).
We further identified that new syntheses of mathematical approaches could address data-rich
societal and academic challenges, underpinned by scientific computation. This strategic vision has
been fulfilled as follows:
   •   We have recruited staff in Probability, Pure Mathematics and Statistical Science to tackle
       key problems in data science and cybersecurity, and existing staff have strategically
       broadened their research interests to address this challenge (see 1.7-1.16). This
       strengthens our partnerships with HIMR and ATI.
   •   New interdisciplinary research axes have been developed with Biology and Chemistry,
       supported through significant research council grants (see 1.14).
   •   Researchers in quantum computation have initiated a new partnership with Google, as well
       as being part of the leadership team for the National Hub in Quantum Computing and
       Simulation (see 1.13,1.23ii).
   •   Scientific computing has become embedded in the UoA’s research activities, including
       computational number theory (Booker, Platt), computational statistics and data science
       (Allison*, Andrieu, Fasiolo*, Gerber*, Kley*, Lawson*, A. Lee*, Liu*, Reeve*, Rubin-
       Delanchy*, Whiteley, Wood), theoretical chemistry (Wiggins) and discrete element
       modelling (Russo, Henkes*)
Our research strategy was renewed in 2015 & 2019, driven by the move to the Fry Building and
UoB investment in mathematics, to identify additionally the following priorities: growing new activity
in geometry and topology, building capacity in probability, and strengthening existing activity in
number theory and combinatorics. The implementation of our strategy and evidence of its success
is described in 1.7-1.16.



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Implementation of Research Strategy
1.7     The appointments of Bober*, Klurman* and M. Lee*, coupled with HRFs (Doris*,
Fretwell*, Hughes*, Hsu*, Kopp*) strengthen and sustain our activity in number theory. As a
Senior Heilbronn Fellow, Bober* (Washington)3 provides key support to the HIMR partnership. M.
Lee* (Brown) was made a proleptic lecturer to secure her position after her Royal Society
University Research Fellowship (URF) ends; she brings expertise in analytic number theory and
automorphic forms, with links to dynamical systems. Klurman* (MPIM, Bonn) is an international
expert in multiplicative number theory. Some highlights from the group include: Wooley's
transformative development of his efficient congruencing method (2014 International Congress of
Mathematicians (ICM) invited lecture, 2017 Bourbaki exposé), which he and others have used to
attack the Vinogradov Mean Value Theorem; Dokchitser's result on Selmer parity distribution for
hyperelliptic curves underpinned a breakthrough by Bhargava (2014 Fields Medal) et al. on points
of hyperelliptic curves in odd degree extensions; Booker's resolution of a 66-year-old question of
Mordell, by finding representations of the numbers 33, 3 and 42 as sums of three cubes, attracted
worldwide attention in the mathematics community and mainstream media.
1.8     Our ambition to nucleate research activity in geometry and topology was fulfilled through
four outstanding appointments and coheres with strengths in geometric group theory, analysis and
combinatorics. Hagen* (Cambridge) brings expertise in hyperbolic geometry; his quasiflats
theorem has settled open conjectures and provides a common framework for problems in
hyperbolic geometry. Erlandsson*’s (Helsinki) appointment opens exciting directions at the
interface between hyperbolic geometry and dynamics; her recent work unifies and extends results
of Mirzakhani (2014 Fields Medal) on counting curves on hyperbolic surfaces. Hassannezhad*
(Mittag–Leffler) renews strength in geometric analysis following the retirement of van den Berg;
she has solved long-standing problems including new bounds on eigenvalues of the Dirichlet-to-
Neumann operator. Babaee* (Fribourg) brings expertise in algebraic and tropical geometry; a
major achievement (with Huh) establishes that Demailly's sufficient condition for the Hodge
conjecture (Clay Millennium Problem) is not necessary.
1.9     The appointments of Ellis* (Queen Mary) as Heilbronn Reader in Combinatorics
(replacing Wolf) along with Tointon* (Cambridge) strengthen a key area of importance to the
HIMR. Ellis* opens up a new direction, extremal combinatorics, while Tointon*’s expertise in
approximate group theory links combinatorics strongly to probability and geometry (see 1.8,1.10).
Together with Rudnev, noted for influential work in geometric combinatorics on incidences
between points and planes in three dimensions, and HRFs (Grace*, Harper*, McInroy*) they
comprise a strong new and vibrant group.
1.10 Research activity in probability has been strategically strengthened by the appointments of
internationally leading probabilists Najnudel* (Cincinnati) and Holroyd* (Microsoft, Rollo Davidson
Prize Winner), joining a group (Balazs, Crane, Ganesh, Johnson, Toth & Yu) created during the
previous REF period. Collectively, the group tackles problems in the fluctuation theory of
interacting particle systems, random networks and stochastic processes on discrete structures,
and builds intradisciplinary research through the interplay between probability, dynamics, number
theory and quantum chaos (see 1.7,1.11,1.12). Major breakthroughs include Holroyd*’s striking
resolutions of long-standing questions concerning phase transitions, cellular automata, and
randomised algorithms, while Toth, invited lecturer at ICM 2018 and elected member of Academia




3
    The previous affiliations of new appointees to permanent positions are in brackets.
                                                                                           Page 5
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Europaea (2016), has derived innovative results for random walks in irreversible random
environments (see 1.11).
1.11 Koivusalo*’s (Vienna) appointment strengthens the UoA’s group in ergodic theory and
dynamical systems (Dettmann, Jordan, Marklof, Ulcigrai and HRFs Dougall*, Allen*), with
expertise in quasicrystals and aperiodic order that builds upon the group’s intradisciplinary
research at the junctions of dynamical systems, number theory, mathematical physics, fractal
geometry and probability (see 1.7,1.12,1.8,1.10). Highlights from the group include Marklof’s
extension of his foundational work on the Boltzmann-Grad limit to a new class of transport
equations for non-periodic scatterers exhibiting long-range order. Additionally, with Toth, he has
given the first proof of a super-diffusive central limit theorem and invariance principle for the
periodic Lorentz gas in three and more dimensions. International recognition of his contributions
included an invited lecture at ICM 2014 and election as Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS).
1.12 Research in random matrix theory and quantum chaos, with connections to number
theory, has strategically expanded to encompass many-body quantum systems and quantum
gravity through the appointment of Blake* (Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)), who
along with HRFs (Jones*, Lees*, Piddock*) and Vice Chancellor Fellow, Maciazek*, provide
connections to the quantum information theory/computing (see 1.13) and through Grava’s
research on integrable systems and nonlinear pdes, which has catalysed new activity in fluid
dynamics with Eggers (see 1.14). Evidence of the group’s core strengths include Mezzadri’s
remarkable applications of random matrix theory and fundamental statistical analyses of many-
body quantum systems, recognised through his award of the 2018 Frohlich prize. The group has
also been strengthened by the appointments of Bothner* (Kings College London), whose "truly
brilliant" applications of the Riemann-Hilbert method to the analysis of special functions were cited
in his 2019 Gábor Szegő prize, and by Najnudel*, who obtained the most precise estimates to
date of extreme values of the Riemann zeta function and characteristic polynomials of unitary
matrices, a breakthrough in an intensely active area initiated by Keating.
1.13 Under the direction of Linden and strengthened by the appointment of Montanaro*
(Bristol), the quantum information theory/computing group exercises research leadership within
UoB, nationally and across the discipline (see 1.23ii), including directorship of the Bristol Quantum
Information Institute (Linden), which is one of seven specialist research institutes in UoB, with
oversight of theoretical and experimental advances, training and commercialisation. Linden and
Montanaro* received a £5.5M Prosperity Partnership grant with Google (2019); at the time, this
was Google's only academic partnership outside the USA. Montanaro* made essential
contributions to the mathematical theory underpinning Google’s breakthrough work on quantum
computational supremacy, whose announcement made international headlines. He was also
invited to write a highly influential Nature review on these developments. Montanaro*'s
achievements have been recognized by fellowships from EPSRC and ERC, and a Whitehead prize
for “outstanding and strikingly diverse contributions across the field of quantum computation and
quantum information theory".
1.14 Continuum mechanics, dynamical systems theory and statistical physics provide the
overarching themes that link research in applied mathematics and underpin vibrant collaborations
with groups from other disciplines (see 1.22-1.23). During the assessment period new activity has
been strategically grown in chemical physics, biological materials, and soft matter, while
maintaining excellence in fluid dynamics and material science. For example, Eggers’ pioneering
investigations of singularities in fluid and solid mechanics, cited in his 2017 Stanley Corrsin Award,
have recently elucidated the near-conical tips of strongly deformed fluid interfaces; Slastikov has


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
resolved long-standing problems in the structure of defects in the Landau-de Gennes and
Ginzburg-Landau models; and state-of-the-art numerical simulations by Russo (Royal Society
URF, ERC Starting Grant, Leverhulme Prize) have led to the discovery of new structures and
phases in water and glasses. Turning to new activities, as Principal Investigator (PI) of the largest
programme grant awarded by EPSRC’s Mathematics Panel (£5M), Wiggins leads an international
collaboration applying methods of dynamical systems, semiclassical quantum mechanics and
machine learning in a phase-space setting to advance the state-of-the-art treatment of chemical
reaction dynamics. Alongside this growth, the strategic appointments of Henkes* (Aberdeen) and
Vice-Chancellor Fellow, Bennett*, two outstanding researchers at the interface of soft matter,
continuum mechanics, fluids and cellular processes, strengthen activity in biological materials and
applications. They join Liverpool, an internationally-leading authority in active matter, who directs
the modelling theme of BrisSynBio, an EPSRC/Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research
Council (BBSRC)-funded, UoB multidisciplinary research centre (£14M). A key recent result (with
Linden) is a novel theoretical framework for the rational design and self-assembly of
programmable, man-made peptide cages and sheets.
1.15 Driven by the UoA’s strategic ambition in Data Science and Cybersecurity (see 1.6) and
matched by an extensive programme of appointments (9 Lecturers and 4 Professors during the
assessment period), research activity in statistical science has grown in size and scope. There is
synergy with HIMR, underlined by the creation of two new Heilbronn Chairs in Data Science (A
Lee* (Warwick) and Whiteley); the appointment of Allison* (GCHQ), former Director of HIMR with
expertise in cybersecurity; the secondment of Rubin-Delanchy* (Oxford) to HIMR as Data Science
Lead; recruitment of 2 HIMR Data Science Fellows (Doris*, Tickle*); and the creation of an
international HIMR Data Science visitor programme (see 4.5). A new exchange programme with
Institute of Statistical Mathematics (ISM), Japan (2019-) and a new Data Science seminar with JGI
also invigorate the research programme.
1.16 The expertise of new staff broaden the research portfolio to include: statistical machine
learning (Liu* (ISM), Reeve* (Birmingham)), anomaly detection and cybersecurity (Rubin-
Delanchy*), energy forecasting (Fasiolo* (Bristol), see 2.17,4.6), information theory (Jaggi*
(Chinese University Hong Kong)) and collaborations with the UoB Medical School (Lawson*
(Bristol), Wellcome Trust (WT) Sir Henry Dale Research Fellowship (SHD), see 1.230,4.6). During
the assessment period, Andrieu, Gerber* (Harvard), A. Lee* and Whiteley produced ground-
breaking contributions to the theory and methodology of Monte Carlo algorithms, notably leading to
Gerber*’s paper on Sequential quasi-Monte Carlo being a read paper at the Royal Statistical
Society (RSS) and involvement in EPSRC grants (iLike, £2.4M, CoSinES, £3M and Bayes-4-
Health, £3M). Staff have held EPSRC fellowships (Nason, Wood), Turing Fellowships (Andrieu,
Cho, A. Lee*, Liu*, Nason, Rubin-Delanchy*, Whiteley, Y.Yu), leadership positions with ATI (A
Lee*, Programme lead for ‘Statistics at Scale’) and RSS (Nason, Andrieu, Cho), and Rougier was
seconded to the Cabinet Office (see 1.19) . The institute hosts the COMPASS CDT (see 2.20) and
has built external partnerships with companies such as Atomic Weapons Establishment (AWE),
EDF Energy, IBM, Improbable, Office for National Statistics (ONS) & Sparx.

Future Plans
1.17 As befitting a large UoA with substantial research activities in a broad range of
mathematical sciences, we have ambitious plans to expand into new areas and cross-fertilize new
intra- and inter-disciplinary collaborations. These plans are supported by UoB’s ongoing
commitment to sustain and enhance our international standing, strengthened by our existing and
emerging strategic partnerships, and enabled by our successful track record of nurturing new

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
activity into internationally leading research groups – examples from our past include quantum
information, ergodic theory and probability.
        •   In analysis, we plan new activity in the calculus of variations and nonlinear PDEs to connect
            with existing research in Applied Mathematics and Mathematical Physics.
        •   With applications to climate science, soft matter, biological and chemical systems, we plan
            to grow scientific computation and thus enhance collaborations with earth, geographical
            and biological sciences, physics and chemistry.
        •   Motivated by wide-ranging applications and societal challenges in health, physical and
            social sciences, we will continue to expand activity in data science, machine learning and
            artificial intelligence.
        •   We plan to build further new capacity to supplement and sustain core strengths in: (i)
            number theory, algebraic geometry and topology; and (ii) quantum computing, allied with
            UoB’s Quantum Technology Innovation Centre and our strategic partners (see
            1.18i,1.23ii,REF5a).

Impact Strategy
1.18 The UoA’s ambition of engaging with end-users of research in industrial, commercial and
policy-making settings is embedded within our research culture. Enabling strategies include the
following:
  i.        Strategic Partnerships: HIMR is the conduit of our major strategic partnership with GCHQ
            (see1.5) and is widely viewed as an exemplar for collaborations between mathematicians
            engaged in fundamental research and end-users of research (‘The Era of Mathematics’,
            EPSRC Review of KE in Mathematical Sciences, Bond 2018). The UoA also initiated
            partnerships in quantum computing including Google (see 1.13). Additionally, the UoA
            launched an Industrial Advisory Board (lead: Allison*) to coordinate and catalyse new
            activities.
  ii.       Impact Study Leave: we introduced an innovative study leave scheme (2014) to provide
            administrative and teaching buy-out for staff members to initiate or sustain impact and KE
            activities. For example, this scheme enabled Rougier to introduce modern statistical
            methods to National Risk Register (Cabinet Office, UK) and Hogg to deliver training in
            mathematical modelling of volcanic debris flow hazards to national geophysics agencies in
            Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and the Philippines.
 iii.       Institutional & UoA Impact Support: We are cognisant of the barriers faced by mathematics,
            identified by the Bond Report, and of the necessity to embed KE translators within the UoA.
            Therefore, we created the role of UoA KE Manager (2019-) to facilitate staff engagement
            with end-users of research, coordinate industrial outreach, and generate postgraduate
            placements. The UoA Director of Impact (Dokchitser) has overall responsibility for the
            development of impact-related work, including assisting with securing funding and
            highlighting impact opportunities, particularly for ECRs; he reports to every School
            Assembly. The UoA Director of Public Engagement (Erlandsson*) coordinates and
            facilitates external engagement activities (see 4.7); this role was created in 2014 to deliver
            our vision for communicating research to a general audience. Together, these three UoA
            positions supplement UoB’s extensive support for impact and commercialisation (see
            3.11,REF5a), which includes coordinating funding streams for impact-related work, such as
            the EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA, see 2.17,3.3).

                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
1.19 These initiatives have supported a broad range of engagement and impact in many sectors,
including national security, energy, meteorology, banking, manufacturing, wireless networks,
epidemiology, natural hazards, the environment, and climate change. We have a strong focus on
influencing policymaking and have advised major decision bodies in and outside the UK, including
the Cabinet Office, Police, Home Office, Office for National Statistics, United Nations, International
Geophysics Agencies and Volcanic Ash Advisory Centres. Our REF2021 submission includes
seven impact case studies that span the breadth of mathematical science, although our
engagement extends beyond these (see 2.17-2.18,4.1-4.7). Some case studies are classified,
arising through our strategic relationship with GCHQ, and the UoA’s support of the HRFs (see 1.5).
Others are associated with our support of statistical science, and of interdisciplinary work. These
are additionally enabled by the UoB University Research Institutes (URIs) in environmental, data
and health sciences (Cabot, Jean Golding and Elizabeth Blackwell Institutes, respectively), which
provide a sustainable pathway to impact (see REF5a).

COVID-19 Response
1.20 There has been considerable research within the UoA in response to the COVID-19
pandemic, illustrating the dexterity of UoA researchers to respond to emergent societal challenges,
to engage with and impact national policy makers, and to communicate results to the public. Early
in the pandemic when data were sparse, Fasiolo*, Green and Wood drew attention to biases in
models due to inadequate data (Lancet, May 2020) and called for an appropriately designed
random testing campaign. Lawson* provided the underpinning statistical methodology for regional
NHS contingency planning (BMJ, June 2020). As part of the Royal Society’s DELVE Action Team
tasked to provide mathematical, data-driven advice to decision makers, Ellis* co-authored two
reports submitted to SAGE, one of which was cited directly by the UK Chief Medical Officer to
explain government policy on opening schools. In April and June 2020 at the request of the
Department for Health and Social Care, Crane co-organised (and 9 UoA staff contributed to)
national study groups that wrote working papers analysing consequences of post-lockdown
activities, while Johnson’s analysis of the pandemic in terms of non-standard measures of
population density led an invitation to the Parliamentary and Scientific Committee (June 2020).
Finally, Lawson* and Johnson have regularly contributed to media coverage of the pandemic,
featured in the Guardian, New York Times, BBC and the Spectator.

Future Impact Strategy
1.21 Motivated by the belief that mathematical science has a central role in scientific,
technological and societal challenges, we identify the following mechanisms to deliver and support
impact and engagement, and will:
  i.    Provide staff with outstanding UoA assistance to plan for and exploit opportunities to
        engage widely, through the roles of Directors of Impact and Public Engagement, and KE
        Manager, who champion impact and provide integrated support with UoB business
        development team (REF5a). Researchers will continue to be supported by these UoA
        officers to access IAA funding (see 2.17,2.18,3.3),
  ii.   Use the UoA Industrial Advisory Board to create conduits for impact through collaborations,
        secondments and career opportunities for postgraduate research students (PGRs).
 iii.   Build new external partnerships leveraged through the COMPASS CDT and initiatives in
        quantum technologies, focussed through the new UoB campus, Temple Quarter Enterprise
        Campus (TQEC) (see REF5a). Linden chairs the steering group of the Quantum

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
        Technology Innovation Centre, which has received £35M from the West of England
        Combined Authority and will move to TQEC on its completion.
 iv.    Ensure that impact activities are counted in the staff workload model. This is the successor
        to our impact study-leave scheme. Impact and engagement activities are also part of the
        assessment of promotion and progression within UoB’s procedures (see 2.10,2.13).
 v.     Train the next generation of researchers through curricula that engage with industry.
        Planned activities include the CDT in Statistical Science (COMPASS, lead: Whiteley) and
        HDP in Discrete Mathematics (lead: Burness) (see 1.16,2.20-2.21).

Interdisciplinary activities
1.22 Underpinned by the conviction that exciting and challenging mathematics arises from
the interplay with other disciplines, the UoA values interdisciplinary research highly and has a
long-established track record of its support. This research is in part enabled by the URIs,
together with the Specialist Research Institutes (SRIs), which operate across faculty
boundaries to facilitate interdisciplinary research through focused projects, workshops, and
pump-priming funds (REF5a). During the assessment period we made several strategic
appointments of staff with an interdisciplinary research profile (e.g. Henkes* & Bennett*,
mathematical biology; Lawson*, medical statistics), contributed to multidisciplinary CDTs (see
2.20) and used our EPSRC Doctoral Training Partnership to support PGRs between traditional
disciplines. Our workload model takes explicit account of co-developed activities with other
disciplines (see 2.13) and through strategic academic recruitment (see 1.17) and continued unit
and institutional support, we plan that interdisciplinarity will remain central to our vision.
1.23    The following examples illustrate the breadth of interdisciplinary activities:
  i.    Hogg’s work with volcanologists in Earth Sciences, UoB (Natural Environment Research
        Council (NERC) consortium, VANAHEIM, £2.7M), on volcanic ash plumes produced highly
        cited work that enables the quantification of the volcanic source strength from observations
        of the height of the plume rise through the atmosphere. This calculation is used operationally
        to assess the risk posed by an eruption to aircraft flights – and is reported as one of our case
        studies. It formed part of the submission that earned the Volcanology Group a Queen’s
        Anniversary Prize (2015). His ongoing collaborations strengthen resilience to volcanic
        hazards (NERC Consortium, Strengthening Resilience in Volcanic Areas (STREVA), £2.7M)
        and co-developed a lahar-hazard assessment tool that is used internationally, including the
        Philippines (Newton SE Asia Fund, £400K).
  ii.   Montanaro* and Linden collaborate widely with quantum information research scientists
        and lead national and international activity. In addition to roles reported in 1.13 and 1.21iii,
        Linden is on the Management Committee of the National Quantum Computing and
        Simulation Hub (£24M), in which both Linden and Montanaro* have been work-package
        leaders. Montanaro* gave evidence on quantum technologies to the House of Commons
        Science and Technology Select Committee, whose report advocated an increased focus on
        software development for quantum computers as well as hardware. Linden and
        Montanaro* were two of ten authors of the European Quantum Software Manifesto.
        Montanaro* is co-founder of the quantum software startup, PhaseCraft, which secured
        £750k in pre-seed investment (see 3.11).




                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
 iii.   Lawson* provides strategic links with the Integrative Epidemiology Unit (IEU), School of
        Medicine. His research has driven a shift in the IEU away from using simplistic statistical
        methods and further KE is facilitated through an EU RISE award (EUR2M). Amongst many
        high-profile outputs, he co-led a Nature article on the population genomics of the Viking
        world, which generated media attention including an upcoming TV documentary. Lawson*
        is on the JGI Steering Committee and works with the Elizabeth Blackwell Institute and local
        NHS.

Open Research Environment
1.24 The UoA is aligned with UoB’s open research strategy: all accepted papers are posted on
the University's publication repository (PURE). When necessary, UoB directly funds charges levied
by publishers to ensure open access for research outputs; the UoA has received over £100K
during the REF period to this end. The UoB’s dedicated Research Data Storage Facility provides a
long-term repository for all research data. Additionally, many papers are deposited on preprint
servers (usually arXiv) after submission and often before acceptance. Where computational code
is a key deliverable from research, the standard practice is to preserve and release the commented
and documented code under an open license using a code repository platform (e.g. Cho, Doris*,
Fasiolo*, Henkes* and Wiggins use GitHub, amongst many others). PIs budget in grants for
development and maintenance of webpages to share results with the wider scientific community,
and large projects and CDTs employ KE specialists.

Research Ethics
1.25 All UoA PIs work with UoB professional services (and the Research Ethics Officer, in
particular) in the planning and implementation phases to ensure that their programmes meet
relevant ethical and legal standards and are approved by the Faculty Research Ethics Committee.
For example, Hogg’s work on the resilience of communities in Peru to flash floods, supported by
Global Challenges Research Fund, underwent this approval process. Recognising that training in
ethics and responsible innovation is vital for all researchers, the UoA has introduced postgraduate
courses, which are part of the formal training delivered by the CDTs but available to all.


 2. People

2.1     Staffing is the most vital element of our research strategy and our aim is to recruit and
nurture outstanding talent. All 62 teaching and research staff and 5 research fellows hold
permanent contracts; the other submitted fellows (19 HRFs; 1 Marie Curie and 2 Vice
Chancellor Fellows) have fixed-term contracts. Five permanent staff are employed on a part
time basis. We have recruited over 115 PDRs during the assessment period. PhD student
numbers have also increased from 61 (REF2014) to 67. We host two cohort-based doctoral
training programmes (COMPASS and HDP), which together will admit at least 15 students per
year, leading to further growth of postgraduate researchers (PGRs).

Recruitment
2.2     Recruitment at all career levels is of utmost importance and candidates are drawn from
international pools. Just over half of our appointments to permanent positions during the
assessment period were from overseas institutions, including Chinese University of Hong
Kong, Harvard, MIT and University of Tokyo (see 1.7-1.16). Although we recruit permanent
academic staff strategically, a candidate’s research quality is the key factor in their

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
appointment. Hiring follows a rigorous process, with international experts engaged as
independent assessors for senior appointments (Associate Professor and Professor).
Evidence of the quality of our junior appointments to lectureships is that many are promoted
rapidly; 4 lecturers appointed during the assessment period were promoted to Associate
Professor, 2 of whom (A. Lee*, Montanaro*) are now Professors.
2.3     EDI considerations are central to every stage of the recruitment process. Following our
Athena SWAN Silver Action Plan, we have adopted the following strategies: (i) explicitly
inclusive language in job advertisements, which are reviewed by the UoA EDI Co-Directors;
(ii) separate shortlists for male and female candidates, which are combined for the interview
stage; (iii) diversity in appointments panels, with the aim to achieve gender balance; (iv)
obligatory unconscious bias training for panel members. These initiatives have resulted in a
50% significant increase in BAME staff relative to REF2014 and an increasingly gender-
balanced staff profile. For lectureships (the majority of our advertised positions), offer rates
are similar between male and female candidates.

Early Career and Newly-appointed Staff
2.4      The UoA is pleased to host 28 ECRs. They, and other newly appointed permanent
staff, are given reduced administrative responsibilities and those with teaching duties, reduced
loads (typically a single unit, 36 hours, per year). They, and all staff, are assigned an
academic mentor and join at least one of the research institutes. New lecturing staff receive a
start-up grant (typically £6K) and are encouraged to take advantage of emergent research
opportunities, such as applying for prestigious fellowships (see 3.2). ECRs rapidly build
important collaborations within the UoA. Recent examples include Blake* and Linden’s work
on models of scrambling of quantum information (Physical Review Letters), and Gerber* and
Whiteley’s work on resampling (Annals of Statistics). Furthermore, ECRs often lead our
Distinguished Visitors programmes and convene workshops, all financially supported by the
UoA. Examples include high energy physics (Blake*, COVID-postponed until 2021), Toric
arrangements (Babaee*) and Spectral Analysis of time series (Kley*, Cho, Nason).
2.5      The UoA has long-standing excellence in recruiting and nurturing the career development
of outstanding ECRs, who go on to make discoveries that command attention from the
international mathematics community. One consequence of this strategy has been that the latter
half of the assessment period (2017-19) witnessed an unprecedented turnover of staff, including
the departure of 9 professorial staff. Of the departures, 6 of these 9 professors, including two FRS,
joined the School at an early stage of their careers and have moved to prestigious positions
including the Sedleian Chair at Oxford (Keating), GI Taylor Chair at Cambridge (Kerswell), and
senior professorships at Imperial College (Nason), IST Austria (Browning) and University of Zurich
(Gorodnik and Ulcigrai).

Research Fellows
2.6     Research fellows and PDRs add very significantly to the UoA’s vitality. They provide
outstanding role models for our large cohort of PGRs; they lead reading groups, seminar
series, deliver graduate courses and champion public engagement activities (see 4.7). We
hold an annual appointment of HRFs, who under an innovative employment model divide their
time between their own research programme and classified research led by GCHQ (see 1.5).
These positions are highly sought after, with approximately 20 applications for each position.
To tackle the under-representation of women, UoA staff are rewarded with research funds for


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
encouraging female applicants. HRFs have access to HIMR visitor funds and have organised
over 10 international workshops in Bristol since 2016, featuring Cole Prize winners Guralnick
and Maynard, and EMS Prize winner Adiprasito.

Professional Development
2.7     All staff access CREATE, UoB’s scheme for continued professional development for
academics (REF5a). Several have completed training in Staff Reviewing, Recruitment and Being
Inclusive and UoB’s Leadership Programme; these sustain succession within the UoA leadership.
Focused training to support applications for funding is regularly delivered by RED. To support
diversity, the UoA prioritises the participation of staff with protected characteristics at over-
subscribed courses. Additionally, ECRs receive formal training in undergraduate teaching (see
REF5a), and the UoA provides additional support through a dedicated Teaching Mentor and peer
observations.
2.8     UoB is a signatory to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and
has a comprehensive institutional strategy, embodied within Bristol Clear, to support researchers and
enable their career development (REF5a). HIMR also runs a national professional development
programme (lead: Burness), and the UoA offers bespoke training tailored for mathematical
researchers. This includes mentored teaching experiences, regular panel discussions and
presentations, some delivered by external speakers on topics key to future career success, such
as “Shaping a research programme” and “How to apply for a job”, and mock interviews. Evidence
of the value of these initiatives is that 29% of the PDRs moved directly to permanent lectureships
(or equivalent) at institutions in UK, USA, Canada and Israel. Other destinations include further
postdoctoral research in academia or industry (66%) and teaching (4%).

Grant-writing support
2.9      To support and provide strategic advice, all UoA staff proposals are reviewed by the
UoA's Research Committee, with input from the Director of Impact. Larger grants, fellowships,
first grants, programme grants and initiatives such as CDTs are additionally supported by
RED, including practice interviews and coaching from external consultants. Staff with
unsuccessful grant applications meet with the Director of Research to review feedback and
identify future opportunities. This system of support is effective. For example, all 7 ECR
applicants succeeded with their First/New Investigator Grants during the REF period.

Promotion, Progression and Staff Reviews
2.10 The UoA holds mentoring and service reviews for ECRs and operates an annual Staff
Review system for all staff, which involve meeting with a senior colleague. Emergent concerns are
reviewed by the Head of School and addressed as appropriate; examples include rebalancing
workloads to create more research time, provision of study leave and assigning leadership roles to
enable career development. Following the UoB career structure, newly appointed lecturers
progress steadily towards senior lecturer and all 18 eligible UoA staff have achieved this
progression during the assessment period without impediment. Additionally, staff may be promoted
to Associate Professorial and Professorial grades. All eligible staff may enter this annual process
and Institute Directors play an active role in advising junior staff. Each submitted case is assessed
by UoB promotion committees, who seek external reviews and assess accomplishments in
research, teaching, administration and wider contributions to the subject, including engagement
with end-users of research. The UoA has had several promotions during the assessment period,


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
including to professor (Booker, Collins, Grava, Hogg, Johnson, Mezzadri, Montanaro*,
Robbins, Rougier, Ulcigrai) and to Associate Professor (Balazs, Booker, Burness, A.Lee*,
Leslie, Mackay, Montanaro*, Mohammadi, Russo, Whiteley, Wiesner). Staff with unsuccessful
promotion cases receive feedback from the Dean and Head of School.

Leadership and succession
2.11 Senior staff provide leadership in research within UoB, UK and internationally (see 4.8).
UoA senior roles with a research-related remit include the Head of School; Directors of Research
Institutes, Research, Impact, Postgraduate Studies, & EDI; and Associate Chair of HIMR. UoA
members have served at an Institutional level, including Dean (Marklof, 2018-) and Graduate
Dean of the Science Faulty (Robbins, 2013-2017, Dettmann, 2017-), Linden’s leadership of the
Quantum Information Institute and Burness’s leadership role with HIMR. Given the high proportion
of ECRs, we are aware of the vital importance of research leadership and mentoring, tasks that are
recognised through the workload model (see 2.13-2.15). We plan for succession in leadership
roles by seeking expressions of interest from UoA staff 6-12 months in advance of the end of a
term, particularly encouraging those with protected characteristics to increase diversity in the roles
(see 2.26). Leadership training is promoted, and the UoA ethos of collective responsibility and
good citizenship have ensured smooth transitions.

Emeritus staff
2.12 The UoA is keenly aware of the valuable contribution from staff who have reduced their full-
time positions (e.g. Green, McNamara, Van den Berg) and provides support through part-time
salaries, office space and administrative assistance. We capitalise on their expertise through
mentoring junior staff and contributing to postgraduate supervision. Launched in 2016, Green
leads the UoA Statistics Clinic that provides highly-valued, free consulting for approximately 150
UoB researchers per year.

Workload model
2.13 The UoA introduced a new workload model in 2015 to provide a fair and transparent
mechanism for allocating teaching and administrative responsibilities and ensuring an appropriate
balance between these duties and research. The aim for staff with research and teaching duties is
a division of time commitment of 40% research, 40% teaching and 20% administration and
leadership, while for ‘research-only’ staff, the aim is at least 80% commitment for research. This
guide is applied to both full- and part-time staff, as well as those on fixed contracts. The UoA
workload model has specific allowances for research-related activities including grant applications
and management, engagement with end-users of research (including initial development through
to writing-up impact case studies), mentoring postdocs, supervising PGRs and periods of
secondments (see 2.17).
2.14 The workload model facilitates a sabbatical scheme, whereby staff re-balance their duties
to facilitate research leave. The UoA has restructured its undergraduate teaching and personal
tutoring so that most staff can concentrate their responsibilities into a single semester if they
choose, allowing them to focus on research for the remainder of the year, as well as to travel (e.g.
several staff have participated in international residential research programmes, see 3.12,4.12).
During the assessment period, all requests for research leave have been granted.
2.15 Due to current gender imbalance in the discipline and the aim of ensuring gender balance,
UoA female staff typically are asked to join working groups, committees and panels more

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
frequently than male staff. Therefore, in recognition of these duties, all female staff are given extra
allowance in their workload allocation (which is equivalent to a semester’s delivery to a tutorial
group). Where a committee’s terms of reference would result in male-dominated membership,
female staff are co-opted in an ‘attend and contribute but no-work’ capacity.

Knowledge exchange
2.16 The UoA enthusiastically encourages and supports staff interactions with business, industry
and the public, recognising the enrichment to our research portfolio brought by mathematical
challenges from these arenas. We facilitate: secondments, which may be funded directly by the
associated company/agency or through EPSRC IAA (see 2.17); industrially funded grants; spin-out
companies; knowledge exchange fellowships; collaborative agreements; and consultancy work.
The UoA also uses its own resources to support knowledge exchange that cannot be funded from
other streams.
2.17 HRFs have collaboration with GCHQ on issues of national security built into their
employment contracts (see 2.6). The UoA has strategically supported other secondments to
HIMR, including: Booker (2016-18) to bring expertise in computational number theory; Rubin-
Delanchy* (40%) to lead the Data Science team; and Allison* is employed part-time by GCHQ
(50%). Examples of outward secondments funded by EPSRC IAA include partnerships with JBA
Trust, to introduce topographic uncertainty to flood models (Hogg, Rougier), and NASA, to transfer
advances in rateless codes and energy efficiency to space communications (Dettmann), the latter
arising from an EPSRC-funded project (£1M) with Toshiba that featured other inward and outward
secondments. Examples of industrially funded placements include Rubin-Delanchy*’s work with
Wessex Water on leak detection and Wood and Fasiolo*’s work with EDF Energy (France) on the
development of regression modelling tools focused for operational forecasting of grid load in
France and elsewhere (see 4.6).
2.18 UoA staff have received funding from Innovate UK. Porter was a co-investigator in a
consortium including marine renewable specialists Mojo Maritime, Catapult ORE and DNV-GL to
determine the potential for a Wave Energy Converter fitted with Witt Energy Ltd’s novel energy
conversion mechanism. Porter’s expertise in the mathematical theory of energy extraction from
ocean waves enabled the assessment of the feasibility of their prototype for ocean deployment.
Montanaro* collaborated in an Innovate-funded project with British Telecom, investigating
applications of quantum algorithms in the telecommunications industry (2017). The UoA also
supported Montanaro*’s time in co-founding of Phasecraft (see 1.23ii). Finally, through an IAA,
Linden is funded to build commercial collaborations in quantum technologies.

Research Students
2.19 During the REF period, the UoA admitted 131 PGRs. Competition for places is strong with
over 8 applicants for every place. Approximately 50% of applications were from outside the
European Union. Several applicants won prestigious international studentships from UoB,
Marshall, EPSRC International and Chinese Scholarship Council. Recruitment of PGRs is driven
by the UoA’s research reputation, online advertisements, and recruitment events, including an
annual two-day meeting ‘Women in Mathematics’, instigated and funded by the UoA, for female
and non-binary final-year mathematics students. The event encourages potential students to
continue to PhD studies and features presentations from mathematicians in academia and
industry. Female and non-binary applicants account for 27% of PGR applications and have
received 27% of offers.


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
PGR Funding
2.20 PGR funding is strategically deployed to support research priorities. Traditionally under-
represented groups take priority for funded places upon equal qualification. Over 50% of current
PGRs are funded by UoB’s EPSRC Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP). The UoA also co-funded
with HIMR 1-3 studentships per year for female or non-binary postgraduates and strategically
allocated DTP funds with the aim of reducing historical imbalances in the discipline (2016-19). Six
current PGRs are partly funded by industry partnerships (e.g. GCHQ, National Flood Insurance
Programme) and 4 study part-time. Since 2019, we have run the COMPASS CDT, which provides
cohort-based training in computational statistics and data science for 10+ PGRs per year. The UoA
played a leading role in setting up 3 EPSRC-funded CDTs - Quantum Engineering (Linden chairs
the steering committee), Future Communication, and Complexity Science, as well as the 4-year
PhD programme in Neural Dynamics funded by the Wellcome Trust. Several of the UoA’s PGRs
are co-supervised with colleagues in Science and Engineering, and current links with industrial
partners include Liverpool Victoria, GCHQ, GlaxoSmithKline, Wessex Water, Shell, Office for
National Statistics & Atomic Weapons Establishment. An increasing number of studentships are
funded as CASE awards (e.g. 2 with IBM in 2020).
2.21 In response to the identified lack of opportunities for doctoral training in pure mathematics,
the UoA and HIMR established the HDP (2020-) in partnership with mathematics departments at
Oxford and Manchester. This endeavour initially funds 8 PGRs per year to provide high-level
training in discrete mathematics and other areas of importance to HIMR, along with placements to
work on HIMR’s internal research programme, thus participating directly in projects that impact
national security.

PGR Training, monitoring and support
2.22 In addition to specialist training, PGRs have individual training programmes involving over
100 hours of assessed courses to maintain mathematical breadth, drawing on the extensive range
of PGR taught units, including the Bath-Bristol-Imperial-Oxford-Warwick Taught Course Centre to
which the UoA contributes 90+ lectures per year, the Academy for PhD Training in Statistics in
which the UoA is an Underwriting Member, and courses delivered by the CDTs. They attend at
least one weekly seminar and present their own research annually. PGRs are allocated a
Research Training Skills Grant, typically £1000 per year, which supports conferences, academic
visits, and other research expenses, with the expectation of presenting at least one overseas
meeting during their studentship. The UoA operates rigorous Annual Progress Monitoring for each
PGR, overseen by the Director of Postgraduate Research and Graduate Dean. There are three
dedicated administrators for PGR student affairs and CDT activities. PGRs are assigned a
designated pastoral supervisor, separate from their primary supervisory team. Wellbeing is
addressed throughout, in close collaboration with the UoB’s wellbeing team. In 2018 UoB created a
hub to provide front-line service to PGRs, and additional support and links to the wider research
environment is provided by the Bristol Doctoral College (BDC, see 2.24, REF5a).
2.23 PGRs organise an annual one-day conference at the beginning of the academic year,
MINGLE, where each student beyond the new starters presents their research. They also run a
weekly seminar series spanning all branches of mathematics. The UoA’s PGRs organised in 2014
(and scheduled for 2020 but postponed until 2021) the annual UK Young Researchers in
Mathematics conference, which attracts over 200 attendees. Many PGRs are actively involved in
outreach and public engagement activities such as workshops in local schools and science
festivals (see 4.7). The UoA financially underwrites all these activities.


                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
2.24 A broad suite of training is available from the BDC’s Personal and Professional
Development programme (REF5a), notably including six half-day events on communication, media
training, industrial relationship building, and presentation skills. The BDC also funds innovation and
leadership development and facilitates the annual postgraduate conference, Research without
Borders (see REF5a). UoA senior staff deliver a bespoke lecture series on mathematical research
skills. PGRs who teach are given mandatory teacher training. The UoA CDTs deliver training in
ethics and responsible innovation (see 1.25). Computational skills training is available from the
Advanced Computer Research Centre (ACRC). Our PGRs are well prepared for future careers:
during the REF period, approximately 50% have moved to postdoctoral appointments, over half of
which of which are overseas, while other careers have included teaching, finance and industrial
research and development.

Equality and diversity
2.25 The UoA’s is committed to creating an inclusive environment where diversity is valued, and
people of all characteristics are supported and encouraged to fulfil their potential. This
commitment permeates all aspects of our research and staffing strategies (see 2.2-2.10); notably,
the UoA’s track record in promoting gender equality in mathematics was recognised by an Athena
SWAN Silver Award in 2018 (Bronze, 2014), one of only 8 mathematics departments to hold an
award at this level. Two co-Directors of EDI (Ganesh and Machin), one academic and the other
professional services staff, maintain oversight with the UoA EDI Committee, which meets four
times per year and contains representatives from permanent academic, postdoctoral, postgraduate
and professional services staff, as well as members with a focus on ethnicity, gender, disability and
LGBT+ identities. The Committee’s recommendations have had measurable impacts upon the
UoA’s operations, such as recruitment procedures (see 2.2 and note the increasing gender and
ethnicity balance in UoA staff) and introducing a numerical target for the proportion of female
speakers at seminar series and conferences organised within the School, which has led to a
doubling in their number. (The new target from 2019 is 30%.) Ethnic diversity is also addressed
with UoA commitments to monitor recruitment and from June 2020, to review curricula and
introduce a target proportion of BAME speakers at colloquia.
2.26 The diversity of the UoA senior management committee has grown during the assessment
period, with the proportion of those with protected characteristics rising from 40% in 2014 to 54% in
2020.
2.27 We promote a diverse research culture, including hosting the national event, Women and
Non-binary People in Mathematics: Opportunities for the Future (see 2.19). We introduced a Code
of Conduct to prevent harassment based on protected characteristics, to which all participants at
UoA-organised events are required to sign up. We have introduced mandatory Bystander Training
to help staff recognise and respond to inappropriate behaviour in the workplace and maintain an
inclusive working environment. UoA social events are inclusive of part-time staff and children and
other dependents are invited; they are family‐friendly, for example by choosing appropriate venues
and entertainment. Furthermore, the Fry Building was designed to support staff and students with
protected characteristics (see 3.5).
2.28 The UoA has an agile research culture and is supportive of academic staff and PGRs
remote working when appropriate. Formal flexible or part-time working arrangements can be
requested, and staff with caring responsibilities can avoid lectures at either 9am or 5pm. It is UoA
policy to keep meetings within core hours whenever possible, and to record public talks or other
events unavoidably held out of hours. Parental leave is managed through a combination of


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
initiatives including Keep in Touch Days, Maternity Mentoring and a Returning Carers Scheme –
the latter allows staff to claim up to £10k for expenses to support their return, including buying out
teaching commitments – and sabbatical credit is earned during maternity leave. Additionally, a
UoA-specific factsheet for parental leave gives practical information on support offered by UoB,
and UoA parental mentors. Staff may claim from the UoA exceptional expenses for childcare or
other caring duties arising from conference attendance, and we have chosen to fund eligible caring
costs for visiting staff and students attending many of our own events. The UoA also hosts weekly
lunches for Women and Non-binary staff and PGRs to provide opportunities for the exchange of
ideas and experiences. The UoA intranet provides a portal to comprehensive information on
equality, family and work balance and mentoring.

Well-being
2.29 All staff and PGRs may access UoB’s well-being resources and there are 30 mental health
champions to raise awareness and tackle institutional stigma. During the COVID-19 closures,
several initiatives were introduced and extended to maintain well-being, including a 24-hour
employee assistance programme, coaching, mental health awareness weeks and virtual
mindfulness sessions. Additionally, the UoA convened many additional virtual staff meetings to
maintain contacts and community while working from home.

REF submission EDI strategy
2.30 The UoA has adhered rigorously to UoB’s Code of Practice for REF submissions, which
embodies the four principles of transparency, consistency, accountability, and inclusivity. All UoA
staff involved with REF decision-making received mandatory training on EDI and unconscious bias;
the composition of the UoA REF committee was formally approved by the UoB Research
Committee. Staff eligibility for REF submission was determined through a transparent process, run
by the UoB Research Committee, while the disclosure of staff circumstances to an independent
group has been voluntary and confidential. Potential research outputs were assessed by at least
two independent reviewers, whose judgments were calibrated through initial training. We ensured
that our submission includes contributions from ECRs and that interdisciplinary work is
represented. Our final choices were cognisant of the distribution of outputs across staff and their
protected characteristics, choosing those from under-represented characteristics if similarly
ranked.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research funding strategies
3.1      The UoA has had exceptional success in securing funding for research, with our HESA-
reported income rising to £33.2M (excluding support for CDTs), a 27% per annum increase from
REF2014 (see Ref4b and figure 3). Our enabling strategies have included (see 2.9,2.13): (i) re-
balancing workloads to allow the construction of high-quality proposals; (ii) replacement teaching
for fellowships and secondments; (iii) flexibility to concentrate teaching in one semester; and (iv)
UoA support mechanisms during the application process. These UoA strategies, coupled with the
accommodation of flexible working patterns, underpin increased diversity in the funded portfolio by
removing barriers to accessing research support and preparing applications.




                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)




    Figure 3: External funding by source. The REF2021 total (£33.2M) is a 27% per annum
    increase from REF2014.

3. 2    The funded portfolio spans mathematical science and features major awards in our areas of
strategic growth and strategic alliance with GCHQ, including probability, data science and number
theory. Research council awards include EPSRC Programme Grants (Andrieu, Booker, Keating,
Kerswell, A. Lee*, Wiggins) and other large grants (e.g. Dokchitiser, Dettmann, Andrieu). UoA
staff have won many competitive fellowships, including 8 ERC fellowships (Advanced: Keating,
Marklof, Wooley; Consolidator: Montanaro*; Starting: Russo, Ulcigrai, Gorodnik, Browning), 8
EPSRC fellowships (Advanced Career: Wood; Established Career: Nason, Toth; New Directions:
Booker; Early Career: Montanaro*, Mohammadi, Brooke-Taylor; Postdoctoral: Pawlowski), 3
Royal Society fellowships (University Research Fellowship: Russo, M. Lee*; APEX: Hogg), 3
Leverhulme fellowships (Eggers, Grava, Maltsev), 2 Vice Chancellor’s fellowships (Bennett*,
Maciazek*), 3 Marie-Curie fellowships (Le Masson, Schlicht*, Sahlsten), Japan Society for the
Promotion of Science (JSPS) fellowship (Liu*), WT SHD fellowship (Lawson*) and 4 UoB
Research fellowships (Leslie, Mezzadri, Robbins, Walling).

Organisational Infrastructure
3.3     Interdisciplinary research and impact activities are facilitated by the URIs and SRIs, who
assist and coordinate major bids (see 1.22). RED provides expert support, particularly with UoA’s
applications for ERC fellowships, EPSRC CDTs (two from the UoA reached the final stage of the
last round) and the renewal of HIMR. RED also coordinate the distribution of EPSRC IAA funds
(the UoA received 8 awards, totalling £191K, see 2.17,2.18 for examples) and QR-Global
Challenges Research Fund (Hogg).
3.4     This infrastructure enables two distinctive aspects of our funding profile: (i) As HIMR’s core
academic partner, we receive substantial funding from GCHQ, which enhances our research
environment and extends the impact of our mathematical research. (ii) Our staff collaborate widely
with other academic disciplines (see 1.22,1.23), and have been co-investigators in several large,
multi-institutional consortia. Examples of this activity include: Quantum Computing (Google
Prosperity Partnership, £5.5M, Quantum computing and simulation hub, £24M), Synthetic Biology

                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
(BBSRC: BrisSynBio, £14M) and environmental science (NERC: VANAHEIM, £2.7M, STREVA,
£2.7M).

Research infrastructure
3.5     Our REF2014 submission, and its forerunner in RAE08, anticipated the move to a new
building. Completed in 2019 after a 4-year redevelopment at a cost of £33M, the Fry Building is the
iconic new home for mathematical sciences in Bristol, demonstrating significant institutional support
for the discipline. The interior space was reimagined and repurposed through intensive
collaboration between architects and senior UoA staff. The Grade II-listed Victorian building
provides vastly more space (4500m2) than our previous home, reflecting not only the enduring
popularity of our undergraduate programme (admissions increased over 74% during the past
decade), but also our ambition to address new research areas that supplement and complement
our existing expertise (see 1.17). The space beautifully serves the varied needs of the
mathematics community – co-location of research institutes with PGRs; large staff common room
providing a forum for informal interactions and school meetings; blackboards in offices and
common areas, alongside contemporary IT infrastructure; space to host visitors and international
symposia (see 4.4,4.5); and engineered accessibility to meet the needs of staff with protected
characteristics. The Fry Building has already had a profound effect on mathematics in Bristol.
3.6     All members of the UoA have charge-free access to excellent research computing facilities
and infrastructure, delivered through two major facilities:
  i.    The UoA runs its own Intermediate Performance Computing farm (CREAM: Cluster for
        REsearch in Advanced Mathematics), which totals 332 cores (including 4 GPU nodes) and
        is maintained by UoB specialist staff. During the REF period, CREAM has been expanded
        and maintained through UoB investment (£74K). CREAM provides an invaluable tool for
        medium-scale computations and code-testing. Additionally, the UoA has begun to migrate
        computational tasks of this scale to a new state-of-the-art facility (Blue Pebble) for high-
        throughput computing, supported by the ACRC (UoB).
  ii.   UoA staff access high performance computing facilities through UoB’s high-performance
        BlueCrystal Phase 3 and 4 clusters. Following a further investment (£16M during the past
        decade), Phase 4 now has more than 16,000 cores and a theoretical peak performance of
        617 Teraflops, which at launch was ranked 398 among the world's top 500 fastest
        computers (June 2017).
3.7    There is secured, long-term data storage systems for personal and research data (5TB free
for each project). Also, funded via an EPSRC equipment call, the UoA purchased a high-resolution
3D printer (£80K), which has been used, for example, to prototype the energy surface of the
dissociation of ozone for research and public engagement purposes (Wiggins).
3.8      Members of the UoA have made extensive use of these computational facilities. Notably,
they underpinned programme grants awarded to Wiggins (see 1.14); Booker & Keating
(computational number theory); and Andrieu (computational statistics). Moreover, the provision of
high-performance computing underpins our strategic expansion in data science, artificial
intelligence, cybersecurity and big data (Allison*, Lawson*, Rubin-Delanchy*, Liu*, A. Lee*);
algebra, group theory and representation theory (Burness, Dokchitser, Harper*); and number
theory (Booker, Platt, Kopp*).




                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
3.9    Members of the UoA access national and international facilities for large-scale computation.
Linden, Liverpool and collaborators in chemistry engaged 6 months of time on ARCHER to
successfully analyse the assembly of peptide nanocages; Booker (with Sutherland, MIT) utilized
cloud computing, via Google Compute Engine and Charity Engine, to show that 3 can be
expressed as the sum of three cubes, amongst other number theoretical challenges; and Linden
and Montanaro* are in a partnership to develop software for Google’s quantum computer,
research which will translate into applications with key industrial partners.

Scholarly and operational infrastructure
3.10 UoA research is enabled by sustained institutional provision and investment in its physical
infrastructure.
  i.    The UoB library hosts an extensive collection of research texts and journals (with free-to-
        use online access). There is ongoing work to redevelop its physical location (£80M).
  ii.   UoB is building a new campus in the centre of Bristol (TQEC, see REF5a), which will host
        the new Quantum Technology Innovation Centre (see 1.21iii).
 iii.   Several UoA staff collaborate with UoB experimental groups. For example, laboratory
        capacity in Chemistry underpins Eggers’s collaboration on colloids and gels (3 outputs
        during assessment period), and laboratory capacity in Biology underpins Chenchiah’s
        £838k BBSRC grant on biophysics of electroreception in arthropods.

Professional Support
3.11 Outstanding professional support for research is provided by a large UoA team based in the
Fry Building. These include staff for postgraduates (3.5FTE), KE (1FTE), conferences (1FTE),
facilities (1FTE), HIMR activities (4.2FTE) and other research administration (1.5FTE). There have
been over 75 workshops and conferences organised by this team during the assessment period,
including 37 with significant international participation. Examples include Quantum Computing
Theory in Practice (2019), International Workshops on Statistical Modelling (2018) and Water
Waves and Floating Bodies (2015), in addition to British Mathematical Colloquium (2016), PAD
(2014,2018, see 1.4) and the annual HIMR Conference (see 4.2). Further support is provided by
the UoB Finance and Contracts teams, with a dedicated officer for Mathematics; public
engagement specialists; and teams that support international staff and wellbeing (see REF5a).
RED include a dedicated impact team, with an officer assigned to the science faculty alone, and
expert advice on commercialization to support patents (e.g. for Linden, granted 2017) and startups
(Phasecraft, Montanaro*, 2018, see 2.18).

International and national facilities
3.12 UoA researchers engage with national research institutes (e.g. HIMR and ATI). UoA staff
have organised and/or participated in long-term visitor programmes at the UK’s Isaac Newton
Institute and the International Centre of Mathematical Sciences, and internationally at centres
including the Mathematical Sciences Research Institute (MRSI), Kavli Institute for Theoretical
Physics (KITP), and Banff International Research Station (BIRS). The UoA strongly encourages
and facilitates staff to join these programmes, re-organising duties and underwriting travel and
subsidence costs (see 2.14). A complete list of the UoA’s involvement is given in 4.12.




                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Third stream funding
3.13 During the assessment period, philanthropic funding for UoA research infrastructure and the
Fry Building was secured from the Wolfson Foundation and others (£900k). In addition, the UoA
received benefits in-kind through partnerships and grants (e.g. external support of £2.4M for
COMPASS CDT and £2.2M for Google Prosperity grant), support for secondments (see 2.17) and
CASE studentships. We also secured alumni funding for an innovative programme of summer
research-project bursaries for talented undergraduates from under-represented groups, providing
these students with a first-hand experience of research mathematics.

COVID-19 Support
3.14 The UoA was cognisant of the challenges of working from home during the COVID-
closures, providing computational facilities and office furniture when needed, as well as being early
adopters of virtual means for maintaining research collaborations. When it became possible to
reopen the Fry Building, extensive safety measures were emplaced and access was prioritised for
those without adequate home-based facilities.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Strategies for enabling collaborations
4.1      The UoA has sustained a collaborative and outward-looking ethos through strategic
partnerships, secondments and interdisciplinary research and have been partners in multi-
institution consortia and programme grants (see 1.5,1.22,1.23,2.17,3.4). Some outputs of these
activities are part of our REF submission, particularly the impact case studies arising from our
partnership with GCHQ. Collaborations are facilitated through several strategies: (i) underwriting all
travel grant applications and no reasonable request goes unfunded; (ii) supporting external
collaborators who come to Bristol, often for long stays, both financially and through visitor space in
the Fry Building; and (iii) encouraging fellowships to free up research time and undertaking
secondments (see 2.9,2.17,3.2). In addition, Science Faculty and start-up funds for new
appointments, UoB International strategic funds (UoA recipients: Chenchiah, Cho, Robbins,
Wiesner) and support from the URIs are used to pump prime new collaborations.
4.2     The partnership with HIMR provides a significant mechanism for building research
collaborations and networks. During the assessment period in Bristol, there have been 11 HIMR
Colloquia and 24 other events, which regularly feature leading international researchers. For
example, Perspectives in the Riemann Hypothesis (2018) featured lectures by Fields Medallists
Bombieri, Connes and Tao. The UoA hosted 12 Heilbronn Distinguished Lecture Series featuring
world-leading mathematicians, for example Daubechies (Duke), Sarnak (Princeton), Williamson
(Sydney) and Ellenberg (Madison). The Heilbronn Annual Conference, a Bristol-hosted two-day
annual meeting, features eminent speakers (e.g. Wiles (Oxford) and Hairer (Imperial)) and attracts
a large number of attendees (100+) from within and outside the UoA.
4.3    Through participation and theme-leadership in ATI, UoA staff received research funding,
supervised PGRs, convened international workshops and helped shape the national agenda for
data science. The UoA’s data science activities are co-ordinated with JGI, which together with
HIMR funds research collaborations and supports the new Data Science seminar (see 1.15).




                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
4.4     The UoA funds 16 seminar series that span mathematical sciences and a school-wide
colloquium, featuring internationally-distinguished speakers, including, for example, Bird,
Goldstein, Babai, Silverman and Villani. Through these events, UoA members engage with
researchers at the forefront of their fields, while providing indispensable networking opportunities
for our ECRs.

Visitors
4.5     A vibrant visitor programme is essential for the vitality of the environment. We have invited
and hosted over 900 visitors during the assessment period, approximately half of whom are from
overseas. Several international visitors have won competitively-awarded UoB’s Benjamin Meaker
Professorships, which fund research periods of up to 3 months in Bristol. Mathematicians who
have received these visiting professorships include Farantos (Crete, 2014), Peyre, (Grenoble,
2016), Ungarish (Technion, 2017), Smith (Wellington, 2018), Bogomolny (Paris-Sud, 2018) and
Martelli (IBM, 2018). There are two further strategies for enabling mathematical collaborations: (i)
HIMR Focused Research Grant scheme, for fostering adventurous and ambitious research
between small groups of participants (18 events in Bristol). (ii) the UoA established a Heilbronn
Distinguished Visitor programme with dedicated schemes for data science (e.g. Priebe (Johns
Hopkins); Samworth (Cambridge); Huggins (MIT)) and pure mathematics and mathematical
physics (e.g. Rudnick (Tel Aviv), Liverani (Rome), Feng (Hong Kong)).

Engagement with beneficiaries
4.6      Our strategy for engagement with end-users of research is set out in 2.16-2.17 and is
identical to support for academic collaborations. The UoA provides financial underwriting, frees
staff time and accounts for activities in the workload model. Examples of our global engagement
include the Farmer Business Network (FBN) & EDF, who employ generalised additive models
developed by Wood & Fasiolo*. Predictions by FBN, allow their 7000 member farms in USA and
Canada, which cultivate over 23 million acres, to increase revenue by US$23 per acre. EDF utilise
the statistical methodology to forecast energy demands operationally, saving the company costly
over- or under-production. Wiesner’s collaboration with the Green Climate Fund, a new global fund
created to support the responses of developing countries to climate change, has co-produced an
evaluation of its strategic methods, using complex systems theory. Lawson*’s population genetics
tool, FineStructure, has been licenced to LivingDNA and forms the core of their commercial
ancestry test from over 100 British and worldwide populations.
4.7     The UoA is actively participating in public engagement, with a focus on communicating
research to inspire the next generation of mathematicians and forming closer links with local
schools that have little engagement with higher education. The UoA Director of Public Engagement
(Erlandsson*) coordinates these activities, a role supported by the University Centre for Public
Engagement, who provide bespoke training for mathematics projects. We have presented research
at national science fairs, including the Big Bang Fair (2017, Exeter and Bristol; 2018 Weston),
NERC's Into the Blue showcase (2016, winning the public vote for the best exhibit), Pint of Science
events in Bristol (2016-18) and established a public lecture series. We have conducted numerous
workshops in local schools, recorded several videos for the Numberphile YouTube channel and
instigated Creative Reactions (2019), a collaboration between artists and scientists, featuring nine
members of the UoA and culminating in a month-long gallery exhibition. Wiesner’s innovative
research of complexity in physical and social systems has featured in podcasts (Sean Carroll’s
Mindscape and Physics World Weekly), a TEDx talk and in a book, ‘What is a complex system?’,
co-authored with Ladyman (Philosophy). The UoA has had outstanding success in the high-profile

                                                                                              Page 23
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
House of Commons STEM for Britain poster competition, with two gold medals (Platt, Maistret) and
one bronze (Naskrecki) during the census period, the best record of any UK mathematics
department.

National and International Leadership
4.8    Members of the UoA serve and lead the broad community of mathematical sciences in
several ways:
  i.   Journals: 7 roles as main/managing editor including Annals of Applied Probability (Toth),
       Statistical Science (Green), J. Group Theory (Burness), J. Royal Statistical Society B
       (Wood) and from 2021, Probability Theory and Related Fields (Toth). Additionally, 27 UoA
       members are Associate Editors for 39 journals that broadly span mathematical science
       including Annals of Applied Probability (Ganesh), Communications in Mathematical
       Physics (Marklof), Entropy (Wiesner), J. Machine Learning Research (A. Lee*), J. Number
       Theory (Booker, Conrey), Nonlinearity (Grava), Physical Review Letters (Eggers),
       Physica D (Grava), Statistics and Computing (A. Lee*, Wood) and Wave motion (Porter).
 ii.   Funding councils and professional bodies: Twelve staff of the UoA have been members
       of the EPSRC College, while one was a member of the NERC College. Hogg and Keating
       served as committee members for the EPSRC Review of Knowledge Exchange in
       Mathematics and several have participated in EPSRC Mathematics Prioritisation Panels.
       Andrieu, Nason and Wood have held substantial leadership roles with the Royal Statistical
       Society; A. Lee* is the director of the Data Science and Artificial Intelligence At Scale
       initiative of the ATI; Nason held advisory roles with National Statistics Advisory Group and
       the Departments for Education and Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy; and Rougier
       was the Scientific Advisor to Cabinet Office (2016). Dokchitser has served on grant and
       fellowship awarding committees of the Royal Society and Toth has chaired the committee
       of the Bernoulli Society that oversees conferences on stochastic processes, as well as
       being a jury member for Institut Universitaire de France (mathematics) and a member of the
       ERC mathematics panel. Conrey is the executive director of the American Institute for
       Mathematics; Keating is the president of the London Mathematical Society. Linden and
       Montanaro* are part of the leadership team of the National Hub for Quantum Computing
       (see 1.23ii)

Learned societies, Fellowships and Prizes
4.9     During the assessment period Marklof (2015) was elected as a Fellow of the Royal Society
joining Green, Keating, Kerswell, McNamara, Wooley. Toth was elected to Academia Europaea
(2016) and Eggers as a EUROMECH Fluid Mechanics Fellow (2014). Eggers is a Fellow of the
American Physical Society and Conrey, Walling and Wooley are Fellows of the American
Mathematical Society. Several school members have won competitively awarded fellowships (see
3.2) and been awarded Royal Society Wolfson Awards (Eggers, Keating, Kerswell, Holroyd*).
4.10 Staff in the UoA have been awarded the following prizes: Whitehead Prize: Montanaro*;
Frohlich Prize: Mezzadri; Stanley Corrsin Award APS-DFD: Eggers; LMS Anne Bennett Prize:
Wolf; Leverhulme Prize: Russo, Ulcigrai; Young Scientist Award in Statistical Mechanics and
Thermodynamics (Royal Soc. Chemistry): Russo; Early Career Institute of Physics: Liquids and
Complex Fluids Bennett*; Marychurch Award for Cryptoanalytic Excellence, Crane; Hamlos-Ford
Award (Math. Assoc. America), Holroyd*; Gábor Szegő Prize, Bothner*; Suffrage Science Award:
Snaith; SIAM Student Paper Prize: Kopp*.

                                                                                          Page 24
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Keynote Lectures and Conferences
4.11 Amongst the many invited contributions by UoA staff to international conferences, the
following are some of the most prestigious keynote and plenary presentations: International
Congress of Mathematics (Marklof 2014, Wooley, 2014; Toth 2018); American Physical Society:
Division of Fluid Dynamics (Eggers, 2017); Hanna Neumann Lecture (Australian and New Zealand
Mathematical Societies, Snaith, 2014); International Congress on Number Theory and Physics
(Keating 2015).

Visitor and PGR-training programmes
4.12 UoA staff frequently participate in international academic visitor programmes and the UoA
supports their involvement through sabbatical leave and travel costs. During the REF period, staff
have participated in programmes at Isaac Newton Institute for Mathematical Sciences (INI), BIRS,
International Centre for Mathematical Sciences (ICMS), Mathematical Sciences Research Institute
(MSRI), Mathematisches Forschungsinstitut Oberwolfach, Institut Henri Poincare, Max Planck
Institutes for Mathematics and for Complex Systems, Fields Institute and Clay Mathematical
Institute. Notably Andrieu & Slastikov were programme organisers at INI (Scalable Inference,
2017 & Mathematical Design of Materials, 2019, respectively), Wolf at Simons Institute
(Pseudorandomness, 2018), and Grava held the Jean-Morlet Chair, CIRM (Integrability and
Randomness in Mathematical Physics, 2019). UoA staff have also contributed to several
international PGR training workshops; some examples Insitut d'Etudes Scientifique de Cargese,
(Wave propagation in complex media, Porter), MSRI (Geometric group theory, Mackay), Les
Houches, Summer School (Stochastic processes and random matrices, Tourigny) and Saint Flour
Probability Summer School (Toth).




                                                                                          Page 25
