Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Worcester

 Unit of Assessment: 3 Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and structure

 The University submitted to Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy (UoA3)
 in REF 2014. At that time the submitting unit brought together three of four academic divisions
 within the Institute of Health and Society: Allied Health Sciences, Applied Professional Studies,
 Nursing, Midwifery and Paramedic Science. Staff from within the fourth division: Psychological
 Sciences were submitted to UoA4. The unit was ‘home’ to a research centre, the Association of
 Dementia Studies and a Domestic Violence research group. The current submission provides
 evidence of sustained areas of research excellence from 2014, as well as identifying new areas
 of focus for research, supported through strategy.

 In 2018, the University went through an academic restructure to introduce Colleges and Schools
 (see REF5a 1.1.4-1.1.5). The submitting unit brings together two Schools: The Three Counties
 School of Nursing and Midwifery (SNM) and the School of Allied Health and Community (SAHC)
 within the College of Health, Life and Environmental Sciences (CHLES).

 Three research groups are identified in this submission, reflecting areas of expertise and
 strategic focus:
     • Association of Dementia Studies
     • Living Well across the Lifespan
     • Philosophy and Ethics of Professional Practice

 Although each research group is located within a School, their inter-disciplinary membership
 comprises staff engaged in research allied to health from across the University.

 Research across the College is overseen by a College Director of Research and Knowledge
 Exchange (Professor Eleanor Bradley) who works closely with the School senior leadership
 teams to: support staff to operationalise the goals of the university research strategy; oversee
 research group activities and provide support for research group leads; provide input to
 recruitment for new appointments; organise College-wide research events; facilitate
 collaboration with external stakeholders and partners, notably membership of regional NHS
 research strategy groups and consortiums.

 Research and Impact Strategy

 Unit’s strategic research objectives during the assessment period

 Over the assessment period, research activities were guided by the central aspiration outlined
 within the UW Research Strategy 2014-2019: ‘To develop excellent research with social, cultural
 and economic impact’ (see REF5a 2.1).

 This strategy outlined 4 Areas of Distinction to recognise areas of existing and potential research
 excellence. To support the overall delivery of the strategy, the University held a series of events
 focused on each of the Areas of Distinction. These events were designed to bring researchers
 together from across the University whose research aligned with the areas, with the aim of
 highlighting existing areas of strength within the areas, establishing new collaborations, and
 developing cross- and interdisciplinary responses to problems. The events identified areas of
 strength and areas for development and led to development of new research groups and
 collaborations.



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 One of these Areas of Distinction was ‘Human Health and Wellbeing’, achievements against
 which are reflected in this submission. An Institute Research Strategy (2014-2020) was
 developed, outlining key aspirations and principles for RKE activity for colleagues working
 across Health and Society. Three core principles were outlined:
    • Research to benefit the health and wellbeing of individuals and society
    • Inclusivity alongside increased research quality
    • Aspiration is encouraged and performance is rewarded

 There has been a strategic focus on developing the optimal research environment to achieve
 these ambitions and to enhance research culture, whilst recognising the central role played by
 research in relation to the life and work of the University.

 Within the unit, this has included: the development of research groups to bring together a critical
 mass of inter-disciplinary researchers in areas of expertise and priority; support to enable high
 quality research; mechanisms to celebrate and disseminate research; the development of
 strong, external health and social care partnerships to conduct research with impact on practice.

 The research groups have provided support for colleagues in the pursuit of excellent, impactful
 research; enabled the cultivation of a vigorous and sustainable research culture for research,
 and developed inter-disciplinary and cross-cutting thematic areas of focus:
    • The Association of Dementia Studies (ADS)
        ADS was established as a designated research centre in 2009 and maintains an
        international reputation for research and innovation in dementia care. The centre is led
        by Professor Dawn Brooker. ADS aims to promote research and education that
        improves the lives of people living with dementia, their families and those who work to
        support them. To achieve this aim, ADS supports a range of thematic clusters of
        research interest, inviting associate members drawn from across the UW.
    • Living Well across the Lifespan (LWaL)
        This new group was brought together in 2019 and is led by Professor Derek Peters
        (submitted to UoA24). Research underway by group members reflects topics of priority
        from across health and social care. The group is interdisciplinary bringing together
        sports and exercise scientists, psychologists and health researchers. Specific areas for
        priority include ageing well, physical activity for health, social inclusion and living well
        with long-term conditions. As well as senior researchers (Peters, Bradley), the group
        involves second career academics (primarily those coming from previous practitioner
        roles) and emerging researchers, so is designed to serve a supportive function for the
        development of these colleagues.
    • Philosophy and Ethics of Professional Practice (PEPP)
        This inter-disciplinary group has evolved over this REF period, comprising colleagues
        from nursing, education, allied health, psychology and law. The group is led by Dr Paul
        Snelling. Members include those working in previously discrete areas of expertise,
        bringing together areas of priority identified in REF 2014, including perinatal education
        and palliative care. Snelling and Lipscomb provide links between the group and the
        International Philosophy of Nursing Society (IPONS), both served as officers for IPONS
        which is associated with the journal Nursing Philosophy and hosted the annual IPONS
        conference at UW in 2016.

 A key part of our strategy for research and impact is to work in close collaboration with our
 regional and national NHS partners. Our new UW research strategy is closely aligned with
 priority areas for research within regional NHS organisations and we have established close
 working partnerships with NHS research and innovation teams locally and regionally.

 Impact Strategy

 The translation of research into health and social care practice is notoriously difficult, taking a
 reported average of 10 years. External roles and joint appointments between academic and
 clinical settings are one method by which the gap between research and practice can be

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reduced, whether by enabling the design of research applicable for delivery in practice
 environments or facilitating new opportunities for effective knowledge exchange activities.

 For example, Gaskin was appointed as an Honorary Nurse Researcher at the Birmingham
 Children’s Hospital. In this role, she has worked on a collaborative research project (2017-2019)
 with partners to develop a Congenital Heart Assessment tool (CHAT and CHAT2) which enables
 parents to identify signs of deterioration in their infant. This tool is already being utilised in
 practice within the UK, translated into French and German at the Children’s cardiac centre, Bern,
 Switzerland, and shared with colleagues in USA, Australia and Canada.

 To raise staff awareness about research impact more broadly, workshops have been held,
 including full day workshops for all academic staff to define research impact, and half-day impact
 workshops for UoA coordinators. Impact champions were identified to work closely with
 colleagues developing potential impact case studies, enabling them to plan for impact
 throughout their research.

 Researchers are supported to develop their research in partnership with key research users and
 beneficiaries. In 2011, ADS set up the LINK group in conjunction with the local Alzheimer’s
 Society. This has enabled people with dementia and their family carers to routinely be part of
 the selection panel for the Association’s academic staff, to be part of every research programme
 undertaken within ADS, both on reference groups and as part of the research itself. A broader
 IMPACT service user and carer group was established by the University over a decade ago to
 enable service user and carer input to research and curriculum.

 The selected Impact Case Studies show many of these approaches in action:
    • ICS1 - Improving Quality of Care for People living with Dementia in Care Homes: the
        research has built on strong partnerships with care homes across the region, maximised
        by the involvement of academics with professional credibility and experience of working
        in these settings. This has enabled access to environments often considered ‘hard to
        reach’ for research. Recommendations from the research have since been implemented
        into policy (via NICE guidance), furthering the reach of impact realised.
    • ICS2 - Meeting Centres: Improving the reach of post-diagnostic care for people and
        families affected by dementia. The research team worked closely alongside local
        community leaders to open new community-based sources of support for people living
        with dementia and their families. There are over 30 new Meeting Centres now open
        across Europe. A Community of Practice has been established to provide ongoing
        advice and support for those leading these Centres.

 Inter-Disciplinary Research

 Research allied to health continues to be undertaken in other areas of the University and this
 activity also contributes to the research environment:
     • The Pollen and Aerobiology Research Group (School of Science and Environment)
          engages in research on allergy and works closely with health care organisations and
          industry partners. Members are submitted to UoA5 and UoA14.
     • Staff within the Worcester Biomedical Research Group (School of Science and
          Environment) undertake research with health care organisations, as well as supporting
          clinicians with research in the region. Members are submitted to UoA5.
     • The Mood Disorders Research Group (SAHC) have an international reputation for
          research into bipolar disorder, working closely with university staff but also a range of
          external stakeholders including healthcare partners, service users and students to
          develop ongoing research in the area of adult mental ill-health, including perinatal
          psychiatry. Members are submitted to UoA4.

 All the Research Groups in this unit are open to membership from across the University and
 actively encourage inter-disciplinary approaches to research. For example, members of the
 LWAL group are drawn from the Schools of Sport and Exercise, Psychology and Business. ADS

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 hold regular theme meetings, which include colleagues from the Schools of Nursing and
 Midwifery, Sport and Exercise, Psychology, and Arts.

 Open Research

 The University is committed to developing and maintaining an Open Research environment. It
 fundamentally recognises the value of open access publication to the HE sector, to the public, to
 the University and its researchers but most vitally to the integrity and value of the research.
 All staff are required to upload outputs from their research onto WRaP, the University’s research
 repository. The College is provided with monthly reports on OA compliance from a central Open
 Access Team based in Library Services. Information about WRaP and OA feature in staff
 induction and training workshops offered through the staff research development programme.
 One-one support is available on request from the Open Access and Advocacy Support officer.
 There is an OA funding scheme available which has been accessed by staff from across the
 College (eg Brooker, Peel), to support Gold Access publications.

 Research Integrity

 Research integrity is central to all research undertaken at the University but particularly in areas
 allied to health. Ethical procedures are overseen by the Chair of the University’s Research
 Integrity and Governance Committee and operationalised at College level by Ethics Panels. The
 College team comprises a Chair, Vice Chair, and Ethics facilitator. Academic staff from across
 the College act as peer reviewers for applications. There is a dedicated web resource which
 provides researchers with relevant documentation and guidance. The College Chair provides a
 regular ethics update at the College RKE committee, highlighting any areas for action.
 Applications are audited by the ethics team on an annual basis for training purposes, identifying
 areas of good practice and areas for development.

 For those staff and students conducting research in health and social care organisations, the
 NIHR Local Comprehensive Research Network West Midlands has provided IRAS, governance
 and Good Clinical Practice for Research training for the University.

 The University’s Research Integrity champion works closely with the Chairs of Ethics Panels at
 College level to ensure a culture of research integrity is embedded in the wider research culture
 of the College, offering support and guidance to research students and staff and maintaining a
 high profile for the research integrity agenda.

 Future Strategic Aims

 In 2020, the university approved a new RKE strategy identifying 5 areas of challenge, 2 of which
 (‘Human Health and Wellbeing; Professional Education’) will be a focus of strategic plans for this
 submitting unit over the period (REF5a 2.3). Over the next 12 months, each School will start to
 develop an implementation plan against the UW RKE strategy. This work has been delayed due
 to the COVID-19 pandemic, which has presented some key challenges for those working and
 studying with health and social care practice partners.

 Early discussions about these implementation plans are underway and will include:
    • A review of plans to support staff on teaching and research posts with their research and
         scholarly activities. This will include the provision of training for Heads of Department
         around setting research objectives; workload planning for all academic staff which
         recognises research activities and achievements; routine evaluation of research and KE
         achievements at annual and bi-annual performance reviews; identification of staff for the
         research mentor scheme; identification of staff keen to undertake doctoral study;
         development of an operational plan to enable staff currently on teaching only contracts to
         apply for a teaching and research (standard academic) contract in recognition of
         research and KE outputs over a defined period.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   A new programme of support for existing professors will be developed for delivery across
        the University.
    •   A review of emerging areas of research expertise, aligned with the Areas of Challenge.
        This could include Women, Children and Families research, as well as research
        considering the longer-term impact of the COVID pandemic on health and wellbeing.
        Close working with external health and social care partners to identify new areas of
        research priority and expertise, notably those aligned with the creation of the new
        Medical School (for entry in 2022), will be undertaken.
    •   Creation of new, joint appointment opportunities in Nursing and Midwifery with a focus on
        research, as well as a strategy to increase the numbers of nurses and midwives studying
        for a doctorate.
    •   Sustaining the excellent research and impact within ADS, whilst considering regional and
        national priorities for research aligned with this area including Ageing Well and Frailty.
    •   Continuing to develop research underway within the 2 new research groups (PEPP and
        LWaL) by adopting a strategic approach to the identification of visiting and honorary
        academics and identifying potential for new areas of collaborative research as aligned
        with regional NHS and social care priorities.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Staff submitted within this unit are drawn from the Three Counties School of Nursing and
 Midwifery and School of Allied Health and Community. A primary focus for both Schools is the
 delivery of quality professional education which supports students to qualify as registered health
 and social care professionals. The numbers of students applying for pre-registration, under-
 graduate courses in nursing, midwifery, occupational therapy, physiotherapy, social work,
 paramedic science continues to grow. There has been growth in the curriculum, at both
 foundation (Nursing Associates) and post-graduate level (Physician Associates). These
 developments have informed the staffing strategy for these Schools, as these courses require
 academics who bring professional and practice expertise, some of whom are second-career
 academics and new to an academic post.

 Recruitment

 There has been a mixed portfolio of recruitment over this period to meet this need, with staff
 appointed to teaching-only as well standard academic posts. The College Director of RKE is
 routinely involved in new standard academic appointments, providing input to the post details,
 outlining specific areas of research experience and expertise (to align with RKE priority areas)
 as well as interview and selection processes.
 The ADS team have continued to grow over this period. The team remain under the leadership
 of Professor Dawn Brooker with a multi-professional team of 20 staff with expertise in the field
 of person-centred care and support. They also have 6 honorary posts and a large cohort of
 doctoral students.

 There have been a small number of research-only appointments, focused within the ADS, but
 also aligned with externally funded NHS projects (e.g. Research Assistant positions). Further, a
 Researcher Pool was initiated in 2018, to provide a flexible source of support for staff
 undertaking small-scale externally and internally funded research projects.

 There have been several senior researcher appointments over the period, designed to
 strengthen research within priority areas through research leadership:
     • Professor Tracey Williamson was appointed to the Association of Dementia Studies to
        strengthen research in the area of dementia and family care. The appointment is a joint
        appointment with Dementia Carers Count, firming up external collaboration in this
        important area for research.


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Dr Theresa Mitchell was appointed as an Associate Professor in Patient Experience, to
        support ongoing research in the area of palliative care, as well as to provide mentoring
        and research support for nurses and midwives more broadly.
    •   Professor Kay Mohanna and Professor David Seedhouse were appointed to strengthen
        research in the area of Values-Based Education, a topic of regional priority for the NHS.
        Professor Mohanna is currently supporting the developments of a new Medical School.
        Professor Seedhouse worked with colleagues from both Schools to develop research in
        the area of healthcare philosophy, some of which has since been drawn on to develop
        the new PEPP Research Group.
    •   A local Acute NHS Trust has jointly funded a new Consultant Midwife post, to further
        research and KE activities amongst the midwifery team

 Visiting researchers have been appointed to support research in areas of health and social care.
 These have included 6 visiting researchers from Sri Lanka, all working in the area of primary
 care. Four of these worked with the university for 12 months in 2016 and another 2 joined the
 university for 12 months in 2018.

 Visiting Professors also have an important role to play in relation to research, particularly in
 establishing new collaborative partnerships between academic colleagues and practice partners.
 There have been 9 visiting professors appointed over the period. These appointments have
 played a key role in supporting research activities; for example, Professors McCormack and
 Hams have led events and seminars for members of the newly established PEPP research
 group; Professors Humphries and Spurgeon have worked with ADS; Professors Hughes and
 Wilkie have supported research developments in the areas of healthcare leadership; and
 Professor Bee Wee has supported research in the area of palliative care.

 Progression and Succession Planning

  Contract level                                    % Eligible                 % Submitted
  F1 (Professor)                                    7                          22
  I0 (Principal Lecturer / Principal Research       20                         30
  Fellow / Head of School)
  J0 (Senior Lecturer / Senior Research             69                         39
  Fellow)
  K0 (Lecturer / Research Fellow or Assistant) 4                               9
                              Table 1: Proportion of staff by contract level

 Table 1 shows the balance between contract levels in the unit for both Category A Eligible and
 Submitted staff (see REF5a Table 1 for institutional comparison). This suggests that the Unit is
 well-placed to continue to deliver its RKE strategy through the continued development of its
 researchers at PL. This will be enabled through the University’s Research Leadership
 Programme runs annually to support those academics keen to develop towards a Professorial
 appointment. There is also a Professorial Mentor Scheme for senior academics currently
 preparing their applications for promotion.

 Staff Development

 The University runs a Researcher Development Programme for its staff (see REF5a 3.2.4).
 Workshops are delivered by senior researchers and professional staff at the University, but the
 programme also draws on external presenters and utilises resources offered through Vitae and
 other professional development organisations. The University commitment to supporting the
 development of research staff is reflected in its HR Excellence in Research award (see REF5a
 3.2.6).

 69% of eligible staff working across SAHC and SNM are employed as senior lecturers, with 39%
 of this group included in this submission (see Table 1). This reflects the high proportion of
 second career academic staff employed from previous NHS positions, where they have

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developed high levels of professional and practice expertise, but not necessarily research
 expertise. A cluster of workshops have been developed within the Researcher Development
 Programme for this staff group, induction meetings with the College Director are routinely held to
 identify specific training opportunities and discuss research aspirations, and membership of a
 Research Group is encouraged.

 The research mentor scheme was introduced within the Institute of Health and Society in 2015
 to support staff to develop their potential as researchers. The scheme brought together senior
 researchers and emerging researchers, according to expertise and experience. This has since
 been replaced by a University-wide research coach-mentor scheme, launched in 2019, with
 additional training and resources developed.

 There is a budget to support staff to undertake external training, as well as to attend research
 conferences. This funding is also used to support staff, who may be from practice backgrounds,
 to undertake higher degrees. Seven staff are currently being supported to undertake their
 doctoral studies and an additional 3 staff have been supported to complete their doctorates over
 this period (Snelling, Gaskin, Latham).

 There are also research support schemes which run annually at either University or College-
 level. These include:
     • The Vacation Research Assistant Scheme (VRAS) - staff submit a proposal for research
         to be supported by a student working as a research assistant for up to three months over
         the Summer period. Five projects from colleagues in this submission were funded,
         including Barrett, Bennett, Bradley, Gaskin, Thomas.
     • Supporting Research Excellence Scheme (SRES) - the scheme provides staff with full or
         partial remission from teaching and / or other duties for a period of up to two semesters
         (8 months) in order to undertake a project with a clear set of outcomes. Staff from the
         submitting unit have successfully applied for SRES (Bennett, Gaskin, Snelling,
         Lipscomb, Carter), all subsequently produced research aligned with this submission.
         Work undertaken by Snelling, Lipscomb and Carter contributed to the formation of the
         Philosophy and Ethics of Professional Practice Research Group.
     • The Research Outputs Facilitation Fund (ROFF) - a College fund awarded to researchers
         to facilitate the final stage of research projects into publication. 21 grants have been
         awarded to staff in the Unit since 2014 including to Nolan (2), Mitchell, Nyatanga,
         Carter (2), Williamson, Grant, Lipscomb, Hope, Evans and Latham.

 College-level staff development events are designed to support staff with their research
 awareness, research skills, as well as to celebrate and disseminate recent research activities.
 These include:
     • An interdisciplinary research seminar series. The numbers of seminars available per
        academic year have grown from a total of 8 in 14/15 to 18 in 17/18 and 14 in 18/19. The
        seminars have attracted good attendance, with an average of 16 attendees per seminar
        through 18/19. The COVID pandemic has escalated work to make these seminars more
        widely available to internal and external colleagues through recordings. The seminar
        series moved online in 2020 and 4 seminars have been held since May, attracting higher
        average attendance numbers.
     • An Innovative Qualitative Methodologies Forum. This runs bi-monthly and has attracted
        interest particularly from emerging researchers and PGR students.
     • Annual events to showcase research activities. In the previous Institute of Health and
        Society, there were annual all-school research away days. Since the introduction of the
        College structure in 18/19, there have been two annual College research away days, as
        well as School all-staff research meetings.
     • Bi-monthly College research updates to highlight research successes, activities and
        events

 Staff have been supported to host national and international conferences at the university
 including: the Annual Birth Conference (2014); an annual Palliative Care Conference (2014-

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2020); an annual Housing and Dementia Research Consortium Conference (2015 – 2019);
 Social Justice conference (2016); Children’s mental health and wellbeing conference (2016);
 International Journal of Birth and Education conference (2016 and 2020), the IPONs conference
 (2017); The Arts in Dementia (TAnDeM) conference (2018) and Namaste Care conference
 (2019).

 Research students

 There has been a significant increase in research student numbers within the submitting unit
 over the REF period. 20 students are currently enrolled in the submitting unit compared to 12 in
 July 2013. 6 current students are full-time (compared to 3 in 2013), 4 of whom are on funded
 studentships. This reflects the plan following the last REF to increase student numbers in areas
 of research priority as aligned with research group activity, as well as a significant investment
 from the University in PhD studentships.

 In early 2015, the Alzheimer’s Society funded a Doctoral Training Centre for The Arts and
 Dementia (TAnDem), a partnership between ADS and the University of Nottingham. Six students
 were awarded studentships through the DTC, three of whom were based at the University of
 Worcester.

 There have been 12 doctoral completions in the REF period, 4 of which were co-funded (3 by
 local NHS Trusts; 1 by the National Childbirth Trust) and 8 of which were co-supervised by staff
 in other units.

 Within this submitting unit there are 2 PhD course leaders who work with students and
 supervisors across the two Schools. The course leaders have an important role to play in
 relation to the selection and recruitment of doctoral candidates: to ensure that only excellent
 students are accepted onto the doctoral programme and that supervisory teams meet the
 requirements of our Research Degree Programme regulations. The course leaders also work
 with academic staff, Research Group leads and the College Director of RKE to advertise self-
 funded PhD opportunities. The course leaders also monitor progress, providing advice and
 support to supervisory teams and students where required, as well as contributing to an AER
 enhancement plan.

 The University has a well-established graduate school (branded as the Research School) that is
 responsible for the management of all Research Degree Programmes (RDPs) from recruitment
 to examination, in partnership with the academic schools (REF5a 3.3.2-3.3.3). The Research
 School is also responsible for research student life, i.e. for the wider development and wellbeing
 of research students.

 The University has expanded the Research School team to reflect the growth in student
 numbers over the REF period. It provides a dedicated work and social space for students. The
 Research School team, co-located in the student space, provides advice and guidance for
 students on their programmes, and, working closely with other student-facing departments such
 as the Disability & Dyslexia Service, the student mental health team, careers service, also offers
 pastoral and wider support. A comprehensive programme of support and guidance has been
 developed for PGR students and supervisors around mental health and wellbeing.

 All students on research degree programmes are required to undertake an associated training
 programme, run by the Research School (REF5a 3.3.4-3.3.5). The programme has been
 mapped against Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework. The programme offers a suite of
 modules, short courses and workshops, delivered face-to-face or online, some of which are
 compulsory for all doctoral students, focused on the following core areas: planning and
 managing research; academic writing; research methods; data analysis; research integrity and
 ethics; dissemination, engagement and impact; careers and employability.



                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University also supports students to engage with external training where this is specialist
 and not available through the University’s programmes. Students are also able to access training
 offered through the GuildHE Research network
 Beyond the programme, the Research School offers additional development opportunities.
 Research Students have opportunities to teach and can access modules and workshops to
 develop their skills in this area, with the opportunity to gain associate or full fellowship of the
 Higher Education Academy. The University offers research student-specific dissemination
 opportunities including an annual “Images of Research” exhibition and student-led PGR
 Conference. The University provides funding opportunities for students to attend and speak at
 external conference and events and separate funds to support students to develop inter and
 cross-disciplinary networks, seminar series, conferences and events. The University is a
 member of the Brilliant Club, a charity focused on improving access to University, which
 provides opportunities for doctoral students to go into schools and deliver tutorials in their area
 of expertise. The Research School also provides ad hoc opportunities: for example, in 2019 the
 lead for the development programme worked with a student team to deliver a University
 programme for Pint of Science.

 Feedback is sought from doctoral students via the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey
 (PRES) every 2 years (see REF5a 3.3.6) and feedback has been utilised over this period to
 encourage doctoral students to feel more embedded within the culture of the College. For
 example:
    • The College Research Seminar series encourages participation from doctoral students,
       providing 1-hour slots where 2 students can present their work together in a supportive
       environment
    • Students and supervisors have been encouraged to attend the annual PG Conference, to
       showcase doctoral student activity across the College
    • Students have been invited to provide posters at annual Research Events within the
       Institute (and now College). Invites to these events have been extended to doctoral
       students.
    • There is research student representation on the College RKE Subcommittee which
       ensures the student voice is fed into the development of research strategy at College
       level.

 The Research School maintains a register of approved supervisors which identifies the expertise
 and experience of supervisors. The number of approved supervisors across the two schools
 reflected in this unit has increased from 22 to 30 over the REF period. As well as supporting
 supervisory teams within the College, 5 supervisors are also supporting doctoral students in
 other units (Bradley, Carter, Mitchell, Snelling, Thomas).

 Supervisors are supported in their role through the Research Supervisor Training programme, a
 cluster within the broader Researcher Development Programme for staff. This programme has
 been in place for some 20 years but was rethought and relaunched in 2018/19. The programme
 offers a wide range of support for supervisors at various career stages on themes such as:
 introduction to supervision, supervisory styles, regulations and processes, supervising
 international students, PGR mental health and wellbeing, supporting student progress. New
 supervisors must complete the whole programme but more experienced supervisors must also
 engage with core elements and all supervisors are required to engage in regular refresher
 training (every 3 years). The programme is complemented by supervisor lunches that bring
 together supervisors to discuss key topics and challenges in supervision.

 All supervisors are encouraged to engage with the UKCGE Good Supervisor Practice
 Framework and Accreditation programme, with workshops currently underway to support
 supervisors to apply for recognition. Dr Theresa Mitchell has been accredited by the UKCGE
 for her excellence in supervisory practice and was shortlisted for the award of Times Higher
 Outstanding Research Supervisor of the Year in 2019.

 Equality and diversity

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The University has a fundamental commitment to equality and diversity (REF5a 3.4). It seeks to
 consider and apply equality and diversity principles in all that it does. Its policies and processes
 are designed to disadvantage no-one and are subject to ongoing equality impact assessment to
 ensure this is the case.

 The unit’s approach flows from this with the Head of School ensuring that the University’s
 principles and policies are fully enacted. Line managers are sure staff are aware of and are
 supported to engage with, for example, the University’s flexible working policy, its parental leave
 policies, its policies which support carers (such as its Critical Illness Policy) and its staff
 wellbeing initiatives (see REF5a 3.1.8)

 Several staff in the unit have benefitted from the University’s flexible working policy (REF5a
 3.1.8) with a move to part-time or compressed hours. There is no evidence that this has
 impacted on research productivity, access to funding or progression. It is notable that both at
 institutional (REF5a Table 2) and unit level, part time staff are as well-represented in the
 Category A submitted as eligible category.

 Staff in the unit have taken parental leave in the assessment period. They have received active
 support to transition back to work after the leave period, through “keeping-in-touch” days,
 phased return, mentoring. It is ensured that where a staff member takes parental leave this does
 not impact on research leadership or supervisory roles. The School has a fair and flexible
 approach to working, particularly during the current lockdown period in recognition of the
 challenges of home schooling.

 Staff in the unit are committed to equality and diversity. Staff were members of the University’s
 Athena SWAN self-assessment team; the University received its institutional Bronze Award in
 April 2018 and is committed to making departmental applications in the next 2 years. Staff are
 also engaged with various staff networks focused on protected characteristics and with the
 LGBTQ+ Allies scheme.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 There has been a steady increase in research income across the REF period, rising from
 £428,953 in 2013/14 to £512,444 in 2019/20.

 ADS has been particularly successful in winning funding from the Alzheimer’s Society over the
 period. Examples of major projects include:
     • Namaste Care Intervention (2016-2019).
         Namaste is a multi-component intervention developed in the USA shown to reduce
         distress behaviours, pain, use of antipsychotics, hypnotics and depressive symptoms
         and inappropriate hospitalisation in people living with advanced dementia. The team
         were funded to establish the evidence of effectiveness for the intervention, from research
         and practice. The intervention was trialled in 6 care homes and a Community of Practice
         for those using the approach was established and is now available to practitioners from
         across the world. Collaborators included the University of Western Sydney; the
         University of South Florida; St Christophers Hospice and Dementia Positive.
     • SCI-Dem: Sustainable Community Interventions for People living with Dementia (2018 –
         2020)
         This research was designed to deepen the understanding of community-based
         interventions (e.g social groups, clubs, activities, day support) for people and families
         affected by dementia. A realist programme theory of how best to implement community-
         based interventions was developed, with recommendations provided to encourage initial
         engagement and longer-term sustainability.
     • TAnDem: Doctoral Training Centre (2015-2020)


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        This DTC, one of just 8 funded across the UK, was developed in partnership with the
        Centre for Dementia, University of Nottingham. The Centre was designed to advance
        knowledge about the impact of engagement with creative activities for people with all
        stages of dementia, their families and professional carers. Six studentships were offered
        over the period and all students were offered the complementary resources of the
        University of Worcester and University of Nottingham, including co-supervisory teams.
    •   CHARM: Care Home Action Researcher In Residence (2019 - 2021)
        CHARM was funded by the Alzheimer’s Society and Dunhill Medical Trust and
        investigates whether having a ‘researcher-in-residence' helps care homes to become
        more research aware and active. In addition to the ADS team, the project has involved 4
        care providers as co-applicants (Assured Healthcare Ltd; Hallmark Care Homes;
        Sanctuary Care; Care UK).

 In 2014, the ADS were co-investigators on the EU Joint Programme – Neurodegenerative
 Disease (JPND) MEETING DEM research project, funded by the ESRC in the UK, which was
 designed to implement and evaluate the innovative Meeting Centres Support Programme
 (MCSP) for people with dementia and their carers. Professor Brooker and Professor Martin
 Orrell (University of Nottingham) led the UK research team. In 2018, the ADS team (Brooker,
 Evans, Bray) were awarded a National Lottery grant from the Big Lottery Fund to extend this
 work by implementing new Meeting Centres across the UK and building capacity for community-
 based dementia support.

 Staff have received funding from NIHR, as leads and as collaborators. NIHR-funded projects
 include:
     • Evans and Atkinson collaborated with the Bristol (lead) and Kent on the ECHO study:
         Every Day Operation of Models of Social Care Provision within the Extra Care Sector
         (2015). NIHR School for Social Care Research
     • Hope collaborated with the Birmingham (lead) on the APPEAL study: Antenatal
         Prophylactic Pelvic floor Exercises and Localisation (2015). NIHR Programme Grant
     • Nolan collaborated with Cardiff University (lead) on the POOL study: Establishing the
         safety of water birth for mothers and babies (2018). NIHR Health Technology
         Assessment Programme.
     • Williamson collaborated with Manchester (lead) on Family Carer Training:
         Measurement, tools development and feasibility study (2019). NIHR Research for Patient
         Benefit Scheme.
     • Brooker leads on Get Real with Meeting Centres: Realist Evaluation (2020). NIHR
         Research for Social Care
     • Williamson is a co-investigator with the Midlands Partnership NHS Foundation Trust
         (lead) on the ENRICH study: Exploring how the naturalistic skills of care-workers impact
         on the well-being of residences in care homes (2020). NIHR Research for Patient Benefit
         Scheme.

 As with the previous submission, colleagues have had continued success with funding to
 support local evaluation projects, notably in the areas of healthcare leadership and
 organisational developments (e.g. Bennett, Bradley). Funding for evaluative project work has
 been received from local, regional and national healthcare organisations including Health
 Education West Midlands; Health Education England, South West Healthcare, Technology
 Strategy Board, Worcestershire Children First, Worcester Acute Hospitals NHS Trust,
 Gloucestershire Hospitals NHS Trust and the Midlands Partnership NHS Foundation Trust.

 Collaborative links have been established with the public sector and third sector organisations
 (charities, voluntary and community) to complete funded work over the period. Funders have
 included the Rooftops Housing Association, St Pauls Hostel, Extra Care Charitable Trust,
 Worcestershire Children First, Worcestershire City Council and Herefordshire and
 Worcestershire Fire Service. Much of this work has focused on housing with research
 considering homelessness (Thomas), as well as dementia-friendly environments (Evans).


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Colleagues have also received funding for research from Professional Bodies including the
 Royal College of Nursing (Brooker, Bennett), the Royal College of Occupational Therapists
 (Thomas) and Royal College of Chiropractors (Waller).
 Infrastructure and Facilities

 The University has invested significantly in its research support infrastructure over the REF
 period. There are robust Pre- and Post-Award processes for externally funded projects
 (approved in 2018 and subject to evaluation and review in 2020). These processes scaffold the
 Research Office support systems set out above and ensure good governance for bids and for
 projects.
 Staff within the submitting unit work closely with colleagues based in the Research Office to
 develop bids for funding, with support available at pre- and post-award. Within the College,
 there is an RKE facilitator who disseminates information about new opportunities for research
 funding to colleagues, works closely with Research Group leads to develop a research funding
 profile (including fingerprinting for Research Professional), provides tailored information about
 specific opportunities on request and registers information about bids in preparation. Peer review
 for draft bids is encouraged for every submission, and mandated for larger value bids, as well as
 those targeting Research Council and UKRI opportunities. A peer review process is co-
 ordinated by the College Director of RKE, utilising expert feedback from academic colleagues
 across the College. Colleagues are also signposted to regional sources of peer review
 feedback, including the Research Design Service for NIHR funding and there have been several
 training and support events drawing on input from colleagues based within these services over
 the period.

 It has been recognised that these processes need to incorporate Equality Impact Assessments
 at various stages of both pre- and post-award. In lieu of this broader development, the University
 has adopted the BBSRC EIA guidance and template for reviewing research bids. It has also
 been agreed to undertake a review of bidding over a 5-year period from an equality perspective
 and this will be completed in 2021. The review will inform the development of support
 mechanisms for bidding.
 Researchers have access to cross-institutional research facilities including the McClelland
 Centre for Health and Wellbeing, which offers a suite of therapy rooms and has been utilised for
 research projects and KE activities undertaken in collaboration with the local NHS Trust. The
 Hive library is a joint facility for the whole community, students and the public, funded by a
 collaboration between Worcestershire County Council and the university, and the first of its kind
 when it opened in July 2012. This has provided a space for researchers to promote and conduct
 their research, to disseminate research findings (e.g. an annual ‘Images of Research’ exhibition),
 for learning and teaching, as well as knowledge exchange activities and events. The venue has
 been used by colleagues across the unit (for example, it was the venue for the TaNDeM review
 meetings with the Alzheimer’s Society, due to the accessible nature of the building).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations

 Colleagues are encouraged to initiate and sustain collaborative working relationships with HEIs
 across the UK, in order to develop research activities and to enable our researchers to input to
 national research agenda and priority setting. The TAnDem Doctoral Training Centre (DTC) is
 an example of a successful collaborative research endeavour, led by the Association for
 Dementia Studies, University of Worcester and the Centre for Dementia, University of
 Nottingham. Funded by the Alzheimer’s Society this DTC was designed to increase research
 knowledge and capacity across The Arts and Dementia, a previously under-studied but
 important area for dementia care. Students were supported by supervisory teams which each
 brought together expertise from Worcester and Nottingham. Research outputs from the work
 have been produced, contributing to the academic advance of this inter-disciplinary field, as well
 as a range of accompanying knowledge exchange activities. Other national collaborations

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 include: Aston University (Bradley); Bournemouth University (Evans SC); Cambridge University
 (Evans SC); Cardiff University (Nolan); Coventry University (Brooker); Keele University
 (Bradley); Lancaster University (Williamson); Manchester University (Williamson); Sheffield
 Hallam University (Williamson); University of Nottingham (Brooker; Bradley; Evans SC;
 Evans S; Nolan); University of Bristol (Evans SC; Bradley); University of Essex (Brooker;
 Evans SC); University of Kent (Evans SC); University of York (Evans SC); University of
 Birmingham (Hope); London School of Economics (Brooker; Evans S, Evans SC).

 Colleagues are also supported to develop and maintain international collaborative research
 partnerships. The MeetingDEM project is an example of a large, international collaboration
 which involved researchers with the Association for Dementia Studies and multiple international
 partners including VU University, The Netherlands; University of Bologna, Italy; and Wroclaw
 Medical University, Poland. The aim of this project, which was supported through the EU Joint
 Programme - Neurodegenerative Disease Research (JPND), was to implement and evaluate the
 Meeting Centres Support Programme, which originated in the Netherlands, across three
 additional countries – the UK, Italy and Poland. This work has already realised impact from the
 underpinning collaborative research and has been submitted as an impact case study for this
 submitting unit (REF3 UoA03 ICS2). Other successful international collaborations include:
 University of Western Sydney (Brooker), University of Florida (Brooker); University of
 Primorska, Slovenia; University of Glasgow; University of Belgrade, Serbiz; Sogang University,
 Korea; University of Turku, Finland; University College Cork, Ireland (The Enable Project)
 (Evans SB); Agder University, Norway (Nyatanga); Trinity College Dublin (Snelling), University
 of Sydney (Thomas).

 As well as collaborating with academic partners, colleagues are encouraged to work closely with
 health and social care partners. This collaboration has been facilitated by our membership of key
 research strategy and operational groups including:
    • Herefordshire and Worcestershire Research Collaborative
    • Worcestershire Health and Care NHS Trust Research Strategy Group
    • Worcestershire Acute Hospitals NHS Trust Research and Development Committee
    • West Midlands Academic Health Science Network (AHSN) Membership Innovation
        Council
    • Midlands NHS Partnership Foundation Trust Research and Innovation Committee

 ADS works closely with the social care sector, care home providers and social enterprise
 organisations for example Care UK, Hallmark Care Homes, Sanctuary Care and Assured Health
 Care Solutions, Friends of the Elderly, Assured Healthcare Solutions, Residents and Relatives
 Association, Orders of St John’s Care Trust; Six Degrees Social Enterprise, Salford. There are
 also relationships with County Councils and charitable organisations for example, Nolan
 collaborated with Kirklees Council to evaluate ‘Nurturing Parents’ Preparation for Parenthood
 Programme and Nyatanga has worked closely with palliative care and local hospice charities.

 Contribution to the Research Base

 Staff have held the following positions in learned societies and relevant professional bodies for
 example, Associate Fellow of the British Psychological Society (Bradley, Brooker). Colleagues
 are also members of national and international research networks including British Society of
 Gerontology (Evans SC), the Dementia Arts and Wellbeing Network (Brooker), Sigma Theta
 Tau (Mitchell). The University is an active member of GuildHE Research (formerly CREST).

 Staff have acted as reviewers to grant committees: NIHR (Bradley, Williamson), Alzheimer’s
 Society (Evans SC), ESRC (Brooker, Evans SC), Dunhill Research Foundation (Evans SC)

 Colleagues also hold membership of editorial boards: Aging and Mental Health, Journal of
 Dementia Care, Dementia: The International Journal of Social Research and Practice (Brooker),
 Aging and Society (Evans SC), Enabling Technology (Williamson), Frontiers in Psychiatry,
 Neurology and Therapy (Bradley), Journal of Psychology and Behavioural Sciences (Grant),

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Nursing Philosophy (Lipscomb and Snelling), International Journal of Birth and Parent
 Education, Motherdom (Nolan), British Journal of Community Nursing, International Journal of
 Palliative Nursing, Progress in Palliative Care (Nyatanga).

 They routinely review for journals, publishers, etc., e.g. International Journal of Nursing Studies,
 Nurse Education Today, Journal of Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing, Social Science and
 Medicine, Journal of Advanced Nursing, Frontiers in Psychiatry, BMC Systematic Reviews,
 Health Expectations, Journal of Psychopharmacology, Mental Health Review, Nursing
 Philosophy, International Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry, Health and Social Care in the
 Community, Journal of Medical Systems, British Journal of Nursing, Journal of Child Health,
 Acta Paediatrica, British Journal of Cardiac Nursing, Routledge, SAGE, Policy Press.

 Contribution to Economy and Society

 Staff within the submitting unit are engaged in a range of activities which make wider
 contributions to the research base economy and society. These include:
     • External roles with stakeholder organisations including Associate Director of Research
         and Innovation, Midlands NHS Partnership Foundation Trust (Bradley); Interim chair of
         the internal ethics committee of West Mercia Policy (Snelling); Trustee Board Member,
         St Richards Hospice (Nyatanga); Joint professorial appointment with Dementia Carers
         Count (Williamson).
     • Membership of advisory panels and steering groups including those from Industry (e.g
         Otsuka and Lundbek) (Bradley); Expert Advisory Group for Royal College of Midwifery
         Practice Guidance for care of women in labour (Nolan); Member of the Reference Group
         for the Prime Minister’s Challenge on Dementia and the 2020 vision (Brooker); the
         national Dementia Workforce Advisory Group to Health Education England (Brooker),
         The Dementia Advisory Group for the British Psychological Society (Brooker), the
         National Dementia Action Alliance (Brooker), Futures of Dementia Care to 2020
         (Brooker)

 The ADS have an ongoing commitment to engage with external policy maker events in order to
 disseminate their research. They are routinely invited to be involved in national and international
 policy developments to improve dementia care:
     • advising the Care Quality Commission on aspects of dementia care, including the use of
         CCTV in care homes
     • providing evidence for the All Party Parliamentary Group on Dementia, the All
         Parliamentary Group on Arts & Health, the Health and Wellbeing Innovation Commission
         Inquiry and the House of Lord’s Inquiry into Music for an Aging Population in 2019
     • Involved in the G7 Action on Dementia, providing evidence on person-centred dementia
         care in 2015 and 2018

 As well as publishing extensively through original research papers and books on dementia care,
 the ADS team have presented and led professional workshops at conferences worldwide,
 provided face-to-face dementia care education programmes to over 5,600 professionals across
 the UK, worked directly with 55 care providers organisations to improve their practice in
 dementia care, hosted free seminars and events on dementia that have been open to UW staff,
 the public and to professionals, and established a strong social media and web presence to
 disseminate information.

 The aspiration to develop our service user involvement in 2014 has been realised by the conduct
 of research by colleagues within this UoA (Bradley, Williamson) as well as colleagues based in
 this College but submitted elsewhere (e.g UoA20; Unwin, UoA4; Smith). Williamson has been
 invited to present her work in the area of Patient and Public Involvement and Engagement
 (PPIE) at regional and national research events (Manchester Academic Health Sciences Centre;
 MEDTEC master class).
 Members of ADS routinely give public lectures about their research including


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   May 2019, Dementia: The biggest health Challenge of the 21st Century Hay Literary
        Festival, Hay on Wye, UK.
    •   May 2018, Living well with dementia. Zella and Ken Shawyer Memorial Lecture, Great
        Malvern, UK.
    •   March 2017, Women: the hidden voices in dementia. Global Alzheimer’s & Dementia
        Action Alliance (GADAA) International Women’s Day Webinar. London, UK.
    •   March 2016, Understanding Dementia and new approaches to Dementia Friendly
        Communities Professoriate Lecture series, Hereford University Centre, UK.
    •   March 2016, The Meeting Centres Support Programme: ‘Medicine and Me: Living well
        with dementia’ Royal Society of Medicine, London, UK.
    •   April 2015, Masterclass in Transforming the Culture of Dementia Care, Flinders
        University and Australian Dementia Training Studies Centres, Sydney, Australia




                                                                                      Page 15
