Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Northumbria at Newcastle

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 18 Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context, Mission and Structure
 Law research at Northumbria reflects our passion for applying high-quality research to the real
 world and driving change. Through building vibrant communities of researchers, we bring
 doctrinal, theoretical, and socio-legal perspectives to bear on the challenges of contemporary
 society; shaping agendas, policy, and law at a local, national, and international level.


 The REF2021 assessment period has been transformational, significantly building upon the first
 submission of law at Northumbria to REF2014. The Unit of Assessment has grown from 13.7FTE
 colleagues in REF2014 to 77.01FTE colleagues as part of this REF submission. We have 28
 research student completions, compared with 2 in REF2014, and £755,570 in Research Grant
 and Contract Income (RGCI), compared with £70,875 in REF2014. Behind these numbers is a
 story of a transformational and sustained investment in people, culture, and capacity.


 The Law School is situated in the Faculty of Business and Law at Northumbria. We are one of the
 biggest Law Schools in the UK and have been long known for our pioneering integration of
 academic learning and legal practice. Our institutional realignment towards an ambitious research
 agenda has seen us translate our historic approach to innovative and practical teaching into a
 passion for research excellence which drives our pedagogy, and which has a real-world practical
 impact driving empirical discoveries, new theoretical advances, and doctrinal understandings to
 deliver and inform change in our society.

 1.2 Research Strategy

 1.2.1 Strategic Alignment and a Vibrant Research Culture
 Building and developing vibrant research communities is at the heart of our strategy.            Our
 approach has been focused around three large research groupings. Our Centre for Evidence and
 Criminal Justice Studies (led by Stockdale) sits alongside the ‘signature’ research groupings
 Legal Education and Professional Skills (LEAPS) (led by Roper and E Hall) and Law and Society
 (led by Arthur), which in turn embrace smaller research groupings designed to be less formal and
 to develop critical mass. All colleagues align with at least one group, and in many cases multiple
 research groups. These areas provide foci for colleagues and research students to share ideas,
 collaborate with external researchers and policymakers, practitioners, and other research user
 communities. Much of our work focuses upon people on the margins of society and their quest
 for justice, whether that is in the criminal justice system, environmental justice, or broader social


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and economic justice, such as through the prism of family law or gender, and increasingly science
 and technology. This again reflects our heritage as a Law School but translates that history into
 responses to contemporary research challenges such as global environmental justice, and cross-
 border co-operation.


 These research communities have provided a space for long-standing researchers to identify with
 and to access networks of support as they develop a research profile, in many cases alongside
 doctoral study.   PhD studentships have brought high-quality applicants into these research
 communities, providing further dynamism and stimulus for research activity. The incubation and
 development of new research talent was seen as being equally crucial for continued and
 sustainable growth. New strategic appointments have in turn deepened the expertise and capacity
 around these research groupings, whilst sabbaticals, research funding (for example conference
 attendance and research assistants) and dedicated support for colleagues on research funding
 and impact have created an infrastructure for colleagues to raise the quality of their work and
 widen the reach and significance of their research, and new funding following to leverage this
 expertise. By way of illustration, from 2018/19, the Faculty has set aside £44k per annum to
 support the creation of a virtual Knowledge Exchange and Innovation (KEI) Platform. This initiative
 was designed to respond to staff requests for seed-funding of events and activity that would lead
 to collaborations resulting in RGCI, Knowledge Exchange and impact activity. For instance,
 funding during this REF cycle has supported cross-disciplinary activity in fraud and financial crime.
 Drawing on our research from our Financial Crime and Compliance Research Group, funding
 enabled the development of the relationship with the North-East NHS Audit Consortium AuditOne,
 and enhanced our profile within the counter fraud world, in particular paying to exhibit at the launch
 of the Government Counter Fraud Profession (GCFP) by the Cabinet Office in Newcastle in
 October 2018 and for attendance at a specialist counter fraud conference later this year. In
 January 2020 we entered into an agreement with AuditOne. This research partnership is intended
 to be a long-term offering generating in excess of £100,000 per annum.


 1.2.2 Evidence of progress from REF2014
 Following the submission of REF2014, the Law School set out to increase significantly our volume
 of staff producing high quality research whilst holistically developing our discipline. This has
 served to unlock the HEI led investment that has enabled our research centre and signature areas
 to act as key drivers for our recruitment, research environment, PGR community, income
 generation, and research impact, with all staff aligning to at least one area. The Law School has
 invested in over 282,000 research hours over the REF2021 period, with a 54% increase from
 30,938 hours in 2013/14 to 47,793 hours per annum by the end of the assessment period. The
 number of law staff with doctorates has increased from 16 in 2013/14 to 41 in 2019/20. Our
 professoriate has grown from 8 at the start of the REF2021 cycle to 18 by the end of this period,


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 further providing research leadership and experience. Our ECR community has similarly grown,
 from 2 submitted previously to 22. These ECR colleagues are a key force in driving our creative
 and vibrant research community.


 The REF2021 period has seen a dramatic growth in both the number and value of research
 applications, reflecting a maturing of our research culture, and rooted in our vibrant research
 communities. In 2013-14 we submitted 21 funding applications, and by 19-20 we submitted 31,
 whilst the value of applications grew from a total of £415k in 2013-14, to £1.7M by the mid-point
 of 2016-17 and was at £4.1M in 2019-20.


 This reflects the growing community of researchers collaborating on funding applications and
 embedding partnerships with external research users.       Of the top ten institutions that we
 collaborate with through writing partnerships, four are outside the UK: University of New South
 Wales UNSW Australia (11 outputs), Willem Pompe Institute for Criminal Law (5 outputs), Utrecht
 University (5 outputs), and Peking University (4 outputs). Moreover, the six impact case studies
 in our REF2021 submission contrast to two in REF2014, and combined with our ongoing impactful
 work – notably in relation to criminal justice, technology, and space law – our growing funding
 success is fuelling high-quality research and the impact stories of tomorrow. Global in outlook
 and ambitious in impact, much of our research is embedded in international and multi-disciplinary
 collaboration.


 1.3 Research Organisation
 We have three formal research areas: the Centre for Evidence and Criminal Justice Studies, the
 Legal Education and Professional Skills (LEAPS) Group, and the Law and Society Research
 Group.


 We have an additional ten research interest groups - smaller less-formal groups designed to
 nurture emerging themes and strands of activity and which typically enhance/contribute to the
 three signature areas. These groups consist of: Chinese Law, Society and Economy (led by
 Shen); Empirical Legal Studies Research (led by Dargue and Paterson and collaborating with
 Tyrrell at Newcastle for cross-institution working); Financial Crime Compliance (led by Mitford);
 International and Comparative Law and Human Rights (led by McGrogan); Law and Humanities
 (led by Rutherford and Gray); Medical and Mental Health (MELRIG)(led by Burrell); Science and
 Justice (led by McCartney); Family Justice (led by Speed and Richardson); Gender, Sexuality
 and Law (led by Hamilton and Graham); and NINSO, the Northumbria Internet & Society RIG
 (led by Tiarks).




                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These groupings allow colleagues to come together in focussed communities, but the boundaries
 are encouraged to be fluid, enabling cross group collaboration with a number of colleagues
 operating as members of multiple groupings. This enables colleagues to deepen the rigour of the
 work with specialist peer-support networks whilst also working collaboratively across boundaries
 to maximise originality and significance of the research produced. To take just one example; our
 growing work in biometrics and forensics (Amankwaa, Carr, McCartney) also enriches our
 broader work relating to criminal justice (Brewis, Edmond, Jackson, Piasecki, Stockdale,
 Wilson, Wortley), and can be seen flowing into the Impact Case Studies of McCartney and also
 Piasecki et al.


 1.3.1 The Centre for Evidence and Criminal Justice Studies
 The Northumbria Centre for Evidence and Criminal Justice Studies (NCECJS) encourages the
 exchange of ideas and facilitates collaboration regionally, nationally and internationally. The
 Centre’s work addresses a broad spectrum of research themes on how domestic and international
 criminal justice legal systems and laws can be substantively and practically reformed at all levels
 to benefit impacted stakeholders.       NCECJS brings together Northumbria academics and
 postgraduate students from a range of disciplines (36 members) with colleagues from other
 academic institutions, members of the judiciary, legal practitioners and other major stakeholders
 in the criminal justice system such as senior police officers and leading expert witnesses (24
 members). The impactful nature of our research and engagement in this area can be seen in the
 impact case study, Developing a new Professional Regulatory Standard and enhancing capability
 of forensic science practitioners to improve the reliability of forensic science evidence in the
 criminal justice system (Piasecki et al).


 NCECJS (Stockdale and Wilson) successfully delivered part of the United Kingdom Prüm
 Fingerprint Evaluation Project (co-funded by the European Commission and the Home Office)
 between 2014-2016), which brought £190,126 to Northumbria University. Building on this success,
 our researchers (Jackson, Brants, Wilson) are part of team that has secured a £1 million
 international research project that will examine how such international criminal justice cooperation
 should be effectively underpinned legally and the training for this required to assist police
 detectives and prosecutors. The multi-national research contract was supported by NordForsk
 (the Scandinavian region’s joint research body): the UK’s Economic and Social Sciences
 Research Council and the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research.


 The ‘dark web’ project (PDTOR) is a collaboration between Northumbria, the Netherlands Open
 University, the Norwegian Police University College and Stockholm University. They are studying
 tensions between privacy and crime fighting on the TOR-network – a free software that allows
 anonymous communication. In addition, the team are looking at ways of ensuring that evidence


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of international criminal activity can be collected effectively and exchanged efficiently between
 different jurisdictions. The impact case study, Criminal Justice Cooperation Between the United
 Kingdom and Ireland After Brexit: maintaining security throughout the Common Travel Area (led
 by Davies) develops this theme.


 In January 2017 Wilson was invited to deliver oral evidence to the Justice Committee on Brexit
 and implications for the criminal justice system. In February 2019 McCartney was invited to speak
 at the Parliamentary briefing on ‘Biometrics’ and was further invited to speak to the to the All-Party
 Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Miscarriages of Justice in February 2020. She currently serves
 as Permanent advisor on forensic science to the APPG. Her status as one of the UK’s leading
 experts in the area is illustrated in the impact case study, Enhancing the regulatory framework for
 biometrics in Scotland, guiding policy discussions in the UK and New Zealand, and building
 capacity at the UK National Crime Agency.


 1.3.2 Legal Education and Professional Skills (LEAPS) Research Group
 The LEAPS Signature Research Group builds on the work of the Clinical Legal Education
 Research group which operated at the time of REF2014. There has been a significant increase in
 the number of published outputs emanating from LEAPS since the 2014 assessment. Crucially,
 the formation of this group has enabled staff to develop the theoretical underpinning to their
 practice-based teaching, and lead on broadened thematic research questions addressing reforms
 to legal education nationally and internationally.      The group brings together 26 academic
 colleagues and research students.


 Our legal education research and expertise significantly impacts and influences the Higher
 Education sector. For example, Ashford undertook the 2019 review of the QAA Law Benchmark
 Statement (which defines the academic standards that can be expected of UK law graduates),
 and served as a member of the 2014 Review Group. He was a member of the 2015 Bar Standards
 Board (BSB) Academic Stage Working Group, and 2016 BSB Pathways to Qualification Task
 Completion Group. This external activity also contributed to the shaping of edited collections in
 2016 (with Duncan and Guth) and 2018 (with McKeown).


 Funding success has further stimulated research activity and ultimately high-quality research
 outputs. For instance, we secured Modern Law Review (MLR) funding to host Revisiting Pressing
 Problems in the Law: What is the Law School For?’ (Dunn and Roper) whilst funding from the
 Association of Law Teachers in 2015 enabled us to bring together leading clinical education
 thinkers to examine Assessment in Clinical Legal Education and included Professor Cees van der
 Vleuten (Maastricht University), Judith McNamara, (QUT, Australia), and Jose Garcia Anon
 (University of Valencia).


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Our work also flows into community engagement and enhancing our curriculum. For example, in
 2018, Speed and Richardson led the Family Justice Project which undertook work with a BAME
 women’s organisation (Angelou Centre, Ben Hoare Bell LLP and Impact Family Services). The
 project was awarded “best pro bono activity” at the LawWorks and Attorney General’s Student Pro
 Bono Awards 2018. It formed the basis for our successful application to Global Alliance for Justice
 Education (GAJE) for a comparative project with Indian clinicians.


 Research group members also serve on editorial boards of a number of legal education journals
 (The Law Teacher: Ashford (Editor), Gregersen, Richardson, E Hall; The Asian Journal of Legal
 Education: J Hall) and maintain strong links with professional organisations including the
 Association of Law Teachers, the Legal Education Research Network and the Clinical Legal
 Education Organisation.


 Throughout the period of REF2021 we have also organised the annual International Journal of
 Clinical Legal Education Conference partnering with global organisations and international law
 schools. This conference has enabled our Law School to collaborate with institutions such as
 Toronto University in Canada (2016), Monash University in Australia (2018), Comenius University
 in Slovakia (2019) and the Law Society of Ireland in Eire (2020). Such activity not only enables
 researchers within the Law School to disseminate high-quality legal education research, but to
 build enduring collaborations which further the development of the partnerships that are critical for
 supporting our ambitions in terms of RGCI and impact in the future.


 1.3.3 Law and Society Research Group
 The Law and Society Signature Research Area promotes and encourages innovative research of
 international quality focusing on socio-legal, empirical and theoretical analysis of laws, legal
 institutions and processes and the impact of social, political, economic and scientific influences on
 law, legal professions and legal activities. It specifically nurtures sociological and socio-legal
 methodology including empirical research methods in legal science. The group encourages inter-
 disciplinarity to present legal solutions to pressing social injustices, and incubates people, ideas
 and projects which engage critically with the challenges facing contemporary society at the
 intersection of law and society. Its membership includes established and experienced academic
 staff, early career researchers, and PhD students (64 members).


 The Law and Society Signature Research Group is at the forefront of developing cutting edge
 research in non-traditional areas of legal inquiry. Rieu-Clarke’s work on international disputes on
 water rights is providing new insights into regional conflicts across the globe. Between 2017 and
 2019, he was on secondment to the United Nations in Geneva. He served as a legal advisor to


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 one of the United Nations agencies responsible for the implementation of the SDGs, namely the
 United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE). The impactfulness of his work can
 be seen in one of our impact case studies, Enhancing reporting under the SDGs and the Water
 Convention to progress transboundary water cooperation.


 The collaborative nature of our research in nascent areas of law can be further demonstrated by
 Newman who is engaging in pioneering work on the governance framework for human activity in
 outer space. In 2019, he worked in partnership with space consultancy company, Northern Space
 and Security (NORSS) as part of a consortium providing horizon scanning for the UK Space
 Agency. The relationships established on this project led to the Law School signing a
 memorandum of understanding with a leading space debris removal company, Astroscale, looking
 to apply decommissioning regulations and principles from energy industries within the space
 sector. The appointment of Oswald, a world-recognised expert in Cyber Law, as a Vice
 Chancellor’s Senior Research Fellow illustrates the commitment of the Law School to develop the
 study of law governing cyber and space technology within the Research Group.


 As in other areas, funding is also shaping our activity, particularly in an international context. In
 2019, Guinchard successfully obtained funding ($58,206) from the United Nations Development
 Programme (UNDP). Under the guidance of the Maldives Attorney General’s Office and UNDP,
 Guinchard will lead the process of drafting a comprehensive civil procedure code for the Maldives.


 We operate on a global canvas, but our researchers are also providing innovative legal solutions
 on a regional level in the UK to further our role as part of a civic institution. The case study,
 Changing education practice in a Secure Children’s Home, and guiding youth justice policy
 development in England, Wales, and New Zealand (Arthur, Wake and Dunn) is built on the novel
 application of new methodologies to engage with young offenders. The innovation within this work
 has led to international academic collaboration with the Auckland Institute of Technology in New
 Zealand. It is also emblematic of the way in which the work of the Law and Society Signature
 Research Group is helping to shape the frontiers of legal research on a national and international
 level whilst emphasising a strong commitment to community engagement.


 1.4 Impact Strategy
 Our research groups described in 1.3 are at the core of our impact strategy. These groups and
 clusters sustain communities of researchers with a focused critical mass of expertise, promoting
 dialogue and collaboration. Together with their external networks (academic, practice, business,
 policy, and third-sector), these groups are flexibly positioned to pro-actively lead policy agendas
 and to engage with responsive calls. Dedicated impact officers, and focused writing retreats
 provide administrative support and advice to develop and record impact throughout the lifecycle


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of a research project. Our strategy is underpinned by further resource in the form of departmental
 impact funds to support evidence-gathering (for instance supporting Gill to travel to India and
 China, and Arthur, Dunn and Wake to deepen their engagement with the youth justice system).
 The benefit of this investment can ultimately be seen in their respective Impact Case Studies.


 Growing RCGI success and the partnering with external organisations, whether that be the United
 Nations, the Forensic Science Regulator, or the UK Biometrics Commissioner – to name just three
 examples from our REF2021 impact case studies – our strategy is based on partnerships and
 rooted in our research communities as vibrant and dynamic spaces for dialogue, often
 underpinned by conferences and events supported through RGCI that allows dissemination of
 research and collaboration in future research project, RGCI funding application design, and
 research co-design more generally as can be seen in our Piasecki et al Impact Case Study.


 Focused events have taken place to highlight opportunities for dissemination and pathways to
 impact. For example, in 2017, we hosted an event with the UK Parliament, open to other
 researchers in the region, which concentrated on influencing parliamentarians, facilitating
 research utilisation in the policy-making and legislative process, and the role of the select
 committees.    During this period, a number of researchers have appeared before select
 committees, shaping public discourse and legislative agendas (McCartney and Wilson).


 At an operational level support for the development of impact (including beyond REF ambitions)
 has been systematic and ongoing, and the University has invested in Impact Managers and
 Faculty -facing impact co-ordinators who, over a number of years have been working with
 individual researchers to support evidence collection. This has meant that impact has been
 specifically built into project design from the outset. The Law School has supported a professorial
 academic impact lead (Rieu-Clarke) who advises colleagues on embedding and achieving
 impact.


 1.5 Open Access and Ethical Research Practice
 Northumbria University has adopted an open access policy which fully complies with Research
 England and other funder policies. We have also made a significant investment in an open
 access (OA) publication fund which enables us to enhance impact for selected publications.
 Law colleagues are invited to apply to this central fund. We also actively seek to engage and
 influence the wider OA agenda. In 2019 for instance, Ashford was one of around 25 leading
 researchers from UK disciplines invited to take part in the UKRI Open Access Policy review
 through their researcher workshop to develop an evidence base for policy change.




                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Beyond this, law has embraced Open Access through ‘Diamond’ access (free to publish, free to
 access). The Law School, working closely with colleagues from the University Library, has used
 the Open Journal Systems platform to launch five OA academic research journals, as well as a
 sixth professional practice and academic research journal for students in higher education in any
 discipline. The International Journal of Mental Health and Capacity Law (edited by Kris Gledhill
 at the University of Auckland) and the International Journal of Clinical Legal Education (edited by
 E Hall) were previously printed in hardcopy by Northumbria University Press, and have now re-
 orientated to be diamond open access via the journal platform. They have been joined by four
 new journals: the International Journal of Gender, Sexuality and Law (edited by Graham), the
 Journal of Law, Technology and Trust (edited by Oswald) and two legal education journals
 described at 1.3.2 above. All journals are supported in editorial function by the University
 publications team.


 The University Research Ethics Committee is responsible for overseeing research governance
 across the institution and is managed through an online submission system and is underpinned
 by regular mandatory training for all researchers on ethics. Similar mandatory training on data
 protection issues underpins our compliance with data protection principles and appropriate legal
 requirements. This is monitored through annual research ethics audits in all faculties.
 Professorial leadership for ethics is provided in the Law School by Ward. Additionally, many
 researchers within the Unit are members of the Association of Law Teachers and/or the Socio-
 Legal Studies Association and additionally comply with their research ethics statements.
 Ashford also co-authored the inaugural ethics statement for the Association of Law Teachers
 during the REF2021 period, shaping the approach to ethics for all members.

 1.6 Conclusion and future growth strategy
 The context and structure for the Law School’s submission to REF2021 has seen us deliver
 significant growth in both researcher numbers and capability. The challenge for the next period,
 post-REF2021 will be to develop strategies that will support further sustainable development of
 research within the Law School. There will be continued strategic investment in recruiting high-
 quality researchers in areas of strength. We will continue and enhance our focus on early career
 researchers and a commitment to their development. This will be allied to support for the continued
 growth in our postgraduate research community and postgraduate research environment.


 Strategic emphasis will be placed on a further increase in RGCI funding application activity to
 enable enhanced investment. This will continue to strengthen our international reputation and
 engagement with the global research community and users of research. By pursuing this
 progressive agenda, we will achieve a deepened approach to impact, with commensurate support
 to further develop impact activity and pathways to impact. Perhaps most significantly, we will


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 continue and further develop our leadership in the field of legal scholarship through embedding a
 sustainable and vibrant culture of research excellence amongst all of our academic staff.


 Building on our research strength, this focus on further capacity building and excellence will
 enable us to attract, develop, and retain the next generation of researchers, such as through
 expansion of our doctoral numbers in the next REF assessment period to ensure a 1:1 ratio with
 staff submitted to the next REF. This enhanced community of researchers will enable us to
 further respond to the research challenges that we are already leading and shaping such as with
 criminal justice, science, and technology in areas such as biometrics, Artificial Intelligence, and
 space law. Alongside our work on cross-border collaboration, and justice for marginalised and
 isolated groups, we will – with enhanced capacity and capability - continue to bring our research
 to bear on the present and emerging challenges of contemporary society. As evidence of our
 future ambitions, Oswald has recently secured AHRC funding for an Observatory for Monitoring
 Data-Driven Approaches to Covid-19, and Badar an award from the MLR Seminar Fund on
 Adjudicating Gender-Based Perspectives as a Crime against Humanity at the International
 Criminal Court and Beyond.


 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy
 The REF2021 period has seen significant investment in law at Northumbria. This has been
 focussed around three areas.       Firstly, the mentoring and support for colleagues who have
 traditionally focused on teaching and legal practice, including support for doctoral study.
 Secondly, the support and development for existing colleagues at early, mid and late career
 stages. Thirdly, new strategic appointments aligned around our three key areas of Criminal Justice
 and Evidence, Legal Education, and Law and Society.


 New appointments join established communities with support networks, but we also encourage
 colleagues to use these groups (and the research interest groups) as starting points for
 collaboration across groups. For example, Clough and Crofts who both work across law and
 society and criminal justice through their work on sexuality and criminal justice and together with
 Graham have strengthened our work relating to gender and sexuality within our law and society
 cluster (joining Ashford, Clayton-Helm, Hamilton, Richardson, and Speed notably working in
 this area) or Defossez, Newman, and Oswald who through their work aligned to science and
 technology are also contributing across the law and society research group. Having invested in a
 cadre of professors in the last REF as a key driver for building a research culture, this has been
 supported with an emphasis on early career researchers who have brought further energy and




                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international outlook to the unit; for instance: Amankwaa, Birkett, Dargue, Kotecha, Kotsoglou,
 Molloy, Mkwebu, Onazi, Ramshaw, and Zlatev.


 Early Career Researchers benefit from reduced workloads and focused mentoring to encourage
 them to make full use of the resources and support available to all colleagues, such as conference
 support, research assistant funding, dedicated grant support, and/or impact development support
 from Research and Innovation Services, and dissemination and media support from our central
 media team.


 Two Professors have joined the Unit from social work, deepening our expertise in family law policy
 (Holt and Kelly), whilst Carr has joined from applied sciences to support our forensic science and
 criminal justice expertise, strategically enhancing our areas of strength. We have appointed five
 new professors (Crofts, Newman, Rieu-Clarke, Shen, Ward), and two new Vice Chancellor
 Research Fellows (Birkett and Oswald). The Fellows are permanent posts, transitioning to
 Senior Lecturer/Associate Professor in three years, with those initial three years limited to four
 hours per week maximum teaching, ensuring colleagues can develop a significant research profile
 and momentum.


 Of the 16 staff submitted to REF2014, four have moved to other institutions whilst four colleagues
 have been promoted to Chairs (Arthur, Badar, McCartney, and Wake). The remaining eight
 colleagues from REF2014 all continue as members of the UoA18 community, which underlines
 our capacity to retain high-quality research colleagues as part of our thriving research
 environment.


 2.2 Staff Development
 Through an annual round of Performance and Development Appraisals (PDAs) colleagues are
 encouraged to plan longer term outputs, grant, impact, and development activity and this is further
 supported by ongoing monthly contact with research mentors and line managers, and this also
 informs the support and development opportunities that colleagues access.            Additional to
 individual mentors, thematic mentors provide guidance on areas such as publishing, working with
 external stakeholders, social media, and policy work.


 The University continues to operate a research sabbatical leave scheme which is open to all
 academic staff, providing dedicated research time (one academic semester/15 weeks) to engage
 on a specific programme of research (broadly conceived, encompassing research outputs, grant
 development, and impact research activity), with research sabbaticals operated on a 1-in-7
 semester pattern (56 sabbaticals in total).    We also provide accelerated leave for strategic



                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reasons: such as to support colleagues returning from parental leave, or to ‘kick-start’ research
 following a period of extended administrative/leadership duties.


 The tailored programme of law research training and development established in the REF2014
 period has been enhanced with specialist training via University provided media dissemination
 training to support colleagues in developing their research profiles, the dissemination of research
 findings, and developing pathways to impact. Colleagues have also been supported in focused
 multi-disciplinary researcher development programmes which enable colleagues to take blocks of
 time focused on development working with other colleagues at similar stages across the university.
 These include programmes for Next Generation Large Grant Holders (colleagues with some
 funding success receiving focused development towards large funding applications), Fellowship
 Ready (applying for research fellowships), and Early Career Researchers (additional dedicated
 support for ECRs), all with a strong focus on grant-proposal development.


 Additional to these opportunities, there was a recognition that we need to continue to renew our
 approach to development and support, given that the Unit is now in a significantly enhanced place
 in terms of our research culture and research base compared to REF2014. The Law School runs
 a Research and Enterprise Development Programme (REDP) structured around two spines. The
 first spine is a training pathway to accompany doctoral study (for all PGR researchers), and the
 second a development pathway for ECR colleagues. In 2019, we launched across the Faculty of
 Business and Law a programme of ‘Baltic Sessions’, led by McGrogan for law. The sessions take
 place once a month for a half day at the Baltic modern art gallery from October to May. These
 events bring distinguished researchers from outside the University to discuss their passion for
 aspects of research practice incorporating impact, engagement and partnership building. The
 sessions temporarily transitioned to virtual groups in response to Covid-19 in the final period of
 REF2021.


 As well as dedicated support at early career and mid-academic stages, the Unit also recognises
 the need to support for the professoriate. In 2017, the University added two new spinal points for
 professors, recognising the need to incentivise career progression even at high levels of academic
 seniority. Professors also receive research mentoring and support from University and Faculty
 Executive Professoriate.


 The University has also operated an Academic Leadership Programme over this period, providing
 an opportunity for colleagues to enhance their research leadership skills, undertake a 360-degree
 review, and to receive individual coaching support from an external professional coach over a
 twelve-month period.       For example, the following professorial colleagues undertook the



                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 programme during this period to better prepare them to support colleagues and to share best
 practice: Gill, Badar, E Hall.


 Whilst colleagues joining the department are now required to have a doctorate or be close to
 completing, we continue to support colleagues from legal practice to undertake doctoral study as
 an additional pathway towards being research active and feeling appropriately supported and
 skilled. Colleagues can be fully funded for completing doctorates (including by publication) within
 the University and funded for 50% of fees for external study.


 PhD by publication continues to be supported, with a number of colleagues completing during the
 REF2021 period (Farran, Hamilton, Wake). A number of other colleagues who are experienced
 in teaching and practice but new to research needed more structure. We therefore introduced a
 DLaw programme which has enjoyed significant growth, with the first completions beginning in
 2019 (Carr, Gregersen, McKeown). The programme is designed to provide a structured and
 supportive learning experience that will enhance a practitioner’s theoretical understanding of their
 profession and will assist in the development of practice, through critical insight and evaluation,
 building on academic and research skills acquired via formal subject delivery and the doctoral
 research subsequently conducted.


 Celebration of success is a key part of building a supportive and ambitious research community,
 whilst also celebrating milestones towards an aim.         Colleagues also engage with research
 structures through periodic away day events which include reviewing our research environment.
 Past events in the REF2021 period have, for example, in response to feedback from colleagues,
 led to the introduction of thematic research mentors (discussed above), and a single online
 information repository for details about mentoring and support to help colleagues navigate the
 extensive resources available to colleagues in law.


 2.3 Research Students
 Together with our community of early career researchers, our research student community drive the
 enthusiasm, creativity, and collegiality, that characterises our research activity within our research
 groupings. Many are additionally funded to act as research assistants to support research group
 activity in organising research seminars and events, and contributing (with acknowledgement) to
 funding applications, impact work, dissemination activity, outputs, and empirical research activity.
 This supports and enhances the overall activity of the Unit, but also supports and enhances the
 employability and research careers of our students.


 Law has enjoyed 25 PhD completions and 3 DLaw completions in the REF2021 period, in contrast
 to 2 research degree completions in the REF2014 period. Many of our students have gone on to


                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Lecturer roles at other institutions (Bristol: Bales, McConnell; Leicester: Maine Newcastle: Mallory;
 Open University: Cheney; York St John: Parker), and many transitioning to full-time Lecturer posts
 at Northumbria (Amankwaa, Brewis, Clough, Clayton-Helm, Dargue, Dunn, Mkwebu,
 Ramshaw).


 Our approach to supervision and monitoring is informed by the national Researcher Development
 Framework and the QAA Code of Practice. All PGR students have at least two supervisors, with
 a third supervisor also sometimes deployed where appropriate to provide a mixture of skills, and
 to also further enhance supervisory capacity. Inexperienced supervisors will always be teamed
 with experienced supervisors who have supervised to completion. Formal and documented
 contact between supervisor(s) and research students occurs on a monthly basis. We also adhere
 to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework. Our retention of an HR Excellence in Research Award also reflects the
 quality of the ECR support and development that we provide.


 Throughout the REF2021 period, the University has invested in funding doctoral students through
 our Research Development Fund (RDF). Each year, law candidates compete for around 12 RDF
 scholarships allocated to the Faculty, winning on average 4-6 per year. The studentships provide
 a full fee waiver and a full stipend, paid for three years at UKRI rates. This amounted to an
 investment of £1,758,789 over the REF period.


 Since 2019, we have been part of the AHRC-funded Northern Bridge Consortium, building on links
 that the broader social science community at Northumbria has long-established. Northern Bridge
 consists of seven universities in North East England and Northern Ireland. The Consortium unites
 two regions of the UK that share historical and cultural similarities, including a recent history of
 culture-led renewal following a period of industrial decline. In its strategic vision, the Consortium
 commits itself to sponsoring projects that have the capacity not just to contribute to scholarly
 knowledge but also to promote economic growth in our regions.


 The critical mass of students and alignment with our research groupings ensures that students
 also gain mutual-support in their specific areas of enquiry and are able to support one another
 across different years of study and create genuine communities of research clusters that learn,
 discover, support, and socialise together, contributing to a positive research culture that
 permeates the Law School and also encourages dialogue between our research groupings.


 Many of our research students attend the annual SLSA Postgraduate Conference, and often
 taking place in the first year of study (assuming an October start date) to maximise the networking
 and mentoring support at the research design phase. This imbues our students with an outward-


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 looking approach to law and their programme of study, and also unlocks important support
 networks and links for external support and future career development.


 Our students have also benefited from accessing the ESRC-funded masterclass (now operated
 by the Centre for Socio-Legal Studies at Oxford University), with two students successfully
 obtaining a competitive place and grant support from the ESRC to attend in the three years the
 programme has operated (Maine, Giles).               Further, our students have been able to make
 interdisciplinary contributions to research methods, such as through presentations to the annual
 ESRC Doctoral Training Programme on Visual Methods (Dunn, Simmonds, Parker, Giles).


 Additionally, all research students are able to attend an a fully funded annual methodology
 Summer School. Places are awarded based on an application, requiring students to give thought
 to the methodology and methods that they are seeking to deploy. The Research Methodology
 Summer School was previously operated with the Business Schools at Northumbria and Oxford
 Brookes, taking place in Turkey. After securing a partnership with the Law Society of Ireland,
 including the offering of our DLaw programme to Irish practitioners, an annual Summer School
 now takes place in Dublin, Ireland, at the Irish Law Society headquarters.


 We continue to support a regional PGR conference, introduced by Northumbria and operated in
 partnership with Newcastle University, with the two institutions alternating as hosts of the annual
 conference and attracting presentations from students across the northern region. This helps to
 build a significant critical mass of postgraduate law research students in the North East of England.
 Our staff and students initiated and maintain (Gregersen, Zago, Mayard) the NorthEast branch of
 PubHd, a forum for informal presentations of doctoral work in progress, that draws interdisciplinary
 participation from all five regional Universities.


 Our research students regularly present conference papers at large conferences such as those
 organised by the ALT, SLS, SLSA, and a range of specialist conferences. Support is provided by
 Graduate School bursaries and Law School research funds to fund attendance and travel. This
 has also included full travel and registration conference support for postgraduate research
 students to present their work internationally and forge networks (American Association of
 Geographers, Boston, 2016, Parker; The Center for LGBTQ Studies After Marriage Conference,
 New York, 2016, Maine).


 2.4 Equality and Diversity
 Our research remains a key driver for addressing the EEDI agenda. In 2020, virtual book launches
 (in place of physical events due to Covid-19) took place for Routledge’s ‘Same-Sex Relationships,
 Law and Society Change’ (Hamilton and Noto La Diega co-edited collection including 14


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international authors) and Edward Elgar’s Research handbook on Gender, Sexuality and Law
 (Ashford and Maine co-edited collection with over 40 international authors). We’ve also enriched
 our own culture by engaging with external researchers, with visits from Tomás Dombos, from the
 Hungarian Hatter Society outlining their program of activity; Dr Andy Hayward, Durham University,
 on relationship recognition; Dr Sarah Lamble, Birkbeck University on Queer Approaches to
 Transformative Justice; Dr Chris Dietz, Leeds University on the subject of the Self Declaration
 Model of Gender in Denmark; Dr Raven Bowen, York University on Understanding Duality –
 Examining Engagement in Sex Work Alongside Square Jobs; Prof Rosemary Auchmuty, Reading
 University, on Civil Partnership Dissolution; and Dr Nikki Godden-Rasul Newcastle University on
 Revenge Porn.


 Griffiths chairs the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee of the Society of Legal Scholars
 (SLS). We also successfully secured SLS funding to organise a conference on ‘Same-Sex
 Relationships, A New Revolutionary Era and the Influence of Legal and Social Change’ (Hamilton
 and Noto La Diega). This event attracted international presentations from academics, lawyers
 and sociologists based in the UK, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands and Cyprus. At a regional level,
 we co-organised with Sunderland University an event entitled ‘Social and Legal Implications of
 Same-sex Marriage in the North East’ which engaged with local activists alongside international
 researchers.


 The Equity Challenge Project (ECP) within the Faculty of Business and Law provides a focus for
 our EEDI work. The project is modelled after a UN gender mainstreaming approach and consists
 of six sub-teams that work both independently and collaboratively to help drive culture change
 within the Law School for protected characteristics of gender, LGBTQ*, race, and disability. Each
 of these protected characteristics are included in our data collection annually. On a 4-year rotating
 basis, the ECP team will place an emphasis on a different area. In 2019 this work led to the award
 of Athena Swan Bronze for the Law School.


 Our financial and workload commitment across Law and Business to the ECP during the REF2021
 period has involved 0.5 FTE Graduate Research Associate, 52 Hours Research Assistants which
 involved two PGR students working on data analysis. All team members have workload hours to
 recognise their contribution to the project. From the law Unit of Assessment, this has included
 Alexander, Griffiths, Hamilton, Noto La Diega, Speed, Turner and Ward. It has also included
 Zago from our postgraduate research student community, recognising our PGR community is a
 key and integral part of this conversation.


 Equality and Diversity training is part of the core training mandatory for all colleagues, covering
 legislation, University policies, decision-making, and behaviour. We recognise the considerable


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 equality, equity, diversity and inclusion (EEDI) challenges facing the Unit and the sector. We have
 – under the leadership of Griffiths who leads the EEDI department team - undertaken significant
 work to fundamentally change our approach to one that integrates the EEDI agenda to all that we
 do.


 We actively promote gender equity in our culture through language choice such as ‘parent’ instead
 of mother/father, ‘Equity’ as well as ‘Equality’ & ‘They’ instead of ‘He/She’. We undertook a gender
 audit of all Law workload across two academic years to identify areas of best practice and
 recommend areas for improvement. This enabled awareness raising departmental briefings which
 resulted in improved gender equity for workload allocation.


 Starting in 2019, we have supported colleagues to attend the Regional Cross-Institutional Action
 Learning for Women Programme (Hamilton, Macfarlane).               This a programme of cross-
 institutional action learning sets with colleagues from the University of Leeds, Leeds Beckett,
 Leeds Trinity, Sheffield Hallam, Bradford, Huddersfield, York St John, and Northumbria University.
 The aim of the action learning programme is to provide four colleagues from each institution with
 a space to focus on career enhancement and to provide networking opportunities. We also provide
 the opportunity to participate in the Aurora programme, which is Advance HE’s leadership
 development initiative for women. It allows participants to engage in collaborate problem solving
 and to hear inspirational stories from women role models.


 In July 2019 the Women’s Network was established across Law and Business and had its first
 event on the theme of Imposter Syndrome and Listening Groups on the topics of women’s
 promotion and flexible working.


 Law Faculty encourages people to self-nominate or be nominated by the Faculty for prizes at all
 career stages with notable successes from women in the Law Unit. Recent successes include
 Alexander who at the Northern Law Awards 2019 won the Law Teacher of the Year. Richardson
 was shortlisted. In 2016, Gregersen was awarded on the basis of teaching excellence, a National
 Fellowship by the Higher Education Academy, and won Law Teacher of the Year at the Northern
 Law Awards.


 The Law Unit has taken the lead in other areas of EEDI. For example, the LGBTQ+ Network was
 established by the Law School in 2019 and now extends across the University. It also works
 closely with the LGBTQ* student network. The LGBTQ Network acts as a repository of information
 exchange, as well as a supportive space for LGBTQ staff and allies.




                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income and Growth
 Over the course of the REF2021 period, we have seen a 26% increase in the number of
 applications and 556% increase in the value of applications. Over this cycle (excluding partnership
 payments) we have secured £755,570 in the REF2021 period (compared with £70,875 in
 REF2014).


 Additionally, the 2019 THE World University Subject Ranking for Law ranked Northumbria 7 th in
 the UK for industry income. Much of this work is underpinned by research that is rooted in our
 communities of researchers providing a critical mass, but which also brings distinct areas together.
 For example, our work with the then Department for International Development in relation to
 corruption in Nigeria flows across the areas of criminal justice and law and society, drawing upon
 additional strength in financial crime compliance (Turner and Ward) and working across the
 institution, in this case, with the Business School. Similarly, our medical and mental health
 expertise within law and society, combined with our legal education research, has enabled Burrell
 to work in close partnership with the NHS on key training. A further example, again linking across
 law and society and criminal justice, is our growing technology and science research which has
 led to key consultancy on security to the Royal United Services Institute (RUSI) by Oswald.


 This growth reflects in part increasing investment in the support for RGCI activity through key
 strategic appointments (for example Oswald building on the previous security-aligned work of
 Jackson and Wilson) and the alignment of all new colleagues with our three signature areas of
 research. In addition to the support and training outlined in the previous section, we have also
 invested in a research development manager in Research and Innovation Services for the Faculty
 who provides guidance on funding opportunities, together with dedicated Faculty pre-award and
 post-award co-ordinators.


 A key theme of our funding success has been to foster external collaboration, building networks
 and embedding impact. For example, Davies secured an AHRC Networking Grant (£35,061) that
 enabled the formation of the UK-Irish Criminal Justice Cooperation Network (with Queen’s
 University Belfast acting as the CI partner), and supported her impact activity along with the
 research work of Jackson, whilst also contributing to our research in the area of criminal justice
 through our Centre for Evidence and Criminal Justice Studies. Similarly, in 2017 Wake secured
 funding from the Leverhulme Trust enabling Professor Warren Brookbanks, from Auckland
 University of Technology to undertake a visiting professorship and which also enriches her impact
 work with Arthur and Dunn in relation to youth justice, again contributing to our criminal justice
 research group, and also our community of researchers engaged in law and society work. Also


                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 during this period, Gill secured success from the British Academy for work enriching her impact
 activity in relation to the Indian Green Tribunal again supporting our law and society work.


 In 2019, Guinchard secured funding ($58,206) from the United Nations Development Programme
 (UNDP). Under the guidance of the Maldives Attorney General’s Office and UNDP, Guinchard
 will lead the process of drafting a comprehensive civil procedure code for the Maldives. There are
 regulations followed within the courts on civil law cases, yet there is no consolidated civil procedure
 code in the Maldives, consequentially leading to inconsistency in the application of procedural
 rules. It is envisioned, that through the formulation and enactment of this legislation citizens will
 be guaranteed their right to a fair and equal trial.


 As an indicator of our future ambitions, 2019 saw Newman successfully securing funding from the
 Research England Expanding Excellence Fund, working as the CI on an Open University-led bid
 of over £6M (worth £41,000 to Northumbria). The project focuses on space policy and seeks to
 address future challenges that arise from the commercialisation of space and expanding
 technological possibilities. This reflects a growing strand of science and technology related
 research within our law and society research group.


 Smaller funding applications also stimulated activity across our three research groups and provide
 grant writing experience for colleagues. For instance, recent success with the 2020 SLSA Seminar
 award on The Gender Pay Gap: From History to Computer Algorithms (Griffiths), supporting our
 Law and Society area, and the 2020 Modern Law Review seminar on Gender Based Violence:
 Approaches to Education, Engagement and Elimination (Richardson, Roper, Speed), supporting
 our areas of Criminal Justice, Legal Education and Law and Society research. Together, the
 events typify the way that sub-genres of research – in this case relating to gender – can be
 stimulated through external funding success and foster a cohesive research culture across our
 research groupings.


 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities
 Law is based in the award-winning City Campus East building. This striking purpose-built building
 provides outstanding accommodation, IT infrastructure and facilities for staff and students. During
 REF2021 the building has been used to house the major Association of Law Teachers Annual
 Conference and the International Journal of Clinical Legal Education Annual Conference, and
 regularly hosts research seminars and community events, acting as a key nexus between
 researchers and research users and the wider community. Northumbria was also awarded the
 2020 Modern Studies in Property Law Conference.




                                                                                                Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research outputs from the unit are displayed on walls and screens throughout the building. City
 Campus East also houses our Student Law Office (led by McKeown). The SLO is a multi award-
 winning and world leading law clinic, offering vital legal services on a regional and national level
 free of charge to members of the public, businesses and community groups and provides a further
 opportunity – together with our work with industry and key policymakers – to embed our research
 in our surrounding community, across all three areas of criminal justice, law and society, and legal
 education.


 Through its outreach activity, the Student Law Office – informed by our legal education and social
 justice research - acts as a catalyst in raising awareness of and providing access to justice. Each
 year, approximately 200 students and 22 staff contribute many thousands of hours of pro bono
 advice. The Student Law Office produces exceptional results: during the period of REF2021 the
 Student Law Office has dealt with 5097 enquiries, represented 1371 clients and secured
 £364,420.25 on their behalf. Northumbria University received the Queen’s Anniversary Prize in
 February 2014 for Higher and Further Education for the outstanding community work of its Student
 Law Office.


 Law benefits from two bespoke libraries: a Law Practice Library – supporting clinical legal research
 directly and based within the law building; and separate provision in the main University library.
 The main University library has undergone significant investment during the REF2021 period,
 creating a well-equipped Research Commons. This new space provides dedicated library space
 at the heart of campus for interdisciplinary networking, collaboration, and digital scholarship. The
 Research Reading Room provides individual study places including some larger desks equipped
 with Macs, standard PCs and some PCs with dual screen monitors.


 The Library works in partnership with students and academic staff to develop and maintain a
 multidisciplinary collection that meets the University's teaching and research needs. The collection
 encompasses print and electronic books and journals and subscribed scholarly content including
 early historical books and primary digital archives (see Table 1). Total library investment over this
 period in law materials totalled £2,486,956 (see Table 2).


 Table 1: Library Investment Mix

                   Resource                                           6 Year Total
  Print Books and Standing Orders                   £1,326,863.25
  Ebooks                                            £64,667.40
  Print Journals                                    £111,876.41
  Ejournals                                         £79,747.46
  Databases                                         £903,802.01


                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Table 2: Library Investment Totals


       Academic Year                       Total                          6 Year Total

          2014-2015                    £392,579.98                       £2,486,956.53
          2015-2016                    £376,684.61
          2016-2017                    £449,201.19
          2017-2018                    £428,230.40
          2018-2019                    £465,398.74
          2019-2020                    £374,861.61

 The Library’s Researcher Development programme is designed to support the development of
 knowledge, core competencies and transferable skills, identified in Vitae’s Researcher
 Development Framework (RDF) as the key elements to becoming a successful researcher.


 The Research Data Management team offers guidance on the management of our research data.
 This includes advice on meeting funders' expectations, sharing research data and completing data
 management plans.


 The Scholarly Publications (SP) team supports our Unit with ensuring Open Access (OA)
 compliance. Decisions on support from this fund, enabling Gold Access, are initially determined
 by the Director of Research and Innovation with colleagues indicating how Gold Access will
 enhance their research and the Unit with an emphasis on research excellence (for instance
 through enhancing an impact case study, or ensuring broader dissemination of particularly high-
 quality research), The SP team also provide guidance on compliance with funder and REF policies
 toward OA. Additionally, the team offer support on preparing a manuscript, and effectively sharing
 your research, how to register for and make use of an Open Researcher and Contributor ID
 (ORCID), and how to use our institutional repository (Pure).


 The Unit was also supported with access to Gold OA research funds, administered on an open
 call basis. During the REF period, 18 Gold Access articles were funded (outside research grant
 support) at a cost of £20,671. The SP team also support our growing stable of ‘Diamond’ OA
 journals with proof-reading assistance, indexing, review process support, training, and policy
 development. We’re keen to continue to respond to the evolving OA landscape with innovative
 and collaborative responses that allow our researchers to collaborate and build on our research
 expertise.




                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Faculty has continued to provide individualised professorial funding (£2,000 per year) and all
 colleagues are able to bid to a law research support budget (worth in the region of £350,000 over
 the REF2021 period) which is managed by the Director of Research and Innovation.                Unit
 members are invited to bid to the fund with funding applications prioritised on stimulating excellent
 research activity, which could be disseminating findings at important conferences or supporting
 empirical work (for example, potential field work travel or interview transcribing) or as part of the
 publishing process (such as indexing). This supports colleagues’ attendance at all the major
 conferences including the Association of Law Teachers, Society of legal Scholars, Socio-Legal
 Studies Association, and key international gatherings such as the Global Alliance for Justice
 Education (GAJE) and the Law and Society Annual Meeting. For instance, in 2019, 11 colleagues
 were fully funded to attend the Law and Society Meeting in Washington DC.


 Additionally, the Faculty introduced funding streams focussed on providing Research Assistant
 funding enabling RA support (a total of £240,000 in the REF2021 REF cycle, typically up to £1k
 per individual per annum) on specific projects which again enhance our excellent research activity,
 for example through supporting data collection or supporting literature reviews. A further £27,500
 per annum is available to research groups to support the organisation and promotion of events,
 such as the NCECJS Seminar and Research Workshop Series.


 To enhance the breadth and momentum around activity, research group funding has also been
 introduced to enable our research groupings to bid for support for planned activity relating to
 research seminars and public events such as book launches.


 This package of support creates a mix of opportunities which intersect to support the research
 journey of colleagues. One illustrative example of how this support plays out for an individual can
 be seen in the case of Davies and her Brexit research. Davies is part of the Evidence and Criminal
 Justice Studies Centre and the Law and Society group, accessing events and activities that they
 regularly engage in. Conference support enabled the stimulation and enhancement of a number
 of articles and book chapters addressing themes of criminal justice, Brexit and internationalism,
 further supported by RA support for the project. Davies was able to collaborate with Northeastern
 University – one of our strategic partners – in producing one article considering international
 challenges for law across the US and UK (with Woo). Together with the successful award of
 funding from the AHRC (£35,061) a new network has been formed on UK-Irish Criminal Justice
 Cooperation Network in collaboration with Queen’s University Belfast. These strands of activity
 can be seen in Davies’ Impact Case Study which was further supported with impact budget
 support the gathering of evidence of impact enabling Davies and an Impact Support Officer to
 undertake evidence gathering in Ireland. Investment supports collaboration, impact, and grant
 activity, to create a sustainable and growing programme of research.


                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Impactful Research
 Our work reflects our passion for applying our research to the real world, shaping agendas, policy,
 and law at a local, national, and international level. This approach to our research can be viewed
 in detail through our impact case studies included with this REF submission. These case studies
 emerge from our research across the areas of criminal justice (the case studies of (Carr, Jackson,
 and Piasecki; Davies; McCartney), and law and society (Arthur, Wake, and Dunn; Gill; Rieu-
 Clarke) with many crossing these boundaries reflecting our approach to building communities of
 researchers.


 Beyond these impact case studies, researchers are constructing further impact and pathways to
 impact. For example, the work of Oswald with the Royal United Services Institute for Defence
 and Security Studies is exploring data and security, Newman’s work with key actors in the space
 industry and supporting public bodies, is informing exciting new commercial developments in
 satellite technology, whilst our rich legal education work - for example McKeown on the ethical
 boundaries around the function of clinical legal education - is influencing clinical practice, and
 Badar’s work is informing global policing practice and responses to religious extremism.


 4.2 Contributing to Our Community
 Many of our researchers have community links at local, national and international levels, embedding
 their research into policy and practice throughout the REF-period. High-profile examples of this
 include: Permanent Advisor on forensic science to the All-Party Parliamentary Group (AAPG) on
 Miscarriages of Justice (McCartney); Advisory Board Member, Ada Lovelace Institute
 Independent Review of the regulation of biometric technologies (Oswald); and Member of the
 National Statistician’s Data Ethics Advisory Committee (Oswald).


 Our established community roles have also been particularly important in responding to Covid-19
 as it impacted key areas of criminal justice policy (such as Oswald through her work as Chair of
 the West Midlands Police & Crime Commissioner and West Midlands Police Data Ethics
 Committee, and Graham in relation to sex work as a Trustee of National Ugly Mugs), key
 community outreach services (for example Holt in relation to mental health as a member of the
 Board of Governors and Governor for Children’s Mental Health at Cumbria and Northumberland
 Tune and Wear Mental Health Trust, McKeown in relation to the Personal Support Unit, Speed
 North East Legal Support Trust North East Legal Support Trust), and in relation to the arts
 community and marginalised groups (for instance Ashford as a Board Member of LGBTQ arts
 group Curious Arts).




                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Other important community roles undertaken during this census period include: Standing
 Committee for Youth Justice (Arthur) ; Advisory Board, Lesbian and Gay Lawyers (LAGLA) North
 East (Ashford); European Network of Clinical Legal Education (ENCLE)(McKeown), North East
 Legal Support Trust (McKeown 2008-2016, Speed 2016-); European Commission’s European AI
 Alliance (Noto La Diega); Europol stakeholders platform EDEN Data Protection (Noto La Diega);
 Family Court Consultation Group with Northumbria, Cleveland and Durham Police and Crime
 Commissioners (Richardson); North East Initiative on Business Ethics (NIBE) (Rieu-Clarke); Law
 Society for England and Wales Education and Training Committee (Roper); UK Clinical Legal
 Education Organisation Trustee and Treasurer (Roper); Newcastle Law Society representative
 for the Newcastle Heritage Group (Rutherford); National Law Society Committee for Access to
 Justice (Simmonds); Committee Member for the North East Legal Support Trust (Speed);
 International Visiting Scholar (2015), Law School, Nanjing Normal University (Shen); China
 International Research Fellow (from October 2015)(Shen); the Jiangsu Collaborative Innovation
 Centre for Development of Regional Rule of Law, China (Shen); External Advisor (from March
 2015), Nanjing University Law School International Legal Research Centre, China (Shen).
 Our researchers can also be found making key contributions inside the academy as members of
 scholarly society executives, in senior leadership roles, and as collegiate colleagues supporting
 the work of legal and social science scholars. During the REF2021 period, a number of colleagues
 have held and continue to hold significant roles with the Association of Law Teachers, including
 Ashford as Vice Chair (2013-2015) and then Chair (2015-2017); E Hall as Recruitment Secretary
 and now Grants & Prizes Sub-Committee Chair; Davies and Piasecki as newsletter editors.


 Amongst the Society of Legal Scholars, Wake holds the role of Secretary of the Subject Sections,
 and Wortley manages the Society’s Social Media. Griffiths Chairs the Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion Committee, and Arthur is a member of the Research Grants Committee. Throughout
 this period, Wake and Noto La Diega have served on the Executive Committee, whilst Ashford
 has been a member of the Legal Education Sub-Committee. Wortley served as Convenor of the
 Society of Legal Scholars Criminal Justice Section, 2015-2018.


 Additionally, Ward serves as Co-Director of the International State Crime Initiative (ISCI) based
 at QMUL and as a Steering Committee member of the Crime Studies Network. Oswald serves
 as a member of the Executive of the British and Irish Law Education and Technology Association
 (BILETA). Ashford was appointed in 2020 as a member of the Institute of Advanced Legal Studies
 (IALS) Advisory Council.


 During REF2021 Ashford also served as an Executive Committee Member and then Secretary
 to the Socio-Legal Studies Association, returning as a Trustee in 2020. He has also been
 appointed as a member of the REF2021 Unit of Assessment 18 Sub Panel. Additionally, Edmond


                                                                                          Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 is a Council Member of the Australian Academy of Forensic Science, a member of Standard’s
 Australia forensic science committee and Chair of the Evidence-based Forensics Initiative (EFBI).


 Unit members also undertake significant roles with journals, with a number of colleagues engaged
 in journal editing. These journals include: The Journal of Criminal Law (Reed), The Law Teacher:
 the International Journal of Legal Education (Ashford), The International Journal of Clinical Legal
 Education (E Hall), The Student Journal of Professional Practice and Academic Research (Dunn),
 The International Journal of Public Legal Education (Morse), Journal of Law, Technology and
 Trust (Oswald), The International Journal of Gender, Sexuality and Law (Graham), and State
 Crime (Ward).


 In addition to acting as editors, a number of colleagues also serve on a number of editorial boards:
 Asian Journal of Legal Education (J Hall), Australian Journal of Forensic Sciences (Edmond),
 International Journal of Clinical Legal Education (J Hall), International Journal of Educational
 Research (E Hall), International Journal of Police Science and Management (McCartney), Journal
 of Criminal Law (Case Note Editors: Jackson, Piasecki, Wortley 2013-2017), Journal of
 International and Comparative Law (Reed)), Justice, Power and Resistance (Ward), Porn Studies
 (until 2019)(Ashford), Hibernian Law Journal (Reed), The Law Teacher (E Hall, Gregersen,
 Richardson, The Wrongful Conviction Law Review (McCartney) Trends in Organized Crime
 (Shen), Women and Criminal Justice (Shen). Across the breadth of our research activity, our
 researchers are serving as key members of the academy, supporting and promoting the
 scholarship of others on the back of their own research standing. Further examples of this standing
 is reflected in Reed’s recent inclusion in Who’s Who in American Law.


 Colleagues have also peer-reviewed outputs and proposals for leading national and international
 scholarly journals and publishers (such as Cambridge University Press, Edward Elgar, Oxford
 University Press, Palgrave-Macmillan, Routledge). Additionally, Reed, Wake, and Engelby
 (together with Bohlander) are Series Editors for Substantive Issues in Criminal Law published by
 Routledge Press.


 Our researchers also support the vital work of funding bodies in reviewing and selecting projects
 for funding. Ashford and Arthur currently serve as members of the ESRC Peer Review College;
 Ashford and Rieu-Clarke also serve as members of the AHRC Peer Review College; whilst E
 Hall Chairs the Association of Law Teachers grant committee and Ashford has previously
 served on the grant committees of the Socio-Legal Studies Association and the Legal Education
 Research Network, whereas Arthur serves on the SLS Research Grants Committee.             Ashford
 also served as a reviewer to the ESRC Secondary Data Analysis Initiative (Phases 1 and 2)
 (until 2015).


                                                                                             Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4.3 Shaping the Economy and Society
 Typical of the way in which both our socio-legal and doctrinal work can come together to construct
 pathways to impact is the 2014 Reform of Offences Against the Person Scoping paper from the
 Law Commission. The Report did not solicit responses, but rather surveyed the existing literature
 to document the policy and doctrinal landscape. The socio-legal research of Ashford (bareback
 sex and HIV transmission) and the doctrinal work of Reed (assault and battery) was cited, making
 Northumbria’s research the joint (with Cambridge) most cited (in terms of volume of researchers)
 from a single institution in the landmark 189-page document. The subsequent 2015 final report
 cited a number of Northumbria colleagues again over its 244 pages. Reed was joined by Storey
 and Jackson in work cited. The 2014 Law Commission report on Simplification of Criminal Law;
 Public Nuisance and Outraging Public Decency cited the work of Ashford in relation to mapping
 the law in relation to outraging public decency and public sex offences and reforming the law. The
 2016 Law Commission report on Unfitness to Plead cited the work of Reed and Wake, and
 Wortley.


 Our researchers have also directly advised lawmakers through invited appearances before the UK
 Parliament and other legislative bodies. In 2018, McCartney appeared before the House of Lords
 Science and Technology Select Committee on forensic science and the delivery of justice and in
 2019 was invited to submit evidence relating to biometrics to the Justice Committee of the Scottish
 Parliament, with the final 2019 report indicating concern at the at the Government’s approach to
 biometrics and forensics, citing McCartney’s work. In 2017, the Scottish Government formed an
 Independent Advisory Group to review the retention of custody images by Police Scotland. The
 Group reported in 2018, citing the work of McCartney on biometric data. McCartney’s expertise
 was further reflected in her 2019 invite to join the UK Government Working Group on Biometrics.


 In 2017, Wilson was invited before the House of Commons Justice Select Committee on the
 implications of Brexit for criminal justice. His evidence highlighted some of the significant issues
 that might emerge for criminal justice as a result of Brexit. He drew on his own research, and also
 the work of Stockdale, Jackson, Davies, Piasecki and Carr which had formed part of a written
 submission to the committee from the Centre for Evidence and Criminal Justice Studies. Brexit
 also proved an important theme for the House of Lords EU Internal Market Sub-Committee when
 they considered what Brexit means for the UK Space Industry, including the Galileo global
 navigation system, with the Aerospace Corporation utilising Newman’s space research in their
 submission (a USA-based non-profit corporation that operates a federally funded research and
 development centre and has approximately 4,000 employees and acts one of the main policy units
 advising NASA and the US Department of Defense on Space).



                                                                                             Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In 2018, the Artificial Intelligence Committee of the House of Lords drew upon and cited Newman’s
 work in relation to AI. His written evidence has been cited twice in the 180-page report entitled AI
 in the UK: ready, willing and able? A recommendation from Newman for a global coordination
 policy for AI to be led by the United Nations was also referenced.


 Between 2017 and 2019, Rieu-Clarke was seconded as a legal advisor to the United Nations
 Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE), one of the United Nations agencies responsible for
 the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). As well as working for UNECE
 on Sustainable Development Goal 6.5.2 (transboundary water cooperation), Rieu-Clarke has
 assisted in the implementation of the pilot reporting mechanism under the Convention on the
 Protection and Use of Transboundary Watercourses and International Lakes.


 Our legal education research has also flowed into influencing and shaping legal education policy.
 Roper currently serves on the Law Society for England and Wales Education and Training
 Committee whilst Ashford served on the Law QAA Benchmark Review Panel (2014-15), Bar
 Standards Board Pathways to Qualification Task Completion Group (2016-17), and Bar Standards
 Board Academic Stage Working Group (2014-15). The first of these – the QAA Benchmark Group
 – defined the expectations of a law degree in UK higher education. In 2019, he Chaired the UK
 ‘mini-review’ of the QAA Benchmark Statement for Law.


 4.4 Conferences and Events
 Our growing research funding success has helped to drive the number of high-quality small
 conferences and events that we have delivered during the REF2021 period, supporting the
 dissemination of our research, building pathways to impact, and enabling us to communicate our
 research and engage with key stakeholders. By way of example, successful funding in 2019
 from the Modern Law Review (Wake and Ward) led to the one-day event on Human Trafficking:
 Criminal Law and Evidence. The event critically explored current approaches to identifying
 perpetrators and victims of human trafficking and modern-day slavery using forensic science; to
 consider existing and potential future safeguards for victims; and outline the ways in which
 forensic science might be better used to assist with the challenges faced by front line responders
 in identifying victims and perpetrators.


 In 2014 Ashford and Wake secured funding for an event entitled Consent, Compulsion and
 Sexual Offenders: The Compulsory Treatment of Sex Offenders. This one-day event exploring
 the use of ‘chemical castration’ and criminal justice responses to sex offences. The event
 brought together lawyers and forensic psychologists to explore inter-disciplinary approaches.




                                                                                              Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Also successful in 2019, Roper and Dunn secured funding for “Pressing Problems in the Law:
 What is the Law School for?” 20 years on brought together leading legal education thinkers from
 around the world, including Professor Margaret Thornton (Australian National University,
 Australia). The seminar also highlighted an example of our collaboration with other Law
 Schools, with the bid jointly developed between Northumbria University’s Legal Education and
 Professional Skills (LEAPS) Research Group and Nottingham Law School’s Centre for Legal
 Education (CLE).


 A further example, demonstrating the momentum behind this activity, also awarded in 2018/19
 was successful funding from the Society of Legal Scholars to Reed and Wake for an event on
 Power Imbalance: Adult Victims in the Criminal Justice System. This event sought to address
 the growing recognition that individual vulnerability fluctuates throughout life, and adults,
 although not regarded as innately vulnerable, may often be vulnerable by virtue of the situation.
 Recent developments in criminal justice reflect such recognition with, inter alia, the emergence
 of a bespoke defence for adult victims of human trafficking, and the introduction of offences
 criminalising: modern day slavery, revenge pornography, and coercive and controlling
 behaviour. This event brought together researchers in the field to assess the law's attempt to
 combat the creation of situations designed to result in a power imbalance through which an adult
 may be exploited.


 4.5 Media and Public Discourse
 Law at Northumbria regularly disseminates our work and shapes public discourse through our
 engagement with the media. This typically takes the form of expert comment to print media,
 radio, and television news alongside focused consultancy.


 Our researchers regularly contribute to national and international socio-legal debates and
 stories. Newman has appeared on Sky News at 1 with Adam Boulton, BBC Radio 4 Today, BBC
 Radio 5 Live and BBC World Service TV, McCartney has appeared on Channel 4 News,
 BBC1’s The Big Question, and Radio4’s ‘Report’. Ashford has appeared on BBC News, and
 BBC local radio, Bessant has appeared on BBC Radio 4’s Women’s Hour programme, Talk
 Radio, and BBC local radio, and Graham has appeared on BBC local radio.


 Our research is regularly cited in international print and online media across our research base.
 Within our three signature research areas for instance, our criminal justice research relating to
 forensics and DNA databases has been reflected in pieces from McCartney for in Prospect, The
 Wire, Express, and BBC Focus Magazine, whilst Davies has been cited for her work in relation
 to post-Brexit border co-operation on the island of Ireland in the Irish Times and BBC. Oswald’s



                                                                                                 Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 work on predictive policing and algorithms was cited in The Guardian, Financial Times, BBC
 News, and the Mirror.


 In legal education we are actively engaged in policy debates, such as work by Hall in relation to
 training reform promoted by the Law Society and the Society of Legal Scholars, covered by the
 Law Society Gazette and Legal Cheek.


 In our Law and Society area, Newman has discussed the developing governance structures of
 outer space activities as they relate to human spaceflight and lunar settlements in the Telegraph,
 Guardian, South China Morning Post, Reuters, and New York Times; whilst ongoing debates
 around the use of social media by children have also been highlighted, for instance by Bessant
 in The Guardian, and Shen’s work on child counterfeiting has been cited in the Washington
 Post, The New Yorker, and The Guardian.


 These are a handful of illustrative examples of the ways in which our research is shaping public
 discourse. From local communities to national policy and law-making forums, and from
 international media to scholarly communities, you will find Northumbria law researchers making
 a difference.




                                                                                            Page 29
