Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: City, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 10 Mathematical Sciences

 Overview
 The Unit of Assessment (UoA) consists of the Department of Mathematics at City, University of
 London, as part of the School of Mathematics, Computer Science & Engineering. The UoA has
 strategically focused on three Research Groups undertaking fundamental research in pure and
 applied mathematics: in representation theory, mathematical physics and applied mathematics.
 These three areas of research are supported by our existing infrastructure, they are distinctive
 among our peers in the London area, nationally and internationally and their impact strategy has
 come to fruition.
 The Department underwent substantial change before REF2014. While that period was
 characterised by growth and expansion as part of City's academic recruitment exercise, since
 then it has maintained its size, consolidated its position in areas of international importance and
 improved on its overall quality in all aspects. Staff members have enhanced their national and
 international esteem, the UoA’s research output in the form of publications has further improved
 in quality and volume, the number of PhD students and postdoctoral fellows has increased by a
 factor of 2.5 and the UoA’s research income in the form of research grants has more than
 doubled.
 The UoA has maintained its size with current numbers of staff included in the submission at 15.6
 full-time equivalents (FTEs) compared with 16.05 FTEs for REF2014.
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 The research strategy of the School is to develop internationally leading and sustainable
 research in selected distinctive areas of strength. In Mathematics the focus is on both pure and
 applied fundamental research in areas of current relevance.
 A systematic staff recruitment process has attracted excellent staff, creating three internationally
 competitive Research Groups of global distinction with critical mass. Following REF2014, the
 Applied Mathematics Group has been created from the Mathematical Biology Group, two
 members of the Mathematical Physics Group and a new strategic replacement appointment. The
 purpose of this restructuring has been to assemble expertise in an area that leads to the
 generation of social economic impact. The Department has considerably expanded its doctoral
 and postdoctoral programme.
 Further growth is planned, reaching 20–25 academic staff FTEs by 2025 within the existing
 infrastructure. The growth in academic staff numbers will be supported by a restructuring of the
 Mathematics undergraduate and graduate subjects taught currently in Engineering and
 Computer Science within the school. The strategic plan is that the relevant courses will be taken
 over by new and existing Mathematics staff, hence extending improvement in visibility for the
 Department and, in addition, increasing opportunities for collaboration and cross-fertilisation with
 the remaining part of the School. The expansion will strengthen the currently existing groups,
 further develop impact strategic areas and possibly lead to the formation of a new Research
 Group.
 The membership, expertise and strategic aims of the Research Groups are as follows:
 Representation Theory
 Since REF2014, this group has become a major international centre for representation theory.
 Membership: Professor Joe Chuang (Professor), Dr Anton Cox (Reader), Dr Maud De
 Visscher (Reader), Professor Radha Kessar (Professor), Professor Markus Linckelmann
 (Professor), one postdoctoral (Dr Xueqin Hu). In addition, in the current assessment period, the
 group had five Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) postdoctoral
 fellows (Dr Chris Braun, Dr John Enyang, Dr Chris Bowman, Dr Jorge Vittoria, Dr Florian Eisele),
 one Heilbronn fellow (Dr Neil Saunders), four completed and four active PhD students.


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Expertise: The group has a broad range of expertise in mainstream modern representation
 theory. The research focus is on gaining deep conceptual understanding of algebraic,
 combinatorial, geometric and topological structure. The main areas of expertise are: finite
 dimensional algebras (all), symmetric groups and Hecke algebras (all members),
 representations of finite (Chuang, De Visscher, Kessar) and algebraic (Cox, De Visscher)
 groups, Brauer and other diagram algebras (Cox, De Visscher, Linckelmann), triangulated
 categories and dg categories (Cox, Kessar, Linckelmann), fusion systems (Kessar,
 Linckelmann), operads and homotopy algebras (Chuang).
 Visions, objectives, strategy: The group plans to grow its role as a global leader in this research
 community through its high-quality research in a number of closely related, internationally active
 fields and through its organisational, educational, advisory and editorial duties. The group aims
 to continue to attract postdoctoral researchers through EPSRC grants (five separate three-year
 grants held in the current assessment period).
 In joint work in 2013 Kessar affirmed one direction of Brauer's 55-year-old Height Zero
 Conjecture. Her work set the stage for a possible tackle on the other counting conjectures, e.g.,
 Alperin's famous weight conjecture. The next five to ten years are expected to lead to significant
 successes in the area and the group at City expects to play a key role in this development and,
 more importantly, in setting the agenda for the subsequent five years, with a focus on
 homological methods to gain genuine understanding of the counting conjectures. This was the
 main motivation of the EPSRC grant “Integrable derivations and Hochschild cohomology of block
 algebras of finite groups” (ML, 2015–2018), relating the Morita equivalence classes of blocks
 and their fusion systems.
 De Visscher and collaborators have developed a completely new approach to the famous
 Kronecker problem via one kind of diagram algebra, the partition algebra. Little progress had
 been made on the problem for a hundred years despite the attentions of many experts. The
 EPSRC-funded project “The partition algebra: a new approach to the symmetric group and
 applications to P vs NP” (2014–2017) and the Royal Commission of the Exhibition of 1851-
 funded project “A new approach to the Kronecker problem” (2013–2016) explored further the
 connections between classical representation theory and diagram algebras arising from Physics.
 This resulted in the combinatorial description of the largest-known family of Kronecker
 coefficients. The group hosted a major international conference, “Kronecker Coefficients
 Conference 2016” at City, accelerating the interactions between the Representation Theory and
 Computer Science communities and creating a platform for future development.
 Cox and collaborators have developed a new approach to the graded representation theory of
 Hecke algebras using diagrammatic Cherednik algebras, which has given the strongest-known
 results in positive characteristic and suggests a new generalisation of the Lusztig conjecture to
 higher levels.
 The group plans to continue its involvement in fields related to representation theory. The
 EPSRC grants “Homological algebra of Feynman graphs” (2012–2015) and “Derived localisation
 in algebra and homotopy theory” (2016–2019) explored connections between representation
 theory and homotopical algebra. For example, certain constructions in the modular
 representation theory of finite groups were reinterpreted as homotopy invariant noncommutative
 localisations. The goal is to gain further insight into the counting conjectures mentioned above
 from the perspective of homotopical algebra.
 Mathematical Physics
 With one new permanent appointment (Forini) and one departure (Caudrelier), this group has
 maintained its size and has consolidated its central role in specialised areas of quantum
 mechanics, quantum field theory and string theory. Two members with a research focus on fluid
 mechanics were reassigned to Applied Mathematics. This group has improved in all aspects,
 including quantity and quality of research publications and research grant income, and especially
 in the quality and overall volume of supervised PhD students, as well as in numbers of
 postdoctoral fellows.
 Membership: Dr Olalla Castro-Alvaredo (Reader), Dr Alessandro De Martino (Senior
 Lecturer), Dr Valentina Forini (Lecturer, 01/2018), Professor Andreas Fring, Professor
                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Yang-Hui He, Dr Bogdan Stefanski (Reader), Dr Vincent Caudrelier (Lecturer 2007–2016), five
 postdoctorals and 21 PhD students. Specifically, four long-term externally funded postdoctoral
 researchers and visitors (Dr Wenhua Wang, Professor M H Y Moussa, Dr F Correa, Dr A
 Arda), one EPSRC-funded postdoctoral (Dr I M Szécsényi) and ten completed and eleven active
 PhD students.
 Expertise: The group’s research activities are concentrated on topics in quantum field theory,
 quantum mechanics and string theory. Extensive commonly shared expertise in various
 techniques and methods, developed originally in the context of classical and quantum integrable
 systems, creates a unique cohesive and vigorous environment. Castro-Alvaredo, Fring, De
 Martino and Stefanski have a strong track record in the form factor programme using exact
 scattering matrices where the ultimate aim is to compute physical quantities in a non-
 perturbative manner. While there are still some fundamental issues being considered, the main
 goal is now the application of these techniques. Castro-Alvaredo's focus in past years has been
 the application to the study of measures of entanglement and of the out-of-equilibrium dynamics
 of integrable models, whereas Stefanski applied these methods to modern aspects of string
 theory and Fring to new types of quantum systems. The research of Stefanski, He and recently
 appointed Forini is at the interface between mathematical and high-energy physics, with
 extensive expertise on gauge theories, string theory and stringy phenomenology. Stefanski is a
 leading expert on string theory, holography and its applications to low-supersymmetry settings.
 His expertise includes low-supersymmetry gauge theories, the relation between stringy
 phenomenology and algebraic geometry and pioneering the use of machine learning in the string
 landscape. The focus of Forini's research is on developing general methods for the quantitative
 study of the quantum behaviour of string and gauge theory models relevant in holography. Fring
 applied the techniques of integrable systems to the study of non-Hermitian systems with
 antilinear (Parity-Time reversal)-symmetry in classical systems, quantum mechanical systems
 and, more recently, in scalar field theories with non-Abelian gauge symmetries.
 The group’s theoretical expertise is complemented by work on applications in condensed matter
 physics. De Martino has extensively worked on the theoretical properties of graphene
 nanostructures. His seminal work establishing the possibility of confining electronic states in a
 monolayer graphene sheet by inhomogeneous magnetic fields is built on in a variety of
 scenarios. De Martino’s recent work on spin-orbit interactions shows that graphene p-n junctions
 could be used as a building block in a spin-field-effect transistor and that the conduction
 properties at the sample’s edges are severely affected when those interactions are not uniform.
 Visions, objectives, strategy: Stefanski has pioneered the use of exact integrable methods for
 generic unprotected quantities in holography with low-supersymmetry. He will build on these
 findings to determine their implications for non-perturbative low-supersymmetry gauge theories.
 Forini is leading international efforts in using lattice field theory methods to analyse 2d string
 worldsheet models; she will significantly expand these tools and use them to extract exact
 information about large classes of strongly coupled gauge theories. Y-H He is a leading
 international expert on supersymmetric gauge theories, the gauge/string correspondence and
 algebraic geometry, and will investigate the new links between scattering amplitudes and
 geometry. A key component of future work will be the exploitation of recent results in work in
 settings with less supersymmetry. He is part of international collaborations that use state-of-the-
 art algorithms in computational algebraic geometry to sift through string vacua in search of the
 Standard Model. He has been pioneering Machine Learning tools in the study of the String
 Landscape. In collaboration with his Northeastern and Cornell colleagues, he will apply the latest
 AI techniques to data-mine the Kreuzer-Skarke dataset of some 500 million Calabi-Yau three-
 manifolds in order to precision chart the Stringy Landscape. Stefanski, Forini and He are ideally
 placed to produce significant new results in unravelling how the gauge/string correspondence
 works. They are at the forefront of some of the major recent developments and have the right
 combination of complementary expertise in string and gauge theories, as well as the necessary
 mathematical skills, to produce significant new advances.
 Castro-Alvaredo will build on her earlier work that predicted universal features of entropy within
 the interpolation regime between the ultraviolet and infrared that were previously not accessible
 and that proposed a new method to access such features in a variety of theories and setups.

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Since that work was disseminated this understanding has been extended to integrable discrete
 models (spin chains), critical but not conformally invariant theories, integrable theories with a
 boundary, non-unitary models and, most recently, to a wide class of excited states of integrable
 quantum field theories. In addition, Castro-Alvaredo has made important contributions in the
 development of a new technique to study the time-evolution of correlators in integrable models
 driven out of equilibrium through what is known as an inhomogeneous quench. This application
 combines hydrodynamics concepts with a quasi-particle description derived from the Bethe
 ansatz. This recent publication from 2016 has already attracted more than 332 Google Scholar
 citations and is considered foundational in the field. These works are particularly timely as
 integrable models at and out of equilibrium are now routinely realised in cold atom experiments.
 For the first time many theoretical quantities can be precisely measured.
 Fring will build further on recent results obtained from applications of techniques developed in
 the context of integrable systems to non-Hermitian systems. New types of models with novel
 properties were found, some of which are elaborated on in a recent coauthored book PT
 Symmetry in Quantum and Classical Physics (World Scientific, 2019). Different types of results
 include a series of works on the extension to time-dependent quantum systems that, for the first
 time, have provided a meaningful physical interpretation of the spontaneously broken phase,
 predicting new unusual physical behaviour. For instance, for the entropy it was found that, unlike
 in any other regime, it becomes asymptotically stable, hence providing a regime of coherence in
 which quantum computers may be operated. Many more new effects are to be expected in this
 regime. Further existing results include work on non-Hermitian quantum field theories. Fring will
 continue to make contributions to this field, building on, among other approaches, his recent
 extension of Goldstone's theorem and the Higgs mechanism to non-Hermitian quantum field
 theories, with Abelian and non-Abelian gauge symmetry groups, well-defined BPS limits and
 field theories that possess Skyrmion solutions.
 De Martino is continuing his line of research on fundamental aspects of the physics of graphene
 and other two-dimensional materials, the focus of which is on the properties of ideal mesoscopic
 devices hosting phenomena relevant for future electronic and spintronics applications. These
 now include twisted bilayer graphene nanostructures, a new form of graphene first discovered
 experimentally in 2018 and currently attracting a huge interest in the field. Moreover, De Martino
 is developing a new line of research on the fundamental mechanisms of electrical transport in
 two newly related classes of materials discovered recently, the topological insulators and the
 Weyl semimetals, which promise to be relevant for the future development of quantum
 computation. In this research deep mathematical ideas from the field of topology can be used to
 understand the origin of fascinating new physical phenomena observable in these materials.
 Applied Mathematics
 This group is newly formed by two members of the former Mathematical Biology Group
 (Baronchelli and Broom), new addition Noble and two former members of the Mathematical
 Physics Group (Kerr and Silvers) working in fluid mechanics.
 Membership: Dr Andrea Baronchelli (Reader), Professor Mark Broom (Professor), Dr Oliver
 Kerr (Reader), Dr Robert Noble (Lecturer, 07/2020), Dr Lara Silvers (Senior Lecturer), Dr
 Anne Kandler (Lecturer, 2012–2016), one postdoctoral, nine completed and five active PhD
 students.
 Expertise: The group applies mathematical methods to various fields in biology, the social world
 and fluid dynamics.
 A significant area of research is the application of game theory to the mathematical modelling of
 biology (Broom, Kandler, Noble). Broom uses the concept of the Evolutionarily Stable Strategy
 (ESS), involving the development of fundamental theoretical work including multiplayer games
 and the evolution of specific animal behaviour such as dominance hierarchies (with Kandler),
 kleptoparasitism and biological signalling. A major recent theme of his work (including with
 Silvers) is the stochastic modelling of evolution on structured populations, including networks,
 involving multiplayer games. Kandler works on the modelling of processes of cultural evolution,
 in particular the processes of language dynamics and the dynamics of social norms. Noble uses
 mathematical and computational models to investigate the evolution and ecology of cancer, in

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaboration with experimental biologists and clinicians, in particular investigating how aspects
 of ecology shape evolutionary dynamics.
 A second main area of research, with connections to the evolutionary models above, focuses on
 human behaviour, collective dynamics and network science (Baronchelli). Baronchelli's main
 interest is to quantify and model the dynamics of complex socio-technical systems. His research
 relies on mathematical and multi-agent modelling, data science and experiments with human
 subjects. Two major recent themes of his work include the emergence and dynamics of social
 norms and pioneering research on the cryptocurrency ecosystem (on the four axes of coding,
 usage, market and governance of cryptocurrencies).
 The third main research area focuses on fluid dynamics (Kerr, Silvers). Kerr has developed a
 new approach for investigating the optimum linear growth of instabilities in evolving systems,
 including re-evaluating which are the most appropriate measures of the growth of such
 disturbances in evolving systems. These have been applied to longstanding problems such as
 heating fluid from isolated boundaries and the heating of salinity gradients from a vertical wall.
 Silvers’ primary research area focuses on deepening our understanding of the solar interior.
 Recent work has centred on understanding instabilities that occur inside the Sun and also the
 interactions between buoyant magnetic structures and penetrative convection. Her research
 combines analytic and computational techniques to understand both the stability and evolution of
 systems
 Visions, objectives, strategy: There is a strong focus on interdisciplinarity within the group with
 collaborations with fields such as artificial intelligence, biology, computer science and social
 sciences. The vision is to keep publishing world-leading research in the area of mathematics
 applied to biology, social systems and fluid dynamics and to further strengthen the leadership of
 the group in its areas of research in the UK by further developing activity in PhD student
 recruitment, grant capture and collaborations with top universities and industries worldwide. In
 particular, Broom’s focus is continuing the development of realistic structured population models
 centred upon the new ITN grant (2021–2025). Baronchelli’s focus is expanding the work on
 cryptocurrencies and helping to build a thriving community of researchers around this theme. By
 uniting mathematical, theoretical and computational approaches, Noble seeks to establish
 general principles of cancer evolution with applications to improving clinical forecasting and
 treatment. Kerr will apply his newly developed methodology to investigate the stability of
 convection problems whose properties have previously precluded rigorous use of traditional
 stability analysis. Silvers is focused on developing a rich understanding of the impact of
 temperature-dependent transport coefficients on dynamics in the solar interior. The group will
 maintain and further develop its strong interdisciplinary links across the university (Aeronautical
 Engineering Group, Artificial Intelligence Research Group, Centre for Mathematical
 Neuroscience and Psychology, Data Science Institute).
 Communalities between groups: The Department has considerable breadth of expertise, but
 the three groups also share much common ground. Representation theory is of importance in
 many aspects of the research carried out by the Mathematical Physics Group. Y-H He from the
 latter group and Baronchelli from the Applied Mathematics Group have collaborated on a project
 investigating the Birch-Swinnerton-Dyer conjecture that describes the rational points on an
 elliptic curve, bringing expertise from number theory and Data Science together.
 Open access: The Department is committed to supporting open access to its research and is
 fully aligned with the University’s policy as outlined in REF5a. With 321 uploads since January
 2014, the Department has one of the highest numbers of deposited articles in the University,
 with 141,384 associated full text downloads in the period from 30/06/2011 to 31/01/2021. In
 addition to making their publications available on the university-wide open access system,
 almost all staff members make all of their publications available on the arXiv repository of
 electronic preprints prior to publication, as is common in this field of research.
 Impact strategy: Almost all research carried out by members of the Department is fundamental
 in nature, so that social economic impact is not generated as a natural by-product of the main
 lines of research as outlined above. However, in the process of the formation of the Centre of
 Mathematical Science and subsequent Department of Mathematics, some trained

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mathematicians with more applied lines of research stayed in the Business School. For
 REF2014 the Department has relied on the expertise of these colleagues to produce high-quality
 social economic impact.
 Since then, we have consequently pursued an impact strategy that leads to impact cases
 emerging naturally from the research carried out within the current setting of the Department.
 We have systematically strengthened and supported the members of the Department who carry
 out applied research. For this purpose we have also merged the former Mathematical Biology
 Group with two former members of the Mathematical Physics Group into the new Applied
 Mathematics Group. Staff in this area who left the Department have been replaced by
 researchers working in a similar applied field. Kandler has been replaced by Noble whose
 research is very likely to produce social economic impact as he uses mathematical and
 computational models to investigate the evolution and ecology of cancer in close collaboration
 with experimental biologists and clinicians.
 Our strategy has come to fruition as the research of Baronchelli has led to various impact cases,
 of which one, entitled “Combating cryptocurrency illicit activities via market analysis”, is
 submitted to REF2021. The case grew naturally out of two general lines of research pursued by
 Baronchelli: his decade-long research in Network Science on modelling of temporally evolving
 networks and a more recent activity focused on the analysis of the cryptocurrency ecosystem.
 Analysing transactions in the Dark market, the study revealed that a broader, systemic, focus is
 crucial to combat illegal activities funded by cryptocurrencies and the importance of considering
 longer chains of bitcoin transactions. Chainalysis, a software company that supplies the world’s
 leading banks, businesses and governments, has taken the message of this research on board
 by embedding both practices in its products. Thus, the impact relates to the understanding of the
 financial markets affecting the analysis and behaviour of industry players.
 Staff engagement in impact activities is recognised in our departmental workload scheme and in
 the promotion process. At the School level, impact is supported by running an annual Higher
 Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) competition open to all staff. In total, £75,000 is available
 annually across the School, with staff being able to bid for up to £10,000. The fund is intended to
 help City academics demonstrate the wider impact of their research beyond academia by
 facilitating relevant academic enterprise activities. Administrative support for impact is provided
 by two specialist impact officers who work across five schools.
 The research activities in the Applied Mathematics Group also led naturally to knowledge
 transfer activities. Baronchelli is engaged in a Knowledge Transfer (KT) project entitled “Beryl –
 data science for smart bike sharing” supported by a £278,074 grant. This project fits well into his
 line of research activities on human mobility and the modelling of human behaviour. It is jointly
 carried out with Beryl, a leader in cycle safety equipment that has recently launched its own
 bike-sharing schemes in a number of cities in the UK. The CITY-Beryl Knowledge Transfer
 Partnership (KTP) aims to develop and license a unique AI-driven data analysis, modelling
 products to reduce the core operating costs of bike-share operators: principally bike
 redistribution and bike maintenance.
 In response to COVID-19 members of staff have also partially redirected some of their research
 activities to contribute to the tackling of the pandemic. Baronchelli has started a new project that
 monitors Dark Web trading in COVID-19-related goods and services entitled “COVID-19:
 monitoring the effects of the pandemic on illicit online trade” supported by a £272,813 research
 grant. The first results of this research were published in August 2020 on the open-access pre-
 print repository arXiv. Y-H He is using his expertise in applications of the Susceptible-Exposed-
 Infected-Recovered-Dead (SEIRD) differential model that serves for the analysis and forecast of
 the COVID-19 spread. The research is ongoing with results due to be published early in 2021.
 Given the nature of research carried out in the Applied Mathematics Group it is likely that similar
 impact success stories will be developed by other members.




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People, including:
 a) Staffing strategy and staff development
 Within the context of the University’s staffing policy as outlined in section 3 of the REF5a document,
 the Department seeks to create an environment that encourages all members of staff to conduct
 research at the highest level, through publishing in leading international journals, applying for and
 gaining research grants, collaborating with leading international researchers within their fields,
 receiving research invitations to other institutions and receiving invitations for conference
 presentations and keynote addresses. The following mechanisms are in place to enable and support
 staff to achieve these expectations.
 Changes: Since REF2014, two new permanent FTEs have been made – Forini and Noble –
 replacing the two permanent FTEs Caudrelier and Kandler in the same area of research. Three
 non-permanent full-time researchers, Dr Benjamin Favier (1.0 FTE), Professor Jiri Mathon (0.2
 FTE) and Professor Carl Bender (0.25 FTE) have left. The number of PhD students and
 postdoctoral fellows has risen from 10 to 40.2 and 7 to 13, respectively.
 With these changes two of the Research Groups have kept their necessary critical mass and
 structure constant to carry out internationally leading research on a sustainable long-term basis.
 The Applied Mathematics Group has been newly created out of the remaining members in the
 former Mathematical Biology Group (Broom, Baronchelli), with one replacement (Kandler →
 Noble) and two members previously assigned to the Mathematical Physics Group (Kerr, Silvers)
 who both focus on applications of fluid mechanics.
 Support: The Department supports applications for fellowships that sustain teaching replacement.
 Over the last few years, the structure and teaching of degree programmes has been optimised,
 offering staff more time for research. This process has led to a reduction in the teaching load from
 typically three modules per year to two modules per year. (A 15-credit module typically consists
 of 30–40 lecture hours.) This streamlined teaching load allows researchers to arrange their entire
 teaching in one term only so that the remaining term may be used as a short sabbatical. During
 term-time colleagues cover teaching for each other to allow for absences to enable focus on
 research at key stages. Short absences of one week are typical, but occasionally arrangements
 for longer periods of absence are made. For instance, He and Stefanski have used this covering
 scheme for a period of a half-term of absence each to enable an extended visit to the
 internationally renowned Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics in Waterloo, Canada, and
 other institutions.
 Staff may apply for sabbatical leave for a period of time up to a maximum of one-seventh of service
 at the University to support more sustained activity, with applications being approved by the School
 Board of Studies and Senate. Successful applications falling into the period of assessment were
 made by Broom, Castro-Alvaredo, Chuang, He, Kessar and Linckelmann, resulting in establishing
 further links to international institutions especially in Europe (Bologna University, Italy) and the
 USA (University of California, Berkeley; University of North Carolina).
 Newly appointed members are given reduced teaching and administration loads, typically no more
 than one module in the first year for new lecturers. The Department has a contribution model that
 keeps track of staff teaching and administration loads to maintain an equitable distribution of
 duties.
 The Department provides a research fund of £5,000 per year to support visitors for seminars and
 research collaborations. Part of the overheads from research grants, ~£40,000, has been used to
 support staff and PhD students for conference visits and to partially finance PhD studentships.
 Typically, each member of staff is given £1,000 per year for travel.
 The Department creates a family-friendly atmosphere. All our committee meetings, seminars and
 other departmental events are scheduled during core hours. Flexible working hours are supported,
 with staff given the opportunity to indicate availability in the design of their timetables. City offers
 maternity leave entitlement for a full year in two formats, to enable staff members to choose an
 option to suit their individual finances. Silvers and Forini made use of this scheme during the
 assessment period.


                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Guidance: New staff are assigned a mentor who guides them through their probation period and
 beyond. Senior staff provide advice on all teaching and research matters, such as, for instance,
 informal feedback on grant applications or draft versions of publications. They are also equipped
 with new computers and are entitled to apply for financial support, typically £5,000, from a
 University Pump-Priming research fund, which is designed to assist early-stage projects with the
 potential to attract external funding. Recent successful examples include Baronchelli, who used it
 to establish a new research collaboration with Professor Centola, a leading Social Scientist in the
 Annenberg School at the University of Pennsylvania, currently ranked as the first School for
 Communication in the world, and Forini who is using the funding to employ a PhD student to assist
 her in developing codes for numerical computations needed for her current research project.
 Promotions: To aid staff development and ensure a fair promotion procedure, all staff are
 appraised annually by a senior academic within their respective fields of research expertise. For
 this purpose a standard academic CV has been developed to enable staff to provide information
 about their academic achievements on a consistent basis across the University. During the
 assessment period DeVisscher and Baronchelli have been promoted to Senior Lecturer and
 subsequently to Reader in Mathematics, Castro-Alvaredo to Reader in Theoretical Physics and
 He to Professor in Mathematics.
 b) Research students
 Recruitment: The Department has recruited over 40 highly qualified PhD students from top
 institutions around the world, among them the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge; Imperial
 College London; King’s College London; University College London; University of Bologna, Italy;
 Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich, Germany; Tata Institute of Fundamental Research
 Mumbai, India.
 Studentships were widely advertised on websites and via networking with research colleagues.
 An efficient fast-tracking procedure has enabled the Department to attract some students ahead
 of other leading institutions. The number of applications has risen substantially each year so that
 the Department is in a position to select from the very best students with suitable backgrounds
 from around the world. During the period of assessment 22.5 doctorates have been awarded
 compared with 10 during the REF2014 period:
      year         2013/14      2014/15      2015/16     2016/17    2017/18    2018/19    2019/20
   PhD awards           4           3.5           2         5          3          1         4
 The overall quality of the theses produced by this new cohort of students has improved when
 compared with previous years, as well as students’ success rate in continuing in academic
 careers. Many of these students have moved on to embark on accomplished research careers in
 other institutions. For instance, Dr Sanjib Dey, who completed in 2014, has taken up postdoctoral
 positions at the University of Montreal, Canada, the prestigious Institute des Hautes Études
 Scientifiques (IHES) in France and is currently on a long-term contract at the INSPIRE Faculty at
 IISER Mohali, India. Dr Niamh Farrell completed her PhD in 2017 and has worked since then as
 a postdoctoral researcher at the Technische Universität Kaiserslautern in Germany. Dr Veronika
 Witzke concluded her PhD in 2017 and is now a researcher at the Max Planck Institute for Solar
 System Research in Germany. In 2020 Dr Julia Cen joined the prestigious Los Alamos National
 Laboratory in New Mexico, USA, for postdoctoral studies.
 Currently there are 20 students in the Department actively carrying out research and studying for
 their PhDs.
 University and School support: In addition to grant income, research in Mathematics has
 benefitted since REF2014 from substantial University investment resulting in 18.5 University or
 School-funded PhD Studentships worth £1,137,750, two Pump-Priming grants and several
 additional PhD fee waivers. The School has spent a total of £19,421,254 on infrastructure.
 Research is also promoted through various School and University-wide annual research
 competitions. To encourage potential social economic impact and KT activities, additional
 Studentships have been made available since 2019, for which the School matches half of the
 funding when the other half is provided by industry. Staff maintain personal accounts that are
 supported by an eight per cent contribution from grant income.

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research student training: Students are assigned to a lead and second supervisor within a
 Research Group. They are strongly encouraged to widen their horizons by attending our weekly
 departmental research seminars in-house and at institutions in London, such as the London
 Triangle Seminars and the London Integrability Journal Club, focusing mainly on aspects of string
 theory, and the London Algebra Colloquium. Specialised courses taught by mathematicians from
 universities across London are delivered by the London Taught Course Centre (LTCC). Each year
 the centre offers around 18 basic courses and 15 advanced courses, each with a typical length of
 10 hours. Students are expected to attend 3–4 courses per year, ensuring a minimum of 100
 hours’ training during their studies, and are required to take an examination at the end of the year.
 City staff are regularly involved in the teaching of these courses with Kerr and Linckelmann being
 engaged during the assessment period. In-house, students may attend relevant lectures provided
 as part of the MMath programme and the MSc in Decision Sciences that run during the
 assessment period. Students participate in theme-oriented study groups and Journal Clubs,
 where, after the first year, they present their own work in a seminar to the Department. In addition,
 they run their own study group and PhD student colloquia that are financially supported from the
 Departmental research budget. Led by Stefanski, a new joint initiative with King’s College London,
 The London Theory Institute, started in 2020, where staff from both institutions are teaching short
 specialised courses in Theoretical Physics with the aim to bridge the knowledge gap between the
 MSc and PhD level. All staff members from the Mathematical Physics Group are involved in
 delivery of these courses.
 Students are also strongly encouraged to present their work at national and international schools,
 workshops and conferences. Support for this is provided by research grants and the Department's
 travel budget. After the first year the Department offers the opportunity for PhD students to gain
 teaching experience and improve their communication skills by tutoring undergraduate students.
 Assignments depend on progression and are coordinated by the Head of Department in liaison
 with supervisors.
 Student progression is closely monitored by the School’s senior tutor for research through annual
 progress reports and by means of a software system (the Research and Progress platform), whose
 use is mandatory for both supervisors and students. The system involves PhD students in the
 management of their own research projects with a flexible approach according to individual
 student needs. Key milestones are recorded, with required reporting in at least four meetings per
 term, an initial six-month report, an annual progress report, details of progression from MPhil to
 PhD status and intention to submit and transfer to writing-up status no later than year four. In
 addition, the University provides institutional support for PhD students as outlined in the REF5a
 document.
 c) Equality and diversity
 The Department is committed to the principle of equality in all processes as, for instance, reflected
 in the numbers of female and international staff, with 31 per cent and 69 per cent respectively.
 The proportion of female staff has slightly increased since REF2014.
 City’s strong commitment to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) was recognised by a Bronze
 Award from Athena SWAN in November 2016, as outlined in the REF5a document. In October
 2019, the School of Mathematics, Computer Science & Engineering received their own Athena
 SWAN Bronze Award. Two members of staff from the Department, Cox and Castro-Alvaredo,
 were actively involved in the preparation of the submission, which was characterised by the
 awarding panel as a “particularly strong submission”, commending the School and the self-
 assessment team (SAT) for their “detailed, thoughtful and thorough work to address gender
 inequalities”. The implementation and progress of the Athena SWAN action plan is overseen by
 our School’s EDI committee, which is chaired by Silvers and has Castro-Alvaredo as a member.
 Several current female members of staff take part in activities that promote women in science, in
 particular in mathematics and physics. As part of the annual global celebration of women in
 science and technology a regular annual event is hosted at City University on Ada Lovelace’s
 birthday. Castro-Alvaredo and Forini were guest speakers in 2015 at “Ada Lovelace Day: Are
 Women in Britain Frightened of Maths?” and in 2018 at “Career Progression of Women in
 STEM: Challenges and Opportunities”, respectively. Forini is a member of Gender in High


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Energy Theory (GenHET), a permanent working group hosted by the CERN Theory Department,
 whose main objectives are to monitor the situation of women in High Energy Theoretical
 Physics, increase the awareness of gender issues in the field, improve the visibility and
 presence of women in decision-making roles and provide networking and mentoring support,
 particularly to early-career researchers. Forini appears in a podcast series “Ask Different”
 (episode 2) from the Einstein Foundation Berlin talking about her career path and the need for
 more female role models in top-notch science. Forini has also mentored female PhD students
 and postdoctoral scientists within the program “Frauen in den Naturwissenschaften am Campus
 Adlershof (FINCA)” [Women in Science in the Campus Adlershof] at Humboldt University Berlin
 and continues the activity of mentoring during the “Emmy Noether Workshops” held regularly at
 the Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics in Waterloo, Ontario, Canada.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 The Department is committed to expanding its current track record of successful applications for
 research, travel and conference grants, building on the experience of new staff and through
 collaborations and joint grant applications with colleagues from other Schools in applied research
 areas. For instance, links to the Department of Computer Science exist in the form of joint PhD
 supervisions by Broom and He. Broom has collaborated with Professor Collins of the City Law
 School on game-theoretical approaches to investment treaty arbitration.
 The School and University Research Office and Enterprise services provide support for identifying
 and accessing relevant funding opportunities as well as help with the submission of high-quality
 proposals (including costing) and subsequent assistance with the management of successful grant
 applications. The Department's total grant income during the assessment period has increased
 from £1,243,000 during the REF2014 period to £1,923,714.80.
 The distribution by year and HESA funder category is summarised in the following table:
 (in   units    of 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20                   ∑
 £1000)
 EPSRC                  143        146       354       276       329       134         87   1470
 ESRC                                                                                  15    15
 STFC                     13         -4       28        24        11         20        12   103
 UK charities                                 80       -60                   -7        40    53
 (open)
 UK charities             32        55                                                       88
 (other)
 UK government                                          59         8         12              79
 UK industry                                                                  9              9
 EU government                                11        12        24         44              92
 Non EU (other)                                                              11         4    14
  ∑                      189      197       473      312       372       223         158    1924
 In addition, the Department had consultancy income of £3,100 in 2017/18.
 In general, desktop computers and software for research are financed by personal grants; the
 School IT committee provides funding for complete replacements of computers every five years.
 Journal subscriptions, in the areas represented by the three Research Groups, and specialist
 books are financed through the School’s library fund. In addition, the Department runs a voucher
 scheme for staff and PhD students to purchase journal articles through City’s electronic inter-
 library loan system. The central library subscriptions to Scopus, the Web of Knowledge and
 MathScinet allow access to abstract and citation databases of peer-reviewed literature.
 As exemplified by the investment in the promotion of staff, funding of PhD studentships, etc., the
 Department has also benefitted from strategic investments arising from both University and School

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strategic Plans, enabling further development in research. Excellent academic and research staff
 are the Department’s key assets.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the discipline or research base
 Guests, seminars, workshops and conferences
 The Department runs a weekly mathematical research seminar series covering topics from its
 three areas of expertise. This serves as an effective mechanism for establishing interaction
 between the Research Groups. Since REF2014 the Department has hosted more than 150
 speakers from the UK, Europe, the USA, China, India, Brazil and Canada. Seminar speakers have
 included eminent researchers, Fellows of the Royal Society and postdoctoral researchers who are
 recent entrants to their field.
 The Department has hosted numerous workshops and conferences, strengthening collaborative
 research and contributing to internationalisation and dissemination of findings. During the
 assessment period these have included:
     •   67th, 70th, 73rd, 75th, 76th and 80th Bristol Leicester Oxford Colloquium (2015–18) (~30
         participants)
     •   The London Algebra Colloquium (2016, 2017, 2018) (~40 participants)
     •   Data Natives (2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019) (~80–100 participants)
     •   Data Beers (2x2015, 2x2016, 2x2017, 2x2018 ) (~200 participants)
     •   Homological Methods in Algebra, Geometry and Physics (2014) (~40–50
         participants)
     •   3rd South East Mathematical Physics Seminar (2014) (~40 participants)
     •   Entanglement Entropy in Many-Body Quantum Systems (2014) (~52 participants)
     •   Mathematical and Physical Aspects of Biology (2015) (~35 participants)
     •   Mathematical Models in Ecology and Evolution (2017) (~230 participants)
     •   Conflict, Competition, Cooperation and Complexity workshop (2017) (~35 participants)
     •   12th South East Mathematical Physics Seminar (2018) (~25 participants)
     •   The 6th ECR meeting of the South East Mathematical Physics Seminar (2019) (~30
         participants)
     •   Applied Geometric Mechanics (2019) (~40 participants)
     •   Symmetries in Physics (2019) (~30 participants)
     •   Complexity and Token Economy (2020) (~150 participants)
     •   Cancer Adaptive Therapy Models workshop (online, 2020) (~130 participants)
     •   Seminar series on Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics (online, 2020–)
         (~180 participants)
 Members of the Department have served as organisers and members of Organising Committees
 of more than 70 international conferences and workshops.
 While most planned workshops and conferences had to be postponed due to COVID-19, several
 members of staff took the initiative to engage in new activities. Fring launched a new
 weekly/biweekly Virtual Seminar Series on Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics
 (vPHHQP) in April that has a full programme until the summer of 2021 and is planned to run for at
 least a further year. It has attracted an international audience of more than 180 registered
 participants with rising interest. Based on the success of the series Fring is coediting proceedings
 with articles based on the online talks to be published in the Journal of Physics: Conference Series
 (IoP Publishing). Stefanski is running the London Integrability Journal Club jointly with members
 from King’s College, which went online at the end of March 2020 and has since attracted a global
 audience of around 100 participants. Noble was involved in organising an international online
 workshop in December 2020, Cancer Adaptive Therapy Models, which attracted 130 participants.

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Department has extensive international connections through long-term visitors, postdoctoral
 fellows and external PhD students, who both benefit from the Department’s expertise and enhance
 its research environment. The Department hosted around 40–50 long-term visitors during the
 assessment period (staying between three months and one year) and maintains active links, in
 the form of coauthoring papers and seeking funded research grants, to more than 150 universities
 and research institutions worldwide.
 Further contributions to the discipline – publications, keynote speeches, editorial work,
 prizes
 All members of the Department act as regular reviewers for scientific journals, evaluators of
 research proposals, external examiners for research degrees and session chairs for international
 conferences. Further key contributions to the discipline in the assessment period include the
 following.
 The Representation Theory Group contributed 62 publications to its field. Members gave 49 invited
 keynote speeches at international conferences and lecture series in ICRA (Syracuse NY), EPFL
 (Lausanne) and Cambridge. Editorial work in journals include Chuang: Editorial Advisor LMS
 Journals (2011–2016); Member of editorial board, Journal of Algebra and Its Applications (2016–
 ); Kessar: Consulting Editor, Proceedings Edinburgh Mathematical Society; Joint Chief Editor of the
 Proceedings of the LMS (2016–2018), Editorial board memberships: Journal of Group Theory,
 Algebras and Representation Theory, Transactions and Memoirs of the American Mathematical
 Society; Linckelmann: Editorial board member Journal of Algebra (2017–). All members of the
 group are regularly invited as main speakers at major international events and as visiting
 academics at world-renowned institutions. For example, Kessar and Linckelmann were invited
 professors at the Mathematical Sciences Research Institute, Berkeley (January–May 2018,
 Kessar held the Simons professorship). Chuang, Kessar and Linckelmann were invited
 participants at the Isaac Newton Institute, Cambridge (January–June 2020, Kessar will held a
 Simons fellowship). Chuang, Kessar and Linckelmann are organisers of the long-running series
 of conferences on Representations of Finite Groups in the Mathematical Research Institute
 Oberwolfach. Kessar was an organiser of a research semester at the Ecole Polytechnique Federal
 Lausanne (June–December 2016). Kessar is a member of the programme committee of the Joint
 AMS-SMF-EMS International Meeting in 2021. Linckelmann is a member of the scientific steering
 committee of the British Mathematical Colloquium. Chuang is a member of the advisory committee
 that selects areas of priority for the additional funding £300m made available to Mathematical
 Sciences as announced on 27/01/2020.
 The Mathematical Physics Group contributed 138 publications to its field with 1,399 Scopus
 citations. Editorial work in journals includes Castro-Alvaredo: Editorial board member, Journal of
 Physics Communications; Fring: Advisory board member, Journal of Physics A; Editorial board
 member ISNR Mathematical Physics, MDPI Universe (2020–); He: Editor in Chief, Journal of
 Modern Physics; Editorial board member, Mathematics MDPI (2014–), Frontiers in Mathematical
 Physics (2014–); Special Collection Editor, Journal of Clifford Algebras & Applications (2020–).
 Fring will host the major conference “Pseudo-Hermitian Hamiltonians in Quantum Physics” in 2022
 at City. The significance of this research is reflected in the fact that Nature Physics selected the
 application of Parity-Time reversal-symmetry to optical systems as one of the ten most important
 discoveries in physics in the period from 2005 to 2015.
 The Mathematical Biology Group contributed 107 publications to its field with 850 Scopus citations.
 Editorial work in journals includes Baronchelli: Associate Editor of EPJ Data Science (2018–),
 PLOS One (2018–), Frontiers Blockchain (2018–); Broom: Editorial board member of Journal of
 Theoretical Biology, Dynamic Games and Applications, Journal of Dynamics and Games.
 Baronchelli is a visiting researcher at the Alan Turing Institute, being their lead in the Economic
 Data Science theme. His publications include articles in top interdisciplinary journals such as Science
 and PNAS (2), with one paper submitted to the 41st Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society
 (2019) being awarded a Computational Modeling Prize in Applied Cognition. Broom was the
 coordinator of an 11-university international consortium for the project “Conflict, Competition,
 Cooperation and Complexity: Using Evolutionary Game Theory to Model Realistic Populations” funded
 by the EU, which led to a 30-partner EU Innovative Training Network grant commencing in 2021.
 Baronchelli was the recipient of the 2019 “Young Scientist Award for Socio- and Econophysics” of the

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 German Physical Society (DPG), awarded for “outstanding original contributions that use physical
 methods to develop a better understanding of socio-economic problems”. The group has won external
 grants from a variety of funders (Alan Turing Institute, ESRC, EU, Innovate UK, National Cancer
 Institute (US), STFC, US Army Lab) and provides consultancies to industry in the UK and abroad.
 Outreach
 Most members of the Department are involved in school visits and some participated in events
 where schools have visited City for a Mathematics taster day. Most of these activities are aimed
 at recruitment and are not particularly targeted at girls or any other demographic. However, in the
 case of schools that visit us, this is part of the “widening participation” scheme the University is
 involved with and so the schools often have students from disadvantaged backgrounds. It is worth
 noting that five female members of staff have been involved in these activities and can be seen
 as acting female role models for the girls that attend these events.

 The activities of the Applied Mathematics group have been covered in the media including: El País,
 Le Figaro, MIT Tech. Review, Scientific American, The Economist, The New York Times, The
 Washington Post and at The World Economic Forum. Baronchelli wrote an invited Op-Ed for Le
 Monde (June 29, 2018) and his analysis on Twitter posts on the Brexit referendum was reported in
 Wallstreet-online.de. He was featured in Science for his research into the use of artificial
 intelligence for speeding up certain calculations used by physicists and mathematicians.
 As a further regular outreach activity six members of staff, Baronchelli, Castro-Alvaredo, De
 Martino, Fring, He and Stefanski, take part each year in the “Pint of Science” initiative whereby
 Mathematics and Science talks are delivered at chosen pubs throughout London for the general
 public. Our PhD students have played a crucial role in the logistics and organisation of these
 events.




                                                                                             Page 13
