Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Sunderland

 Unit of Assessment: 12 - Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Unit of assessment 12 is situated within the School of Engineering in the Faculty of
 Technology. The School strives to make a positive impact on the lives and wellbeing of local
 and national communities. We achieve this through innovation and research in advanced
 manufacturing carried out at our well-equipped research institute. There are two main
 research themes: a) Materials Science and b) Advanced Manufacturing and Predictive
 Maintenance. Both have an applied focus.

 Manufacturing has been the main focus of engineering research for three decades. In the
 North East there are 130,000 jobs directly associated with manufacturing, 14% of the regional
 workforce is involved in manufacturing (the highest proportion in the UK), and there are 2,700
 SME manufacturing firms in the North East. Our Institute for Automotive and Manufacturing
 Advanced Practice (AMAP), formed in the late 1990s, adds unique value and excellence to
 differentiate and enhance the student experience, the Faculty of Technology, and the University.
 It has sustained funding for applied research, consultancy, and training for over two decades.
 It has been a continuous source of partnerships and research collaborations. For example,
 evaluation of electric vehicles use by Sunderland Council led to Sunderland’s participation in
 CASCADE, a large 35 city project examining different methods to reduce Carbon Emissions.
 Baglee was the city expert. CASCADE led to AMAP joining new networks to develop a
 range of projects. This collaboration exemplifies how work with partners continuously evolves
 into new partnerships, opportunities, and funding, as well as creating significant impact
 through 2016 IET Standards Technical Briefing produced by Knowles (see below). Future
 collaboration and impact in this area will draw on research by Karagiannidis on high-
 performance lightweight composite materials reinforced with graphene and related materials.
 This will further contribute to the design and production of safer and more energy efficient
 low carbon vehicles. Future collaboration and impact in this area will also draw on research by
 Naveed on manufacturing use of additive 3D printers to reduce solid waste.

 Our research into innovative techniques to support manufacturing has real world impact and
 provides a high-quality student experience with excellent employment opportunities. To
 sustain AMAP and related research, the school research strategy fully supports the career
 development of our research staff by creating a culture and environment that encourages
 creativity, innovation and collaboration with local industry. While much of our research is
 applied in nature, we take great care to engage with the wider academic community in our
 engineering discipline, ensuring that our work is published in high quality academic journals
 wherever possible and is also presented at national and international conferences.

 Research objectives for the School of Engineering are set within a common framework for
 the Faculty of Technology, aligned with the University research and Innovation strategy and
 are as follows:
     1. Continue to deliver and develop sector-leading applied research in Advanced
        Manufacturing, Predictive Maintenance and Material Science through extended
        interdisciplinary collaboration with strategic external partners (industrial and
        academic) to increase the vitality, significance, reach and relevance of the Faculty’s
        research base.
     2. Establish a dynamic research environment by developing and nurturing our
        researchers at all career stages, by recruiting more PhD students, and by
        encouraging dissemination of research outcomes to the widest possible audience.
     3. Build on partnerships to develop a range of funding streams in collaboration with
        SMEs, public and voluntary sectors to the benefit of the regional and UK economies,
        and thus further develop centres of innovation, excellence and collaboration.

                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    4. Undertake research contributes that directly benefits our undergraduate and
       postgraduate programmes through research-informed curriculum content and
       student research activities.
 These objectives refine and develop earlier ones from 2016 and 2018, which were, in turn,
 based on REF2014 objectives. These were to:

 •   perform and deliver high quality research into the foundations and applications of
     low carbon vehicles and zero emission transport systems and thus
 •   deliver novel solutions for managing vehicle and associated systems that encourage
     and enable energy efficiency. These first two objectives have been achieved through a
     team-led approach, involving research by Baglee on predictive maintenance, research
     by Mehrabi on energy efficiency, research by Knowles and Naveed on Advanced
     Manufacturing (smart factory technologies, additive manufacturing, electronics and digital
     technologies), and research by Karagiannidis on Materials Science (development of
     polymer matrix nanocomposites such as thermosets and thermoplastics, reinforced with 2d-
     materials for automotive, aerospace, construction and military applications). Research in all
     these areas has been supported by increased investment in materials and electronic
     labs.
 •   Increase the level of external research income by creating and applying a rigorous
     internal review process, and thus submitting high quality project proposals with an
     improved success rate. High quality research since 2014 has been progressed with
     partnerships with high-profile international research centres and by ensuring that the
     needs of regional industry directed investments in four state of the art labs, including a
     smart factory, additive manufacturing, and VR/AR technologies. Research and facilities
     here have also supported a significant number of Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and
     consultancy (Section 4 below).
 •   ensure that all our research explicitly informs our teaching programmes, and to be
     recognised by our students as providing them with an excellent academic experience.
     This has been achieved through use of research facilities, research projects by
     undergraduates and postgraduates, and teaching and learning informed by subject
     awareness and current knowledge that ensures that academic programmes are research
     driven. Final year BEng and Masters project students are encouraged to use state of the
     art resources (equipment, software, materials) efficiently and effectively in innovative
     projects. For example, two of Naveed’s BEng project students have investigated the
     material properties of 3D printed parts developed using Ultimaker and Markforged 3D
     printers with polymers and composite materials. Such student research has resulted in
     stronger and more serviceable engineering components. For example, the students
     discovered that FDM fabricated Onyx components (nylon plus carbon fibre) can be
     reinforced with continuous strand fibres such as fibreglass, immensely increasing
     strength for replacement of metal tooling for aerospace, automotive and wind energy
     applications. This has led to a Materials Technology paper
     (https://doi.org/10.1080/10667857.2020.1758475) following further microstructural analysis
     of fracture interfaces that has provided guidance on optimisation of raster angle and infill
     speed. Further projects will investigate mechanical properties of Onyx in combination with
     different types of strand fibers such as carbon, Kevlar and High Strength High
     Temperature Fiberglass to enhance practical applications.

 Engineering research from 2021 will continue to have a strong focus on translational research to
 improve productivity through novel process technologies in manufacturing, addressing three of
 the Local Economic Partnership’s key priorities: Digital, Energy, and Advanced Manufacturing. In
 line with the UK Industrial Strategy’s identification of Artificial Intelligence and Data as one of its
 grand challenges, engineering research will develop and apply new knowledge to manufacturing
 and productivity challenges. This directly addresses the University’s goal of being recognized as
 the lead regional academic institution for advanced manufacturing.



                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In support of its Impact Strategy, the University has invested: in tracking software to record
 evidence of impact, training workshops have been delivered by Prof Mark Reed (Fast Track
 Impact), and in an Impact officer, appointed to advise staff on how to embed impact within
 individual research projects and applications. She has met all research active and research
 aspirant staff in this unit to help them to plan for research impact. A planning exercise focused
 on identification of beneficiaries, stakeholders and metrics that would demonstrate impact within
 a particular piece of research and the development of instruments such as questionnaires to
 quantify impact. The University provides dedicated financial support for impact work.

 The first impact case study covers interdisciplinary research funded by a Marie Curie
 Fellowship. This LeaD4Value (Lean data management for maintenance value) research
 project combined a broad range of multidisciplinary inputs to address the problems of data-
 based maintenance management in the European manufacturing sector, focusing on the
 aspects of business value management, reliability and maintenance engineering, and data
 sciences. This resulted in wholescale modernisation of the asset maintenance management
 system for a major manufacturer (Faurecia, a tier-1 supplier to Nissan Manufacturing UK, who
 produce 1/3 of all cars in the UK). It underpinned the company’s £50,000 investment in a
 Computerised Maintenance Management System (CMMS) during a period of major political and
 economic uncertainty. The CMMS speeds up data collection and operates across the site’s
 entire plant and machinery asset base, which has a net book value of £3.25 million. The impact
 here saved several hundred hours and several £000’s in manufacturing costs by increasing
 production hours by around 1,100 per year through reduced breakdowns.

 The second impact case study covers applied research with the ERDF funded ongoing
 Sustainable Advanced Manufacturing project (SAM, now funded to 2023, total funding £10.9M).
 SAM works with local SMEs to improve production, quality, and manufacturing processes
 through innovation, creating and saving regional jobs, introducing new systems to improve
 quality, increase sales and enter new markets etc. Mehrabi, research lead for SAM, manages 3
 senior research fellows. Impact here is underpinned by a broad range of previous research on
 design, supply chain and process, and predictive maintenance. As with much of the impact from
 the Faculty of Technology, SAM builds on decades of successful regional research and
 knowledge exchange projects, including Engineering Fellows and Digital Factory. SAM is
 attributed with creating 198 FTE new jobs, increasing sales turnover by £20M and Gross Value
 Added by £6.6m. Productivity (as Output per Hour) increased following SAM support by an
 average of 9.1% to £64.43 (compared to sector-level average of £40.96 at 2020 prices across
 the UK and £36.45 within the North East). For each £1 of funding, SAM delivered benefits of
 £2.34 for the regional economy.

 In addition to these case studies, the unit’s long history of effective engagement with
 advanced manufacturing in the North East of England reflects the University of Sunderland’s
 standing as a significant regional anchor institution. This has enabled continuous sustainable
 impact, especially through Automotive and Manufacturing Advanced Practice (AMAP) within
 the Faculty of Technology. AMAP has maintained a leading edge on industry trends,
 currently focusing on support for exploiting Industry 4.0 opportunities. Direct funding from
 industry and from regional, national, and European sources has supported over three
 decades of collaborative research (AMAP and predecessors) and its application in practical
 contexts. This engagement spans a range of activities from contract research, collaborative
 projects, large scale support projects for advanced manufacturing, and bespoke training and
 consultancy. This broad portfolio of activities and funding supports sustainability and vitality
 through the engagement of post-doctoral researchers to address research challenges that
 are grounded in pressing manufacturing challenges. More recently, degree apprenticeships
 have added a new route to potential research impact, as projects are designed with input
 from the sponsoring employer. Final year industry-based projects have often highlighted
 new ideas for research collaboration between staff within engineering as the industry partner
 supply the degree apprenticeship. One example has arisen from Faurecia and their degree
 apprenticeship, where a project student has worked closely with a member of engineering

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff to develop a different metric to record training and skill developments. This project has
 now been developed by the engineering staff, in which the results will feed back to teaching.
 We have also supported our relationships with manufacturing through the appointment of
 visiting professorships (see Section 2).

 Recent appointments are already demonstrating impact. Karagiannidis’ work on mass
 production of graphene and highly conductive graphene printing inks has created an
 attractive low-cost replacement for more expensive materials, such as silver or organic
 polymers, the pillar materials in printed electronics. These new graphene inks have been
 made commercially available to customers via Merck and Versarien PLC. Graphene offers
 an eco-friendly solution compared to metal inks which give rise to water toxicity, cytotoxicity,
 and genotoxicity. Mehrabi’s research has applications to the turbine blade manufacturing
 process and the reduction of defects, energy, and materials waste. A potential research
 collaboration is under discussion here.

 Consultancy work is another pathway to impact. Research knowledge guided the
 introduction of a new maintenance system for TechnipFMC. The senior manager also
 registered for an MPhil, which he completed after moving to the company in the first case
 study. This work is an example of sustainable impact across SMEs through multiple
 pathways to impact. Similarly, work with Greencore on a 10-month project examined the
 need for a new system to collect and analyze production data and modelled new scenarios
 for maintenance shut down. Also, two days were spent testing the audit system at a new
 company, Vailent Boilers. A new maintenance and production strategy was proposed based
 upon the data collected. Lastly, in relation to the CASCADE work on electric vehicles,
 Knowles was a Member of Advisory Panel for Electric Vehicles Infrastructure for Fleet
 Operations, which published an IET Standards Technical Briefing in 2016.

 A further pathway to impact has been short courses (CPD) and taster short courses, where
 AMAP has been key in development and delivery of research-informed courses for staff within
 industry on manufacturing, supply chain, maintenance and condition monitoring, product quality
 and engineering management. For example, Morris and Baglee delivered short courses for
 Hitachi Rail on production quality, asset management and supply chain management. In addition
 to providing case studies of manufacturing problems and solutions for engineering students, it
 also seeded the initial discussion for the LeaD4Value Marie Curie project. Successful AMAP
 work has led to securing funding for developing skills training programmes for manufacturing
 SMEs in Europe (Erasmus+ ICreHub) and for disseminating research through Industry 4.0
 training programmes for companies in India (Royal Academy of Engineering, supported by
 Newton Fund).

 Research in Advanced Manufacturing is inherently interdisciplinary, with collaborations within
 areas such as materials science, manufacturing management, digital technologies, data science
 and AI. These collaborations have always underpinned the sustainability and viability of our
 research by providing access to funding, data, collaborators, and practical challenges that
 require advanced applied interdisciplinary research. Recent collaborations have increased the
 interdisciplinary reach of research on Innovative Manufacturing through further consideration of
 supply chain research (business), creative design (new approaches to materials use), Health
 Sciences and related fields (e.g., pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, food and drink) and Computer
 Science (AI and HCI). As an example, AMAP’s Framework 7 HYACINTH project investigated the
 use and social acceptance of hydrogen as an alternative fuel. Within this project, AMAP
 considered the implications of local government plans, alongside consideration of technical
 feasibility.

 As required for an open research environment, the University’s 2015 open access mandate
 requires all authors to deposit final peer-reviewed manuscripts, where this is permitted by the
 publisher, to our open access repository (SURE) within 3 months of acceptance for publication.
 Our strategy is to encourage authors to submit articles to Journals with Green Open Access

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 routes, but funding is also available to support Gold open access where this is more appropriate.
 Websites for funded projects also enhance the accessibility of the unit’s research. We take
 particular care to ensure that, wherever possible, outcomes of our applied research are fully
 exposed to the wider engineering academic community, to the benefit of our discipline.

 A key aspect of research integrity is for all research projects to be compliant with
 institutional commitments to the Research Integrity Concordat. There has been investment in
 an online ethics submission system (epiGenesys) to support staff through a single approval
 process, with access to legacy data on approvals and submissions. Ethics training is
 provided to all staff and research students via the university central staff development
 programme.

 2. People
 The School takes a balanced approach to staffing, with some posts focused on teaching, and
 others on special projects such as those within AMAP. There is no requirement for all
 colleagues to be research active, although all are expected to be aware of, and provide
 support to, the School’s research activity. The Faculty is also committed to developing and
 promoting existing staff to provide leadership succession, and to growing new areas of
 research activity through external appointments. This has been further supported by
 appointments of visiting professors as part of the University’s Visiting Professor and Fellow
 scheme, focusing on securing external partnerships via leading professionals who support
 research through their expertise, experience, and access to partner organizations. Visiting
 Professors have a key role in extending the unit’s range of partnerships and developing
 ‘critical mass’ in line with university strategy. Experienced professionals who are not active
 researchers also make important contributions to partnerships for research active
 colleagues. Commercial and consultation activities are supported through appraisal and work
 loading. Overall, the University’s strategic plan has provided comprehensive support for
 research staff development.

 Since REF2014 the host Faculty for UoA 12 has seen significant changes in both staffing
 and structure. Our strategy has been to replace some departing research leaders through
 internal promotion to Professor (Baglee) and Associate Professor (Mehrabi). Baglee leads
 the overall theme of Advanced Manufacturing and Mehrabi leads a Mechanical Engineering
 subtheme on hybrid processes for joining materials. Knowles leads an Electrical and
 Electronic Engineering subtheme on smart power systems. Further research leads have
 been recruited externally. Dr Panagiotis Karagiannidis leads the Material Science research
 theme following the departure of Ahmed Elmarakbi, Professor of Automotive Composites in
 September 2018. Professor Elaheh Ghassemieh was the Advanced Manufacturing theme
 lead from 2016-18.

 The profile of returned staff is thus 50% F1 (Baglee, Elmarakbi and Timmis), 17% IO
 (Mehrabi), and 33% J0 (Karagiannidis, Naveed). Karagiannidis and Naveed are ECRs
 (40% of active submitted staff). Active researchers are supported by the University’s Visiting
 Professor and Fellow scheme. They are supported by three visiting professors who support
 research and teaching. They have expertise in research and teaching engineering
 programmes, especially new technologies for manufacturing, outstanding industry and
 academic networks, and established track records in attracting funding from Europe (Horizon
 2020, etc.) and industry. Prof. Diego Galar (Operations and Maintenance) has supported the
 development of a Marie Curie proposal and a Eurostars proposal, supported submission of
 many research papers and conference presentations with staff in engineering, provided
 support to five PhD students in engineering, helped to attract two international students (from
 Spain and Finland), and delivered several guest lectures to staff and students. Dr Erkki
 Jantunan (Sensors and software systems for manufacturing) has supported the

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development of a Eurostars and Horizon 2020 project and introduced engineering staff to
 many of his international contacts to help (in particular) ECRs to write papers, bids and
 otherwise support their research. He has also provided advice to PhD students, delivered
 guest lectures, and suggested topics for new undergraduate programmes. Prof. Bala
 Shanmugam is supporting the development of research partnerships in south east Asia.
 COVID lockdown led to the cancellation of his planned visit in 2020.

 In line with the University’s Research and Innovation strategy (2017), the unit supports staff
 through the allocation of additional research time, purchase of equipment and travel to national
 and international conferences through an annual Individual Research Plan (IRP) process, linked
 to yearly appraisals and staff development initiatives. IRPs are part of the university’s transition
 to comprehensive, institution-level planning and resource allocation for research. The IRP
 process asks staff to: identify their yearly research goals during appraisal; link them to university
 objectives; and request resources (time, training, equipment, travel, PhD registration) to fulfil
 those goals. Since IRP inception in 2017 the unit has increased funding to research active staff
 to £20,250, supporting personal travel and small equipment purchases. Investment has
 increased year on year as research staff become familiar with the process (2017/18: £4,800;
 2018/19 £5,500: 2019/2020: £14,800). This financial support has been supplemented with
 additional workload allocations to staff through the university’s framework for academic work
 loading, each equating to 150 hours per year. There have been four such allocations since 2017,
 with the university providing £15,500 of support for staff time to the unit. In addition, five staff are
 being supported to study for a PhD supported by the University’s Support for Staff Undertaking
 Qualifications Policy. Requests for such support are made through the annual IRP process.

 Researcher development training is provided centrally, often seeding collaborations across the
 university. Courses include: “How to be an effective researcher” and the “Principal Investigator
 development programme”. The university has also collaborated with Northumbria and Teesside
 universities to develop and pilot a HE Leadership Foundation funded programme “Leading on
 Research Excellence” for Readers and Professors across the region.

 In addition to the IRP process and training, we support colleagues at all stages of their research
 careers as follows:

 New colleagues are allocated a research mentor who provides one-to-one support ensuring
 that new colleagues have access to relevant training opportunities (e.g. grant writing
 workshops, training in PhD supervision). We seek to integrate new colleagues into existing
 research structures, for example PhD supervision teams to help them establish their own
 research profile. We work closely with new staff to develop their research portfolios.
 Knowles has supported Naveed (ERC), who will apply for promotion to associate professor
 in 2021-22. Baglee has supported Karagiannidis, who will apply for promotion to associate
 professor in 2021-22. Support here includes help with applying for university IRP funding,
 with finding research partners, and career development through the role of research student
 manager.

 Existing, research aspirant, student facing staff are encouraged to become research
 aspirant and are offered mentorship support from the professoriate and waiver of fees for
 part-time PhD study. Six staff are currently registered for PhDs: Andy Cook (Digital Design
 Using Industry 4.0 techniques); Adrian Morris (Sensor Technology and energy monitoring);
 Walter Ditch (Product Design and Electrical Engineering); Helen Scott (VR/AR and human
 factors in engineering); Derek Dixon (Maintenance Management); and Glenn Ridley (novel
 nano-hardware for sustainable interior lighting and control). Experienced professionals who are
 not active researchers currently make important contributions to partnerships for research
 active colleagues.

 Staff seeking promotion with potential for a research career through high quality research
 are supported to develop a career path to (Associate) Professor. Colleagues pursuing merit-

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 based promotion to Associate Professor or Professor can access a mentor. Workshop
 support is offered in terms of applications developed from previous, successful, candidates.
 For example, the unit has run workshops on writing papers, bid writing, network
 development, often aimed at ECRs. These have been complemented by talks from Visiting
 Professors, with the head of the unit working with interested staff on what is required for
 promotion to Professor, and how progress towards this can be measured. Mentoring is
 provided for staff at all stages of research career development.

 Contracts were reviewed for Professors and Associate Professors in 2019 as part of the
 university’s ongoing strategy to better support research. To ensure these staff have the
 necessary time for research activity, face-to-face teaching hours are capped at no more than
 10% of work-load activity. This allows senior researchers to act as academic mentors,
 mentioned earlier, and provide additional support to early career researchers, providing
 advice on research plans, bid writing and writing journal and conference papers.

 Equality and Diversity issues in relation to recruitment, promotion, and research support are
 monitored by the Faculty Senior Management Team and Athena Swan Self-Assessment team.
 The Faculty recently became a signatory of the Tech Talent Charter which seeks to drive greater
 inclusion and diversity in the technology sector and is pursuing Athena Swan bronze level
 recognition with a bid being submitted in 2021. We have no individuals with protected
 characteristics to support to undertake research. The three females in engineering are all at
 different stages in their career and receive appropriate support for career progression. One third
 of the returned staff are female or of non-Caucasian ethnicity.

 Recruitment of doctoral students has focused on development of home-grown talent,
 establishing an effective pipeline from our undergraduate and taught master’s programmes
 to MPhil and PhD. Current PhD students in the unit’s research student ambassadors
 programme support recruitment by presenting their work to undergraduate and taught
 postgraduate students. Two MSc Manufacturing Engineering students will progress to
 studying for a PhD on graphene nanocomposites with Karagiannidis. One of these is also a
 Sunderland Engineering BSc graduate, demonstrating how undergraduates can progress to
 a PhD. Another PhD student will join Mehrabi’s group in 2021. Applications are being
 received from the USA.

 The unit has 18 PhD students allowing us to support our best performing subject areas.
 Although a relatively recent appointment, Karagiannidis already supervises 4 PhD students,
 with at least two more to join his group after summer 2021. We have an ethnically diverse
 group of PhD students and our promotional material is sensitive to gender. We have two female
 doctoral students (one in maintenance management, one in VR/AR) and are dedicated to
 improving PhD processes to help women and diversity thrive in our engineering research. The
 school has a strong track record of female Masters students progressing to PhD. In addition, we
 promote PhD opportunities to all and ensure our message is about inclusivity and that
 engineering is a discipline accessible to all.

 The unit’s Research Student Manager Karagiannidis oversees end-to-end management of
 research students. Staff student liaison committees are held each term and the unit has a PGR
 representative from the student body. Once registered, doctoral students have an annual
 monitoring review each year from month 9 of year one. Since REF 2014 every engineering
 PhD or MPhil student has successfully completed their Annual Monitoring Review and submitted
 their thesis within time, evidencing the effectiveness of the school’s implementation of University
 procedures.

 PhD students, in collaboration with their director of studies, are required to complete a personal
 development plan. Training workshops such as preparing to teach are offered to all students and
 we provide students with the opportunity to support module delivery to gain teaching experience.


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We encourage students to apply for recognition as AFHEA and have four students recognised at
 this level: Abdu Shaalan, Anthony Anderson, Ibifuro Ihemegbulem and Khamis Alromaimi.

 The university organises Research Fridays for PGRs at Institutional level. To support PGRs, the
 university’s Graduate Research Support Office created hubs at three campus locations as social
 spaces where they can also work alongside each other. Engineering PGRs benefit from the hub
 on St. Peter’s Campus, which brings them together as a cohort, reduces feelings of isolation,
 promotes peer support, strengthens PGR research culture, and stimulates cross fertilisation of
 inter-disciplinary ideas. Post-docs and PGRS are also invited to the biennial university research
 conference, professorial lectures, and faculty seminars.

 Subject specific training for PGR students is delivered in “Research Friday” workshops, for
 example Knowles’s series on “Engineering Good Research”. Generic PGR research skills
 development is provided through the institution’s VLE with courses designed to support
 processes and the research degree – for example literature review processes, presentation and
 performance skills, ICT skills. Different workshop sessions are offered in a block teaching mode.
 A four-day induction programme is provided, which facilitates networking. Students can also
 access relevant modules on Masters programmes. The Graduate Research School provides
 several courses that are tailored to the students’ year of study. A training repository is provided
 via the institutional learning environment. Our subject specialist librarian offers a research
 buddy programme to support research students with literature searches and additional training
 courses e.g. How to get published with IEEE led by Ed Wong

 The University’s performance in the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) placed
 it 2nd out of 63 institutions in 2018 and 11th out of 103 institutions in 2019.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 The unit’s funding strategy is directed by a hybrid revenue approach, building on partnerships to
 develop UK & EU funding streams. The focus is to build upon and strengthen the unit’s success
 in research impact through co-created long-term collaborative research and partnership with
 industry and local, national and international government. Knowledge Transfer Partnerships
 (KTPs) are a strategic source of income in support of collaborative partnerships.

 In alignment with the University’s focus on applied research, grounded in decades of
 engineering research that has engaged extensively with the private, public and third sector,
 research income for this unit is primarily from funders of collaborative research projects, often
 from nationally or internationally competitive sources. These include research funded by
 EPSRC, EU (including Marie Curie), the Newton Fund (mobility grant, Karagiannidis), two KTP
 projects (Knowles’s projects with Imprint and Atorus), City of Sunderland, and consultancy
 projects (e.g., TechnipFMC). The applied collaborative nature of much of this research results in
 strong pathways to impact, much of it facilitated by AMAP, which aims to inform, inspire, and
 innovate in Advanced Manufacturing, and achieves this by being an innovative, accessible, and
 outward facing provider of support for industry, based upon application of research and
 knowledge of Advanced Manufacturing regionally, nationally, and internationally.

 University support for research and impact comes from the Research Office (within the
 Enterprise and Innovation Directorate) supported by the Research and Innovation Group, a
 committee of Academic Board. Applied research in this unit does not require use of major
 external research facilities in the UK or overseas, although industrial collaborations do provide
 access to facilities and materials (see below). Activities are supported by faculty facilities and
 technical staff, University support for impact activities and partnership-based grant writing, IT
 infrastructure and support, and the University library (for journal subscriptions, inter library loans
 and book purchases). In addition to this, there has been £1,392,922 of investment in the School
 of Engineering’s to enhance research capacity through access to industry-standard
 technologies. This includes £526,665 invested on capital equipment in AMAP during the current
 REF period (£142,000 in 2015, £292,665 in 2017 and £92,000 in 2020 through the SAM project).


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In line with University strategy, common use is made of infrastructure for research, collaborative
 outreach, and teaching. Impact has benefitted from the AMAP and SAM investments, with
 regional SMEs benefitting from access to resources such as VR and AR software, a two-material
 3D printer, Hexagon Manufacturing Intelligence measuring equipment, and a robotic welding
 cell.

 AMAP have invested in time and resource to ensure their staff are trained in research
 development, and able to support teaching and learning using the latest equipment. AMAP
 equipment supports undergraduate and postgraduate student projects, as well as consultancy
 with local and national companies. A smart factory mini production line has been recently
 purchased at a cost of £132K. This Industry 4.0 rig mimics a production line, supporting
 experiments on monitoring quality, run rate, maintenance, and other factors. This has supported
 collaborative design of micro-factories with SMEs, with selection of equipment as part of capital
 investment drawing on knowledge of the state of the art and future trends in Industry 4.0 gained
 within this unit through applied research. AMAP have also invested in hydraulic and pneumatic
 training systems (approximate cost of £20K) and specialist software (£32K) to undertake training
 for local industry and teaching undergraduates on campus. AMAP staff are registered for PhDs
 (Morris, O’Brien). An energy monitoring system (cost £5K), purchased to capture data on CNC
 machines for speed and energy, is used by Morris in his PhD research.

 In addition to the AMAP investments, new facilities dedicated solely to research include
 mechanical, fluid, and digital manufacturing labs. Around £100K has been spent on fit out costs
 for these new laboratories. £20K has been spent on hardware for virtual reality (VR) and
 augmented reality (AR). £18K has been spent on an analytical Balance, chiller, and ancillaries.

 There has also been specific investment in labs for Karagiannidis. A thermogravimetric
 analyser (~£30,000) was purchased for his research group in 2017. He also received £5,000
 from the University’s IRP scheme in 2019-2020 which was used to buy small equipment,
 labware, consumables and chemicals for his two labs, Materials formulation, and Materials
 Characterisation.

 Naveed received £5,000 from the University’s IRP scheme in 2019-2020, used to buy 3D printer
 materials to plan new experiments through exploration of additive manufacturing. The results of
 these experiments have been published, and this has supported student projects.

 Mehrabi has established a metallography and heat treatment laboratory. Research here
 investigates the effect of process parameters on the properties of Cast, Welded, Additive
 Manufactured and Heat-Treated parts and components for product improvement. There is a
 focus on Sustainable Manufacturing, saving energy and materials with collaboration with the UK
 manufacturing sector. Applications areas with foundries include investment casting (ceramic
 shell moulds and ceramic cores). This complements earlier investments in support of
 Elmarakbi’s research on high temperature polymers (state of the art twin screw extruder and
 injection moulding machine, £215K).

 The predominance of collaborative applied research projects brings many benefits in kind,
 including access to collaborators’ expertise, sites, and facilities, and is a primary source of the
 unit’s visiting professors. Collaborations and partnerships have given us access to labs. and
 equipment at Bosch Rexroth, Siemens, Tekniker (Spain, Electronics Labs), VTT (Finland,
 maintenance research) and CADET (Deakin University, Australia). Baglee’s visiting professor
 roles give access to experts in the USA and Sweden. Research is planned for post COVID
 changes to manufacturing practices.




                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Collaboration and contribution to the research base are international in nature. The unit has
 research collaborations within the UK, Europe, USA, and Australia. This reach is reflected in the
 range of contributions to the engineering research base and the sustainability of the discipline.
 Naveed collaborates with colleagues at The Open University (UK) and Northumbria University,
 developing research and publishing collaboratively. Baglee is a Visiting Professor of Operations
 and Maintenance at the University of Lulea, Sweden, and a Visiting Research Professor at the
 University of Maryland, USA. He works with research staff at both institutions on research
 papers and project development and has also developed an undergraduate course for Lulea.

 Burn has collaborated with Prof. Ing. Mikulas Huba of the Slovak University of Technology in
 Bratislava on PID controller design for industrial processes and systems. Karagiannidis has
 collaborations with University of Brasilia (Brazil, Newton mobility grant funded), Chulalongkorn
 University (Thailand), Versarien PLC (UK), Bitrez (UK), Avanzare Innovacion Tecnologica
 (Spain), Instituto de Tecnologías Químicas de La Rioja, Inter-Química (Spain) and the
 Universities of Hertfordshire and Northumbria (UK). Seven co-authored papers with these
 collaborators were published in 2020.

 Partners in Elmarakbi’s EU Graphene Flagship research project (iGCAuto 604391) on
 advanced composite materials used in the manufacture of cars were Centro Ricerche FIAT
 (Italy); Fraunhofer ICT (Germany); Interquimica (Spain); Nanesa S.r.l. (Italy); and Delta-Tech
 S.p.A. (Italy). Waseda University and the National Institute for Materials Sciences (NIMS) in
 Japan also contributed to this research. Elmarakbi was also selected by the Advanced
 Propulsion Centre (APC, Warwick) as one of 17 UK exhibitors to represent the UK at the JSAE
 Spring Congress in Yokohama, Japan (May 2017). He was one of only ten professors worldwide
 invited to join the Chinese Talents-111 project on vehicle body light weighting led by Hunan
 University (2016-2020).

 Karagiannidis has given invited talks at Edinburgh and Durham universities. Baglee was invited
 by the committee for the Australasian Association for Engineering Education to present a
 keynote talk in 2015 at the University of Deakin, Geelong on how to build collaborative
 partnerships within the UK. At the conference, he was invited to join the UK Chapter of
 Engineers for Australia, and the Australasian Association for Engineering Education.
 Elmarakbi’s invited lectures and keynotes included 1st International Conference on Automotive
 Composites (ICAutoC Special Lecture, Lisbon September 2017), 2nd International Conference
 on Mechanics of Composites (keynote, Porto July 2016), and IMAGINENANO (invited speaker,
 Bilbao March 2018). He was a session chair at the joint 2017 European Graphene Forum and
 Smart Materials and Surfaces conferences in Paris.

 Karagiannidis and Burn have reviewed for EPSRC. Knowles has been a reviewer for the
 Newton Fund since 2016. Baglee has acted as an expert reviewer for the European commission
 evaluating the Horizon 2020 call “Novel design and predictive maintenance technologies for
 increased operating life of production systems”. He has since acted as a project reviewer for one
 funded project from January 2018, and as an expert reviewer for two Horizon 2020 project calls,
 LC-GV-02-2018 and LC-GV-01-2018. Within the S4Fleet project (Finnish Metals and
 Engineering Cluster) Baglee was an expert adviser with responsibility for reviewing key tasks
 and deliverables. Elmarakbi reviews for EPSRC and ESF and has been an Expert Reviewer for
 the EU’s Framework 7 and Horizon 2020 programmes.

 Karagiannidis is Associate Editor for the Journal of Nanomaterials, Nanoengineering and Nano
 systems (JNNN, SAGE Publishing) and a reviewer for Nature Communications/Springer Nature,
 Nanoscale and Nanoscale Advances /Royal Society of Chemistry, and Advances in Material
 Research, Technology/Springer, and Thermochimica Acta/Elsevier. Naveed has reviewed for
 the International Journal of Robotics and Mechatronics (Special Issues related to Advanced
 Machining Technologies), the Journal of Polymer Engineering & Science, and Heliyon open
 access journal. Knowles regularly reviews for engineering conferences and journals, including

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Elsevier Transport Research Part B, Quality and Reliability Engineering International, Elsevier
 European Journal of Operational Research, Energies Journal (MDPI), International Journal of
 Traffic and Transportation Engineering and Journal of Cleaner Production (Elsevier). Similarly,
 Burn has reviewed for several journals, including IEEE Transactions on Automation Science
 and Engineering, International Journal of Electrical Engineering Education and International
 Journal of Mechanical Engineering Education.

 Mehrabi has been a member of the Editorial Board for the Journal of Environmental Friendly
 Materials (JEFM) since 2017. He also reviews for the Journal of Crystals and the International
 Journal of Pressure Vessels and Piping. Baglee is Deputy Editor-in-Chief of the Engineering
 Asset Management Review (founded 2018) and a member of the editorial boards of:
 International Journal of Strategic Engineering Asset Management, Journal of Maintenance
 Engineering, and International Journal on Advances in Automotive Engineering (AAE). He is
 also a reviewer for over a dozen engineering journals. Elmarakbi is Founding Editor-in-Chief of
 the International Journal of Automotive Composites and an editorial-board member, and
 reviewer, of high-impact journals.

 Burn has served on the Programme Committee Member of the International Conference on
 Informatics in Control, Automation and Robotics (ICINCO) since 2004. Knowles was Organiser
 of the 2015 Joint IET ARTS/University of Sunderland Digital Innovation Beacon Seminar on
 Vehicle Telematics. Elmarakbi is Chairman of the International Conference on Automotive
 Composites and has organised other international conferences such as 1st International
 Conference on Impact Loading of Structures and Materials (Milan 2017) and Graphene
 Technology-2019 in Milan. Baglee was the Chair of the Maintenance Performance,
 Management and Measurement Conference (MPMM) in 2012 at Sunderland University and has
 been a permanent member of the management and technical committee for subsequent
 conferences. He is also a permanent member on the management committee for the
 International Conference on Maintenance Engineering (INCOM). He has also been a committee
 member for the World Congress on Engineering Asset Management (WCEAM 2018, as well as
 an Advisory Panel member for the 30th International Congress & Exhibition on Condition
 Monitoring and Diagnostic Engineering Management (COMADEM 2017).

 Baglee was Co-Chair and Founder of the International conference of Maintenance Performance
 Measurement and Management (MPMM), an Invited Panel Member of the Machine Failure
 Conference (MFPT 2016, USA), and a special session organiser for the 2014 and 2016
 International Conferences on Data Mining. 2014 Las Vegas. USA. Elmarakbi is an alumnus of
 the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science and addressed the April 2018 Pre Departure
 Seminar Programme.

 In the current REF period, Baglee has been external examiner for 16 PhDs in the UK, Norway,
 Sweden, Finland, India, and South Africa. Burn has examined two PhDs at Newcastle and one
 at Manchester Metropolitan University. Knowles has examined two Indian PhDs. Naveed has
 been External Examiner for an MPhil at Newcastle University. Further support for PhD students
 includes a lecture to Graphene Study by Karagiannidis in 2017 in Gothenburg, Sweden.

 The unit has formed, developed and maintained relationships with key research users and
 professional beneficiaries. Karagiannidis’ research group has been supplied with specialised
 raw materials from strategic collaborators: thermosetting resins from Bitrez Ltd (UK); and
 graphene and related materials from Versarien PLC (UK), Thomas Swan & Co. Ltd. (UK) and
 Avanzare (Spain). In-kind contributions of £61,400 were offered for his recent research bid.

 Knowles has been Chair of the IET Northumbria Local Network since 2018. He presented to the
 Northumbria Branch on Vehicle Telematics – Current Challenges and Future Opportunities in
 2016. Baglee has presented a course on condition monitoring for VTT, the Finnish National
 research organisation. Elmarakbi’s work with graphene composites was extensively covered in
 the professional and regional press (e.g., The Engineer, Automotive Engineering, Mobility
 Engineering).

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Baglee is founder and Chair of the North East Maintenance Forum, which promotes research,
 consultancy, and teaching programmes to local companies. This has proven to be highly
 successful in engaging with local manufacturing and engineering companies, leading to
 development of a UK maintenance forum, chaired by Baglee, as a collaborative partnership of
 several UK universities, which is supported by the Institution of Engineering and Technology
 (IET) through national and international dissemination activities. Baglee is a member of the
 Design and Productivity Executive Committee and a member of the Manufacturing Policy
 Steering Committee within the IET. In 2017, he became one of eight experts on the board of the
 International Society of Engineering Asset Management (ISEAM).

 Baglee developed a successful proposal to Innovate UK to introduce advanced maintenance as
 a subtheme for their manufacturing calls. He is now a member of a group of academics who
 have been asked by UK government to address possible issues surrounding the Industrial
 Strategy and the sector challenge fund. He is also a member of a team that has been asked to
 submit written evidence to The Education Select Committee on the challenges posed and
 opportunities presented by the Fourth Industrial Revolution. From this, he has been asked to
 support a task and finish group, examining how Industry 4 themes can be developed into
 industry led proposals via UK research and innovation (UKRI) the seven research councils,
 Innovate UK and research England.

 Baglee is a member of several standards organisations: British Standards Institute (BSI)
 AMS/001 Asset management Executive Committee; International Standards Organisation (ISO)
 ISOISO/TC 251/WG 3 Communication group; and ISO/TC 251/WG 7 550111 Development
 group. In these contexts: he has helped to design, develop new engineering asset management
 standards; propose a new standard for mobile electrical components; and engaged with local
 and national industry. Baglee is also a member of the Advanced Maintenance, Engineering,
 Service and Technology (A-MEST), a working group of the International Federation of Automatic
 Control whose membership includes both academic and industrial representatives.

 The unit continues to engage with a broad range of communities and publics. Within the North
 East, engineering researchers are active in the IET, policy work with local government, technical
 support and training for regional manufacturing SMEs, and consultancy for manufacturing
 companies and collaborative projects with them. Support for the regional economy is a strategic
 priority for the University. The School of Engineering has always been a centre of excellence for
 such work, with longstanding support for SMEs currently provided by the ERDF funded SAM
 project. Both impact case studies are drawn from this long sustained large body of work. Such
 prioritised regional engagement results in interdisciplinary research that is not only responsive to
 national and international priorities and initiatives (e.g., sustainability, productivity,
 competitiveness, innovation) but also contributes to these initiatives through standards
 processes and through policy discussion and advice.




                                                                                              Page 12
