Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Cambridge

 Unit of Assessment: 4 – Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience


 1: Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and Structure
 We benefit society through a deeper understanding of the brain and mind over the life
 course from childhood to old age, in health and disease.

 We pursue this mission by:

 •   Promoting research within and between the linked disciplines of Psychology, Psychiatry and
     Neuroscience.
 •   Recruiting and retaining excellent people at all levels of seniority, from students to senior
     faculty.
 •   Actively stimulating inter-disciplinary innovation as part of our organisational culture of
     openness, diversity, inclusivity and team science.

 Our scientific strategy is explicitly and pervasively translational – with many active collaborations
 between “basic” and “clinical” research groups established across the whole community of brain
 and mind scientists in Cambridge. Our research bridges the full range of neuroscientific scales
 and experimental modalities required to encompass the complexities of the brain and the mind:
 from genetic and molecular mechanisms, through cell biology and network neuroscience, to
 behavioural science and cognitive psychology, in model organisms and humans. We leverage our
 strengths in biological and normative human neuroscience to achieve significant impact on major
 global health challenges in mental health, dementia, and many other brain and
 neurodevelopmental disorders.




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 1. UoA4 in Cambridge: Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience across the life
 course. Central grey circle shows our major shared infrastructure surrounded by concentric
 circles representing our organization across the life course, our departmental organization and
 some of our key external partners (see below for abbreviations).

 Childhood: It is critical to understand the contributions of nature and nurture during the earliest
 period of brain and mind development, the related disorders of childhood, and their implications
 for mental health in later life. Combining novel psychometric and behavioural approaches with
 remote monitoring, brain imaging, and neurophysiology, we study normal early child development,
 with particular expertise in learning and the development of speech, hearing and language, and
 how these cognitive processes intersect with social behaviour and educational attainment.
 Genetics, mitochondrial and cell biology, in animal models and large clinical bioresources, are
 central to our work on understanding, diagnosis and treatment of autistic spectrum disorders and
 rare neuro-genetic or metabolic diseases of the developing nervous system.

 Adolescence and adult life: The adolescent period from puberty to ~25 years old is a time of
 high risk for many mental health and neurodevelopmental disorders. We use cognitive psychology
 and computational psychiatry, combined with translational magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), to
 map underlying developmental trajectories of neurocognitive networks or connectomes, in young
 people and animal models. We use epidemiology, social psychology and digital technologies to
 resolve the complex intersection of biomedical and psychosocial factors in determining health and
 social outcomes of adolescence. This deep foundation of normative developmental neuroscience,
 combined with broad analysis of the population and social context of adolescence, informs
 clinically-facing research, directly addressing the strategic national challenge of children and
 young people’s mental health, including studies of depression, anxiety, psychosis, addiction and
 eating behaviour.

 Throughout adolescence and into adult life, auto-immune and neuro-inflammatory brain disorders
 are increasingly recognised as important causes of morbidity and multi-morbidity. We use
 epidemiological, genetic and experimental medicine studies to identify the causal mechanisms for
 neuro-immune disorders and brain inflammation. We develop new neuroimaging and blood
 biomarkers, and intensive bedside monitoring technologies, for precise diagnosis and evaluation

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of clinical status, including a major focus on the most critically ill patients. We continue to build on
 our proven track record of translating novel insights about immune targets into clinically impactful
 new therapeutics for demyelinating disease, traumatic brain injury (TBI), auto-antibody mediated
 encephalitis and psychosis, and inflammation-related depression. This strategic focus has
 enabled us to respond rapidly and effectively to the acute challenges of understanding and
 mitigating the impact of SARS-CoV2 infection on the brain.

 Old Age: The period from adulthood to old age is associated with major normative developmental
 changes in the brain and mind, and the greatest risk for dementia, neurodegenerative and
 cerebrovascular disorders. We use cognitive neuroscience, neuroimaging and epidemiology to
 define trajectories of healthy brain ageing. Complementary clinical programmes are based on
 local, national and international cohorts of healthy volunteers and patients that strongly inform
 laboratory studies of the genetic, molecular and cellular mechanisms of neurodegeneration. The
 over-arching emphasis is translational, from the genetic and environmental origins of disease,
 early detection and diagnosis, through to the development of novel therapeutics, including stem
 cell-derived regenerative interventions. We aim to modify the natural history of progressively
 disabling disorders - such as Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, Huntington’s disease,
 fronto-temporal dementias - and to prevent strokes or improve the outcomes of cerebrovascular
 disease.




                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 2. Co-authorship network analysis demonstrates the coherence and inter-
 disciplinarity of Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience research in Cambridge.

                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Top) Each node in the network represents a member of the 157 research staff returned in UoA4
 and the links between nodes represent co-authorship of our 377 research outputs. The size of
 each node is proportional to the number of returned papers co-authored by each individual and
 the colour represents their administrative affiliation to one of five Departmental groups in the
 University (Clinical Neurosciences, including the MRC MBU; Psychiatry; the MRC Cognition and
 Brain Sciences Unit (CBU); Psychology; and Other Departments (Medicine, Physiology,
 Development & Neuroscience, and Music). (Bottom) The same co-authorship network is shown
 with the nodes differently coloured to represent 6 collaborative clusters, identified by data-driven
 analysis of co-authorships of returned papers. Each cluster has produced a major proportion of
 the research outputs returned by UoA4. (Centre) The alluvial diagram shows how these 6
 collaborative research clusters have self-organized within and between the 5 Departments to
 produce inter-disciplinary, basic-to-clinical translational research. Each cluster is labelled
 according to its focus on the major mental health and/or brain disorders occurring in childhood,
 adolescence and adulthood, or old age.

 The research community of 157 staff returned as UoA4 represents three Schools (Biological
 Sciences; Clinical Medicine; and Arts and Humanities), six Departments (Clinical Neurosciences;
 Medicine; Music; Psychiatry; Psychology and Physiology, Development and Neuroscience)
 including four embedded Research Council University Institutes/Units (MRC Cognition and
 Brain Sciences Unit [MRC CBU]; UK Dementia Research Institute Cambridge [UK DRI]; MRC
 Mitochondrial Biology Unit [MRC-MBU]; the MRC-Wellcome Cambridge Stem Cell Institute
 [CSCI]), with close links to the MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology (MRC-LMB). This grouping
 forms an integral part of the wider Cambridge community of brain and mind scientists, with
 complementary research activity also returned in UoA1 and UoA5, which is comprehensively
 coordinated through the Cambridge Neuroscience Interdisciplinary Research Centre (IRC).

 1.2 Achievements since REF2014
 A transformational strategy was implemented following REF2014 with a single focus on cross
 disciplinary integration. Driven by our research community, this approach was endorsed by an
 international external strategic review (2016) and the creation of Cambridge Neuroscience IRC by
 the University in 2017, supported by an annual budget. Together this has enabled a coherent
 approach to recruitment and the development of research infrastructure, transforming the
 Cambridge environment.




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 3. UoA4 in numbers Key activities between 1 August 2013 and 31 July 2020.

 Our achievements directly align with the strategic priorities highlighted in our REF2014 submission
 as follows:

 1.2.1 Strategic recruitment bridging biology, medicine, the physical and social sciences

 Since 2014 we have recruited senior and junior academic staff to directly address our research
 strategy. The following examples include 9 Professors and 24 junior independent Fellowships
 since REF2014, in addition to University Lectureships and other Fellowships across UoA4.

 Senior recruits since REF2014:

 Childhood:
 • Tamsin Ford (Professor of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, 2019, from the University of
    Exeter) investigates children’s mental health and the delivery of NHS services for young
    people’s mental health.
 • Mark Johnson (Professor of Experimental Psychology and Head of Department of Psychology,
    2017, from UK Medical Research Council) studies brain and behaviour in infancy and its
    relationship to autism and ADHD.

 Adolescence and adult life:
 • Manohar Bance (Professor of Otology and Skull Base Surgery, 2017 from Dalhousie
   University, Canada) studies the biophysical and anatomical properties of the ear underpinning
   the design of cochlear implants, working with industry, engineering and computer science.
 • Sarah-Jayne Blakemore (Professor of Psychology, 2019, from UCL) studies the development
   of social cognition and decision making in the human adolescent brain.

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Patrick Chinnery (Professor of Neurology and Head of Department of Clinical Neurosciences,
     2015, from Newcastle University) studies the origin and treatment of inherited neurological
     diseases particularly involving mitochondria.
 •   Rita Horvath (Clinical Director of Research, 2018, from Newcastle University) studies protein
     synthesis within mitochondria as a disease mechanism explaining tissue selectivity.
 •   Petra Vértes (University Lecturer in Network Neuroscience, 2019, from Queen Mary,
     University of London) uses graph theory and other methods from statistical physics to analyse
     brain networks (connectomes) in humans and C. elegans.
 •   Debi Vickers (MRC Senior Fellowship, 2018, from UCL) bridges psychology, physics and
     engineering to improve hearing in cochlear implant users.

 Old age:
 • Matthew Lambon-Ralph (Director of the MRC CBU, 2018, from the University of Manchester)
    harnesses multiple methodologies to secure convergent insights on semantic cognition,
    aphasia, and recovery, rehabilitation and neuroplasticity, including in dementia.
 • Giovanna Mallucci (van Geest Professor of Neurosciences, 2014, from MRC Toxicology Unit,
    now Associate Director UK Dementia Research Institute, 2017) works on the molecular
    mechanisms of neurodegeneration to develop new treatments for dementia.

 Junior independent external Fellowships since REF2014:

 Childhood:
 • Fabian Grabenhorst, 2017 is a Wellcome Trust Henry Dale fellow studying the neural
    mechanisms underlying reward-based decisions in individual neurons of old-world monkeys.
 • Sarah Lloyd-Fox (UKRI Future Leader Fellow, 2019) is investigating early brain function in the
    perinatal period to understand how neurodevelopmental trajectories relate to poverty.
 • Jelle van den Ameele (Wellcome Intermediate Fellow, 2020) is a neurologist from the Gurdon
    Institute, studying metabolism in brain development.

 Adolescence and adult life:
 • Damiano Barone (NIHR Clinical Lecturer, 2019) is a neurosurgeon developing the next
   generation of neural bioelectronics to treat spinal cord injury.
 • Aya Ben Yakov Breslav (Royal Society Dorothy Hodgkin Research Fellow, 2019) investigates
   brain mechanisms underlying encoding of new episodic memories.
 • Samuel Chamberlain (Wellcome Trust Intermediate Clinical Fellow, 2017) is a psychiatrist
   investigating the mechanisms of compulsive disorders through experimental medicine.
 • Rocco Chiou (Sir Henry Wellcome Fellow, 2018) studies how the brain enables humans to
   perceive the world and transform perception into knowledge.
 • Alex Clarke (Wellcome Henry Dale Fellow, 2019) is examining how the environment changes
    the dynamics of visual and semantic activity in the brain.
 • Hannah Clarke, 2016 holds an MRC fellowship to develop a schizophrenia model in new world
   monkeys to understand the role of hippocampal-prefrontal circuits.
 • Tobias Goehring (MRC Career Development Fellow, 2020) studies the perception of speech
   for people with hearing loss in everyday life.
 • Rebecca Jackson (British Academy Fellow, 2018) is building a computational model of
   semantic cognition that includes both representation and control processes.
 • Golam Khandaker (Wellcome Trust Intermediate Clinical Fellow, 2017) is a psychiatrist
   investigating shared immune mechanisms of depression and cardiovascular disease.
 • Andras Lakatos (MRC Clinician Scientist, 2017) is a neurologist developing brain organoids to
   understand and treat amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
 • Rebecca Lawson (Wellcome Trust Henry Dale Fellow, 2018) studies how humans learn to
   build adaptive expectations about the world, other people and the self.
 • Romy Lorenz (Sir Henry Wellcome Fellow, 2018) is a cognitive neuroscientist developing
   brain-computer interfaces.
 • Mary-Ellen Lynall (MRC Clinical Research Fellow, 2019) is a psychiatrist investigating the
   neuroimmunology of treatment-resistant depression.

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Luca Peruzzotti-Jametti (Wellcome Trust Intermediate Fellow, 2020) is a neurologist recruited
     from Milan studying the role of metabolism in immune regulation in multiple sclerosis.
 •   Jasper Poort (Wellcome Trust Henry Dale Fellow, 2019) investigates selective vision and
     attention at a cellular level.
 •   Roni Tibon (British Academy Fellow, 2017). Recruited from Baruch Lvcher School of
     Psychology, Israel, investigates how memory works using behavioural and imaging
     techniques.

 Old age:
 • Edward Avezov (UK DRI Fellow, 2018) is developing an interdisciplinary programme to
    understand how fundamental cellular processes contribute to neurodegeneration.
 • Gabriel Balmus (UK DRI Fellow, 2018) was recruited from Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute to
    understand how neurons are protected from harm during ageing.
 • Will McEwan (Wellcome Trust Henry Dale Fellow, then UK DRI Fellow, 2016) was recruited
    from the MRC-LMB working on the molecular mechanisms of dementia.
 • Li Su (Alzheimer’s Research UK Fellow, 2018) is a computer scientist developing novel
    methods of imaging analysis to study psychiatric and late-life degenerative disorders.
 • Caroline Williams-Gray (MRC Clinician Scientist, 2018) is a neurologist studying the role of
    inflammation in Parkinson’s disease.

 1.2.2 Major expansion of our research infrastructure

 Our research infrastructure has expanded substantially since REF2014 through integrated
 applications to government funders, industry, charities and benefactors, matched by University
 investment.

 Highlights include:

 Childhood:
 • Transfer of MRC MBU into the University (Department of Clinical Neurosciences) to
    consolidate critical mass in mitochondrial and genetic disorders of childhood (MRC and the
    UoC, GBP23m over five years, 2016).
 • BabyLab (2018, Johnson, Lawson, Lloyd-Fox, GBP500k).
 • Building strengths in researching diverse family forms (Wellcome Trust, GBP1.5m, 2018)
 • New early-life cohort in Cambridge (MRC, GBP2.4m, 2019).

 Adolescence and adulthood:
 • Establishing the Cambridge-NTU CREATE Centre on Learning and Individualised Cognition
   funded by the National Research Foundation Singapore (GBP12.5m) to promote research in
   the neuroscience of lifelong learning.
 • Establishing the NIHR Global Health Research Group on Neurotrauma (NIHR, GBP1.7m,
   2017).
 • Hosting the NIHR Applied Research Collaborations (ARC) East of England, in partnership with
   Cambridgeshire & Peterborough NHS Foundation Trust (NIHR, GBP9m, 2019).

 Old age:
 • Co-location of chemists, biologists and clinicians studying dementia in the UK Dementia
    Research Institute Cambridge Centre (UK DRI, GBP15m, 2017) and ARUK ALBORADA Drug
    Development Institute (GBP12m, 2016).
 • Cambridge Centre for Parkinson Plus (philanthropic gift, USD20m, 2018).

 Cross-theme:
 • Transfer of MRC CBU into the University to consolidate critical mass in cognitive, mental health
    and developmental disorders over the life course (2018, GBP5.5m/year).



                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   NIHR Biomedical Research Centre - Brain and Mind ‘Supertheme’ with joint clinical research
     infrastructure focused on electronic health care records, neuro-immunology, biobanking and
     imaging platforms (NIHR, GBP12m, 2017).
 •   Co-location of patient facing translational researchers in psychology, psychiatry, neuro-
     cognition, and hearing loss in shared clinical facilities (2014).
 •   High Performance Hub for Clinical Informatics (MRC Clinical Research Infrastructure Award,
     GBP2m, 2014)
 •   Comprehensive human brain imaging facilities installed at the Wolfson Brain Imaging Centre,
     including 7 Tesla MRI and MRI/PET scanners (MRC Clinical Research Infrastructure Award,
     GBP15m, 2014).
 •   Translational Neuroimaging Laboratory for small animals including marmosets and rodents
     with 9.4T MRI and PET facilities (University, GBP2.5m, 2016).

 1.2.3 Scientific discoveries

 Many of our discoveries span both fundamental and translational science. The examples chosen
 demonstrate the breadth and diversity of our research since REF2014 both within and beyond the
 remit of our submitted impact case studies. All have been critically dependent on our integrated,
 cross-disciplinary approach.

 Highlights include:

 Childhood:
 • Goswami's research identified the importance of temporal rhythm processing for the
    understanding of language and acquisition of reading in young children and then used this
    knowledge to design interventions for dyslexia (Front Hum Neurosci 2015).
 • Longitudinal studies showed associations between very early infant brain and cognitive data
    and mid-childhood autism outcomes (Johnson, Molecular Autism 2017).
 • Using exome and whole genome sequencing to diagnose rare inherited neurological disorders
    enabling genetic counselling and prenatal diagnosis in the NHS (Chinnery, Horvath, incl. JAMA
    2014, Science 2019).

 Adolescence and adult life:
 • Jones provided a population-based prediction tool to NHS commissioners to support the
   implementation of the 2016 NHS Access and Waiting Time Standard (Impact: PsyMaptic).
 • Bullmore, Jones and colleagues used MRI to elucidate mechanisms of adolescent brain
   development and their relationship to cognitive and genetic risks for OCD and schizophrenia
   (Nature Neuroscience 2019) in collaboration with UCL.
 • Coles showed that disease-modifying therapies in multiple sclerosis slow conversion to the
   secondary progressive stage of the illness which causes the most disability (JAMA 2019,
   Impact: Alemtuzumab).
 • RESCUEicp (Hutchinson et al, incl. NEJM 2016, 2019) showed that decompressive
   craniectomy in traumatic brain injury patients with raised intracranial pressure leads to a major
   reduction in mortality (Impact: TBI).
 • Dalgleish developed psychological interventions to treat depression based on understanding
   normal brain function (Lancet 2015, Impact: Mindfulness).
 • Markus led the first randomised controlled trial (RCT) studying carotid artery dissection,
   accounting for 25% of strokes in young adults, showing equivalent benefits from aspirin and
   anticoagulants (JAMA Neurol 2019).

 Old age:
 • Mallucci discovered the role of cold-shock proteins, particularly RBM3, in neuroprotection
    through their effect on synaptic structural plasticity and synapse regeneration (Nature 2015).
 • Kourtzi and Rowe established 7 Tesla magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) techniques
    to measure GABA for discovery and translational studies providing insights into perceptual
    decision making and dementia (Nature Comms 2019).

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Franklin worked with physicist Chalut to show that mechanical properties of the stem cell niche
     drive stem cell ageing which can be by-passed using gene editing (Nature 2019).
 •   St George Hyslop showed low complexity/intrinsically disordered domains of proteins such as
     FUS and αSYN drive their reversible condensation into liquid:liquid droplets in health, ageing
     and neurodegenerative diseases (Neuron 2015; Cell 2018, 2019).
 •   Halai and Lambon Ralph established the use of machine learning and multimodal imaging
     measures for the prediction of language and cognitive impairments in post-stroke aphasia
     (Nature Human Behaviour, 2020).

 1.2.4 Commercial translation

 Since 2014 we have established 45 major new industry collaborations and contracted 250
 academic consultancy agreements.

 Highlights include:

 Childhood:
 • Goswami has developed a computer-assisted reading intervention, launched in 2018, which
    has been commercialised by Cambridge Enterprise and is now available on iOS, Android and
    Windows devices (GraphoGame Rime, incl. Reading Research Quarterly 2013).

 Adolescence and adult life:
 • Establishment of companies to develop therapies for myelopathy, including BitBio, which now
    employ over 100 staff (raised over GBP10m, Kotter).
 • Quethera, a gene therapy programme for glaucoma, and its subsequent acquisition by Astellas
    (GBP85m in 2018, Martin and Osborne).
 • NIMA – an academic-industrial consortium for target validation, biomarker discovery and
   experimental medicine in early clinical development of new immune-modulatory drugs for
   treatment of depression and Alzheimer’s disease, was funded by the Wellcome Trust and
   several major pharma companies (Janssen, Pfizer, Lundbeck and GSK; GBP8.75m).

 Old age:
 • CANTAB cognitive profiling to detect early dementia and monitor treatments built on normal
    life-course data (GBP39.7m since 2013, Robbins and Sahakian, incl. Brain 2014, Impact:
    CANTAB).


 1.2.5 Translation into public policy and understanding

 In addition to our work responding to the COVID-19 pandemic (4.2.4), highlights include:

 Childhood:
 • Golombok has shown that children from diverse family forms experience high quality parenting
    and show low levels of emotional and behavioural problems; she has actively engaged in
    policy discussions and contributed to policy and legislation changes in the UK, USA, France,
    Germany and the Netherlands (Develop Psychol 2017; Impact: New family forms).
 • Chinnery advised the Chief Medical Officer (CMO) on the use of whole genome sequencing
    to diagnose rare diseases in the NHS, was co-author of the CMO annual report Generation
    Genome (2016), and gave Science Select Committee evidence (2017), linked to underpinning
    science (Nature 2020).

 Adolescence and adult life:
 • Ewing developed the Carer Support Needs Assessment Tool intervention (CSNAT-i) which
   has been implemented into practice in 168 organisations across 15 countries (PloS One 2015,
   2017; Impact: CSNAT).



                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Fletcher used digital gaming technology to reduce the stigma of mental health disorders,
     shaping national policy (Proc Natl Acad Sci 2015, Impact: Hellblade).
 •   Van der Linden developed a ‘vaccine’ against fake news which has had significant uptake
     among international governments, including the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office and
     the US Homeland Security (Science 2017, Impact: Fake news vaccine).

 Old age:
 • Barker’s work on Parkinson’s disease has also had a significant effect on public understanding
    of the disease through the TRANSEURO Network which brings together researchers,
    clinicians and patient stakeholders (Nature 2018), leading to first-in-human trials of embryonic
    stem cell derived dopamine (STEM-PD) (Nature Med 2019).

 1.3 Impact Strategy
 Since REF2014 we have translated our discoveries into clinical practice across all of the main
 research domains. Many are now embedded in the NHS and have been adopted internationally,
 and include contemporary digital technologies, pharmaceuticals and cell therapies. This has been
 possible by focusing our energy on three key impact incubators developed to facilitate impact
 across the breadth of our research:

 1.3.1 Fostering an interdisciplinary research culture

 Interdisciplinary research underpins our impact strategy, including the free and open exchange of
 knowledge and methodologies at all levels in the organisation, from PhD students to Professors,
 within and across our research clusters – all focused on addressing unmet clinical and societal
 needs. Pathways to impact are embedded in all stages of our research cycle and the research
 training we offer to junior scientists.

 1.3.2 Building successful partnerships

 Interdisciplinarity naturally lends itself to collaborative research. We seek to foster successful
 partnerships across our research clusters, the broader University, and external organisations in
 order to achieve our underpinning mission. Our collaborative successes (Figure 2) are
 underpinned by the co-location of our researchers with key collaborators across two main sites:
 central Cambridge and the Cambridge Biomedical Campus on the south-western edge of the city.
 Critically, our two main sites are very close, facilitating easy interdisciplinary work and cross-
 fertilisation of ideas between researchers. In addition, long before the COVID-19 lockdown, we
 had invested in and embraced videoconferencing, enabling effective cross-campus collaborations
 on a daily basis.

 1.3.3 Building our capacity for impact

 Our researchers’ capacity to generate impact is dependent on two core elements:

 •   Infrastructure: Through a coordinated series of successful grant applications, we have
     obtained major new equipment underpinning Neuroscience, Psychology and Psychiatry
     research across the whole city (1.2.2). New activity has been catalysed by targeted investment
     from philanthropy, matched by the University, to catalyse cross-disciplinary research activities,
     particularly at the interface of discovery and translation in collaboration with Engineering,
     Chemistry, Maths and Computer Science.
 •   Operational support: Expert advice is available through the Office of Translational Research,
     Cambridge Academy of Therapeutic Sciences and the Milner Institute as well as a range of
     training opportunities for all staff to ensure that our researchers are equipped to deliver impact,
     including regular training events for postdoctoral scientists.




                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.4 Fostering an interdisciplinary research culture
 Our approach to interdisciplinary research complements both our impact (1.3) and people (2)
 strategies so that we are able to recruit, nurture and retain excellent researchers who forge
 successful translational partnerships.

 1.4.1 Impact strategy and interdisciplinary research

 In building our capacity for impact, we also enhance our opportunity for interdisciplinary research,
 creating a virtuous circle fuelled by scientific discovery. Our investment in infrastructure, and
 especially in cross-cutting technologies and platforms, has facilitated interdisciplinarity across
 our three research clusters.

 Key examples include:
 • Well-established and well-characterised regional and national cohorts of healthy participants
    and patient groups spanning the life course from birth to old age (Box 7), contributing to
    research efforts locally, nationally and internationally.
 • Data Study groups and postgraduate training within the Alan Turing Institute and HDR-UK to
    promote computational and data science in discovery neuroscience and mental health.
 • Model experimental systems, including: organisms (Drosophila, zebrafish, rodents, non-
    human primates); and human induced pluripotent cell models (hiPSC) in partnership with the
    NIHR iPSC hub and HipSci consortium (http://www.hipsci.org/), enabling world-leading brain
    and spinal cord organoid development in close partnership with the MRC-LMB (Box 9).
 • Campus-wide access to University- and MRC-supported High Performance Computing
    (GBP40m, 2015), underpinning computational modelling of neural and cognitive function,
    image analysis, genomic and bioinformatic analysis.
 • Clinical research facilities underpinned by the NIHR Cambridge Biomedical Research Centre
    Brain and Mind ‘Supertheme’ (GBP12m, 2017) providing cross-campus translational
    infrastructure and integrated health-care and educational data informatics.
 • Comprehensive structural and functional brain imaging research platforms for humans and
    animals including human 7-Tesla MRI and PET/MRI (2015, GBP15m MRC Capital
    Infrastructure), and small animal MRI and PET within new (GBP60m, 2018) centralised animal
    facilities (Box 8).
 • Single cell genomic and transcriptomic platforms (GBP7m MRC Capital Infrastructure, 2015)
    underpinning our role in the GBP10m MRC-Wellcome Chan-Zuckerberg Single Cell Atlas
    (2019).
 • Translational and applied methodologies underpinned by the NIHR ARC East of England
    (GBP9m, 2019).

 1.4.2 People strategy and interdisciplinary research

 Our recruitment strategy prioritises links between biology, medicine, the physical and social
 sciences specifically to address major unmet medical and societal needs. Since REF2014, our
 senior recruitment has mapped directly to our life-course research themes (1.2.1).

 We actively promote interdisciplinarity through our commitment to training and sustainability by
 mentoring and hosting early-career physicists, chemists, mathematicians and computer scientists
 within our research themes, and by new appointments to Lecturer and senior academic positions.
 In addition, we encourage co-supervision of PhD students, and pro-actively recruit, mentor and
 empower junior scientists to drive cross-collaboration through early leadership roles within
 research groups and departmental executives.

 1.5 Open research
 Underpinned by our mission, impact strategy and approach to interdisciplinary research, we
 have made significant advances in fostering an open research environment.


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.5.1 Open access publication
 96.15% of the 377 outputs we return here are compliant with the REF open access policy and
 have been made open access via the Green Route (uploaded on www.repository.cam.ac.uk).
 Most of our researchers have also adopted Plan U and are depositing preprints in BioRxiv and
 MedRxiv. Our successes in open access publication were achieved by embedding a network of
 champions across UoA4, supported administratively to make open access publication as easy as
 possible.

 1.5.2 Open science
 Through our international leadership in open science, our staff have championed new initiatives
 in the global community including publishing about open access approaches
 (https://doi.org/10.3389/fncom.2012.00094) and the introduction of pre-registration posters at
 several international conference (https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tics.2018.01.008). Orben leads a
 University-wide lecture course on robust and open science that is attended by many of our junior
 investigators and graduate students (https://www.amyorben.com/docs/syllabus.pdf).

 1.5.3 Open platforms
 As part of our commitment to impact and interdisciplinarity, we provide open online research data
 and web resources for the international science community.

 Examples include:

 •     CamCAN (www.can-can.org) is a population-derived cohort of nearly 3000 healthy volunteers
       across the adult lifespan, with detailed lifestyle, cognitive, genetic and brain-imaging data (MRI
       and MEG) on a subset of 700 that have been used by over 800 researchers around the world to
       study ageing, contributing to >100 peer-reviewed papers.
 •     The NIHR BRC ‘Supertheme’ in Brain and Mind Health has adopted the RedCap platform
       enabling data sharing across and beyond the campus in a standardised format, promoting
       data sharing and adoption of high-level data governance standards consistently across all
       research groups.
 •     Leadership of national and international efforts promoting open access to genomic data,
       including creation of world-leading cohorts recallable by genotype for translational research.
       Through the NIHR BioResource – Rare Diseases (https://bioresource.nihr.ac.uk/using-our-
       bioresource/our-cohorts/rare-diseases/) we have provided sequence data on >13,000 patients
       with rare diseases as a research resource and to accelerate translation to clinical diagnosis of
       new genetic disorders globally.

 1.6 Research integrity and reproducibility
 The highest levels of research integrity and reproducibility are central to our mission, underpin
 our impact strategy, and are aligned with the University’s core principles in research integrity and
 with Universities UK’s Concordat to Support Research Integrity. UoA4 has also made an important
 contribution to understanding reproducibility in neuroscience and psychology research (Box 1).

     Box 1: Understanding research reproducibility

     Szucs’ work has informed how to improve the statistical power and replicability of neuroscience
     and mental health research. By mining >3000 published papers from psychology, neuroscience
     and medical journals, he demonstrated the importance of increasing sample sizes to improve
     reporting accuracy (PLoS Biology 2017).

 1.6.1 Maintaining the highest standards in all aspects of research
 Since REF2014, we have made it a strategic priority to foster a culture that actively addresses
 research integrity including:



                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Increasing awareness that irreproducibility is a serious issue. We have arranged visits by high
     profile external experts to give lectures and lead workshops, and regularly consider this at
     governance and strategy meetings.
 •   Providing training and support in appropriate statistical methods and data analytics to all our
     researchers, and mandating such training for PhD students.
 •   Promoting scrutiny of primary data in all supervisory and research group meetings.

 Each Department has a named staff member responsible for monitoring and reporting on research
 governance which constitutes a key element of core business for our departmental executives.
 We also provide individual researchers with administrative support in order to promote research
 integrity and ensure appropriate ethical standards are upheld, with support from the Research
 Strategy Office.

 1.6.2 Ensuring research is conducted to the highest standards
 Our research proposals and conduct are subject to internal and external review to ensure that we
 adhere to all relevant standards. University Research Ethics Committees review research
 proposals using healthy human participant data. All animal research is reviewed both before
 commencement, and after completion, by the University Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Body
 (AWERB) including scientists, veterinarians and lay persons with a particular focus on the 3R’s
 (reduction, refinement and replacement). We have an integrated approach with our two main NHS
 partners who act as the sponsor for our patient-facing research aligned with policies of the Health
 Research Authority and the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA).

 1.6.3 Maintaining a culture of integrity with strong governance, best practice and support
 for the development of researchers
 We host Data Champions who promote Findable Accessible Interoperable and Reusable (FAIR)
 research principles at a local level, and expert professional staff who provide guidance at the levels
 of UoA4 and the University. This holistic top-down and bottom-up approach helps to facilitate an
 environment in which research integrity and reproducibility are core values. As a signatory of the
 San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA), we are committed to ensuring that
 our approach to measuring scientific output avoids inappropriate metrics and all staff recruitment,
 evaluation and promotion processes have been reformed accordingly.


 1.7 Future strategic priorities
 Since REF2014 we have successfully created a sustainable, diverse, cross-disciplinary research
 community capitalising on state-of-the art research infrastructure. This has enabled us to
 consolidate and expand our three age-related research themes to tackle the emerging global
 challenges of brain and mental health disorders.

 Our three strategic priorities are:

 1.7.1 Developing a sustainable, supportive research culture
 We will promote a free-thinking “ideas factory” – the most valuable asset being people, regardless
 of career level – who conceive, drive, and deliver research through their vision, imagination, and
 intellectual energy. We will embrace a ‘bottom up’ culture, enabling scientists at all stages to
 develop and promote their own ideas. Central to this is the promotion of equality, diversity,
 openness and integrity through networks (Box 2) specifically designed to enable a research
 environment that is inclusive and accommodates the disparate working practices and
 environments of our diverse staff.

 1.7.2 Nurturing the next generation of interdisciplinary researchers
 We are committed to developing the next generation of interdisciplinary researchers at all career
 levels from PhD through to independence and seniority. This will be achieved through
 personalised independent mentorship, annual progress reviews, and cross-disciplinary
 partnerships to sponsor external fellowship applications (including peer review and mock
 interviews). Evidence of our success comes from the high ratio of PhD students to staff (>2:1),

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and the number of successful external fellowship awards which span multiple disciplines,
 accounting for 15% of our 157 returned staff.

 1.7.3 Developing our estate to promote further multi-disciplinarity
 We have mature plans to revitalise buildings for Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience
 researchers with a central hub supporting University-wide spokes. Underpinned by GBP1.2m
 funding (Gatsby Foundation matched by the University), the University Planning Committee has
 approved (2018) the re-development of six acres of land on the Cambridge Biomedical Campus
 (Forvie site) to host inter-disciplinary research teams: the Cambridge Hub for Integrated
 Neuroscience and Mental Health (beginning 2023).

 Phase 1 will co-locate: (1) clinicians, chemists and physicists working to develop new
 radiopharmaceuticals and other technologies for brain molecular imaging; (2) informaticians
 working on “big data” in neuroscience and mental health from backgrounds in computer science,
 statistics, mathematics and bioinformatics; (3) and clinical research space for human volunteer
 and patient research including experimental medicine and other interventional studies. Phase 2
 will co-locate ‘wet’ experimental labs, bringing neurodegeneration, dementia and
 neuroinflammation groups together on one site, thus consolidating our expertise in molecular,
 cellular and systems neuroscience.

 The Forvie site is immediately adjacent to Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Trust (CUH),
 where the UK Government has committed GBP100m (2018) to develop a new Children’s Hospital
 and Research Institute over the next five years (completion 2025). This will accommodate physical
 and mental health services for children and young people (CUH and Cambridge and Peterborough
 NHS Foundation Trust), co-located with a new 5,000 m2 research institute accommodating UoA4
 research clusters in childhood and adolescence in close proximity to cognate UoA1 research
 strengths in paediatrics and young people’s medicine.




                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2: People
 Our people strategy is a central tenet in achieving our mission enabling us to address our future
 priorities. Through a comprehensive programme of recruitment and development, our people
 strategy aims to sustainably grow our research community and ensure that our world-class
 researchers are able to deliver research with societal impact. All activity is always underpinned
 by equality, diversity and inclusion and the core principles of the UK Concordat to Support
 the Career Development of Researchers.

 2.1 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Strategy
 Our approach to EDI is at the heart of our people strategy, as we seek to create a research
 environment with a supportive and inclusive culture. Our returned staff provide leadership in this
 domain across the University: notably by Aigbirhio, who jointly chairs the UoC BAME staff network,
 and also advises the MRC and UKRI (Box 2). Local champions develop ‘bottom-up’ initiatives to
 promote diversity, supported “top-down’ by departmental and UoC resources.

 2.1.1 Recognition of advances in EDI
 Our advances in EDI have been recognised by the award of the ATHENA Swan Silver Award to
 the School of Clinical Medicine in 2018 and the Race Equality Charter Bronze Award in 2019 to
 the University. In UoA4, we are focused on improving working culture across departments,
 following the employee journey, and introducing specific actions including mandatory Equality and
 Diversity training and continually improving communications and inclusivity.

 2.1.2 Organisational support for EDI
 Our staff provide leadership for the University-wide Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Governance Group which promotes EDI to ensure fair processes for recruitment, funding
 applications, and further development opportunities for all staff. We contribute to the Equality
 Champions network, further enabling grassroots involvement in EDI. This network of >100 staff
 at all levels of seniority is responsible for information dissemination and collation and embedding
 of good practice. Our commitment to EDI is reflected by the appointment of an EDI Coordinator
 who is responsible for progressing the ATHENA Swan Action Plan, providing support for various
 staff networks, and organising career development and events to improve the working culture for
 all staff.

 Box 2: Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic groups in UoA4

 Aigbirhio co-chairs the University BAME network, supporting the wider BAME activities across
 the University. As a black African Professor, he is a powerful role model promoting increased
 diversity in HEIs. The two key aims of the BAME network are to increase the proportion of black
 staff members, who are notably underrepresented; and to increase the low proportion of BAME
 staff in senior academic grades. In recent years this has included an event held by MRC CBU
 as part of wider discussions and events to identify issues that pertain to BAME neuroscientists
 in areas of recruitment and retention, obtaining grants, publications, mentorship, networking and
 promotions. Our staff make a major contribution to the African in STEM group established in
 Cambridge.




                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.1.3 Supporting staff and students with protected characteristics
 To develop a diverse scientific leadership, we support staff with protected characteristics to
 conduct productive research. As with other elements of our people strategy, this benefits from
 tiered and complementary elements at each level of the University structure:

 •   Institutional support: University-organised Diversity Networks enable staff with protected
     characteristics to develop communities beyond academic boundaries and encourage a sense
     of inclusivity. UoA4 has demonstrated leadership at the institutional-level as Aigbirhio co-
     chairs the University BAME Network (Box 2) and Astle is a Committee member of the LGBT+
     Network.
 •   Local support: We run focus group sessions for LGBT+ staff and for those with 'invisible'
     disabilities or relapsing-recurring health conditions. The School’s Academic Women’s Forum
     provides peer support and mentoring opportunities for female research staff across the
     biomedical disciplines.

 2.1.4 Support mechanisms
 The University EDI strategy includes the following key elements:

•    Flexible working arrangements: Our full-time staff all work flexibly on an informal basis with
     additional opportunity for formal flexible working arrangements. All annual leave is at individual
     discretion, and compassionate, parental, care and sick leave are all available.
•    Remote working arrangements: Efficient remote working has underpinned our COVID-19
     response, which we intend to continue to some degree following the pandemic. The University
     Information Service provides staff with multiple options for remote working, including VPN
     servers.
•    The University has also launched an initiative in collaboration with the organisation My Family
     Care, as part of its commitment to support all its staff. This includes emergency childcare,
     school holiday cover and back-up adult and elderly dependent relative care.
•    Supporting staff returning from leave: The University Returning Carers’ Scheme
     supports academic activity and builds up the research profiles of our staff returning from a
     period away from work. Staff can benefit from attendance at UK and international conferences,
     short-term research support, attendance at training courses and/or equipment purchase.
•    Staff with caring responsibilities benefit from the Supporting Parents and Carers @
     Cambridge Network (SPACE) providing information and informal opportunities to meet others
     and share experiences.
•    Supporting staff wellbeing: In conjunction with the University’s overall Wellbeing Strategy,
     we launched the Raising Mental Health Awareness Programme in early 2015 to embed a
     culture of dignity in mental health that supports employees’ well-being.

 2.2 Recruitment Strategy
 Our recruitment strategy actively promotes interdisciplinarity, diversity and sustainability at all
 levels to address unmet clinical and societal needs. We are committed to the long-term support of
 successful research fellows through planned retirements and endowed tenured positions.

 We have recruited strategically to senior posts across our research themes including 16 senior
 positions, 43% of whom identify as women. Within the Childhood theme, developmental cognitive
 neuroscience and child psychiatry has been strengthened through the appointments of Johnson,
 Lawson, and Lloyd-Fox; and neurogenetics through Chinnery, Horvath and Yu-Wai-Man. We have
 built critical mass across Adolescence and adult life in translational hearing research by winning
 two of only three MRC Senior Hearing Fellows nationally (Vickers and Hughes), in psychology
 and psychiatry by the professorial appointments of Blakemore and Ford, and in network
 neuroscience through the appointment of Vértes. There has also been major recruitment within
 the Old age cluster, as Mallucci leads the UKDRI Cambridge Hub, and Coleman leads the Van
 Geest Centre for Brain Repair.



                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2.1 Recruiting early career researchers (ECRs)
 Since 2014, UoA4 has recruited over 300 ECRs, who now constitute 37% of our overall research
 staff. 56% of our ECRs identify as women and 11% are employed on clinical contracts. 16% are
 funded through external fellowships, including 24 awarded since REF2014 (see 1.2.1), accounting
 for 15% of our returned staff. For clinical academic ECRs see 2.3.4.

2.2.2 Recruitment processes
Our recruitment processes align with our commitment to EDI. We ensure that all recruitment panel
members have completed the University’s EDI and unconscious bias training modules, and are
proportionately gender-balanced to ensure sufficient representation whilst ensuring that staff with
protected characteristics are not overburdened. We use LinkedIn and other social media to
advertise opportunities widely and to attract high-calibre candidates.

 2.3 Staff Development
 We are committed to ensuring that researchers are able to develop their full potential through
 professional and career development aligned with the Researcher Development Concordat,
 incorporating the following examples:

 2.3.1 Institutional development opportunities
 The University hosts a comprehensive range of research, teaching, and leadership training
 schemes open to all staff, including: three levels of leadership training for mid-career and senior
 academics; project management, communications and management training courses; public
 engagement and impact training; and active bystander, anti-bullying and harassment training
 courses.

 All staff holding the post of University Lecturer or above have access to sabbatical leave for one
 term for every six terms of service. This has been an effective way for investigators to rejuvenate
 their research programme, often by visiting laboratories in other countries to establish new
 collaborations and/or develop new methodologies which are subsequently made available to other
 laboratories in Cambridge.

 Box 3: Sabbatical – the experience of James Rowe

 My sabbatical was actively encouraged. It was an invigorating experience which has had a
 significant impact on my research. I spent three months in Copenhagen, shorter visits to UCSF,
 Cologne and Bonn and presentations in Nice, Washington, and several UK sites. I could work
 in greater depth with longstanding collaborators, their students and ECRs at the Danish
 Research Centre for Magnetic Resonance (with special expertise in ultrahigh field 7T MRI), and
 the Neurobiology Research Unit (with special expertise in PET and psychopharmacology). The
 space and flexibility afforded by the sabbatical enabled me to focus on writing – including a
 successful Wellcome Investigator Award and some long overdue key papers. My visit to the
 extraordinary Memory and Ageing Centre in UCSF was inspiring. I was warmly welcomed to the
 Global Brain Health Initiative events, to see and hear the amazing range of innovation and
 creativity to work for brain health in the context of poverty, oppression, and discrimination. In
 specialist clinics we could compare and discuss best practice models for care and translational
 research. Much of what I saw and learnt has informed our work in the Cambridge Centre for
 Frontotemporal Dementia and Centre for Parkinson-Plus.




                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.3.2 Local development opportunities
 Our induction, probation and appraisal programme includes both online and in-person
 induction modules. In our 2018 staff survey, 73% of staff said their local induction provides them
 with the information to do their job effectively. Termly welcome events have proved successful in
 welcoming new staff to the University. Attendees have particularly valued the presence of senior
 school staff as a symbol of their commitment to generosity, kindness and inclusion within the
 institution.

 Completion of probations currently sits at 91%, and the annual appraisal completion rate is
 currently at 87% with 72% of staff in the 2019 Staff Survey confirming their appraisal was
 productive. In light of the ongoing pandemic, appraisal forms have been amended to acknowledge
 the impact on both clinical and non-clinical researchers.

 2.3.3 Development opportunities for ECRs
 Our ECRs comprise a diverse, international network of 37 post-doctoral Fellows and 194
 Research Associates. Our ECRs benefit from the staff development system (2.4.1), but we also
 recognise that ECRs face specific challenges including: career instability or limited short-term
 contracts; geographic mobility – an expectation that individuals will move institutions frequently;
 and limited funding and future career opportunities. These challenges are further complicated for
 clinically practising ECRs who balance research and clinical training. Evidence of our commitment
 to ECRs is shown in Box 4, and by the fact that 20% of our returned staff are externally funded
 ECRs.

  Box 4: Mentoring Early Career Researchers – the experience of Caroline Williams Gray

  As Clinical Lecturer I benefited from protected research time alongside clinical neurology
  training. This allowed me to build a research portfolio to support future applications for
  independent fellowships, whilst at the same time juggling the demands of NHS clinical duties
  and raising two young children. The mentorship I received throughout this time provided an ideal
  balance between academic support and encouragement to transition towards independence.
  Within 4 years I had established my own research team, investigating the role of the immune
  system in Parkinson’s disease. Cross-disciplinary support from senior colleagues in
  neurodegeneration (Barker), neuroimmunology (Coles and Jones), basic immunology
  (Clatworthy UoA1) and Chemistry (Klenerman UoA8) was invaluable in enabling me to prepare
  a successful fellowship application to the MRC, leading to a Clinician Scientist award in 2018.
  Balancing a clinical and academic career with the demands of family life is an ongoing challenge,
  requiring a flexible approach. However, my Department continues to be hugely supportive,
  facilitating my transition to full independence as Principal Research Associate, and Chief
  Investigator of the first clinical trial of an immunosuppressant therapy for Parkinson’s disease.




 We have devised and delivered a comprehensive support network to ensure all ECRs reach their
 full potential:

 •   Induction, probation and appraisal: We offer all ECRs a bespoke induction programme at
     the start of their contracts designed to orientate them to local procedures, policies, personnel,
     sources of help and information, location of key equipment, and to sign-post neutral and
     impartial confidantes. Robust probation processes and annual appraisal exercises are also in
     place to ensure alignment between the expectations and responsibilities of staff and their line-
     managers.

                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Mentoring: Each research cluster mentors ECRs through to success with their first national
     competitive grant application, including cross-disciplinary ‘mock’ interviews by experienced
     investigators. Once appointed, host departments provide start-up packages (typically
     GBP200k) to junior faculty in partnership with the Isaac Newton Trust.
 •   Postdoc Academy: All postdoctoral researchers are member of the Postdoc Academy (2.5.3).

 The fruitfulness of this strategy is evidenced both by our success in securing external fellowships
 (1.2) and by the future career progression of Cambridge ECRs. For example, in 2020, 4 ECRs
 from the Department of Psychiatry were appointed to full professorial positions elsewhere in the
 UK and Europe (Chamberlain, Southampton; Khandaker, Bristol; Li, Sheffield; van Harmelen,
 Leiden).

 2.3.4 Development opportunities for clinical staff including aspiring academic clinicians
 45% of our 157 returned staff are clinically qualified. Clinical research appraisals differ slightly from
 the standard academic appraisal by being with the relevant NHS/Public Health England appraisal.
 We promote proactive job planning to ensure that research time is protected for clinical academic
 trainees.

 Since REF2014 we have hosted 36 NIHR Academic Foundation Programme junior doctors, 40
 NIHR Academic Clinical Fellows, and 14 NIHR Academic Clinical Lecturers. The majority remain
 committed to academic medicine either in training, with subsequent research fellowships (26%),
 or in tenured academic positions in the UK and globally.

 2.3.5 Supporting Category C staff
 We are committed to integrating and developing clinical academics and NHS-employed active
 researchers. The 20 Category C staff returned in UoA4 play a critical role in delivering our strategy
 through the delivery of our research, the realisation of research impact, and the mentorship of
 ECRs.

 2.3.6 Promotion
 The University runs a CV-mentoring scheme for Senior Academic Promotion candidates and
 schools and departments run local workshops for both academics and researchers before annual
 promotion cycles. This strategy has delivered notable successes for UoA4, including four staff
 promotions to Senior Lecturer, nine to Reader, and 12 to Professor, since REF2014.

 In addition, the University offers several staff reward opportunities. For example, the annual Vice-
 Chancellor’s Impact and Engagement Awards provide recognition of impact achievements for
 researchers and professional services staff. Seven UoA4 staff submitted entries to the 2020
 Awards with Hutchinson and Menon awarded the prize for Established Researcher (Impact case:
 TBI).

 We also recognise and reward our professional support staff through an annual awards scheme.

 2.4 Postgraduate Research (PGR) Students
 We host a rich collaborative training environment for 305 students currently registered for PGR
 degrees, comprising 266 PhD and 39 MPhil students, supervised by our 157 Category A and 9
 Category C returned staff.

 2.4.1 Recruiting PGR students
 Students are recruited from across the UK and internationally, with >95% securing competitive
 awards from external funding sources including MRC and BBSRC doctoral training awards,
 Industry CASE studentships, Gates Trust, NIH-Cambridge, Cambridge Trust, Wellcome Trust,
 Pinsent Darwin Fund, British Heart Foundation, Cambridge College Studentships, EU ITN and
 NIHR. The process of PGR student recruitment is competitive (5:1 over-subscribed), with
 interviews held for University-wide doctoral training schemes and by host labs.


                                                                                                  Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We are committed to the principles of widening participation, and employ a number of recruitment
 strategies to ensure that we are able to select from the widest possible pool of candidates:

 •   External communications: We use a variety of online and in-print tools to publicise training
     opportunities for candidates across the UK and the world. We have strong national and
     international research connections to ensure that candidates around the world are familiar with
     our training opportunities.
 •   Experiential elements: We deploy ‘on-site’ experiential events to provide candidates with an
     experience of what host institutions are like. These include summer internship programmes
     that provide external candidates with opportunities and experiences similar to those of internal
     applicants, negating biases towards internal applicants; and a postgraduate Open Day
     allowing external applicants to visit our sites and meet potential supervisors.
 •   Recruiting students with protected characteristics: We are determined to recruit and
     support the best students, irrespective of their disabilities (see Box 5). This recruitment is
     facilitated greatly by the University’s Disability Resource Centre providing support for offer
     holders who have disclosed a disability at application and throughout their PhD.

 2.4.2 Ensuring successful completion
 Our students benefit from a three-tiered, fully-integrated support system:


 Box 5: Supporting students with disabilities

 A PhD student hosted in the Kotter laboratory scored the highest academically, but a previous
 spinal cord injury meant that he was unable to perform independent laboratory work on the
 project of his choice. The host departments provided a research assistant and implemented
 many building adaptations to allow him to pursue his ambitions, supporting his computational
 training which allows him to independently analyse complex datasets generated for his project
 by the research assistant under his supervision. The student has the mindset and talent to
 become a scientific leader, and we are committed to giving him the best chances for his career.


 •   Colleges: Our Colleges provide graduate students with an exceptionally supportive
     environment and peer-group, including central accommodation, social space, and pastoral
     support from a non-academic Graduate Tutor.
 •   Departments: Host departments provide academic support including a PhD supervisory team,
     senior PhD coordinators, and administrative support. Progress is continually monitored
     through regular meetings, data presentations and written annual reports. Each student has
     two independent mentors who see them at least annually, overseen by Departmental Graduate
     Tutors. The ultimate responsibility for our students is held by the Heads of Departments, who
     monitor progress every academic term through an on-line reporting system.
 •   Graduate School of Life Sciences (GSLS): All our students are members of the GSLS, a
     joint endeavour between the Schools of Clinical Medicine and Biological Sciences. This
     provides a parity of supervision, support and assessment for all graduate students, facilitates
     collaboration across life sciences research, and provides bespoke training.
     • The GSLS Core Skills Training Programme is available to first year students and provides
         them with foundation skills to improve their research, aid them in the completion of key
         milestones in their degree, and help them make the most of other training opportunities in
         future.
     • The GSLS Research Development Programme requires students to map their progress
         across 15 essential competencies within four interconnected areas, namely: research
         enterprise, career progression, personal effectiveness, and engaging others.

 2.4.3 Supporting skills development and preparation for careers
 We recognise our responsibility to nurture the next generation of research leaders. In addition to
 direct supervision and personal mentorship, our approach includes the following:

                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   Promoting a neuroscience community: We promote scientific networking and support
     through the Cambridge Neuroscience IRC, which hosts a regular seminar programme and the
     Cambridge ‘Postdoc Neuroscience Network’ (PNN) (Box 6).
 •   Postdoc Academy: This offers direct support to all post-doctoral scientists, including:
     welcome, induction and orientation advice on arrival in Cambridge; a comprehensive range of
     professional development and training activities, including leadership and entrepreneurship,
     delivered in partnership with an international consortium; a bespoke mentoring programme;
     advocacy and support for the community of post-doctoral scientists on relevant university and
     national policies, such as the Research Culture agenda; connections to life beyond Cambridge
     through employers, other partners and a postdoc alumni scheme. The Academy also works
     with and supports the three grassroots postdoctoral organisations in the University and
     the Postdoc Chairs’ Network to broaden their reach.
 •   Student-led conferences: We provide resources and funding for student-organised
     conferences and away days which provide our PGR students with key organisational,
     communication and presentation skills, as well as the opportunity to consider a wide range of
     potential career pathways.
 •   Skills workshops: We host a number of workshops and training opportunities for PGR
     students within the Unit alongside those studying at other institutions. For example, MRC CBU
     hosts workshops for MatLab and Python training, as well as imaging analysis for MRI, for PGR
     students across the region.
 •   Career planning: During the course of their studies, PGR students are supported in preparing
     for their future careers. For example, we host networking events where students have the
     opportunity to meet with alumni who have pursued a range of career paths.


  Box 6: Postdoc Neuroscience Network (PNN)

  The PNN directly supports interdisciplinary research, collaboration, knowledge transfer,
  communication and career development for our junior scientists. The annual symposium was
  delivered virtually in 2020. Topics covered across the two days included mental health of early
  career researchers; funding and policy; the impact of COVID-19 on early career development;
  diversity and racism in academia; open science and credibility; and career progression. The
  event was attended by ~120 delegates.

 2.4.4 Outcome measures
 We have awarded 415 PhDs since 2014. From August 2013 to August 2017, 36% of our 170 PhD
 graduates directly proceeded to further post-doctoral research positions in Universities or Industry.




                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3: Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 Our aim is to maintain a balanced portfolio of research funding that draws on diverse sources
 (3.1.1 to 3.1.4), sustaining the research community and enhancing critical mass within research
 groups spanning the life course. We generate income through:

 •   Seeking long-term strategic funding across our three research themes (1.2) through
     effective communication to facilitate large grant applications at national and international
     levels.
 •   Promoting interdisciplinary awards (1.4).
 •   Encouraging and supporting individual funding applications, and placing particular
     emphasis on mentoring early career researchers to secure external fellowship awards (2.4.3).

 Our within-year research spend has more than doubled since REF2014 (Figure 4), reaching
 GBP44m in 2019-2020. Our funding portfolio is secured from diverse sources including relevant
 Research Councils within UKRI, NIHR, the Wellcome Trust and other major charities, including
 Alzheimer’s Research UK and Parkinson’s UK. The spike of increased funding in 2015/16
 represents the major capital investment in human neuroimaging and high-performance computing
 facilities funded by MRC Clinical Research Infrastructure awards.




 Figure 4. Cambridge UoA4 research grant expenditure in 2014-2020

 3.1.1 Personal funding
 We have established a supportive culture for personal Fellowship applications which involves
 early peer review of draft applications and subsequent mock interviews. Of the 157 mandatory
 returned individuals, 52 (35%) were supported by personal Fellowships during the 2014-2020 REF
 assessment period. Major awards >GBP1.75m are shown below.

 3.1.2 National and international funding applications
 We proactively engage all researchers in strategic national and international funding applications.

 Major examples where we lead or co-lead include:

•    Dementias Platform UK (GBP20m, 2015, renewed 2020).
•    Alzheimer’s Research UK – ALBORADA Dementia Drug Discovery Institute (GBP12m, 2016).
•    MRC UK PET/MRI Network (GBP15m, 2016).
•    NIHR Translational BioResource for Common and Rare Diseases (GBP37m, 2016).

                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   UK Dementia Research Institute Cambridge (GBP15m, 2017).
•   MRC 7T MRI brain imaging network (GBP15m, 2020).
•   CNS-COVID (GBP2.3m, 2020).
•   National Research Foundation Singapore, CREATE Programme in the Science of Learning:
    Centre for Learning and Individualized Cognition (GBP12.5m, 2020).

 3.1.3 Philanthropic funding
 Working with dedicated fundraisers within the University Development and Alumni Relations
 Office, we have secured GBP25m in philanthropic gifts since REF2014. This has underpinned
 major new cross-disciplinary research programmes, including fund raising for the Cambridge Hub
 for Integrative Neuroscience and Mental Health. University and philanthropic funds have been
 used to match major equipment awards which provide our core facilities in genomics, cell biology,
 high resolution light and electron microscopy, human brain physiology, brain imaging, brain
 stimulation, data storage and computation and linked health care informatics.

 Major gifts include:
 • Mitochondrial ageing (2016-2021, GBP3m).
 • Cambridge Centre for Parkinson’s Plus (2017-2022, USD20m).
 • Gatsby Foundation (2018, GBP0.6m) – for development of the Cambridge Hub for Integrative
    Neuroscience and Mental Health.
 • Gnodde Goldman Sachs Gives (2019, GBP5.6m) – for research in Alzheimer’s disease and
    endowment of a new Professorship in Neuroinformatics.
 • Autism Research Trust (2020, GBP3.6m) – for endowment of a new Professorship in Autism
    Research.

 3.1.4 Key awards
 Competitive research awards >GBP1.75m during the review period include the following:

 National Institute for Health Research:
 • 2014-2019; renewed 2019 NIHR ARC East of England core (PI:Jones) GBP1.8m
 • 2017-2022 NIHR Cambridge Biomedical Research Centre:
    • Neurodegeneration theme (PI: Barker) GBP4.7m
    • Neuroscience theme (PI: Chinnery) GBP1.9m
    • Mental health theme (PI: Bullmore) GBP2.1m
 • 2017-2022 NIHR BioResource for Translational Research (PI: Chinnery with Bradley)
    GBP37m
 • 2017-2023 NIHR Global Health Research Group (PI: Hutchinson) GBP1.7m
 • 2019-2024 NIHR ARC East-of-England (PI:Jones) GBP8m

 Wellcome Trust:
 • 2014-2019 Fronto-striatal systems in impulsive-compulsive disorders (PI: Robbins) GBP2.9m
 • 2014-2019 Restoring brain function (PI: Rowe) GBP1.9m
 • 2015-2022 NIMA: Neuroimmunology of Mood Disorders and Alzheimer’s Disease consortium;
   with matching funds from Janssen, Pfizer, Lundbeck and GSK (PI: Bullmore) GBP8.7m.
 • 2016-2021 Fractionating the functions of primate ventromedial prefrontal cortex of relevance
    to depression (PI: Roberts) GBP2m
 • 2017-2022 Neural reward mechanisms (PI: Schultz) GBP4.4m
 • 2017-2022 Lipid droplets and hydrogels in health and disease (PI: St.George-Hyslop)
    GBP2.5m
 • 2018-2023 Nuclear genomic control of mitochondrial DNA heteroplasmy in humans:
   population genetics and disease (PI: Chinnery) GBP2.2m.
 • 2018-2023 Using auditory evoked electrophysiological measures for improving auditory
   perception. (PI: Vickers) GBP1.75m
 • 2019-2024 Common variant genetics of autism (PI: Baron-Cohen) GBP3.1m



                                                                                          Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 MRC/UKRI:
 • 2015-2016 A new collaborative ultra-high field MRI facility for dementia and neuroscience
   research (PI: Rowe, Co-I: Bullmore, Henson, Carpenter) GBP6.9m.
 • 2015-2016 Innovative technologies for stratified medicine (PI: Maxwell, Co-I: Bullmore)
   GBP14.6m
 • 2015-2021 Identification of the higher-order cognitive mechanisms by which prefrontal and
   anterior cingulate circuits regulate negative emotion (PI: Roberts) GBP2.1m.
 • 2015-2016 UKDP: Integrated DEmentiA research environment (IDEA) (PI: O’Brien, Co-I:
   Aigbirhio, Carpenter and Rowe) GBP4.2m
 • 2016-2021 Neurobehavioural mechanisms of addiction: vulnerability, circuits and drug
   memories (PI: Everitt, Co-I: Dalley, Milton and Robbins) GBP3.2m.
 • 2016-2022 A randomised placebo-controlled trial of immunotherapy in patients with psychosis
   associated with anti-neuronal membrane antibodies (SINAPPS 2) (PI: Coles, Co-I: Jones)
   GBP2.1m
 • 2017-2022 MRC CBU renewal (PI: Gathercole) GBP15.9m
 • 2017-2022 UK Dementia Research Institute: Cambridge hub (PI: Mallucci): GBP10m
 • 2018-2023 The Pluripotent Stem Cells and Engineered Cell (PSEC) Hub (PI: Barker)
   GBP4.1m
 • 2019-2024 GCRF Global Mental Health grant: Scalable transdiagnostic early assessment of
   mental health (STREAM) (Co-I: Johnson) GBP4.1m
 • 2019-2024 Human neurocognitive development: Early-stage processing, modifiers and
   outcomes (PI: Johnson) GBP2.7 m

 European Union and other international:
 • 2015-2020 Investigating mathematical talent in autism (PI: Baron-Cohen) Templeton
    Foundation GBP1.8m
 • 2016-2020 Oscillatory rhythmic entertainment and the foundations of language acquisition (PI:
    Goswami) EU GBP2m
 • 2018-2023 Neuronal regulation of CNS plasticity (PI: Karadottir) EU GBP1.7m
 • 2018-2023 EU Innovative Medicines Initiative 2, Call 10: EU-Aims 2- TRIALS. (Co-Is: Johnson
    and Jones – infants task and EEG/eye tracking biomarkers; Baron-Cohen) EU120m,
    GBP0.8m to Cambridge.
 • National Research Foundation Singapore, CREATE Programme in the Science of Learning in
    collaboration with NTU: Centre for Learning and Individualized Cognition (PI: Kourtzi),
    GBP12.5m

 3.2 Major Infrastructure and Facilities
 Our capacity is underpinned by the development of our infrastructure and facilities since REF2014.

3.2.1 Lifespan and Clinical Cohorts
We have invested heavily in developing cohorts of human participants spanning our three life-
course themes (Box 7). Many of the cohorts are locally based in the East of England, facilitating
our commitment to “level up” clinical research activity across the region. We also lead national and
international cohorts in partnership with other organisations, including the unique NIHR
Bioresource, where we have conducted cognitive phenotyping across 60,000 participants.




                                                                                            Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  Box 7: Lifespan and clinical cohorts

  The interdisciplinarity of UoA4 is exemplified by our integrated approach to clinical and
  lifespan cohorts. Investigators across Psychiatry, Psychology, Public Health, Neurology,
  Education, Engineering and the MRC-CBU, collaborate in “lifespan” studies from early
  childhood (BRIGHT), through adolescence (NSPN), mid-life and old age (CamCAN). This
  integrated framework mirrors the clinical cohorts for neurodevelopmental disorders (e.g.
  CALM), adolescent mental health (e.g. ROOTS), genetic (e.g. frontotemporal dementia,
  Down’s syndrome, Alzheimer’s) and lifestyle risks for dementia (e.g. CFAS, CC75), and
  manifest degenerative disease (e.g. PICNICS, ICICLE-PD, NIMROD, PiPPIN and QMINC).
  Leadership in national cohorts (e.g. NIHR BioResource, Dementias Platform UK
  Neuroimmunology and Synaptic Health Themes), and genetic neurodevelopmental cohorts
  spring from excellence in our Cambridge based population and clinical cohort research.




  We are committed to maximal impact from our cohort studies. This comes from their direct
  links to clinical trials; from biomarker validation and trials optimisation; and a commitment to
  Open Data.

3.2.2 NIHR Cambridge Biomedical Research Centre
In 2016 we formed the Brain and Mind “Supertheme” linking the neuroscience, neurodegeneration
and mental health translational research programmes of the BRC, renewed 2017 (GBP9m). This
provides cross-disciplinary research infrastructure developing clinical cohorts, providing tissue
biobanking, and a brain imaging platform for longitudinal and interventional studies. This underpins
our commitment to develop unique deeply phenotyped disease cohorts in rare and common
disorders to advance our understanding of disease mechanisms and develop and implement new
therapies.

 3.2.3 UK Dementia Research Institute – Cambridge hub
 One of five DRI hubs, the Cambridge hub (GBP15m) has brought together chemists, biologists
 and clinicians under one roof focused on understanding molecular mechanisms of
 neurodegeneration to develop new treatments which are being evaluated in pre-clinical models
 and patients through linked clinical platforms. These are adjacent to the Alzheimer’s Research
 UK – ALBORADA Dementia Drug Discovery Institute (GBP12m).

 3.2.4 Brain imaging platforms
 Competitive capital investment from the MRC and NIHR (GBP15m) with matched University
 funding revitalised human and animal brain imaging in Cambridge (Box 8), linked to high-
 performance computational infrastructure.

 3.2.5 Clinical research facilities
 Immediately adjacent to the acute hospital services, we have expanded multi-disciplinary clinical
 research facilities that incorporate psychology, mental health and neurodegeneration research,
 with the recent addition of hearing research under one roof. Additional clinical research facilities
 for higher risk or intensive studies include the recently expanded Cambridge Clinical Research
 Centre (GBP14.5m) enabling our first-in-man studies, Clinical Trials Unit and GSK Clinical
 Research Facility within Addenbrooke’s Hospital, developed in partnership with Cambridge
 University Health Partners.


                                                                                              Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2.6 Cognitive and behavioural testing
  Box 8: Neuroimaging in Cambridge: structure and function

  Cambridge has the most comprehensive brain imaging infrastructure in Europe for translational
  clinical neuroscience and psychiatry. Our clinical research draws on high-field (3T) and ultra-
  high-field (7T) MRI; hyper-polarised 13C-MRI supporting clinical trials; PET-CT and PET-MRI for
  positron emission tomography of pathology and chemistry, linked to an MHRA-accredited
  radiopharmaceutical unit for GMP production, and a preclinical ligand development laboratory;
  electroencephalography and magnetoencephalography facilities for neurophysiology and trials;
  magnetoceutical and electroceutical intervention programs. This is complemented by PET and
  ultra-high-field MRI (9.4T) animal scanning facilities for rodent and non-human primate models.
  Recent examples include the introduction of 11C-UCBJ synaptic PET to quantify early
  pathophysiology in dementia and movement disorders (see figure), strategic investments in new
  PET ligand development for inflammation, protein synthesis and alpha-synuclein; mesoscale
  brain imaging at ~400-micron resolution; and high-throughput population imaging studies in
  psychiatric disorders, cognitive ageing, and dementia. These programs are backed by dedicated
  High Performance Computing facilities, and a culture of Open Data.




  Neurodegenerative loss of synapses in the dementia-movement disorders complex of progressive supranuclear palsy
  (PSP) is revealed by in vivo [11C]-UCBJ PET scanning. Red colours indicate high binding of [11C]-UCBJ, a novel
  radiotracer of synaptic density, green/blue = low binding.


 MRC-CBU and Psychology together provide world-class facilities for human behavioural and
 cognitive testing. This includes a GBP0.5m infant and toddler research suite with
 electroencephalography, near infra-red spectroscopy, eye tracking, brain stimulation, virtual reality
 and other facilities opened in 2018.

3.2.7 High performance computing
The computational infrastructure to support neuroscience has been underpinned by the MRC
clinical research infrastructure award of GBP2m, enabling the development of the High-
Performance Hub for Clinical Informatics, in partnership with University Information Services.
Provision of this platform has driven economies of scale in delivery of specialist IT services and
reduced fragmentation of projects, as well as enabling better access to processing power for
ECRs. All neuroimaging data is curated and processed within this facility (over 450 users are
registered on the platform, and it hosts over 2 Petabytes of data). In parallel, an ISO27001-
accredited “safe haven” has been developed to host patient identifiable data within the University;
this infrastructure makes it easier to curate research data with appropriate controls over
information governance and direct access to high performance computing nodes.

 3.2.8 Biological models
 NIHR and University investment established the Cambridge Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell facility
 enabling human disease modelling. Recent investment in the Van Geest Centre for Brain Repair
 (Lakatos) has established human brain organoids. University mouse facilities have been
 centralised on the Biomedical Campus within the GBP60m Bellatrix building, incorporating
 platforms for behavioural analysis, MRI and PET imaging. We also host C. elegans, Zebra fish,
 rodent and Drosophila platforms allowing fundamental biology and translational research across
 complementary model systems. For regulatory reasons, our non-human primate and large animal

                                                                                                         Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 facilities are maintained on the West Cambridge site adjacent to the School of Veterinary Medicine
 (Box 9).


  Box 9: UoA4 animal facilities in Cambridge

  Eleven animal facilities support our research including rodents, non-human primates (rhesus
  macaques and marmosets), sheep, guinea pigs, naked mole rats, corvids, fish and Drosophila.
  All facilities have a core support infrastructure of qualified support staff including University vets,
  surgical assistants and animal technicians.

  The marmoset facility houses up to 250 marmosets with 4 large behavioural testing suites, a
  surgery suite, infusion and perfusion rooms and offices for up to 14 research staff along with a
  small histology laboratory and fluorescent microscope room. This facility is internationally
  recognised as excellent, and hosts regular visits by academic delegations from around the
  world, particularly Japan, China and the USA. In addition to the rhesus macaque facility that
  houses up to 14 animals for focused neurophysiological studies, translational studies are
  performed on large and farm animals in a new facility providing surgical, procedural,
  behavioural testing and specialised cardiac and vascular biology laboratory space together with
  offices, barns, holding yards and grazing to provide a self-contained research station, unique
  worldwide. Rodent behavioural neuroscience includes animal holding and procedure rooms
  with reverse lighting capabilities and two aseptic surgical suites with dedicated surgery
  technicians and stereotaxic surgical equipment for delivery of substances (viruses and tracers)
  to the brains of rodents for in vivo optogenetic and GCaMP recording of neuronal activity, virtual
  reality equipment to record brain activity during spatial and visual recognition processes,
  behavioural and learning testing equipment including ~180 computerised operant behavioural
  testing chambers (18 of which are equipped for optogenetics, 12 for fibre photometry and 3 for
  in vivo freely moving in vivo electrophysiology), auditory isolation booths, and EEG recording.
  Additional established procedures include in-vivo microdialysis and biosensors. Large outdoor
  aviaries hold a variety of bird species and a dedicated centralised facility for zebrafish is
  also maintained by the University with an automated control and alarm system to ensure water
  temperature, salinity, pH and flow rate remain stable. UoA4 also benefits from 30 Drosophila
  research groups with at least ten working on the nervous system. Themes include development,
  circuits and behaviour and, recently, a focus on connectomics research.

 3.3 National Research Infrastructure
Through interdisciplinary collaborative partnerships with the NHS, industry and other
Universities/Institutes we support the following national infrastructure:

 3.3.1 Dementias Platform UK
 Initially a partner (Experimental Medicine, Imaging) we now co-lead (Rowe) the renewed MRC
 Dementias Platform UK (Rowe) driving clinical translational research in neurodegeneration across
 the UK (2020, GBP10m).

 3.3.2 National Brain Imaging networks
 Since 2014 our research infrastructure has achieved national and international reach, leveraging
 the major capital investments in the WBIC (Director, Bullmore) including leadership of the UK 7T
 MRI brain imaging network (Rowe) and PET/MRI network (Aigbirhio), co-leadership of Dementias
 Platform UK (Rowe) and the NIHR Translational Research Collaboration in dementia (Rowe,
 O’Brien).

 3.3.3 NIHR BioResource for Translational Research in Common and Rare Diseases
 UoA4 co-chairs the GBP37m NIHR BioResource (Chinnery) providing a national resource of over
 120,000 healthy participants and patients with rare and common diseases, who have been
 genotyped and given consent for recall to experimental medicine and interventional studies.



                                                                                                  Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4: Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Networks and Partnerships
 Underpinned by our vision to contribute to society through researching the brain and mind over
 the life course, our collaborations have been both wide-ranging and impactful. Examples include
 leadership of international research collaborations, two-way engagement with key external
 stakeholders, and evidence-based policy engagements across all three age-related themes.

 4.1.1 Collaboration across the University
 We actively encourage interdisciplinary research endeavours between our research themes and
 the broader University.

 Examples funded by the University include:

 •   Neuroscience IRC: As described in the REF2014 submission, much our work has been
     coordinated through Cambridge Neuroscience, under the leadership of Fletcher and Kourtzi.
     This facilitates interdisciplinary strategy across the broader community of over 600
     researchers.
 •   Cambridge Centre for Data-Driven Discovery: This brings together researchers and
     expertise from across the academic departments and industry to drive research into the
     analysis, understanding and use of data science. The Centre facilitates the relationship
     between the University and the Alan Turing Institute under Kourtzi’s leadership (4.1.3).
 •   The Wellcome – MRC Cambridge Stem Cell Institute (CSCI) is a world leading centre for
     stem cell research. The mission is to transform the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of
     disease and to promote healthy ageing through a deep understanding of the mechanisms
     regulating stem and progenitor cells, both normal and pathological. Four of the 27 research
     groups within the CSCI are neuroscientists returned in UoA4.
 •   Global Challenges Strategic Research Initiative: This supports the work of academic
     researchers and partners in civil society, NGOs, policy-makers, industry, and government who
     can, by working together, successfully deliver research projects that respond to the challenges
     faced by communities in developing countries. Several UoA4-led programmes have emerged
     through this activity, including the NIHR funded Global Trauma Consortium (Hutchinson and
     Menon, GBP1.7m).
 •   Language Sciences Interdisciplinary Research Centre: Established to promote dialogue
     between language scientists of all disciplines, to stimulate innovative thinking, and to catalyse
     the formation of new interdisciplinary partnerships for novel research and creative teaching.
     Kourtzi provides leadership in this domain through her role as a member of the Centre’s
     Management Group.

 4.1.2 Collaboration with local academic partners
 We benefit from having a major footprint within the largest biomedical campus in Europe, one of
 six nationally recognised Life Science Opportunity Zones in the UK, and within the Cambridge
 Biotech Cluster. This critical mass of scientists facilitates collaboration with our major academic
 and NHS partners, and with industry. Capitalising on our location, our researchers show strong
 integration with several internationally-renowned research institutes all within a 10-mile radius.

 Examples include:

 •   MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology (Barker, Chinnery, Lakatos, Spillantini, Vértes).
 •   Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute (Chinnery, Jones, Sawcer).
 •   Babraham Institute (Coleman).
 •   European Bioinformatics Institute (Chinnery, Sawcer) on population, disease and single cell
     genomics.
 •   PHG Foundation (Chinnery).


                                                                                              Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.1.3 Collaboration with national and international academic partners
 Our national and international partners share the co-authorship of our 377 returned publications.
 We are partners through major national and international funding awards (3.1; 4.2). We also
 provide national and international leadership in research. Examples include:

 Childhood: We play key leadership roles in national and European consortia studying child
 development and infants at risk, including the BASIS network, EUROSIBS consortium and
 SAPIENS Network (Johnson). Horvath led the European Research Network (ERN) subgroup of
 Neuromuscular Diseases until the UK left the EU, and Chinnery leads for rare diseases within the
 NIHR BioResource (GBP37m).

 Adolescence and adult life: We lead national and international networks studying the
 pathogenesis and treatment of acute brain injury, leading to global clinical trials which directly
 influence the management of patients (Impact case: TBI) which is underpinned NIHR and the
 Global Challenges Research Fund (GBP1.7m).

 We have established ourselves as leaders in mindfulness-based treatments (Impact:
 Mindfulness), and we provide co-leadership of the MYRIAD Project (MY Resilience In
 Adolescence) (Ford and Dalgleish) which is an endeavour between the UK and the USA.
 Furthering links with mental health research across the globe include leadership of two MRC
 Global Health Awards in mental health, with sites in Africa and India. In a similar vein to our other
 impact case studies on (Impact: CSNAT; Fake news vaccine) we have collaborated with other
 UK HEIs to develop the Emotion Sense app as part of the UBhave: ubiquitous and social
 computing for positive behaviour change (Rentfrow).

 We are also key partners in the MRC Addiction Initiative (MRC CBU, Robbins) and lead a CREATE
 Centre on Learning and Individualised Cognition (Kourtzi) in collaboration with NTU and funded
 by the National Research Foundation Singapore. We are a major partner in the Alan Turing
 Institute, promoting cross-theme collaboration with Kourtzi as the Turing University Lead.

 Old age: We lead national and international endeavours to understand and treat
 neurodegenerative diseases and dementia (3.2 & 3.3), and several natural history studies and
 clinical trials in Lewy-dementia (O’Brien) with the Universities of Exeter and Newcastle alongside
 UCL and King’s. Barker plays a key role leading international efforts to develop cell therapies for
 Parkinson’s disease and Huntington’s disease (TRANSNEURO & STEMPD).

 4.1.4 Collaboration with the NHS
 Our researchers are embedded within two local NHS providers, who combined forces with the
 University to form Cambridge University Health Partners. 45% of our returned staff hold honorary
 contracts with Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Trust (CUH) or Cambridgeshire and
 Peterborough NHS Foundation Trust (CPFT). CUH is the regional centre for neurology,
 neurosurgery and other acute medical and surgical specialities for the east of England. CPFT is
 the biggest provider of psychological therapies in the East of England, as well as being a partner
 in the East of England Applied Research Collaboration (ARC) and a partner in the first national
 consortium of leading mental health trusts providing secondary mental health services to serving
 Ministry of Defence and US Air Force staff. These partnerships form a platform for clinical research
 in the East of England and nationally, which underpin clinical cohorts, natural history and
 biomarker studies, and clinical trials.

 4.1.5 Collaboration with industry
 Our researchers have co-funded research programmes with Astra-Zeneca which opened its new
 global R&D centre (USD300m) on the Biomedical Campus in 2020 (Coleman, Kourtzi), and work
 closely with GSK through the embedded clinical research facility (Aigbirhio, Bullmore, Chinnery),
 and with GE in brain imaging (Aigbirhio, Rowe, OBrien). Additional industrial research links include
 those with Shionogi (Robbins, Roberts), Boehringer Ingelheim (Dalley), GSK (Dalley) and Sosei
 Heptares (Bullmore).

                                                                                              Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 UoA4 researchers have established and sold several spin-out companies since 2014, including:
 • Quethera. Founded in Clinical Neurosciences and acquired by Astellas for GBP85m to
    develop gene therapy as a treatment for optic neuropathy.
 • Cambridge Cognition arose from work in Psychology (Impact: CANTAB).
 • BitBio from Clinical Neurosciences on stem cell technologies.
 • CITC Ltd from Clinical Neurosciences on neural stem cells.

 Our researchers have also interacted with media industry partners. For example, Fletcher
 collaborated with Cambridge-based games company, Ninja Theory in the production of Hellblade
 (Impact: Hellblade). Additionally, van der Linden has worked with Dutch company, DROG, to
 produce his vaccines against fake news games (Impact: Fake news vaccine).


 4.2 Response to National and International Priorities
 We take a coordinated strategic approach to emerging national and international priorities. This
 has required open and effective lines of communication across the community within Cambridge,
 to enable an optimally coherent and timely response.

 Key examples since REF2014 include:

 4.2.1 Dementia
 We provide leadership in all key national initiatives integrating the UK dementia ecosystem from
 discovery science to improved patient care including:

 •   Alzheimers Research UK - ALBORADA Drug Discovery Institute (Rubinsztein, Lead Academic
     Scientist).
 •   UK Dementia Research Institute (Mallucci, Cambridge Centre Director).
 •   Dementias Platform UK (recently renewed 2021-26; Rowe Associate Director and
     Experimental Medicine Lead; O'Brien, Neuroimmunology Lead; Markus, Vascular Genetics
     Lead).
 •   NIHR Cambridge Biomedical Research Centre (Barker, Dementia theme Lead).

 Our work has provided definitive evidence for UK incidence and prevalence of dementia on which
 DoH policy is based, and identified strategies for risk reduction and the influence of multimorbidity.
 We have developed NHS guidance (O'Brien, NICE Guideline Group Member and NIHR National
 Specialty Lead for Dementia). We have strong industrial partnerships embedded within the
 Biomedical Campus (e.g. Astra-Zeneca) and we are closely allied with key dementia charities
 (Rowe, Chief Scientific Advisor Alzheimer’s Research UK; O'Brien Co-chair, Alzheimer’s Society
 National Research Advisory Committee).

 4.2.2 Genomics in healthcare
 Our researchers played a key role shaping NHS diagnostic services and the adoption of whole
 genome sequencing in the NHS. The NIHR BioResource (Co-chair Chinnery) led the pilot study
 for the 100,000 genomes project, showing increased diagnostic yield (~22%) and a shorter
 diagnostic odyssey for patients with rare diseases, including neurological disorders with new
 treatments (Nature, 2020).

 4.2.3 Global health – head injury
 The NIHR Global Health Research Group on Neurotrauma (NIHR GHRGN) group is led from
 Cambridge and includes neurotrauma experts and young researchers based in 12 different
 countries (Ethiopia, Tanzania, Zambia, South Africa, Nigeria, Indonesia, Malaysia, Myanmar,
 India, Pakistan, Brazil, Colombia) supporting >30 clinical research fellows to conduct locally
 relevant research with the overriding principle to promote neurotrauma care and drive change in
 prevention and treatment. This has generated over 60 peer-reviewed articles, 40 national and
 international presentations, and a set of international consensus guidelines. NIHR GHRGN has

                                                                                               Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 recruited >1,500 patients from > 50 countries and we are trialling a worldwide neurotrauma registry
 to be implemented by the World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies.

 4.2.4 COVID-19
 Our researchers vigorously engaged with the challenges presented by COVID-19, contributing to
 the national effort. Much of this work remains in progress at the time of submission.

 National leadership in COVID-19 research:
 • Leadership of the NIHR/UKRI national programme CNS-COVID (GBP2.3m, Bullmore as MRI
    lead, Menon as biomarker lead, and Chinnery as Co-chair of the Scientific Advisory Board)
    studying the neurological and psychiatric complications of acute and post-COVID-19 infection
    across the UK. UoA4 researchers (Sawcer, Menon) made early clinical and imaging
    observations describing the neurological manifestations of COVID-19.
 • Leadership of the COVID-19 under-50s bioresource (Chinnery) in partnership with Genomics
    England and the GenOMICC study to identify genetic factors predisposing individuals to
    severe COVID-19 infection and death (GBP3m).
 • Chinnery was appointed National Core Lead for COVID-19 therapeutics by the Government
    Chief Scientific Adviser to ensure coherent and efficient clinical trial delivery for prophylaxis,
    community and hospital studies; and to establish and chair the national group selecting
    treatments for trials in COVID-19 including RECOVERY and PRINCIPLE.

 We have initiated over 30 COVID-19 specific studies. Selected examples:

 •   Hughes is working with the Centre for Family Research to understand family disruption, with
     potentially long-lasting behavioural and psychological effects during the UK lockdown.
 •   Van Der Linden has developed: a free online COVID-19 educational game that “vaccinates”
     players against misinformation; and a browser tool that informs policy-makers about public
     opinion on COVID-19 around the world.
 •   Blakemore is conducting a large-scale longitudinal study to examine how social isolation in the
     COVID-19 crisis is affecting young people’s well-being, loneliness and mental health.
 •   Rentfrow is examining the extent to which personality and culture contribute to geographical
     differences in reactions to, and the spread of, COVID-19.
 •   Cheke has initiated a study on the impact of COVID-19 on memory and cognition.

 4.3 Developing and Engaging Diverse Communities
 UoA4 researchers recognise their responsibility to communicate their science to the general
 public, and embrace the opportunity to involve the broader community in priority setting for our
 research whenever possible. Several of our research themes actively connect with hard-to-reach
 communities including individuals affected by addiction and drug misuse, ethnic minorities with
 rare inherited diseases, and mental health disorders associated with stigma. The NIHR East-of-
 England ARC has a particular focus on developing research activity in disadvantaged “populations
 in focus” in Peterborough and Fenland, Great Yarmouth and Waveney, Stevenage and Thurrock.
 In all of these contexts, open engagement has improved the impact of our research, placing
 engagement at the heart of what we do.

 At an organisational level, we facilitate patients and public involvement by providing facilities and
 infrastructure, such as the Patient Led Research Hub (PLRH, Box 10), but we provide training
 and engagement awards to PhD students and postgraduate researchers.




                                                                                              Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  Box 10: Cambridge Patient Led Research Hub

  Established in 2015 as a partnership between the Cambridge Clinical Trials Unit and our partner
  organisation CUH, the hub is founded on the principle that patients have important ideas about
  what research would be most beneficial to their lives. However, due to the complexity and cost
  involved in running clinical trials, the majority of research originates with the pharmaceutical
  industry or academic researchers. Therefore, the hub supports patient led research, working in
  partnership with patient groups to deliver clinical studies based on their own research questions.
  Current examples include members of the Alzheimer’s Society who shaped the priorities and
  protocol of the NIHR BioResource – Genes and Cognition Study, which includes a downloadable
  platform for cognitive testing. The patients and family members helped produce the ‘Frequently
  asked questions’ document and assisted with web site design.


 Our engagement and involvement falls into two overlapping categories:

 •   Inspiring public understanding of science: We embrace digital and broadcast media, as
     well as face-to-face events, particularly in schools through our outreach programme, and
     through patient advocacy groups in the UK and abroad. Our researchers actively engage the
     public through written and broadcast media and have authored several influential science
     books for the lay reader since 2014 (Box 11). In addition to our annual participation in the
     Cambridge Science Festival, we hosted BrainFest (2017) which brought together
     neuroscientists to present ground-breaking research through interactive exhibits, film, art,
     neuro-theatre and Q&A with Cambridge experts at Café Scientifique, directly engaging >3,000
     visitors and > 1,200 school students.

 •   Directly involving the public in our research: Healthy participants and patients across the
     lifespan actively contribute to our research through their continued engagement in our study
     cohorts (Box 8), shaping the research priorities and advising on the logistics of research
     delivery.




                                                                                             Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Box 11: Contributing to public discourse and understanding: books and broadcasting




  2016 Sahakian and Gottwald published Sex, Lies, and Brain Scans (Oxford University Press).
  which won the British Psychological Society Book Award for Popular Science.

  2018 The Inflamed Mind (Bullmore, Short Books), an introduction to neuro-immunology and its
  implications for depression and mental health. A Sunday Times bestseller published in 14 other
  countries selling >100,000 copies.

  2018 Inventing Ourselves (Blakemore, Black Swan, UK) won the Royal Society Science Book
  Prize (2018) and the British Psychological Society Popular Science Prize (2020).

  2020 The Pattern Seekers by Baron-Cohen “sheds light on one of humanity's most distinctive
  traits, celebrates human cognitive diversity, and is rich with empathy and psychological insight”
  (Steven Pinker).

  Other researchers have collaborated with popular authors to further contribute to public
  understanding of depression and memory in aging: Khandaker featured in Alastair Campbell’s
  2019 BBC documentary Depression and Me, and his book, Living Better: How I Learned to
  Survive Depression; and Simons advised Jane Gordon, author of How Not to Get Old, on
  techniques to maintain memory in old age.



 Key activities include:

 Childhood: Supervised by Ford, PhD student Soneson has developed innovative public health
 approaches to identifying and responding to mental health difficulties in children, including the
 creation of a school staff advisory group, blog posts and public presentations, and discussions
 with NHS practitioners and Home Office policymakers.

 Adolescence and adulthood: Jadva and Zadeh hosted a series of workshops in secondary
 school centred around a short play called ’I’m an IVF Baby’, which increased the understanding
 of teenage audiences and provided fresh perspectives on the topic to the research team.

 The Autism Research Centre has worked with advisory groups of autistic adults to develop the
 Vulnerability Experiences Quotient (VEQ), a measure used to define the negative life experiences
 of autistic people.

 Old age: Kotter and Davies founded the first advocacy group for patients with myelopathy, formally
 launched at the House of Lords (Box 12).




                                                                                            Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Box 12: Working with patients to enhance research impact

 Kotter and Davies founded Myleopathy.org in 2015 as an information and support platform for
 patients. Iwan Sadler, a cervical spondylotic myelopathy (DCM) patient frustrated by the lack of
 support, had founded his own Facebook Support group. Given their common goals, Iwan joined
 Myelopathy.org to set up and lead a support community for patients by patients.

 The community is made up of over 2,000 members from all over the globe and is the first
 worldwide charity for cervical myelopathy. Patients have been instructive in the design and
 instrumental in delivery and steering of Clinical Trials. Kotter has established Research
 Objective and Common Data Elements for DCM (AO Spine RECODE-DCM) as an international,
 multi-stakeholder initiative to create a research toolkit that helps accelerate knowledge
 discovery and improve outcomes in DCM.

 4.4 Contribution to the National and International Research Base
 Our 157 returned staff have made a major contribution to the national and international research
 base through participation in peer review, including funding panels and journal editorships.
 International recognition includes invitations to give endowed lectures, election to learned
 societies, personal research fellowships, prizes and awards, and national honours.

 Selected examples 2014-20 include:

 4.4.1 National leadership roles
 • Chinnery was appointed MRC Clinical Director (2018) overseeing UKRI clinical translational
     activity, and COVID-19 therapeutics National Core Study lead (2020) by the UK Government
     Chief Scientist.
 • Bullmore was elected to the Council of the Academy of Medical Sciences (2018) and then as
     Treasurer (2019).

 4.4.2 New elections to learned societies
 • Nine Fellows of the Academy of Medical Sciences (Barker, Baron-Cohen, Franklin,
     Hutchinson, Markus, Mallucci, O'Brien, Roberts and Dalgleish). 16 in total.
 • Three Fellows of the Association for Psychological Science (Blakemore, Rentfrow and
     Simons). 10 in total.
 • Five Fellows of the British Academy (Blakemore, Gathercole, Golombok, Lambon-Ralph and
     Sahakian). Eight in total.
 • One Fellow of the Royal Society (Spillantini). 7 in total.
 • One Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Science (Johnson).
 • Nine NIHR Senior Investigators (Barker, Bullmore, Chinnery, Czosnyka, Hutchinson, Jones,
     Markus, O'Brien, Rowe).

 4.4.3 Senior Fellowships
 Our returned staff were awarded 16 senior research fellowships since REF2014.

 4.4.4 National honours
 • Knighthood (Baron-Cohen).
 • CBE (Robbins, Compston, Ford, Goswami).
 • OBE (Gathercole).
 • Order of Canada (St George-Hyslop).
 • Order of the Star of Italy (Spillantini).

 4.4.5 Major prizes and awards
 Our returned staff were awarded 42 national and international awards including Box 13.


                                                                                           Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  Box 13: Trevor Robbins, Wolfram Schultz and Angela Roberts




  2014 Robbins won the Lundbeck Foundation Brain Prize for translating basic neuroscience
  findings to illuminate human disorders including drug addiction and obsessive-compulsive
  disorder.

  2017 Schultz won the Brain Prize for discovering the role of dopamine neurons in reward
  learning processes and economic decision-making.

  2020 Roberts won the Brain & Behavior Research Foundation Goldman-Rakic Prize for
  outstanding achievement in cognitive neuroscience.


 4.5.6 Funding committees
 Our returned staff hold 58 positions on national and international funding committees

 4.5.7 Journal editorship
 Our returned staff hold 56 journal editorial positions.

 4.5.8 Highly cited researchers (Clarivate Analytics, 2020)
 Psychology/Psychiatry or Neuroscience/Behaviour: Baron-Cohen, Jones, Robbins, Bullmore.




                                                                                         Page 36
