Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Bristol

 Unit of Assessment: 27: English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context
The Department of English at the University of Bristol (UoB) has doubled in size since 2013. We
now have 40 permanent academic staff engaged in research and teaching, with an additional 4
early-career researchers (ECRs) on postdoctoral fellowships, a total of 40.7 FTE submitted staff,
up from 21 FTE submitted to REF2014.This planned staffing growth, matched by an increase in
undergraduate and postgraduate student numbers, has enabled us to broaden and strengthen our
research activities, to focus on interdisciplinary research and outreach, and to reconfigure our
research strategy into an ambitious pathway towards further achievement. By mobilising our
combined expertise, we are leading the field in the application of historicised literary and textual
scholarship to key social and cultural issues.
Our Department is pioneering in its breadth of research areas and methodologies, which
encompass an exceptional chronological range and an array of interdisciplinary approaches to
literary studies in English. As part of its growth strategy during this REF cycle, the Department has
seized the opportunity offered by its expansion to develop its work in two major fields: firstly, the
study of English as a global language of cultural production which is capable of articulating plural
identities and facilitating transnational modes of text production; and secondly, literary studies as a
form of applied knowledge relevant to contemporary challenges (including the environment,
multilingualism, cultural identity, and public health) and to industries and communities beyond the
university.

Research structure
The Department is one of four Units of Assessment in the School of Humanities which sits as one
of three Schools within the Faculty of Arts. This embedded structure provides a rich context of
support for research development and performance.
The Department is organized into five well-established research groups (all colleagues belong
to at least one), with each group linked to one or more of the larger cross-Faculty Research
Centres and clusters, many of which are led by members of the Department. In addition, our
research groups regularly collaborate with staff in other Faculties and in one or more of the
University Research Institutes and Specialist Research Institutes. The following table lists our
research groups and the Faculty and University structures with which they most often collaborate.




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
 Department research       Faculty research centres/clusters     University Institutes
 group
 Medieval Studies          • Centre for Medieval Studies         • Brigstow Institute
                           • Centre for Material Texts           • Cabot Institute
                           • Borders and Borderlands research    • Migration Mobilities
                             cluster                               Bristol

 Early Modern to 1780      • Early Modern research cluster       • Brigstow Institute
                           • Centre for Material Texts           • Cabot Institute
                           • Centre for Health, Humanities and   • Elizabeth Blackwell
                           Science                               Institute
                                                                 • Migration Mobilities
                                                                 Bristol
 Romantic and Victorian    • Centre for Environmental            • Brigstow Institute
 Studies                     Humanities                          • Cabot Institute
                           • Centre for Material Texts           • Jean Golding
                                                                   Institute

 Modern and                • Centre for Health, Humanities and   • Brigstow Institute
 Contemporary                Science                             • Cabot Institute
 Literature                • Centre for Environmental            • Elizabeth Blackwell
                             Humanities                            Institute
                           • Centre for Black Humanities
                           • Bristol Poetry Institute
                           • Bodies of Water research cluster
                           • Embodied Mind research cluster
 Global Literatures        • Centre for Black Humanities         • Brigstow Institute
                           • Centre for Environmental            • Cabot Institute
                             Humanities                          • Elizabeth Blackwell
                           • Centre for Health, Humanities and     Institute
                             Science                             • Migration Mobilities
                           • Global Feminisms research cluster     Bristol

Faculty Research Centres are funded for five years and are expected to pursue Faculty priorities,
to consolidate and strengthen research in these areas, provide seedcorn funding, host conferences
and events, encourage collaborative projects, and support applications for external funding.
Faculty research clusters are given small amounts of funding for up to three years and are
expected to grow into a Centre or to evolve into new clusters.

Cutting across our five chronological research groups are key methodological themes which
promote cross-period exchanges and collaborations within the Department and elsewhere across
the School and Faculty:
   •   text editing
   •   history of the book
   •   poetry and poetics
   •   science and medical humanities
   •   environmental humanities


                                                                                          Page 2
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
   •   spatial humanities
   •   digital humanities
   •   transnationalism

Our research groups are supported in the Department through workshops and research seminars,
visiting speakers, away-days, and seed funding, all of which have been reconfigured in 2020 in
response to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Faculty Centres and University Institutes provide the
catalysis and resources for large-scale activities including conference organisation, grant capture,
external collaborations, and impact.


Research objectives

Strategic Aims for Research and Impact 2014–2020
The strategic aims for research highlighted in our REF 2014 Environment statement and
implemented since 2014 are:
   •   increasing the number of collaborative research projects and awards;
   •   diversifying the sources of funding to which we apply;
   •   providing high-quality mentoring to early-career staff;
   •   maintaining support for research activities by maximising internal resources including
       research leave.
Since REF2014 the Department has defined four further research and impact objectives:
   •   strengthen our world-leading areas of research and increase our international profile by
       making strategic appointments and working with the Faculty Research Centres and
       University institutes;
   •   extend the range and depth of our impact through targeted collaborations with non-
       academic external partners, both national and international;
   •   develop new strengths in cross-period and interdisciplinary research methodologies;
   •   increase our cohort of postgraduate research (PGR) students, using our high quality
       research supervision and training to attract the best students to our department.

Evidence of Achievement of Strategic Aims
We have consolidated our suite of five research groups which are fully engaged in contributing to
the Department’s research strategy and performance (see Section 2 for specific examples). We
have made strategic appointments to build capacity in these areas and we have retained staff by
means of mentoring and research support.

Building on our exceptional chronological range across the field of literary studies, we have
targeted methodological themes which cut across period boundaries (see list above). These
approaches respond to, and lead, key national and international developments in the discipline;
extend our capacity for risk-taking research; and bring us into productive contact with the
medical, social, and natural sciences. Our research groups are directly linked to Faculty Centres
and clusters and engage with University Institutes.

We doubled our annual grant income from £105,000 in 2013–14 to £226,000 in 2019-20, earning
in absolute terms a total of 34 separate external grants worth more than £2 million pounds. We
have been awarded funding from a wide range of internal and external sources, including Arts
and Humanities Research Council (AHRC), Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC),

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF), Medical Research Council (MRC), Leverhulme Trust,
British Academy, Heritage Lottery Fund, European Union, Society of Antiquaries, GW4 [research
consortium of the universities of Bristol, Bath, Exeter, and Cardiff], Worldwide Universities Network
(WUN).

We increased our PGR student numbers from 40 students per year in 2013-14 to 55 students
per year in 2019–20, with an average of 47 PGR students enrolled across the period.

Our research has developed significantly with respect to interdisciplinarity and we collaborate
successfully with colleagues across period boundaries through the Faculty Research Centres
and through research clusters such as ‘Bodies of Water’ and ‘Embodied Mind’, both comprising
classical to modern perspectives across several Faculties.
We have greatly extended the range of our productive partnerships outside the university,
becoming more deeply embedded within the local context of the City of Bristol and forming new
national and international partnerships.

Impact strategy and delivery
Our impact strategy has focused on:
   •   Development of productive partnerships, nationally and internationally, to support grant
       applications, public engagement, and impact. Staff are supported to establish and build
       productive relationships with external partners, drawing on Department, School and Faculty
       funding.
   •   Co-production of research, as evidenced in our Impact Case Studies, which showcase a
       range of partnerships, particularly heritage, creative, and media (Putter), education and
       economic impact (Bennett), professional training (Maude), and creative and economic
       impact in a global context (Krishnan).
   •   Targeting sectors where our research can make a positive social and economic
       contribution, including heritage and cultural sectors (museums, galleries, libraries,
       archives, historic buildings, cultural organisations), creative industries (publishing, media,
       exhibitions, festivals, arts practitioners), educational institutions, professional and
       policy-making bodies (commercial publishing, medical and scientific institutions,
       government), and community groups, fostering civic engagement.
   •   Building lasting connections with partners in Bristol by embedding our research in the
       local community.
To deliver this strategy, we have targeted and built up significant links with major heritage and
cultural organisations within and beyond Bristol including the National Maritime Museum
(Holberton, collaborative doctoral award and co-created exhibition), the National Trust (Badcoe,
co-producing a publication on environmental humanities), the Bodleian Library (Putter, ‘North Sea
Crossings’), Salisbury Cathedral (Hume, public performances), and the Historic Towns Trust
(Fulton, ‘Map of Bristol in 1480’). We have contributed public lectures and events to national
cultural festivals, including ‘Being Human’ (Badcoe, Gill, Krishnan, Maude, Publicover), ‘Festival of
Ideas’ (Dawson), ‘Festival of Nature’ (Malay, Pite), and ‘Engagement Bites’ (Gill). Hanaway-Oakley
was seconded for six months to the Science Museum London (2019) to work on her project
‘Colour Blindness in Literary and Cultural History, c. 1860–1940’, and she has been subsequently
appointed Honorary Research Associate to the Science Museum Group.



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Following our strategic appointments in Creative Writing we have extended our impact in the
creative industries. The Department is now a major sponsor of the Bristol Short Story Prize, an
annual event that results in an anthology published by the Bristol-based publisher Tangent Books.
Kahora was one of the prize judges in 2020, and Thebo has set up practical placements at
Tangent for Creative Writing Masters students. Thebo runs creative writing workshops for schools
at Bristol Cathedral and makes numerous author-visits to schools throughout southern England.
We have contributed readings, lectures and workshops to large annual literary festivals including
Bath (Thebo), Cheltenham (James), and Hay (Fulton). Kahora and Krishnan have pioneered
collaborations with creative industries in continental Africa, especially Nairobi, working with the
Kwani Trust to curate its annual Kwani Litfest and edit its journal (Kahora), and Uganda, working
with local publishers and the Writivism Festival (see Krishnan Impact Case Study).
Our cross-period and interdisciplinary research themes have enabled us to create lasting
partnerships with professional and policy-making bodies. Batt was selected for a placement at
the British Library Labs to work on digital collections and is developing further collaborations using
digital humanities methodologies. Vaccarella works with the Bristol Heart Institute and Oxford
University Hospitals to provide workshops for patients and medical professionals as part of her
medical humanities research on illness and narrative. Maude’s research on embodiment and
medicine has led her to collaborate with psychiatrists, psychotherapists and psychoanalysts at the
New York Psychoanalytic Society and Institute in New York and the University of Helsinki. As part
of our ‘history of the book’ research theme, we also contribute in various ways to the publishing
industry: Fulton is Chair of the Editorial Board at the University of Wales Press and Putter has
acted as a consultant to Bodleian Library Publishing. Fulton also acts as an advisor to the Welsh
Government as a member of the ‘Wales Studies’ group in the Learned Society of Wales.
Examples of benefits arising from such collaborations include placement and training opportunities
for our PGRs (Bristol Cathedral, Downside Abbey, St Mary’s Portbury), increased visitor footfall
(Bristol Cathedral, Bristol Old Vic, Tobacco Factory, SS Great Britain, MShed, Science Museum
London), and economic benefits to our partners (Bristol Short Story Prize, Historic Towns Trust,
National Trust, Somali Resource Centre, Shakespeare’s Globe London).

Open access
Members of our Department comply with Open Access requirements by uploading all our non-
embargoed publications (articles and book chapters) to Bristol’s institutional repository (PURE),
where they are accessible via the internet. We have used internal and external funding to create
accessible databases of open research, such as Batt’s contribution to the Digital Miscellanies
Index, Verweij’s AHRC-funded project Manuscript Pamphleteering in Early Stuart England, and
Fulton’s Mapping the March of Wales. Fulton is the Chair of the Open Access Sub-Committee of
the Learned Society of Wales and is Executive Board Member of University English, the national
subject organisation, and has participated in consultation activities led by Plan S and UKRI.
We also comply with university requirements regarding research integrity, ensuring that our
research is conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal, and professional frameworks and
standards. Research projects of staff and students which require ethical approval are referred to
the Faculty Ethics Committee.

Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact
Following a period of significant growth during the current REF cycle, the Department is now
aiming to consolidate and strengthen its position as a large, diverse, world-leading, and outward-
looking unit. We have identified the following priorities for the period beyond 2020:

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
       •   To maintain support for our current research groups in order to develop our exceptional
           strengths and depth in these areas, while nourishing emerging research initiatives.
           Among other developments, we are planning to propose new Faculty research clusters
           in Creative Industries and Spatial Humanities, and to work with the School of Modern
           Languages to develop our ‘transnationalism’ theme, including comparative literatures
           and multilingualism. Krishnan took over as Director of the Centre for Black
           Humanities in 2020 with a mission to support local and international initiatives and to
           extend our diversity agenda. The proposed new University Library (opening in 2023–4)
           will give us opportunities for exhibitions and public events supported by our research.
       •   To maintain and strengthen our postgraduate and early-career community through
           continued engagement with the AHRC-funded South West and Wales DTP consortium
           (of which Bristol is the hub); recruitment through our MA programmes; support for
           postdoctoral fellowships; appointment of early-career staff; robust mentoring and
           training. We plan to extend our current placement schemes to enable all our
           postgraduate students to undertake professional placements during their candidature
           should they choose to.
       •   To raise further our international profile and consolidate our current external
           partnerships through joint research bids, co-produced research, and impact activities,
           while actively investing in new partnerships, local, national, and international, in each
           of our five research groups. We will make further use of our WUN membership and
           visiting scholar schemes, build on our existing international networks, seek additional
           co-tutelle agreements with partner universities, and make further grant applications with
           international partners. For example, in the Global Feminisms cluster, Kennedy-Epstein
           has recently been appointed official biographer of Muriel Rukeyser, working with the
           Francis Goldin literary agency in New York.
       •   To scale up our external grant income by developing more ambitious, large-scale, and
           ground-breaking research projects with clear pathways to impact. A number of large
           grant applications to the AHRC, ERC, and Wellcome Trust are currently in development
           or pending, and we will continue to use the resources of RED, the Faculty’s research
           management team, to identify opportunities for research funding.



 2. People

Research groups
The Strategic Aims of the Department (Section One) are addressed through the activities of the
five research groups, which include postgraduate students.
Medieval Studies comprises three professors (Fulton, Putter, Tether) and three ECR staff (Hume,
Levelt, McClune), with a further two teaching-only staff who are research active. This is one of the
largest groups of medievalists in a single department in the UK, while the Faculty’s Centre for
Medieval Studies is the largest of its kind in the UK.
The Medieval group has made a major contribution to the Department’s strategy of supporting
interdisciplinary research, drawing its research from fields such as linguistics, environmental
studies, and publishing. The appointments of Fulton, McClune and Tether have significantly
expanded our strengths in medieval literature to encompass the linguistic diversity of the whole
of the British Isles, covering medieval English, French, Scots, Welsh, and Irish.The group’s
publications and research projects deploy key methodologies and approaches, including text

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
editing (Putter, The Works of the Gawain Poet), spatial humanities (Fulton, Anglo-Italian Cultural
Relations in the Later Middle Ages, ‘Borders and Borderlands in Medieval and Early Modern
Europe’), and book history (Tether, Publishing the Grail in Medieval and Renaissance France).
The group has been active in establishing research partnerships with regional institutions
including Bristol City Council, Bristol Records Office, St Mary Redcliffe Church, Downside Abbey,
Salisbury Cathedral, and Hereford Cathedral Library.
Early Modern to 1780 comprises nine staff led by a professor (Steggle) and eight early and mid-
career staff (Badcoe, Batt, Dawson, Lee, McTague, Powell, Publicover, Verweij). The appointment
of Steggle in 2018 has given us crucial leadership in Early Modern Studies and established us as a
hub for the study of early modern drama in its material and textual forms. The group has particular
methodological strengths in digital humanities (Steggle, Lost Plays Database; Verweij,
Manuscript Pamphleteering in Early Stuart England; Batt, Digital Miscellanies Index), spatial
humanities (Publicover, Dramatic Geography; Badcoe, Edmund Spenser and the Romance of
Space), text editing (Steggle, Complete Works of John Marston; McTague, The Plays of Nicholas
Rowe), and science and medical humanities (Powell’s work on Christopher Smart and on
developments in eighteenth-century botany and optics). Batt has pioneered a digital humanities
approach to searching older print archives (‘Data-mining for verse in Eighteenth-Century
Newspapers’) which earned her a placement in the British Library Labs, working with the BL’s
digital content team.
Working from an environmental humanities approach, the Early Modern group has spearheaded
two Faculty research clusters, ‘The Perspective from the Sea’ (2013–18) and ‘Bodies of Water’
(2018–21), which have won funding from the Cabot Institute and the Brigstow Institute to develop
arts/science collaborations and public engagement events. These clusters have generated a rich
cross-disciplinary and cross-period programme of seminars, public lectures, and exhibitions in
partnership with heritage organisations including the Bristol museum SS Great Britain, the Arnolfini
Gallery (Bristol), the National Trust, and the National Maritime Museum in Greenwich. Members of
the group are active in the Faculty Centre for Material Texts under the co-directorship of Batt and
McTague, staging key events with local and international partners including book artists, graphic
designers, architects and librarians (‘Living Well with Books’ international conference at Bristol
[2018] and ‘Making Books in Bristol’, a series of public talks [2017]).
Members of this research group are also linked with the Faculty Centre for Health, Humanities and
Science (Powell) and the Centre for Environmental Humanities (Badcoe, Publicover), with
Publicover a member of the Board of the University Strategic Research Institute, Migration
Mobilities Bristol. With internationally acknowledged and award-winning strengths in early-modern
drama, Steggle and Dawson work with leading Shakespeare theatres, including the Tobacco
Factory in Bristol and the Sam Wanamaker Playhouse and Globe Theatre in London, and have
organised several public events at both places.
Romantic and Victorian Studies are represented by ten staff, including the Department’s only
named chair, the Winterstoke Professor of English Literature (Karlin), two other professors
(Bennett, Pite), and seven early- and mid-career staff (Cheeke, Coit, Lee, Matthews, Powell, Puri,
Wright). As well as publishing world-leading outputs, the group engages with our key
methodological themes of environmental humanities (Pite, ‘Romantic Bristol’ smartphone app;
Wright, ‘Tennyson and Bees’), science and medical humanities (Lee, Powell), poetry and poetics
(Bennett on Wordsworth and Keats; Fay, Wordsworth’s Monastic Inheritance; Wright on
Tennyson), transnationalism (Karlin, French and English literary connections; Coit, expatriate
Americans and the transatlantic novel), history of the book (Matthews, album poetry), and text

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
editing (Matthews, Complete Works of Charles and Mary Lamb, ongoing; Karlin, the Longman
Browning edition, The Bostonians; Fay, the Wordsworth and Beaumont letters). The work of this
group is highly interdisciplinary (Cheeke, literature and visual art; Karlin, literature and history;
Powell, literature and science) and cross-period (Bennett, Karlin and Pite all work in the twentieth
century as well as the Romantic period and nineteenth century). Members of the group are aligned
with the Faculty Centre for Material Texts and the Faculty Centre for Environmental Humanities,
and Pite was Director of Bristol’s Institute for Advanced Studies in 2012–16.
Modern and Contemporary Literature includes thirteen staff led by four senior professors
(Bennett, Maude, Rabaté, Pite) and includes six early-career staff (Battersby, Hanaway-Oakley,
Kahora, Malay, Rose, Vaccarella). The group has strengths in poetry and poetics (Bennett,
Blades, James, Jones, Malay, Pite, Wootten), with Wootten currently the co-director of the Bristol
Poetry Institute which brings poetry into the community. The research group has also developed
a sector-leading profile in three of our key themes, science and medical humanities (Battersby,
Bennett, Blades, Gill, Hanaway-Oakley, Maude, Rabaté, Rose, Vaccarella), spatial humanities
(Krishnan, Writing Spatiality in West Africa), and environmental humanities (Daw, Malay, James,
Jones, Pite).
Staff working in medical humanities are closely aligned with the Faculty Centre for Health,
Humanities and Science, and Maude has been Director of the Centre from 2018. Hanaway-Oakley
and Vaccarella are lead members of two research clusters funded by the Elizabeth Blackwell
Institute (EBI), supported by Maude who is the Co-Lead (with Lee) of the EBI Medical Humanities
Research Strand, funded by the Wellcome Trust (WT). The medical humanities theme is supported
by a dynamic series of collaborations with health professionals and external partners, including
the Bristol-based HIV/AIDS charity the Brigstowe Project (Blades, Vaccarella), NHS consultant
psychiatrists and neurophysiologists (Maude, Rabaté), and the Science Museum London
(Hanaway-Oakley, secondment to the Museum).
The Modern and Contemporary research group includes Creative Writing, in which we have
recently made two strategic appointments, namely Thebo, a well-established writer of young-adult
fiction, and Kahora, who has a significant international reputation as a journalist, short-story writer,
and writer of creative non-fiction. These two appointments, supplementing our existing strengths in
writing poetry (James, Pite, Wootten) and creative non-fiction (Malay) have led to the
development of a strong profile in outputs and postgraduate recruitment. Creative Writing staff
have an active outreach programme and have received several awards and nominations (Thebo
has been awarded a Hawthornden Fellowship and has been shortlisted several times for the
Carnegie Medal).
Global Literatures encompasses American Literature and literatures of the global south
(especially India and the African continent) from the nineteenth to twenty-first centuries, a
chronological span which gives this group of ten researchers a world-leading profile in
collaborative international research. Led by two professors, Karlin (the Winterstoke Chair) and
Krishnan, this is our major area of investment and development since 2015, with seven ECR
appointments in the recent past (Blades, Coit, Forbes, Gill, Puri, Savvas, Sides) and two
postdoctoral fellows (Daw, Rose).
Staff in this group share methodological approaches in environmental humanities (Daw, Forbes,
Krishnan, Rose, Sides), science and medical humanities (Blades, Gill, Rose), text editing
(Kennedy-Epstein: Muriel Rukeyser; Karlin: Henry James) and transnationalism (Coit: Henry
James; Forbes: African-American literatures; Kahora: African diasporas; Krishnan: writing and



                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
publishing in continental Africa; Sides: literatures of the African continent). Staff contribute to the
Faculty Research Centre for Black Humanities, including as Director (Gill, 2018–2020).

Staffing strategy and staff development
Our recruitment strategy is based on the following elements:
   •   Maintain diversity and breadth in our research strengths by making ‘like for like’
       appointments following resignations or retirements. We also look for opportunities to make
       strategic appointments which strengthen our research in more than one area (e.g. Tether
       in medieval literature and digital humanities; Forbes in 19th-century African American
       literature and 19th/20th-century American crime writing; Puri in 19th-century British writing
       and literatures of India; Rabaté in modernism and literary theory; Vaccarella in
       Modern/Contemporary Literature and medical humanities).
   •   Ensure academic leadership at Reader or Professor level in each of our research areas
       (e.g. Steggle appointed to lead the Early Modern to 1780 group; Thebo appointed at
       Reader level to lead Creative Writing).
   •   Ensure that University and UK Government principles of equality and diversity are applied
       to our recruitment processes in order to attract and retain the best applicants. These
       principles are included in job advertisements, selection panels are diverse, interviews are
       held in accessible rooms, and support is provided to applicants where necessary.
   •   Use our research strategy to determine new early-career appointments at times of
       expansion (e.g. to improve our staff-student ratios). Areas of existing and emerging
       research strengths are targeted for additional staff when resources are available (e.g.
       appointments of Thebo and Kahora as part of a planned expansion into Creative Writing;
       appointment of Vaccarella to strengthen our research in Medical Humanities; appointment
       of Malay to support Environmental Humanities).

Our staff development strategy has the following objectives:
   •   To encourage and support career development of all staff, regardless of career stage or
       contract type. All staff in the Department, including those on fixed-term contracts, have a
       mentor with whom they meet regularly and who conducts their annual appraisal (using
       University-wide software, ‘MyReview’), designed to set short-to-medium-term research
       objectives and to pave the way for longer-term aspirations. Early-career staff are offered
       particular support, including additional workload credits for research (100 hours for Lecturer
       B and 50 hours for Lecturer C, based on the Faculty’s Workloads Model), a lighter teaching
       load during their first year of appointment, and support from the Early Career Network in the
       Faculty. They are given time to undertake training and development through the
       University’s CREATE programme (Cultivating Research and Teaching Excellence), which
       leads to membership of the Higher Education Academy, and all staff are encouraged to
       attend training courses offered by the University Staff Development unit. Senior staff are
       encouraged to undertake management training, including the in-house leadership
       programmes provided by Staff Development (e.g. Fulton, Senior Leader’s Programme while
       Head of Department).
   •   The Department offers honorary fellowships to early-career staff at the end of their fixed-
       term contracts (e.g. Fay, Sloane, 2018, both of whom have been appointed to academic
       posts elsewhere). The Faculty supports applications to a range of postdoctoral schemes
       including the Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships, the British Academy Postdoctoral

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
       Awards, the Newton International Fellowships, the Marie Sklodowska-Curie Individual
       Fellowships, the Wellcome Trust Research Fellowships, and the University Vice-
       Chancellor’s Fellowships. The Department has successfully mentored a number of
       applicants to each of these schemes, resulting in a strong cohort of early-career
       research fellows (e.g. Malay, Leverhulme Early Career Fellow, now Lecturer; Daw and
       Rose, Vice-Chancellor’s Fellows; Battersby and Fay, Leverhulme Early Career Fellows).
   •   Build a supportive and integrated community of staff and students, for example, by
       inviting emeriti, honorary fellows, and students to research seminars and social events,
       announcing staff and student successes on our website and social media, and having
       regular staff meetings. During the pandemic, we moved all our seminars and meetings
       online, including several social events, as a means of staying in touch and monitoring
       wellbeing during a difficult time.
   •   Ensure that all staff are given maximum time, support, and resources to undertake
       research.


Support, training, and supervision of postgraduate research students

Recruitment, funding and support
The Department has maintained an average of c.47 postgraduate research students per year since
2014, including the first cohort of PhD students in Creative Writing (from 2019). We recruit from our
own MA students and we also encourage applications from UK and international students via our
website, staff profiles, and Faculty open days. Students have been funded by the AHRC, University
Alumni scholarships, Department Teaching Fellowships, and grants from students’ home
governments. Bristol led the two successful bids for the AHRC South West and Wales Doctoral
Training Programme (SWW DTP 1 and DTP 2) and is the administrative hub for the DTP. While
they are studying at Bristol, PhD students can apply to Department, School, and Faculty funds for
financial support for library and archive visits, training, organising and attending conferences, and
other research-related activities. The University’s Alumni fund also offers financial support to
postgraduates to present papers at conferences (such as ‘English Shared Futures’ in 2018) and
research trips to archives in the UK and US. Research students in the Faculty of Arts have a
dedicated building with shared space to work, as well as other ‘hot-desking’ options throughout
the Arts precinct and further space in the PGR hub of the Bristol Doctoral College.

Training
The Department has a PGR Director (Bennett) who provides overall support to our cohort of
PGRs including small-scale funding for research-related activities, access to training, and annual
performance monitoring. Many of us contribute to the series of training workshops convened by
the School of Humanities Postgraduate Research Officer across the academic year for research
students (e.g. IT training, Introduction to Doctoral Research, Preparing for Upgrade, Research
Ethics, Research Skills). The Faculty of Arts also offers a suite of training courses specifically
tailored to the needs of PhD students, including an introduction to research, writing retreats,
professional development, ‘getting published in the Arts’, and academic writing.
All PhD students are automatically members of the University’s Bristol Doctoral College (BDC),
which acts as a hub for skills training and professional development across the University. The
BDC offers courses for PhD students such as starting a PhD, effective presentation skills, public
engagement, careers and employability, and publishing academic papers/books. PhD students are

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
normally given opportunities to teach at undergraduate level, when they are supported by a
teaching mentor in the Department and by Level One of the University’s training course for
teaching, CREATE.
Research students are encouraged to attend Departmental, School, and Faculty research-related
events, and to give papers at the fortnightly Departmental Research Seminars. These are useful
training opportunities for PGRs, along with a regular Postgraduate Conference organised by the
students themselves. The seminars have continued online during the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020,
including the ‘Contagion Lockdown’ postgraduate conference in June 2020. PGRs are also
encouraged and supported to present papers at national and international conferences and
workshops, and to take leadership roles in organising such events. PGR students attend many of
the Department and School’s term-time weekly reading groups (including ‘Piers Plowman’,
‘Medieval Latin’, ‘Critical Theory’, and ‘Decolonial’) and are supported in organising their own
reading groups, as well as in running postgraduate conferences and colloquia. They are also
embedded in the Faculty Research Centres, as members of the Boards, and as contributors to and
participants in events organised by each Centre.
Research by our PhD students has been published in prestigious journals, with Baynes winning the
Review of English Studies Essay Prize in 2017 and Cataldi winning the Medium Aevum Essay
Prize in 2019. Other journals in which our students’ work appeared during their candidature or very
shortly afterwards include Ben Jonson Journal, Gothic Studies, Thomas Hardy Society Journal,
Seventeenth Century, Journal for Eighteenth Century Studies, Victoriographies, Critical Survey,
The Lancet, James Joyce Quarterly, and Feminist Encounters. Many former students have edited
volumes of essays and/or contributed chapters to edited volumes, and a large number have had
their theses published in the form of monographs with publishers that include Brill (Leiden),
Edinburgh University Press, Manchester University Press, Otowa Shobo (Tokyo), Rodopi
(Amsterdam), Routledge, and Tate Publishing. Creative Writing students have had poetry and
short stories published in journals such as Atrium, Cannon’s Mouth, and Street Life.
We have considerable success in placing our students into academic and professional posts
following their PhD. In the past five years, our students have been awarded postdoctoral
fellowships (Leverhulme, British Academy, Harvard) or found posts at universities (e.g. Bristol,
Cambridge, Düsseldorf, Goldsmiths, Lincoln, Palermo, Sussex, Warwick) and in professional
sectors (e.g. Foreign and Commonwealth Office, The National Archives, the National Gallery).

Supervision
Each postgraduate research student is supervised by two members of staff (normally from the
Department, or from a consortium institution in the case of SWW DTP students). Supervision
meetings take place at regular intervals, with a recommended minimum of ten meetings over the
academic year. At the end of each meeting, the supervisors and student jointly review the student’s
research, writing, and set appropriate and achievable goals which are recorded on the university’s
software system STaR. Towards the end of the first year, PhD students go through a rigorous
Annual Performance Review of their work, submitting a 6000–12,000-word sample of their
writing, an outline of the thesis describing its central research questions, structure, and
methodology, and a bibliography. The portfolio is assessed by two independent members of staff,
who interview the student and write a report on progress. One of the reviewers subsequently
oversees a light-touch paper-based version of the review at the end of the second and third years
to check and confirm satisfactory progress towards timely and successful submission of the thesis.




                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Supporting and promoting equality and diversity
The Department models equality and diversity in its practices of student recruitment, staff
appointments, research support, wellbeing support, and curriculum design and delivery, following
the University Strategy which includes policies on equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI). The
University’s EDI Steering Group includes membership from all Schools and Faculties and there
are local EDI groups at School level which are strategically focused on identifying activities that will
influence change. Kennedy-Epstein is the current co-chair of the School of Humanities EDI
Committee, working towards an Athena Swan accreditation for the School. EDI issues are on the
agenda of every School and Faculty meeting. The University runs a range of Staff Networks
providing peer support, a staff mentoring system, and the Bristol Women’s Mentoring Network. The
University operates a Returning Carers scheme which provides a grant of £10,000 for one
semester to assist returning carers to update and resume their research.
Our department has one of the most diverse staff in the Faculty, with ethnically-diverse
colleagues from British, Italian, Finnish, Dutch, American, Australian, South African, Kenyan,
Indonesian, and Indian backgrounds. The gender balance of our staff is 50:50 (22 female and 22
male), and at senior level (Readers and Professors) there are five females and five males. Other
protected characteristics represented by our staff include age, disability, race, maternity, sexual
orientation, religion, and marriage. Leadership positions, including Head of Department and
Directors of Faculty Research Centres, have been assigned evenly to males and females in the
Department over the last five years, and administrative roles are distributed evenly across the
department. Female colleagues have taken on leadership roles, including Fulton and Matthews,
who are the former and current Heads of Department, and Batt, Gill, Krishnan, and Maude who are
current or former Directors of Faculty Research Centres. Four female staff have held
School/Faculty leadership posts of 0.5FTE or above (Dawson and Wright, School Education
Director; Fulton, School Research Director; Tether, Faculty Graduate Education Director).
Staff who participate in recruitment committees undertake mandatory EDI training through the
Staff Development Unit, and the UK Government’s ‘protected characteristics’ legislation informs
targeted support for indvidual staff and postgraduate research students (e.g. flexible working;
health or caring issues which require additional support to enable participation in research events
such as conferences). Our PGR cohorts have been approximately 55% female and 45% male
over the last three years, with 30% of BAME students in each PhD cohort. The Department’s
research-led curriculum began to be ‘decolonialised’ well before the events of 2020, and students
are unable to complete their English degree at Bristol without studying a diverse range of texts and
authors, from medieval to contemporary. One of our reading groups, ‘Decolonial’, led by Sides,
encourages staff and students to engage with the theory and practice of diversity in the curriculum.
Our Statement in Support of Diversity and Anti-Discrimination is prominently displayed on the front
page of our website.
The purpose-built Humanities building, which houses the department, teaching spaces, and
research areas, is entirely accessible, including lifts, ramps, and accessible toilets. All research
seminars and events are held in accessible rooms.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income from research
With a great variety of research fields and methodologies in the Department, we can attract
funding from a wide range of organisations. Within this assessment period, the total value

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
of our income (in the form of overheads) from Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA)-
recorded sources, including research councils (UK and European), charities, and
government, is just under £1million (£996,445).
In addition, non-HESA sources have also provided significant funding for our projects,
including income from consultancies, visiting fellowships, arts organisations, learned
societies, internal university funding, and income as co-investigators (Co-Is) on
international projects. Examples include Fulton’s consultancy with Netflix, Maude’s
funding from the EBI (four awards in the last three years), Vaccarella’s grant from Monash
University (Australia), and Thebo’s support from the Hawthornden Foundation (writing
fellowship in 2018-19).
We are also supported by several funding streams within UoB, ranging from Faculty
conference and research grants to university-level strategic funds. Funding which staff in
the Department have successfully won includes:
  • Benjamin Meaker Visiting Professor scheme (nine visiting professors brought to
    Bristol, from universities in the US, EU, and Australia)
  • International Strategic Fund (five awards forming international networks in the US,
    Australia, Seoul)
  • Knowledge Exchange (KE) fund (five awards)
  • GW4 funding stream supported by the universities of Bristol, Bath, Cardiff, and Exeter
    (one network supported for two years)
  • Worldwide Universities Network (WUN), of which Bristol is a member (two awards)
  • University Research Fellowships, which extend Faculty research leave from one
    semester to two (ten awards)
  • Vice-Chancellor’s Fellowships, a postdoctoral scheme which started in 2017 (two
    awards)
All five of our research groups are active in applying for funding and working with partners
across the UK and internationally, in line with our current Strategic Aims.
Medieval Studies: Putter’s AHRC grant, ‘Verse Forms of Middle English Romance’, and his
Leverhulme Project grant, ‘North Sea Crossings’, have led to new developments in
multilingualism and pan-European research. His Heritage Lottery Fund grant has forged new
collaborations with non-academic partners, especially the educational organisation Flash of
Splendour, Aardman Studios, and the Bodleian Library (see Putter Impact Case Study). Fulton’s
Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship, ‘Medieval Welsh Political Poetry’, cements the group’s
expertise across the languages and cultures of medieval Britain and Ireland.
External funding has been matched by internal funding sources, with success in university
schemes such as WUN (Fulton), GW4 (Fulton, Tether), the Benjamin Meaker Visiting Fellowships
scheme (Fulton), and the International Strategic Fund (ISF, Fulton, Tether), establishing networks
and international collaborations with the universities of Ghent, Macquarie (Australia), Sydney,
Pennsylvania, Penn State, and Rochester (NY).
Early Modern to 1780: major awards have included Batt (British Academy), Holberton (British
Academy Mid-Career Fellowship), Steggle (AHRC, £715,000 for the John Marston project), and
Verweij (AHRC, Co-I, ‘Early Modern Political Pamphlets’). The group has developed new funding
streams from diverse sources such as the Society of Antiquaries (Verweij) and has used university
resources to seed-fund new projects (Publicover, Brigstow Institute). New interdisciplinary
projects have led to productive collaborations with international researchers, such as those

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
instigated by Steggle (Lost Plays Database, with the universities of Melbourne and Arkansas) and
Publicover (University of Heidelberg), funded by the university’s ISF.
Romantic and Victorian: the group attracted a Leverhulme Early Career Fellow (Fay, 2014–17)
and Batt was awarded a British Academy grant. Using internal sources of funding, the group has
nurtured external partnerships with organisations such as the Wordsworth Trust (Fay, Matthews)
and the National Trust (Fay). Pite was awarded £8000 by WUN (2015) to develop the ‘Romantic
Bristol’ app, working with Destination Bristol (tourism) and local community groups.
Modern and Contemporary Literature: Our recognised strength in this area is indicated by the
award of four postdoctoral fellowships between 2016 and 2020, Battersby (Leverhulme Early
Career Fellow), Daw, Rose (Vice-Chancellor’s Fellows), and Malay (Leverhulme Early Career
Fellow, subsequently appointed to our Department as a permanent member of staff). Staff have
been successful in winning an AHRC Network award (Maude), British Academy funding (James,
Vaccarella), as well as more diverse funds from internal and external sources including the
Brigstow Institute (Vaccarella), the Helsinki Collegium for Advanced Studies (Maude, research
fellowship), and the Institute for Advanced Studies at the University of Turku (Maude, visiting
professor). Maude is currently Co-I on a Medical Research Council Grant, ‘Adolescence, Digital
Technology, and Mental Health Care’ (£100,809), and the co-lead of the Medical Humanities
Strand in the EBI, funded by the WT Institutional Strategic Support Fund (ISSF, £50,000).
Global Literatures: There have been major grant successes in this research area, with
significant awards from AHRC, GCRF, WT, and ERC (Krishnan, Gill, Sides). The Global
Literatures group has used its funding to form strong links with wide-ranging national and
international partners, including cultural organisations (Kahora, Malawian Writers Workshop;
Krishnan, Kwani Trust [Kenya], Mawazo African Writing Institute [Uganda], Writivism Festival
[Uganda]); museums and galleries (Forbes, Ashmolean Museum Oxford; Gill, Bristol Museum and
M-Shed Museum Bristol; Kennedy-Epstein, New York Public Library), and charities (Blades,
Brigstowe Project [HIV/AIDS charity in Bristol]; Savvas, Incredible Edible, community food growing
movement in Bristol).


In line with our strategy to increase our research grant applications, staff have already secured five
major awards starting in 2020-21: Dawsons’ Brigstow Institute funding for activities following the
‘Good Grief’ festival (2020-21); Fulton’s Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship for her project
‘Medieval Welsh Political Poetry’ (2020-22); Gill’s Wellcome Trust award for the ‘Black Health and
Humanities’ interdisciplinary training network and collaborative research initiative (2020–22);
Putter’s British Academy Global Professorship award to bring Professor Kathleen Kennedy
from the US to Bristol for four years (2021–24); Rose’s AHRC funding for a Covid-related project,
‘Shame and Stigma in Covid-19’ (2021-23). Daw and Battersby have been awarded Marie Curie
postdoctoral fellowships (2021-5).


Infrastructure and facilities

Support for research and impact
Our research, including impact, is well supported at four levels: Department, School (of
Humanities), Faculty (of Arts), and University, maximising routes to research achievement.
In the Department, we have instituted the roles of Research Director and Impact Director to
support and advise on initiatives and activities. Each member of staff can apply to the Head of
Department’s fund (supplemented by several endowment funds) for research and impact support,
                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
and workloads are adjusted to give priority to research, including at least one teaching-free day a
week. Staff leading Impact Case Studies have been given additional workload credits of 200 hours
per year. Staff set their research priorities with their mentor and are further supported by their
research groups within the Department. The Department has a Research Advisory Group,
comprising Readers/Associate Professors and Professors, who work with the Head of Department
to design and implement the Department’s research strategy.
The School Research Director (Fulton until July 2020) and Impact Director (a post held
by Maude during the assessment period) are supported by a 0.5 administrator and operate
a discretionary fund to augment Faculty funding. The School Research Director oversees
the Research Leave application process and subsequent reporting, the Annual Research
Reviews (where individuals discuss their research progress with two senior staff), the
REAP evaluation process, REF performance and information, and grant information and
advice. The Research Director holds regular grant-development workshops, provides
strategic advice on grant schemes, and reads draft applications. The Impact Director works
with the Faculty Impact and KE Manager, RED, and Policy Bristol to disseminate
information to staff and develop impact from our research.
In the Faculty of Arts, research is supported by the Faculty Research Office, led by two Faculty
Research Directors who are supported by a full-time Impact and KE Manager, a Faculty Business
Fellow (now Partnerships Fellow), and two administrators. The Faculty supports an annual grant-
writing retreat and smaller writing retreats throughout the year.
The Faculty Research Directors manage a significant Faculty Research Fund for conferences
and other research activities such as visits to archives and collaborators, travel funding for
collaborators to visit Bristol, image permission rights, costs of indexing, and similar research
expenses. Funding is competitively awarded, with each member of staff eligible to apply for up to
£1500 per year for conference and research activities and up to £2000 to hold a conference at
Bristol. The Faculty provides some teaching buy-out for staff applying for large grants and there is
also a separate Impact Research Fund to support impact-related activities.
The Faculty research leave policy, by which staff are normally awarded one semester of leave
following six semesters of teaching, has a formal application process through each School and
compulsory reporting on progress following the period of leave. EDI issues are addressed during
the process, with staff self-reporting any issues when they apply for research leave or in their post-
leave report.
The Faculty’s Workload Model, based on credits assigned to research, teaching, and
administration, is key to supporting research in transparent and equitable ways. This underpins the
Faculty’s ‘Time for Research’ policy which defines how much teaching relief can be secured
through research leave, fellowships, and grant awards.
The six Faculty Research Centres and the University Research Institutes support research
through organising events, conferences, public engagement activities, collaborative bids, and
early-career development. They also offer funding for research initiatives. Staff in English have
been successful in winning funding from the Research Centres and from the Brigstow Institute,
EBI, and the Cabot Institute.
We are very well supported for grant applications, with support provided at Faculty level through
the University’s Research and Enterprise Development team (RED). Faculty Research
Development Managers (2.5 FTE) work with staff on grant applications, providing dedicated grant
development support, training sessions, and bespoke advice. Pre-award and post-award finance

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
are supported by officers within RED who are assigned to specific faculties. All grant applications
worth more than £10,000 are subject to a rigorous peer-review process (REAP, or Research
Excellence Advisory Panel), by which applicants receive detailed feedback from four people in the
Faculty, including their School Research Director. RED also has an international arm, supporting
applications to the EU and other international schemes.
RED’s Knowledge Exchange (KE) team manages the devolved funding for impact from the
Research Councils and WT. Researchers can apply for funding up to £15,000 to support impact-
related projects (e.g. Fulton, ‘Making Bristol Medieval’, £11,173).
University Research Fellowships are awarded competitively to staff going on research leave to
enable them to take a full year of leave, and the Department has won 10 of these awards between
2014 and 2020.
The Department’s postdoctoral fellows benefit from ‘Bristol Clear’, a University-level programme
of resources for research staff development which includes the Concordat to Support the Career
Development of Research Staff and the Research Staff Development Fund.
Research support is facilitated for all staff regarding individual circumstances such as disability,
long-term illness, or caring responsibilities. Many of our early-career staff have benefited from the
University’s Returning Carer’s scheme.
Impact is supported by the School Impact Director, the Faculty Impact and KE Manager and the
university-level Policy Bristol unit which co-ordinates a comprehensive public engagement
operation that includes annual events, training, and collaborative activities with policy-makers.


Infrastructure
The University has recently embarked on an ambitious estates development, the Temple Quarter
campus, due to open in 2022. Members of our Department have been active in contributing to
discussions about ways in which the Arts and Humanities can be represented on the new campus
(Krishnan, Maude, Sides, Sperlinger). We have also benefited from funding, collaborative activities,
and training provided by the University Research Institutes.
The University is planning a new £103 million University Library which will provide space for
public events, social mixing, and exhibitions, as well as the normal study and reading functions.
The current Arts and Social Sciences library is well-resourced with digital and printed material, and
the Department has a dedicated Subject Librarian who responds to requests for additional material
for teaching and research. The Special Collections contains several archives essential for our
research, including manuscripts (Medieval Studies group) and the world-renowned Penguin
Archive (Bennett, Maude, Tether, Wootten). Close departmental collaboration with Special
Collections has resulted in important discoveries, e.g. Tether identifying a medieval Arthurian
manuscript, and expert statements from Maude and Putter to support the Library’s purchases of
the copy of Lady Chatterley’s Lover owned by the judge who presided over the 1960 obscenity
trial, and a thirteenth-century Glastonbury Bible fragment.
At School level, the new multi-million pound purpose-built Humanities Building opened
in 2019, providing teaching and office spaces, research space for seminars and individual
work, and social spaces shared by staff and students. Opportunities for seminars, collegial
discussions, and workshops have been enriched and are frequently interdisciplinary.
Postgraduate research students have their own building with shared space and administrative
support from the Faculty Postgraduate Office and SWW DTP Hub which is co-located with the


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
students.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


Research collaborations leading to knowledge exchange and impact
We are a notably outward-looking department with wide networks across the UK, Europe, and
internationally. Our extensive partnerships and external links have been instrumental in enabling
us to use our research for the benefit of the discipline and wider communities outside the
university, leading to measurable impact. Collaborations range from cross-institutional bids to
funding bodies (such as Putter’s Leverhulme project with Cambridge researchers) to international
research partnerships (such as Krishnan’s European Research Council grant working with
colleagues in continental Africa, and Putter’s AHRC project with US partners). We have taken a
lead role in establishing global links for postgraduate research exchanges, such as our co-
tutelle arrangement with Macquarie University in Australia, which enables us to offer international
joint PhD programmes.
The economic and cultural benefits of our research are evident from our Impact Case Studies but
are also pervasive across the department. Our work with external communities includes schools
(Badcoe; Bennett; Publicover; Putter), medical and science professionals (Blades; Hanaway-
Oakley; Lee; Maude; Pite; Vaccarella), cultural organisations (Dawson; Holberton; Kahora;
Krishnan; Publicover; Putter; Rabaté; Steggle; Thebo), tourism (Fulton, Pite), and heritage
industries (Fulton, Holberton, Hume). Examples of our partnerships include Hanaway-Oakley’s
secondment to the Medicine Galleries (pp. 51–2) at the Science Museum London, Dawson’s
work as consultant to the Tobacco Factory and Bristol Old Vic theatres, and Steggle’s contributions
to productions and public events at the Sam Wanamaker Playhouse and Globe Theatre in London.
Our Department has a longstanding record of impact in the Bristol community. As members of a
large and well-located civic university, we have actively sought partnerships with local communities
in Bristol as well as further afield. The Medieval Studies group has engaged with Bristol’s
medieval heritage, working with Bristol Cathedral, St Mary’s Portbury, and Downside Abbey to
manage placements for postgraduate students (Hume); working with the Bristol Record Office,
Bristol City Council and a group of local historians to co-produce a map of medieval Bristol
(Fulton); collaborating with a Bristol media production company to co-create animations of
medieval stories (Putter Impact Case Study). The Early Modern to 1780 group use their expertise
in Renaissance drama to co-produce events and exhibitions at the SS Great Britain museum, the
Arnolfini Gallery, the Tobacco Factory, and the Bristol Old Vic (Badcoe, Dawson, Publicover,
Steggle). The Modern and Contemporary group engage with cultural institutions in Bristol such
as the Lyra Poetry Festival (Pite), and the Georgian House Museum and MShed (Gill). The
Medical Humanities Exhibition was founded by Lee as an annual event to showcase work from
students on the intercalated BA in Medical Humanities and is co-curated with the community arts
centre, the People’s Republic of Stokes Croft. We continue to provide masterclasses and teaching
materials for schools in Bristol, including an event at the Royal West of England Academy on
fairy tales for school students (Hume and Wootten).
One example of research co-created between us and local communities is the Map of Bristol c.
1480 (PI Fulton) funded by a consortium of local history groups and the university’s KE fund.
Research for the map was conducted collaboratively and the published map (Historic Towns Trust,
2020) will be used to encourage tourism and support secondary education. Another example is
Vaccarella’s 2018 work with cardiomyopathy patients to co-produce narratives of their experiences

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
to help them make sense of their diagnosis. A third example is Pite’s Romantic Bristol app, funded
by WUN and developed in collaboration with the Bristol Museum and Art Gallery and Destination
Bristol, which has led to walking tours for members of the public based on the app. Our work in
Medical Humanities has resulted in a recent national online festival, ‘Good Grief’ (co-organised by
Dawson, October 2020) which attracted 12,000 people and a further 34,000 accessing recordings
on the Grief Channel. This has already resulted in a successful grant from the Brigstow Institute for
the project ‘Creative Grieving’ (PI Dawson, £15,000).
Under the directorship of Karlin, then of David Punter (retired 2018), and subsequently of Wootten
and Kosick (School of Modern Languages), the Bristol Poetry Institute, founded in 2012, hosts a
prestigious series of annual poetry readings (recent speakers have included Carol Ann Duffy,
Andrew Motion, Simon Armitage, Alice Oswald, and Claudia Rankine) with attendance figures
averaging c. 600 up to 800 people. The BPI has also sponsored events such as ‘A Poetic City’, a
year-long community project, ‘The Last Poets’, a performance workshop commemorating the civil
rights movement, participation in literary festivals (Cheltenham, Ledbury), and a Poet in Residence
scheme. Alice Oswald, Professor of Poetry at the University of Oxford in 2019–20, is one of our
Honorary Fellows, along with Tjawangwa Dema, poet and producer of the ‘Africa Writes’ festival in
Bristol.
Internationally, we work with partners across the globe to engage our research with the general
public. As examples, Battersby collaborates with the Japanese Society for the Promotion of
Science, where he held a short-term fellowship (2018); Kennedy-Epstein is curating an exhibition
with the MIT List Center for Visual Art in New York featuring the twentieth-century collaboration
between writer Muriel Rukeyser and photographer Berenice Abbott (delayed by Covid-19);
Krishnan has been an active contributor to the annual ‘Writivism’ festival in Uganda since 2016;
Rabaté is a founder and curator of the Slought Foundation in Philadelphia; Vaccarella continues
to work with Monash University in Australia on ethics and narrative, building on an
interdisciplinary research grant awarded by Monash in 2015.
Several us work with STEMM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics and Medicine)
disciplines and practice-led disciplines, a trend that has increased over the last five years and
which is part of our strategic plan. We belong to several networks funded by the University’s EBI
(medical research), Cabot Institute (environmental research) and Migration Mobilities Bristol,
bringing our research in these areas into dialogue with other disciplines. Examples of collaboration
with STEMM disciplines include Badcoe, ‘The Unsettled Planet’, with Earth Sciences and a sound
engineer (2018–20); Hanaway-Oakley, seconded to the Science Museum, London, to work with
science historians, especially in the field of optometry (2019–20); Gill, peer reviewer for the BMJ;
Maude, ‘Modernism, Medicine and the Embodied Mind’, working with psychoanalysts, neurologists,
and geriatricians (2015–16); Vaccarella, ‘Illness as Fiction’, working with cardiogists and
neurologists (2018–19).
Recently, our networks have enabled us to respond quickly to contemporary events, pivoting some
of our research towards unfolding developments and national priorities. Extinction Rebellion
inspired Malay’s workshop, ‘Visualising Extinction’ (2019) which was supported by the Centre for
Environmental Humanities. Sides has collaborated with Penn State University and the African poet
Tjawangwa Dema (one of our Honorary Fellows) to run a public workshop at Penn State on
literature and climate change (2019). Kennedy-Epstein and Puri have engaged with the #MeToo
movement through the Global Feminisms research cluster. The Black Lives Matter movement
has been addressed by the Centre for Black Humanities and the Anti-Racism Steering group at
UoB (of which Krishnan and Gill are members). Holberton’s research on Atlantic trade in the


                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, in collaboration with the National Maritime Museum,
addresses Bristol’s links with the slave trade, and he has an AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award
(CDA) grant application pending with the National Trust on this topic. The Covid-19 pandemic has
been addressed by Battersby and Rose, with an article submitted to The Lancet (2020); Gill,
whose ‘Black Health and Humanities’ WT funded project responds to racial health inequalities
emerging from Covid-19; Maude, as a member of the WT-funded Anti-Microbial Resistance
Management Board in the EBI and Co-Is on the EBI Rapid Response project ‘Public Views of
Covid-19 Science’; Rose as Co-I on a recent AHRC award, ‘Shame and Stigma in Covid-19’.

Contribution to the research base
As a department, we provide subject leadership in supporting our discipline nationally and
internationally. Many of us currently serve, or have previously served, as officers of national and
international scholarly societies, advisory boards, subject associations, and similar bodies,
including, for example, the British Association for Modernist Studies, the New Chaucer Society, the
International Arthurian Society, and the British Society for Eighteenth Century Studies. The
Department is a member of our disciplinary organisation, University English, and Fulton is on its
Executive Committee. Krishnan has been the section editor for ‘West Africa’ in The Year’s Work in
English Studies (2015–17). Several colleagues act as international peer reviewers and
consultants and many of us regularly act as external PhD examiners and expert reviewers for
promotion, tenure, and professorial chairs in the UK and around the world (including the US,
Australia, Canada, EU, and Qatar). Five of us have been members of the AHRC Peer Review
College during this REF period, and three of us are reviewers for the European Research
Council. We also review for the Leverhulme Trust, WT, British Council, British Academy, and the
Irish Research Council. Krishnan is an invited member of the AHRC GCRF/ODA (Official
Development Assistance) Peer Review College; Maude reviews for the WT, National Science
Centre Poland, and the European Science Foundation; Putter is an external assessor for a
wide range of international research councils including the European Science Foundation, Social
Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada, and the research councils of Switzerland,
Belgium, South Africa, and the Netherlands.
Many colleagues act as journal editors (e.g. Tether, Journal of the International Arthurian Society,
Hanaway-Oakley, Modernist Cultures, Rabaté, managing editor, Journal of Modern Literature),
general editors or editorial board members of book series (Manchester University Press;
University of Wales Press; Peter Lang; Brepols; Brill; Cambridge University Press, Edinburgh
University Press, Bloomsbury) and members of journal editorial boards (including African
Literature Today, Anglia, Journal of Literature and Science, Journal of Beckett Studies,
Shakespeare, Ben Jonson Journal, Medical Humanities, Transnational Modernisms, Journal of
English and Germanic Philology, Yearbook of Langland Studies, International Journal of Welsh
Writing in English, Arthurian Literature). Steggle is the General Editor of The Lost Plays Database,
a major online research resource, and Fulton is the Chair of the Editorial Board at the University of
Wales Press.
We have held eight international conferences in Bristol during the last six years, with a further
two postponed to 2021 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Virtually the whole department has given at
least one international conference paper each year, and many of us have organised sessions at
the major international conferences including the Modern Language Association (US), Modernist
Studies Association (US), Medieval Academy of America (US), Shakespeare Association of
America (US), Othello’s Island (Cyprus), British Association of American Studies (UK), European
Conference on African Studies (UK), and the major medieval studies conferences at Kalamazoo

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
and Leeds. All our staff, apart from ECRs, have given at least one keynote address at an
international conference in the last five years (at venues such as Oxford, Cambridge, London,
Durham, York, Germany, Turkey, Mexico, Brussels, New Orleans, Taiwan, Korea). As a world-
leading literary critic, Bennett has been in high demand, with keynotes and invited papers in
Germany, Belgium, Israel, Oxford, Poland, Helsinki, and Beijing.
We have also been very active in co-organising events and exhibitions at venues across the
UK, which include the Georgian House Museum, Arnolfini Gallery, Cambridge University Library,
the British Library, the Weston Library, The National Archives, and the Science Museum London.
Lee has been the lead organiser of a regular annual Medical Humanities Exhibition, mainly held
at PRSC (People’s Republic of Stokes Croft, a community arts venue in Bristol), which has now
expanded into a festival (from 2019) bringing together artists, humanities researchers, and medical
professionals. Verweij is an Advisory Board member for the ‘Elizabeth I and Mary Queen of
Scots’ exhibition, British Library (planned for 2020 but postponed to 2021). As co-director of the
Bristol Poetry Institute, Wootten has been instrumental in creating a community around
performance poetry in Bristol with regular events in community locations. Blades and Vaccarella
have organised several public events in Bristol sharing stories of HIV/AIDS, including a
workshop on ‘AIDS Twenty Years On’ funded in part by the US Embassy (2016).
The excellence of our researchers has been recognised by a number of awards and honours.
Putter and Karlin were elected Fellows of the British Academy in 2019 and 2020 respectively.
Rabaté is Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Fulton is a Fellow of the
Learned Society of Wales (2015) and of the Society of Antiquaries (2014). Karlin delivered the
Clarendon Lectures at the University of Oxford in 2016. Verweij was awarded the Saltire
Society’s Scottish Research Book of the Year in 2016 for his first monograph. Steggle has won
the Biennial Note Prize awarded by the journal Early Theatre (2017); the Calvin and Rose G.
Hoffman Prize for Distinguished Publication on Christopher Marlow (2015); and the RSA-TCP
Article Prize for Digital Renaissance Research (2015). Thebo has been shortlisted for the
Carnegie Medal on three occasions. Several of us have been elected or appointed to visiting
professorships or fellowships (e.g. University of Ghent, University of Oxford, Harvard University,
Turku University, UCLA). Several of us hold Trusteeships on learned societies (Early English Text
Society; Scottish Text Society; Eugene Vinaver Memorial Trust). Fulton is a Trustee of the Historic
Towns Trust and was elected Vice-President for Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences of the
Learned Society of Wales in 2019.
Our research is regularly featured throughout the print and electronic media. Several of us have
appeared on BBC Radio programmes including ‘In Our Time’ and ‘Natural Histories’ (both on
Radio 4). Kennedy-Epstein was interviewed on US radio (PRX) in 2020 about her work on Muriel
Rukeyser. Tether featured in an international news story in 2019, ‘The Bristol Merlin’, distributed
to c. 500 broadcast, print and online sources (the largest research story ever emanating from the
School of Humanities), reaching at least 50 countries across Europe, the US, and Australia.
Fulton’s expertise in Celtic and medieval languages led to her being commissioned as a Netflix
consultant to invent two languages for the fantasy series ‘Cursed’, broadcast on Netflix in June
2020. In addition, a number of us review regularly for publications such as Times Literary
Supplement, Times Higher, Financial Times, Irish Times, and London Evening Standard, and we
have been featured in podcasts (for example, ‘History Extra’, 2020; ‘BBC Earth Podcast’, 2019; In
Our Time, 2018).

Our research, ranging from textual scholarship through state-of-the-art literary criticism to
innovative re-shapings of the discipline using new methodologies and a genuinely global approach

                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
to literature, is making a substantial contribution to the dynamism and sustainability of literary
studies as a key discipline for meeting the challenges of the twenty-first century. Moving flexibly to
apply the insights and practices of literary studies to global issues through historicised
perspectives, we bring literature and writing into mainstream economic and social dialogues with
communities of academics, policy makers, and the general public.




                                                                                              Page 21
