Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Nottingham

 Unit of Assessment: Music (33; Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen
 Studies)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview

 The Department of Music at the University of Nottingham (UoN) comprises 9 (8.3 FTE, 5F, 5M)
 permanent members of research-active staff (R&T job family), 1 postdoctoral research fellow
 (0.6 FTE, F, with a contract that will lead to a permanent appointment at the conclusion of the
 fellowship), and 16 research students (9F, 7M). Three further postdoctoral fellowships concluded
 during the assessment period. Situated within the School of Humanities, one of three schools in
 the Faculty of Arts, the Department has proven research expertise in musicology,
 composition, performance, and music technology. Strategic appointments since REF2014
 have brought in outstanding new talent, diversifying the community and its research agenda,
 increasing grant capture, and expanding the reach of impact activities, whilst also consolidating
 core strengths. The Centre for Music on Stage and Screen (MoSS) provides a focus for the
 Department’s established expertise and a space for interdisciplinary collaboration in the
 areas of film music, musical theatre, opera, performance art, theatre music, and immersive
 media. A new initiative since REF2014, the Nottingham Forum for Artistic Research (NottFAR)
 provides a vital avenue for impact and exchange between the Department’s researchers and
 educational and arts organisations in the city of Nottingham, one of the most deprived local
 authority districts in England. These and other initiatives are supported by outstanding purpose-
 built facilities and close working relationships with the Nottingham Music Service and the
 University’s Lakeside Arts.

 1.2 Achievement of strategic aims (2014–20)

 Research
 During the assessment period the Department has successfully accomplished its REF2014
 goals, as well as laying the foundations for future success. External grant income has increased
 to £526.5k, improving upon REF2014 (£492k) and RAE2008 (£494k) in a period when the
 Department’s demographics have shifted decisively towards junior scholars. REF-eligible
 outputs between 2014 and 2020 include 6 monographs, 25 peer-reviewed journal articles, 20
 book chapters, 14 compositions, 3 edited books, 7 recordings, and 1 scholarly edition.

 Specific REF2014 aims have been achieved as follows: i) Consolidation of research
 specialisms. Considerable growth has been seen in the three existing priority areas, as well as
 in new avenues of investigation. Under the auspices of MoSS, the study of music on stage and
 screen has been strengthened by the appointments of Kelly, Boyd-Bennett, and Robbins, with
 successes including: Hibberd’s AHRC Fellowship for the project ‘French Opera and the
 Revolutionary Sublime’; Kelly’s opera project Losing Her Voice, supported by grants from
 OPERA America and the British Academy; and publications by Boyd-Bennett, Cooke, Hibberd,
 Nielsen, and Robbins. Under the umbrella of early music, the Department’s strengths in
 historical musicology were consolidated through the appointment of Parkes, Baragwanath’s
 AHRC-supported investigations into the history of solfeggio, the PGR initiative ‘Early Music on
 Stage and Screen’ and resulting edited symposium, and publications and recordings by
 Baragwanath, Parkes, Rodríguez-Garcia, Weller, and Wright. A final cluster, music in
 contemporary culture, has flourished thanks to a strategic expansion in creative research,
 enabled by the appointments of Pestova, Kelly, and MacLeod (see 2.1). Global and
 transnational perspectives on contemporary music have also been augmented, both by the
 arrival of Robbins and Boyd-Bennett and by robust growth in the field of ethnomusicology,
 evidenced by Ó Briain’s AHRC-supported ‘Voice of Vietnam Radio’ and BA-supported ‘Musical
 Minorities’ projects, and the appointment of the research fellow Ong. This research environment
 has been further enriched by the multifaceted activities of the NottFAR initiative (see 1.2.iii),

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Boyd-Bennett’s BA Rising Stars award ‘Everyday Fascisms’, regular Department-hosted
 conferences on contemporary music, media, and sound, and publications by Adlington, Boyd-
 Bennett, Bullivant, Cooke, Nielsen, Ó Briain, and Robbins.

 ii & iii) Supporting individual and collaborative research. In fulfilment of the Department’s
 2014 aim, 4 staff members completed UoN training schemes for research leadership, delivered
 through the Leadership Management Academy (Baragwanath, Ó Briain) and Faculty of Arts
 Research Leadership Programme (Kelly, Pestova). A secondary aim, also accomplished, was to
 exploit fully the Faculty’s intensive mentoring processes for staff pursuing grant capture,
 managed by the Centre for Advanced Studies (successes described in 3.1). The Department
 has also initiated significant new collaborations with Computer Science (projects involving
 Baragwanath, Cormac, Kelly; see 4.1), a relationship that was formalised in 2020 with the
 appointment of Chamberlain (Computer Science) to an Honorary Research Fellowship. Other
 partnerships include: Weller’s creative research into medieval music and sculpture, supported by
 UoN pump-priming funds to foster collaboration with the University of Birmingham; and the
 establishment in 2016 of the Nottingham Forum for Artistic Research (NottFAR), which through
 some 70 concerts, workshops, and symposia has helped form new connections between
 researchers, practitioners, and audiences in the East Midlands and across the UK (see REF3).
 iv) Measuring impact. The activities of NottFAR have achieved the Department’s goal of
 quantifying research impact among non-academic audiences. Building on well-established
 relationships with local musical organisations (Nottingham Music Service, Nottingham Royal
 Concert Hall) and UoN’s Lakeside Arts, and with postgraduate RA and Faculty KE support, staff
 have recorded and evaluated audience engagement, participation, and demographics, laying the
 ground for impact activities in the future. v) Sustainability in a time of change. This prescient
 ambition has been fulfilled by: careful succession planning, with particular attention to EDI (see
 2.3); significant participation in the AHRC’s Doctoral Training Partnership programmes
 Midlands3Cities (M3C: 2014-19) and Midlands4Cities (M4C: 2019-25), in support of PGR
 recruitment, funding, and training (see 2.2, REF5a 3.3); and a concerted shift since 2014
 towards community and industry engagement, and towards funding streams that facilitate this
 aim, described below.

 Impact
 With significant institutional support, staff incentivisation, and grant capture (see also 3.1, 3.2),
 and with two impact case studies that exemplify its approach, the Department has achieved its
 strategic goals for impact in six respects: i) Enhancing public understanding of music, by
 communicating new research findings to diverse audiences. For example, Baragwanath’s
 research on historical solfeggio reached schoolchildren, students, professionals, and non-
 specialists across Europe, through workshops, summer schools, concerts, a BBC documentary,
 a CD release, and a flourishing online community (see 4.1, 4.3, REF3). ii) Reaching under-
 represented and non-traditional beneficiaries, with particular attention to the local
 Nottingham community. This has been achieved most prominently through the work of NottFAR,
 resulting in new and larger audiences for contemporary music in the region, increased
 engagement with contemporary music in local schools, and improved learning outcomes for
 schoolchildren who participated in a pilot project in 2018-19 (see REF3). iii) Contribution to the
 reputation and outreach goals of non-academic partners. By forming partnerships with local
 organisations and artists, NottFAR’s activities have brought new vitality to contemporary music
 in the East Midlands and beyond, creating new audiences, supporting local venues,
 strengthening creative networks and institutions (including Nottingham Music Service), and
 granting opportunities to local performers and artists. iv) Evaluating impact activity, to better
 understand the effectiveness of public-facing initiatives, described under ‘Research’, above. v)
 Enhancing professional practice, through the creation of new repertoire for performers,
 innovation in musical technologies, and research into musical creativity and pedagogy.
 Examples include: experiments by MacLeod and Pestova with new instrument technologies; the
 integration of Baragwanath’s solfeggio research findings into the curricula of partner institutions
 in Amsterdam, Basel, Bern, and Maastricht; and Kelly’s collaborative development of app-based
 technologies that allow audiences to interact with performance. vi) Enhancing cultural life,


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 through new publications, musical works, recordings, exhibitions, and public performances,
 individually and in collaboration (see outputs, 4.1, 4.3).

 1.3 Interdisciplinary research

 In line with UoN’s strategic commitment to interdisciplinary research (see REF5a 1, 2.1(a)), the
 Department encourages and sustains a lively environment of interdisciplinary activity. This
 has been a priority in its staffing strategy (see 2.1), and continues to be catalysed by initiatives at
 all University levels (e.g. Digital Research Service, Centre for Advanced Study, ‘Creative and
 Digital’ interdisciplinary research cluster, Asia Research Institute, Institute for Medieval
 Research), as well as Department-based projects such as MoSS and NottFAR. During the
 assessment period all research-active staff have either partnered with individuals in other
 disciplines or have conducted research congruent with those fields, including but not limited to:
 Architecture (Kelly, MacLeod), Asian Studies (Ó Briain), Computer Science (Baragwanath,
 Cormac, Kelly), Electrical Engineering (Pestova), English (Cooke, Kelly), Film Studies (Cooke,
 Kelly, Robbins), History (Boyd-Bennett, Ó Briain, Parkes), History of Art (Weller, Hibberd), Italian
 Studies (Boyd-Bennett), Media Studies (Boyd-Bennett, Hibberd, Nielsen), Medieval Studies
 (Parkes), and Theatre Studies (Cooke, Robbins). Staff have also collaborated with architects,
 sound artists, visual artists, filmmakers, media practitioners, poets, and a sculptor (e.g. Boyd-
 Bennett’s ‘Urban Rhythms Network’, Kelly’s creative partnership with the American literary
 magazine Memorious, and Hibberd, Nielsen, and Kelly’s investigations into technologically-
 augmented drama; see 3.1, 3.2, 4.1).

 1.4 Open research, ethics, and integrity

 In line with UoN’s significant commitments to open research and the principles of the Concordat
 to Support the Career Development of Researchers, the Department seeks to enable research
 of the utmost quality, integrity, and openness. The School Research Committee oversees
 implementation of UoN’s policies on open access, research data management, and ethics (see
 REF5a 2.3, 2.4), with support for UKRI grant applicants’ data management plans provided by
 the Library and Digital Transformations Hub. All staff and PGRs are trained in the safe handling
 and storage of data, including GDPR, and any activity involving human subjects or their data is
 subject to rigorous ethical review, with support from officers at School and Faculty level. PGR
 students additionally receive an Arts-specific Research Integrity course, administered by the
 Researcher Academy (formerly the Graduate School), with 100% completion at census date.
 Academic misconduct is dealt with in accordance with UoN policy (see REF5a 2.4). PGR
 students are invited to deposit their work in an institutional repository, from which Music
 dissertations were downloaded 906 times during the assessment period (on average 53
 downloads per dissertation). Staff and students also share knowledge and best practice online,
 for example Baragwanath’s Facebook group ‘The Art of Solfeggio’ (1.7k members).

 1.5 Strategic aims for research and impact (2020–27)

 The Department will build on the above successes to advance its research and impact agenda in
 the next assessment period, with particular attention to the following strategic aims:

 i)   to diversify and strengthen research collaborations, building a solid record of KE and impact
      and redoubling its commitment to EDI (see 2.3), especially within the local Nottingham
      community, through the development of partnerships with schools, cultural organisations,
      creative industries, and public institutions;
 ii) to continue the Department’s upward trajectory in securing external grant capture (see 3.1),
      and to enable funding successes at all levels of seniority, not only for individual research and
      impact projects, but also for new multi-author or multi-institutional initiatives;
 iii) to sustain a strong record of supporting the next generation of research leaders, whether
      through new ECR appointments, postdoctoral fellowships, or promotion; and to further
      embed EDI in all aspects of staffing activity (see 2.1, 2.3);


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 iv) to continue to invest in the postgraduate research community, ensuring vitality and diversity
     through wider recruitment, especially in conjunction with the AHRC M4C DTP, through
     collaborative and externally-funded initiatives, and through enhanced support for research
     and impact training (see 2.2);
 v) to continue investing in the development of research and impact excellence in the
     Department, both in existing areas of achievement (such as NottFAR) and in new research
     clusters, paying particular attention to emerging inter-departmental collaborations (see 4.1)
     and harnessing the full potential of UoN support (see 3.2);
 vi) to maintain its commitment to audiences outside of the academy, particularly in the light of
     the Covid-19 pandemic and in response to UoN’s strategic goals (see REF5a 2.5), promoting
     new digital avenues for creativity and engagement, research into the arts, social justice, and
     the environment, and initiatives in health and wellbeing.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy

 Recruitment
 The Department’s strategy for recruitment is designed around three core principles. i) To recruit
 outstanding scholars, regardless of their personal circumstances. Recent appointments
 have resulted in a community that is intellectually vigorous and more diverse than ever, with an
 equal gender balance among research-active staff (5 men, 5 women), 3 staff members of black
 or minority ethnic status, and 2 declaring the protected characteristic of disability. In pursuit of
 EDI objectives in recruitment, Interview Skills training is compulsory for those who serve on
 appointment panels. Since REF2014, all research-active staff (excepting postdoctoral fellows)
 have been recruited on permanent contracts. ii) To strengthen the Department’s research
 specialisms in the wake of departures. Following the retirement of Wright and death of Weller,
 expertise in early music was maintained with the appointment of Parkes (2020). Sackman’s
 retirement permitted the appointment of the composer Kelly (2015), whose expertise was then
 augmented by MacLeod (2017), creating considerable vitality in this research area. With the
 departures of Adlington and Hibberd, continued excellence in historical musicology was assured
 with the appointment of Boyd-Bennett (2018). iii) To expand provision in areas targeted for
 future development, with particular attention to EDI. Expertise in contemporary music was
 significantly bolstered with the appointment of Pestova as Director of Performance (2015),
 joining Paterson (2014), Kelly, and MacLeod. This critical mass of expertise led to the
 establishment in 2016 of NottFAR, whose impact activities are outlined elsewhere (see 1.2,
 REF3). In both research and teaching, Kelly and Pestova have championed the creative work of
 women, effecting a welcome shift in the Department’s research environment. The appointment
 of Robbins (2019) has continued this trend, bringing new research expertise in critical race and
 gender studies, as well as a global perspective on popular music culture that complements the
 work of Ó Briain.

 Staff development
 Guided by the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and enabled by
 UoN’s Building a Culture for Success framework (see REF5a 3.1), the Department has three
 principal aims for staff development. i) To invest in the future vitality of the discipline by
 supporting junior scholars and ECRs. Continuing the Department’s outstanding record in this
 area, participation in the Leverhulme ECF scheme supported 4 postdoctoral fellows during the
 assessment period, all of whom were afforded the entitlements of permanent staff, including
 training opportunities, mentoring, and dedicated office space. One was subsequently appointed
 to a permanent R&T position (Boyd-Bennett), and another was elected to a Nottingham
 Research Fellowship (see REF5a 3.2), which converts into a permanent R&T position at its
 conclusion (Cormac). Additionally, all new permanent appointments since REF2014 have gone
 to junior scholars (6 appointees, averaging 4 years post-PhD at start date), who benefit from a
 special policy of accelerated research/impact leave. For example, early leave for Ó Briain
 (semester 5) enabled him to complete a prize-winning monograph and secure a major AHRC
 grant, paving the way for his subsequent promotion.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 ii) To support all staff, irrespective of their career stage, in their personal growth as
 scholars, practitioners, collaborators, and leaders. Under a scheme administered by the
 UoN’s Leadership and Management Academy, all new staff members are matched to a
 dedicated mentor from another Department or School. Formerly the Personal Development
 and Performance Review (PDPR), the annual Appraisal Development Conversation (ADC)
 provides a forum in which each staff member is enabled to discuss research aspirations, training
 needs, and work-life balance in dialogue with a trained peer reviewer. Undertaken in
 consultation with the Head of Department, the annual promotions process rewards excellence
 in research, impact, and teaching. This resulted in 2 promotions to Associate Professor (Kelly, Ó
 Briain) and 1 to Assistant Professor on a teaching-focused track (Paterson). The latter coincided
 with substantial investment to expand the Department’s music-technology provision, which has
 directly enhanced research and impact activities (see 3.3). A policy of encouraging training and
 development courses resulted in 4 staff completing programmes in research leadership (see
 1.2.ii). In support of her work on music and health, Pestova received staff development
 funding for training on breath work, mindfulness, yin yoga, and hatha yoga.

 iii) To ensure that staff have the opportunities they need to undertake research, including
 support for project development and grant capture. The Department operates a 7-semester
 cycle of entitlement to research/impact leave, with 1 semester’s leave awarded following each
 6-semester period in post (with an accelerated timetable for ECRs as mentioned above). Staff
 are also encouraged to apply for externally-funded leave, which neither counts against nor
 delays their entitlement to standard HEI leave; an additional semester of matching leave may
 also be supported by the Faculty of Arts through a competitive application system. In total, 9
 staff have benefitted from a combined 21.4 semesters of research/impact leave since REF2014.
 In addition to the income provided by internal and external awards (see 3.1, 3.2), all permanent
 staff benefit from personal research expenses (£600 p.a.) and may apply for additional support
 for conference attendance and research activity (up to £1200 p.a. each) from the School of
 Humanities.

 Facilitating impact and knowledge exchange (KE) with external organisations
 The Department benefits from UoN’s status as a UK leader in impact and KE (see REF5a 2.2).
 Projects promising significant impact receive dedicated support from the Faculty’s Research
 KE and Impact Officer, including assistance in accessing income streams, building relationships
 with partners, and evaluating activity. After REF2014 the Department introduced a new internal
 mentoring scheme for impactful projects, overseen by the Department’s Impact Officer and
 Director of Research. Incentivisation for impact activities includes teaching buyout, from which
 Baragwanath, Kelly, and Pestova all benefitted (see 3.2). Further funding successes for KE and
 impact in the Department include: the hiring of 2 RAs and 2 graduate placements to assist with
 impact work; start-up and accelerator grants for NottFAR; multiple targeted grants for activities in
 UoN’s Research Priority Areas (RPAs); and a successful application to the M4C DTP for a
 Collaborative Doctoral Award in partnership with Nottingham Music Service.

 2.2 Research students

 Recruitment and sources of funding
 The Department offers two graduate degrees in research: the PhD and the MRes (replacing the
 taught MA in 2018). All students are admitted on the basis of merit, irrespective of their personal
 circumstances. Since 2013 the Department has recruited 26 students to postgraduate research
 (PGR) degrees (11 men, 15 women). During the assessment period 1 MRes and 14 PhD
 students were in receipt of funding, 12 with studentships from the AHRC M3C/M4C DTP, 1
 funded by a scholarship from the Maltese Government, 1 with a UoN VC’s Scholarship (for EU
 students) and a scholarship from the Greek Government, and 1 student, jointly supervised with
 Birmingham Conservatoire, who held a competitive bursary. Reflecting the international
 reputation of the Department and the diversity of its PGR community, doctoral graduates since
 2014 have been 58% home, 26% EU, and 16% international.


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Monitoring and support to ensure successful completion
 All PGR students are allocated a minimum of two supervisors, one of whom who may be based
 in another Department, whether at UoN or, in the case of M3C/M4C award holders, at one of
 seven other HEIs across the Midlands region (see REF5a 3.3). External co-supervision through
 the M4C DTP ensures a close fit for supervisory expertise and helps fulfil the Department’s
 objectives for collaboration and interdisciplinarity. Staff have likewise supervised PhD students
 at other HEIs, including the University of Birmingham (3 via M4C), Birmingham Conservatoire,
 and Yale. Full-time students receive a minimum of 10 supervisions per year (6 for part-time),
 with the primary supervisor monitoring student progress and ensuring the fulfilment of degree
 requirements. The annual-review process for PhD students involves a Confirmation Review at
 the end of Y1 (FT) or Y2 (PT), when the student typically submits draft written work to an
 independent assessor, along with a project plan and detailed timetable for completion, and then
 attends a viva-voce meeting in which the assessors offer feedback. Subsequent annual reviews
 involve self-reflexive updates from the student and further input from their assessor and
 supervisors. Postgraduate attendance is monitored in the School of Humanities; these and all
 records of a student’s interaction with their course are centrally archived. These strategies have
 contributed to the successful completion of 19 (17.2 FTE) doctoral degrees, representing a
 healthy increase since REF2014 (11).

 Integration into research culture
 PGR students are at the heart of the Department’s research community, both physically (see
 3.3) and intellectually, via their participation in the regular Colloquium series, in collaborative
 activities and events programmed by NottFAR and MoSS, and in staff-organised conferences
 and symposia. PGR students are generously supported by grants for research and
 conference activities, enabling library visits, fieldwork trips, and networking events in the UK
 and abroad. Small Research Grants are awarded by the School of Humanities, with a preference
 for those without other funding sources, whilst awards of up to £600 may be obtained from the
 Researcher Academy’s Travel Prize Fund. Students funded through the M4C DTP may
 additionally benefit from its Cohort Development and Student Development Funds. During the
 assessment period a successful application to UoN’s student-centred Cascade scheme (£12.5k)
 enabled Moreno Zayas to stage an ambitious impact project in rural Mexico. Bridging the
 Department’s MoSS and early music research clusters, and embodying a spirit of staff-student
 collaboration, the PGR research initiative ‘Early Music on Stage and Screen’ (2015-16) resulted
 in study days at Nottingham and Birmingham, as well as a book of essays by students, staff, and
 international scholars, co-edited by the 3 PGR organisers (Routledge, 2018). Further evidence
 of integration into research and impact culture includes: published articles and delivered papers
 building upon Baragwanath’s research (Boaro); a PhD impact placement supported by
 Baragwanath’s AHRC Fellowship (Moruzzi); and extensive publication successes, with a
 dozen peer-reviewed articles published by PhD students before or after graduating, in 9 journals
 including Eighteenth-Century Music, Jazz Research Journal, Journal of Aesthetics and Art
 Criticism, and Music & Letters. PGR graduates since REF2014 also received an AHRC
 Research Grant (Cook), a Berger-Berger-Carter Research Fellowship at the Institute of Jazz
 Studies (Gagatsis), and a Research Fellowship with the ESRC project ‘Inspiring Futures:
 Footprints’ (Doxat-Pratt).

 Skills development and career preparation
 PGR students benefit from comprehensive training through the Researcher Academy’s Arts
 Researcher Skills Programme, which provides a range of Arts-focussed courses appropriate to
 their degree level and progress (see REF5a 3.3), conforming with national standards set out in
 Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework and the AHRC’s Research Training Framework.
 M4C students additionally have access to the Midlands Arts Programme, which provides
 resources for academic and non-academic network-building, and as well as funds for Student
 Development, Cohort Development, and Research Training Support for overseas training visits.
 Practical skills for careers in academia and other professions have been supported by public-
 engagement events and work placements, with opportunities provided by Postgraduate
 Placements Nottingham and further positions created through Departmental grants. Successful
 career preparation is evidenced by the fact that 9 doctoral graduates from the assessment

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 period went on to research and/or teaching positions at HEIs, more than doubling the total from
 REF2014 (4): 8 gained new jobs (at the Universities of Cambridge, Edinburgh, Maastricht,
 Manchester, Nottingham, Pavia, the Open University, and the Chinese Culture University in
 Taiwan) and 1 returned to an existing position (Universiti Utara Malaysia).

 2.3 Equality, diversity, and inclusion

 Staff
 In line with UoN’s equal opportunities policy, members of the Department are treated solely
 on the basis of their merits, abilities, and potential (see REF5a 3.5). Research-active staff
 comprise 5 men and 5 women, with 3 individuals of black or minority status and 2 with a
 declared disability; 7 are full-time permanent, 1 is 0.8 permanent, 1 is 0.5 permanent, and 1 is
 0.6 fixed-term converting to permanent at its conclusion. At census date 1 was Professor (M), 4
 Associate Professors (3M, 1F), 4 Assistant Professors (1M, 3F; 1 ECR), and 1 Postdoctoral
 Fellow (F). All age ranges are represented, with healthy representation among younger scholars:
 26‒35 (4), 36‒45 (4), 46‒55 (1), 56‒65 (1). Since REF2014 6 permanent staff members have
 been recruited (4F, 2M), together with 3 postdoctoral fellows (3F); 2 staff members have been
 promoted (1M, 1F). 4 staff members have been on parental leave (2 of them twice), and all
 have been supported upon their return with flexible and remote working arrangements, also
 available to those returning from other forms of extended leave, e.g. long-term illness or caring
 responsibilities. Staff are required to undertake online unconscious bias training, and are
 encouraged to receive training in EDI best practice through UoN’s Leadership and Management
 Academy. At School, Faculty, and University level, new projects, policies, committees, and
 activities (including REF) are subject to Equality Impact Assessments (EIAs) in order to
 ensure that those with protected characteristics, and disadvantaged or vulnerable people, are
 not discriminated against. Pestova and Baragwanath served on the committee responsible for
 preparing the School of Humanities’ successful Athena Swan Bronze Award submission
 (awarded shortly after the census period ended).

 Research students
 EDI is embedded at all levels of PGR activity, from recruitment and research funding to
 supervision and examination. Students funded by Research Councils or the University are
 entitled to funded maternity and parental leave, and all pregnant students and new parents are
 subject to protections within UoN’s EDI policy. Student health and wellbeing is safeguarded at
 all levels, with pastoral support offered by the supervisors, one of whom is designated Personal
 Tutor, in addition to a dedicated Support and Wellbeing Officer in the School of Humanities.
 Counselling and mental health services are provided at University level. Students with specific
 learning difficulties or disabilities have access to dedicated Academic and Disability Support
 Teams, and the Safety Office ensures correct use of Display Screen Equipment. At census date
 there were 16 registered research students (9F, 7M).

 REF submission
 As mandated by UoN’s Code of Practice, all UoA staff involved in selecting and submitting REF
 materials have undertaken unconscious bias training. Allowing for double weighting, submitted
 outputs represent all ages and career stages: 26‒35 (9), 36‒45 (7), 46‒55 (4), 56‒65 (2);
 Postdoctoral Fellow (2), Assistant Professor (5), Associate Professor (12), Professor (3).
 Outputs by staff aged 45 or under (73%) are equally distributed by gender (8:8), demonstrating
 an improving environment for EDI in the Department.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research income

 Successful implementation of Departmental strategies has resulted in both the increase and the
 diversification of external research income since REF2014, sustaining excellence in a time of
 change, whilst also opening up new avenues for research and impact. Funding from major grant-
 making bodies totalled £526.5k, compared to £492K (REF2014) and £494K (RAE2008). This

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 figure was distributed relatively evenly across all levels of seniority. A further £46k of external
 grants and subventions was secured from a wide range of sources not included in HESA
 statistics, including substantial income from abroad (American Musicological Society, Arts
 Council of Ireland, Canada Council for the Arts, and OPERA America).

 Successful grant capture during the assessment period has enabled staff to:
 i) pioneer interdisciplinary approaches and methodologies that redraw the boundaries of
      music research, including: Boyd-Bennett’s Rising Stars Award ‘Everyday Fascisms’ (BA,
      £12.9k), and Weller’s project on medieval music and sculpture (Nottingham-Birmingham
      Strategic Collaboration Grant, £30.1k);
 ii) enhance public engagement and deliver transformative impact beyond the academy,
      including Baragwanath’s pedagogical collaborations with European orchestras and
      conservatoires (building on an AHRC grant; see below and REF3), and NottFAR’s work in
      building arts participation in the local community, improving learning outcomes in deprived
      schools, and engaging non-traditional audiences (see 3.2, REF3);
 iii) attract and nourish outstanding ECRs, as evidenced by 4 consecutive Leverhulme Early
      Career Fellowships (see 2.1.i and below) and the high-quality outputs that these awards have
      generated;
 iv) build collaborative networks and relationships to extend the Department’s national
      and international reach, including: Pestova’s initiative to commission and record music by
      the Canadian composer Gayle Young (Canada Council for the Arts, C$26k); and Kelly and
      Hibberd’s multidisciplinary symposia on the American opera/silent screen star Geraldine
      Farrar (BA, £10k), capitalising on local MoSS expertise to facilitate dialogue between
      international scholars and creative practitioners.

 The Department’s success in securing research support and delivering significant, field-
 changing outputs is exemplified by 3 consecutive AHRC Fellowships. Baragwanath’s award for
 ‘Haydn, Solfeggio, and the Art of Melody: A New Approach to Classical Style’ (£127.7k) led to
 the establishment of an entirely new field in music studies, historical solfeggio, as well as
 publications including a substantial monograph The Solfeggio Tradition (OUP, 2020) and 2 peer-
 reviewed articles, plus multiple innovative collaborations with European partners putting 18th-
 century solfeggio into practice. Following a small grant (BA, £9.99k), Ó Briain’s AHRC
 Fellowship ‘Voice of Vietnam Radio’ (£136.1k) cemented the Department’s reputation as a
 regional hub for UK ethnomusicology, and catalysed new research into global histories of media,
 politics, and identity. Highlights include 2 UoN-hosted conferences, a journal article, a
 forthcoming edited book, and a monograph under contract with OUP. Among many outcomes of
 Hibberd’s AHRC Fellowship ‘French Opera and the Revolutionary Sublime’ (£127.5k) was the
 generation of new knowledge on opera and revolutionary politics, including a guest-edited issue
 of 19th-Century Music.

 Substantial support for the next generation of researchers was provided through 4
 Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships, 3 of which were awarded during the assessment period
 (total income £115.4k). These resulted in: productive international conferences (see 4.2); the
 formation of collaborative networks, including Cormac’s fellowships at Oxford and Georgetown
 and Boyd-Bennett’s ‘Urban Rhythms Network’ (also supported by The Oxford Research Centre
 in the Humanities, £2.5k); and publications, including an edited book, a guest-edited journal
 issue, and 3 monographs, one of which won a major international prize (Boyd-Bennett; see 4.2).

 New appointments in performance and composition since REF2014 have opened up new
 income streams, resulting in a significant expansion of creative research. Kelly’s project
 ‘Amplified Diva, Magnified Celebrity’ and its BA-supported symposia, mentioned above,
 contributed directly to the research and composition of her multimedia opera Losing Her Voice
 (multiple, including: OPERA America Discovery Grant, $13.25k; UoN ‘Creative and Digital’ RPA
 Grant, £30k), premiered at Lakeside Arts in April 2019. MacLeod secured funding from the RVW
 Trust and the Arts Council of England (£1k) to support a new work for Fretwork and the
 Galvanise Ensemble. Pestova’s succession of awards (including PRS Women Make Music
 Award, £3.7k; Arts Council of Ireland, €6k) supported collaborations with a range of world-

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 leading experts in contemporary music, and enabled the release of the pioneering recording
 Atomic Legacies.

 3.2 Organisational infrastructure to support research and impact

 The Department’s scholarly environment is nurtured above all by its Director of Research, whose
 role includes the promotion of research culture (e.g. the annual colloquium series, study days,
 and symposia), advising on grant capture, facilitating collaboration, helping colleagues at all
 levels of seniority achieve their goals, and ensuring EDI, integrity, and fairness in matters
 relating to research. The School of Humanities Research Committee, on which the Director of
 Research sits, grants institutional research leave, closely monitors the outputs delivered by such
 periods of leave, advises upon staff research funds, assesses PGR studentship applications,
 and coordinates research-policy documents. The Faculty of Arts ensures the development and
 oversight of research strategy and offers targeted funding for strategically important research
 and impact initiatives (examples below).

 The Department works closely with the Faculty’s Centre for Advanced Studies in Arts and
 Social Sciences (CAS) to support researchers and develop new research projects and KE
 opportunities. CAS offers advice on project design and grant applications in progress, runs
 funding workshops, operates a robust peer-review process, and offers seed funding for new
 collaborative research initiatives. Enhanced support is afforded to ECRs, and a regular
 programme of CAS events seeks to promote interdisciplinarity and collaboration. Training in
 digital techniques, as well as technical input on grant applications (for example data
 management plans), is provided by the Faculty’s Digital Transformations Hub. Beneficiaries
 include Cormac, whose digital-research training enabled the prototyping of an immersive
 exhibition experience (also supported by the Digital Research Service, £2k) and resulted in a co-
 authored output.

 In addition to external grant capture, staff and PGR students in the Department have benefitted
 from over £100k in internal awards for research and impact. Targeted funding for
 interdisciplinary research aligned with UoN’s Research Priority Areas (RPAs) and
 Interdisciplinary Research Clusters (IRCs) enabled Kelly’s collaborations with the Mixed Reality
 Lab (Digital and Heritage, £30k), and Pestova’s exploration of new paradigms for performance
 and pedagogy (award of £14.9k, interrupted by Covid-19). Exemplifying the value of cross-HEI
 collaboration, Weller’s project ‘English Music, Medieval Saints, and Midlands Alabasters in the
 Long Fifteenth Century’ with Kirkman (Nottingham-Birmingham Strategic Collaboration Grant,
 £30.1k) resulted in interdisciplinary symposia in Birmingham and London, 3 CD recordings with
 the Binchois Consort, 2 co-authored articles, and public events as part of the Being Human
 National Festival of the Humanities. Generous support from the Cascade scheme enabled PGR
 student Moreno Zayas to pursue an impact project in rural Mexico (£12.5k).

 Successful applications to the competitive Faculty of Arts PVC Fund enabled staff to extend the
 scope and reach of research and impact activities. In particular, funding for NottFAR
 (Pestova, MacLeod, Kelly) supported creative outputs, concert events, public engagement, and
 a RA/Postgraduate Placement. PVC-funded teaching buyout to support additional
 research/impact leave led to the completion of double-weighted outputs by Baragwanath, Kelly,
 and Ó Briain. By granting the remission of teaching duties or administrative work, the
 School’s Research and Impact Incentivisation Fund facilitated Pestova’s collaboration with
 McPherson (QMUL) and the creation of new works for the magnetic resonator piano, an
 exploratory research trip by Ó Briain that led to his successful AHRC application, and Cooke’s
 preparation of the Oxford Handbook of Shakespeare and Music (OUP). In addition, all staff have
 benefitted from the School’s personal allowances for conference attendance and research trips
 (see 2.1).

 3.3 Scholarly infrastructure and facilities



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Department’s research and impact activities benefit from outstanding purpose-built
 premises. The 200-seat, fully-accessible Djanogly Recital Hall, the capacious Rehearsal Hall,
 the Arts Centre Lecture Theatre, and smaller in-house teaching spaces (equipped with pianos
 and full AV) facilitate both scholarly and public-facing events. The performance spaces are
 jointly administered with UoN’s Lakeside Arts, a public-facing, professionally-run arts centre
 that assists research staff in developing creative projects and engaging diverse public
 audiences through its outreach and audience development work. During the assessment
 period, Lakeside has promoted over a dozen research and impact events, including: a fully-
 staged opera production in its Djanogly Theatre (Kelly), live-streamed performances during
 Covid-19 (Pestova, Paterson), a son et lumière concert (Weller) and a film screening with live
 music (PGR student Greig), public lectures, workshops, and symposia (Bullivant, Hibberd,
 Weller), and many further concerts (Pestova, Kelly). The Department also houses a digital
 composition studio and a recording studio that was comprehensively rebuilt during the
 assessment period. With assistance from a technician (Spittlehouse) and a music technologist
 (Paterson), these improved facilities have directly enabled new research and impact activities,
 including Cormac’s digital exhibition (see 3.2) and a CD recording of work by Kelly.

 Also within the Department is the Denis Arnold Music Library, with notable strengths in early
 music, contemporary music, and music on stage and screen, in addition to a large audio-visual
 media collection. Materials are loaned on a rolling basis as standard, enabling long-term access
 for research, and staff and PGR students have an annual allowance of 40 ILL requests without
 charge. The Library also facilitates OA compliance through a mediated deposit service. UoN’s
 Manuscripts and Special Collections Department preserves many outstanding musical
 artefacts, including the Wollaton Antiphonal (the subject of an AHRC-supported project during
 the previous assessment period). Research students benefit from all of these facilities, in
 addition to a dedicated postgraduate room, which functions as a working space, event venue,
 and focal point for the music PGR community. Comprehensive support for DH and digitally-
 assisted research is provided by the Digital Transformations Hub. Assistance with research-
 related web pages (e.g. conference home pages) and external publicity (including social
 media) is provided by administrative staff at School and Faculty levels.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Staff collaborations, networks, and partnerships, and their beneficiaries

 The Department’s interdisciplinary outlook and its track record in collaborative initiatives (e.g.
 MoSS, NottFAR) continues to result in new partnerships, not only within the University and
 Nottingham, but also nationally and internationally, enhancing the knowledge base, research
 outcomes, and reputations of those involved.

 Collaborations with partners in the University
 During the assessment period the Department developed a strong relationship with Computer
 Science, resulting in co-authored outputs, digitally enhanced research, and pioneering
 forms of public engagement. Kelly’s work with the Mixed Reality Lab has resulted in new
 interactive technologies for audience interaction, collaborative funding bids, and co-
 presentations in front of computer scientists and theatre practitioners. Baragwanath is working
 on an AI machine that can improvise and compose like an 18th-century maestro, to be unveiled
 to the public at the Foundling Museum, London in 2021. Cormac’s prototype of an immersive
 digital exhibit on 19th-century symphonies was unveiled at the 2019 Audio Mostly Conference,
 and resulted in a co-authored output. Under the auspices of MoSS, Nielsen, Hibberd, and 2
 Music PGR students partnered with colleagues in Cultural, Media and Visual Studies to explore
 immersive media experiences, concluding a multi-disciplinary collaboration within the EPSRC-
 funded project ‘Moving Experience’ begun in the previous REF cycle. Together with Wrigley
 (History of Art), Hibberd co-edited the book Art, Theatre, and Opera in Paris, 1750-1850
 (Ashgate, 2014).

 National and international research networks

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff have been involved in several significant scholarly networks, including: Ó Briain as
 Research Associate on the €2.5m ERC project ‘The Sound of Empire in 20th-Century Colonial
 Cultures’, a collaboration based in France with a PI from the USA; Weller as Co-PI on ‘English
 Music, Medieval Saints, and Midlands Alabasters’, a joint project with the University of
 Birmingham; and Kelly as a leading collaborator with professional clarinettists, with new works
 performed at major performers’ conventions in Belgium, Italy, UK, and USA. Founded in 2014,
 Baragwanath’s online ‘Historical Music Pedagogy’ network has catalysed a burgeoning scholarly
 intersection. Hibberd’s ‘Northern Opera Research Network’, established with partners at the
 Universities of Huddersfield and Leeds, consolidated regional scholarly expertise and hosted an
 international conference. Boyd-Bennett’s ‘Urban Rhythms Network’ brought together architects,
 scholars, and sound artists to advance the study of urban humanities; MacLeod explored similar
 themes with the network Theatrum Mundi. (See also 4.2.)

 Education and schools, and impact on pedagogical practice
 Central to the Department’s outreach and KE activities has been the strengthening of a
 longstanding relationship with Nottingham Music Service (formerly Nottingham Music Hub),
 including securing an AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award to study local music-teaching
 provision. Kelly piloted an engagement project that improved learning outcomes for local
 schoolchildren, and is the subject of a future collaborative grant proposal (see REF3).
 Baragwanath’s historical pedagogy research has impacted approaches to tertiary music
 education in Europe, with pilot projects involving the Amsterdam Conservatorium, Maastricht
 Conservatoire, Schola Cantorum Basiliensis, Bern Academy of Arts (see REF3).

 Arts organisations, festivals, concert venues, and their audiences
 Since its foundation in 2016 NottFAR has created networks of researchers, practitioners, and
 audiences to help revitalise contemporary music culture in Nottingham, the East Midlands,
 and beyond. Events have included composer-portrait talks and concerts, a quarterly evening of
 new music, sound art, and electronica (NottNOISE), and a New Music Weekend and inaugural
 Midlands New Music Symposium (organised but postponed because of Covid-19). By cultivating
 relationships with arts organisations (including nonclassical, Nottingham Royal Concert Hall, and
 Lakeside Arts), NottFAR has increased the visibility of its musical impact, obtaining
 contextual data on audience engagement, participation, and demographics. Partnerships with
 world-leading performers and ensembles (including the Villiers Quartet, Sarah Watts, Fretwork,
 Pascal Meyer, and Shawn Mativetsky) have enabled staff to create new repertoires and
 performance techniques, as well as new ways of thinking about musical practice. Public-facing
 collaborations have succeeded in engaging both traditional and non-traditional audiences,
 online and in person, at both regional venues (many concert halls, plus Broadway Cinema,
 Museum of Nottingham Life, National Science and Media Museum, Nottingham Castle,
 Nottingham Contemporary, Rough Trade Nottingham) and national hubs (Gresham College,
 Tate Gallery, Southbank Centre, King’s Place), and at festivals in the UK, Europe, and the USA.
 (See also 4.3.)

 4.2 Wider scholarly influence and contributions to the research base

 Researchers in the Department continue to serve their disciplines through involvement in
 publication, committees, and scholarly societies, and through engagement with peer institutions,
 with particularly notable achievements to report in interdisciplinary scholarship, international
 partnerships, and ECR/junior staff attainment.

 Achievements in journal editing include 2 guest-edited issues of 19th-Century Music (Hibberd;
 Cormac, in press), a guest-edited issue of The World of Music (New Series) (Ó Briain), and co-
 editorships for Music & Letters (Hibberd) and Twentieth-Century Music (Adlington), plus
 numerous reviews editorships. Staff have served on the editorial boards of Ethnomusicology
 Forum (Ó Briain), Jazz Research Journal (Cooke), and Journal of Music, Technology &
 Education (Pestova). Cooke became series editor for Cambridge Elements in Music Since
 1945. Staff undertook peer reviewing for prestigious academic publishers (Boydell, CUP, OUP,
 Bloomsbury, Palgrave Macmillan, Routledge) and at least 17 major journals, including titles that

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 are international (JAMS, American Music, Ethnomusicology Ireland, Musicology Australia) and
 interdisciplinary (Past & Present, Studies in Musical Theatre).

 Staff research expertise has been in frequent demand in other institutions, including external
 examining of Master’s and PhD theses, both in the UK and as far afield as Western Australia
 and the USA, in addition to examining for taught programmes at 8 UK HEIs. External
 assessment on appointment panels, validation panels, and promotions committees has
 benefitted peer institutions in the UK, Cyprus, and Greece. Staff have also undertaken peer
 review for grant bodies including the AHRC, ERC, and Irish Research Council, and have
 served as members of the AHRC peer review college.

 The quality and significance of the Department’s research and impact has been recognised in a
 number of prestigious prizes, awards, and honours, including two for promising junior
 scholars: in recognition of a distinguished article submitted for REF2014, Nielsen was awarded
 the RMA’s Jerome Roche Prize in 2014; and Boyd-Bennett’s monograph Opera in Postwar
 Venice won the 2019 Kurt Weill Prize for Distinguished Scholarship in Music Theater since 1900.
 In addition, Ó Briain’s book Musical Minorities won the 2020 Book Prize of the International
 Council for Traditional Music; Baragwanath received the Weston Emerson Prize from the Mozart
 Society of America in 2014; and Cormac was a finalist in the BBC/AHRC New Generation
 Thinkers scheme.

 Already evidenced by the award of 3 AHRC Leadership Fellowships (see 1.2.ii), staff
 achievements in national and international research leadership include: fellowships in Oxford
 and Washington, DC (Cormac); visiting honours including Music Theorist in Residence for the
 Dutch-Flemish Society for Music Theory (Baragwanath) and Writer in Residence at the Royal
 Opera House (Hibberd); jury membership for the Eckhardt-Gramaté Piano Competition, Canada,
 and Wales International Piano Festival (Pestova); poetry selection for the American literary
 magazine Memorious and a resulting creative collaboration (Kelly); artistic direction including the
 London-based Transmission and Daylight Music (Pestova); and a variety of board and
 committee memberships within organisations both academic and public-facing, including:
 Church Music Society (Parkes), Early English Church Music (Wright, Parkes), Henry Bradshaw
 Society (Parkes), International Council for Traditional Music, Ireland National Committee (Ó
 Briain), UoN Asia Research Institute (Ó Briain), UoN Global Challenges Research Fund (Boyd-
 Bennett, Ó Briain), and the Virginia Center for the Creative Arts, USA (Kelly).

 Throughout the assessment period the Department has contributed to the vitality of national and
 international research, as well as to the formation and networking of its PGR students and
 ECRs, through the hosting of regular conferences, symposia, and study days. Out of 8
 research-led music conferences held in the Department, 4 were organised by postdoctoral
 fellows or PGR students, 2 were held in conjunction with national societies (SMA, BFE), 1 was a
 recurring international meeting (Audio Mostly 2019), and 6 led directly to departmental research
 outputs, either published or in press (2 guest-edited journal issues, 3 edited books, 1 co-
 authored chapter). Staff also participated on multiple external conference committees from Italy
 to Myanmar.

 The Department’s strongly international presence, already densely embedded in the above, is
 further evidenced by Pestova’s performances, residencies, and speaking engagements in 11
 European nations, New Zealand, Canada, and the USA, and by performances of Kelly’s work in
 Belgium, Italy, the Netherlands, and the USA. As the editors of forthcoming edited books, Ó
 Briain, Cooke, and Cormac are co-ordinating with scholars in multiple disciplines from Australia,
 Belgium, Canada, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, India, Italy, Japan, Poland,
 Portugal, the USA, and many regions of Southeast Asia. Staff have also reached international
 audiences via the translation and re-publication of their work. The revised and expanded
 second edition of Cooke’s The Chronicle of Jazz (2013) was translated into French (2014),
 German (2014), and Czech (2016), and his A History of Film Music (2008) is forthcoming in
 Chinese (2020). Cormac’s public-facing book 30-Second Classical Music (2017) was translated


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 into French (2017) and German (2019), and was also re-released in the USA as Know-it-all
 Classical Music (2017).

 4.3 Impact beyond the Academy

 The Department’s research staff have a major role to play not only in enhancing the public
 understanding and enjoyment of music, but also in improving the lives of others. Informed by her
 creative practice, Pestova’s workshops and consultancy on health and wellbeing have
 positively impacted UK HEIs, charities, and businesses (Facebook, Leek United Building
 Society, Moving on Music, Queen’s University Belfast, Sound and Music), as well as members of
 Nottingham-area SMEs via UoN’s Ingenuity Network.

 For the benefit of live audiences, pre-performance talks have been delivered in conjunction
 with film screenings by the BFI (Robbins) and concerts by the BBC Philharmonic, BBC Scottish
 Symphony, Hallé, Opera North, and Philharmonia Orchestras, at venues including the Royal
 Festival Hall, Royal Concert Hall, Nottingham, and Glasgow City Halls (Adlington, Boyd-Bennett,
 Cooke, Hibberd, Weller), plus pre-concert panels for Opera North, Buxton Festival, and the
 Royal Opera House (Hibberd). Baragwanath led an intensive summer school and workshops
 on solfeggio, including one for schoolchildren at the Cheltenham Festival. Cooke gave guest
 lectures at study days organised by the Aldeburgh Festival and Glyndebourne Opera. Cormac
 and Ó Briain delivered public lectures at the British Library and L’Espace Cultural Centre
 (Hanoi), respectively, and Pestova led the inaugural London Toy Piano Composition Workshop.

 Even wider audiences have been reached through print, broadcast, recorded, and online media,
 where staff have provided expert consultancy, improved the accuracy of journalism, and
 enhanced public appreciation of music. Involvement in broadcast media has included over 50
 programmes written and presented by Baragwanath for BBC radio and TV, including the
 documentary ‘Educating Isaac’ for BBC Radio 3, where the average listening audience is 2.13m
 (Rajar, 2019 Q4). Staff have also provided expert commentary on BBC Radio 3 and Radio 4,
 BBC 4, Voice of Vietnam Radio, KALW/NPR, and Radio Nottingham (Baragwanath, Cooke,
 Hibberd, Ó Briain, Pestova, Robbins); and musical compositions and performances have been
 broadcast on BBC Radio 3 and Resonance FM (Kelly, MacLeod, Pestova). Staff have reached
 online audiences via podcasts for Glyndebourne (Cooke) and the RMA (Cormac), webinars
 (Pestova), and articles by Robbins, including a piece for The Conversation that reached a global
 audience of 75k within one week (90k in the month concluding the assessment period) and was
 subsequently cited in The Stylist. Contributions to magazines and newspapers include BBC
 History (circulation 94k), BBC Music (27k), Gramophone (19k), The Guardian (c. 125k).
 Programme notes were prepared for the BBC Proms, Royal Opera House, English National
 Opera, and Glyndebourne, and the Aldeburgh, Brighton, Buxton, and Edinburgh International
 Festivals, in addition to original liner notes for over 20 CDs (Chandos, Delphian, Hyperion, Linn,
 and Warner Classics) and 2 DVDs (Opus Arte and Métier). Featuring contributions by Cormac,
 Adlington, Paterson, and Kelly, Cormac’s trade book 30-Second Classical Music was included
 in the Financial Times’ Summer Reading List (2017).

 In an assessment period that concluded with the Covid-19 pandemic, the Department has
 shown itself to be both resilient and relevant as a place of knowledge creation and
 dissemination, as well as responsive to local, national, and international priorities. During the
 first UK lockdown in 2020, Pestova’s online wellbeing event ‘Anxiety Management in Uncertain
 Times’ sold out with 250 registrations (4.85/5 rating from 39 responses); Robbins convened
 ‘Boredom Bitesize’, a lockdown support group for academics of colour, whose impromptu Zoom
 research presentations reached audiences on 5 continents; and Kelly, Paterson, and Pestova
 contributed to Nottstopping, a digital festival that brought together 85 local organisations with the
 aim of celebrating local creativity, fundraising for NHS and frontline workers, and building
 community in the Nottingham area.




                                                                                              Page 13
