Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: SOAS University of London

 Unit of Assessment: Music

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context/Overview
 The Department of Music at SOAS has a unique profile as the leading centre in Europe for
 research in Ethnomusicology, and the only Music department in Europe dedicated to teaching
 and research in the traditional and contemporary musics of Asia and Africa and their
 diasporas. We hold that the study of sounded forms of expression is as important for
 understanding the historical and contemporary worlds as languages, history or economics. We
 combine immersive field experience of specific cultures and genres with a variety of established
 and innovative interpretive strategies, from historical to analytical methods, cultural studies to
 composition, sound studies to creative industries. Based in the centre of a global city, we act as
 a connector between the developed north and the creative economies of the global south. With
 expertise in deep-rooted musical traditions as well as digital cultures, we are well placed to serve
 as a nucleus for innovative research and knowledge exchange.

 Each member of the UoA specialises in specific regions or cultural traditions. Prof. Lucy Durán
 works on West Africa and Afro-Latinx cultures of Cuba and Mexico; Dr Angela Impey on
 Southern and Eastern Africa; Dr Ilana Webster-Kogen on the Middle East especially
 Israel/Palestine, and Ethiopia; Dr Richard Williams and Prof. Richard Widdess on South Asia;
 Prof. Rachel Harris on China and Central Asia; Dr Nick Gray on South-east Asia especially
 Indonesia; Dr Caspar Melville on African diasporas of the UK and Black Atlantic. All staff are
 full-time except Widdess (0.2).

 Our aims reflect our institutional context within SOAS, with our specialist focus on the study of
 Asia and Africa. We share institutional aims of advancing knowledge of and mutual
 understanding with these regions and their diasporas; decolonising knowledge and exchange;
 building equitable international partnerships; and fostering new generations of researchers
 equipped to engage with the wider world. We further these aims in our own research, and
 through our flagship publication series, SOAS Studies in Music (4.3.1).

 In line with these goals, much of our research is motivated by ethical concerns of social
 justice and sustainability, focusing on music as a way to better understand and benefit
 marginalised societies. It is planned that future staff and PhD research (supported by our unique
 MA Music pathway in Development) will increasingly focus on this area (see 1.3. In an address
 to the Society for Ethnomusicology (2016), Impey articulated this objective:

       As scholars and activists, we have what most public agencies seldom have, the privilege
       of protracted exposure and the purpose to listen. Through the intimacies afforded by
       ethnography … we can contribute toward the humanization of the often highly technocratic
       humanitarian landscape by sharing people’s stories, songs and aspirations. We can draw
       on interviews, recordings and field notes as evidence to lobby for more equitable policies
       and practices.

 Our research is motivated by a passion for music and its power to transform people’s lives. We
 take particular pride in:
     • providing expertise in the major music areas of Africa, Asia, and diasporas;
     • offering a distinctive theoretical voice, within and beyond the discipline of
        ethnomusicology, in highly rated research outputs (see 1.5, 4.1, 4.3.1);
     • achieving social relevance and significant impact on musicians, audiences and
        communities around the world (1.4, 1.5), bringing global musics to a mainstream UK
        audience (4.2.1), giving a voice through music to marginalised communities (1.5), and
        responding to global challenges (4.2.2);

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   maintaining a high level of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion in departmental staffing and
        students, and in research subjects and methodology (2.3);
    •   providing tailored training and supervision for high-quality Doctoral Researchers leading
        to successful outcomes and career benefits (2.2, 2.3);
    •   attracting substantial external funding for staff and PhD research (3.1);
    •   our commitment to open research, repatriation, and sharing of resources, especially
        through collaboration with the British Library Sound Archive (1.5.1, 3.2.4);
    •   playing leadership roles within the School of Arts (SOAS) and subject associations
        (3.2.1, 4.3.2);
    •   leading and participating in collaborative and inter-disciplinary projects with national and
        international, academic and non-academic partners (4.1.1, 4.1.2, 4.2.1);
    •   contributing to sustainability of the discipline through a world-leading publication series,
        conferences and seminars (4.3);
    •   international recognition in the form of awards, prizes, honours and invitations to present
        our research in diverse fora (4.4);
    •   maintaining a high level of research vitality and sustainability in challenging
        circumstances for the HE sector (4.1, 4.2, 4.3).

 1.2 Structure
 As a very small unit we take advantage of institutional structures and policies to support our
 research. Within SOAS the Department of Music is a component of the School of Arts (SoA),
 which also includes History of Art and Archaeology, Media and Film, Global Creative Industries,
 and English Studies. The Music UoA comprises 7.2 FTE research staff who teach on degree
 programmes in Music and across the SoA. One member of the UoA (Melville) resides in Global
 Creative Industries, the remainder in Music.

 The purposes of the SoA since its inception in 2012 were to generate interdisciplinary
 programmes of teaching and research, and to sustain research in small units by sharing
 resources. This strengthened research in Music by opening new opportunities and directions for
 interdisciplinary research, new modes of public engagement and impact (3.2.3), and new forms
 of support for research and training (2.2) under the SoA Research Strategy (1.3).

 Music took a leading role in the SoA’s development. Since 2018, when the School of Arts
 assumed overall responsibility for the management of research within its UoAs, Harris served as
 Director of Research, and Williams co-ordinated a monthly seminar where staff from across the
 SoA discussed a common research theme. Beyond the SoA, the interdisciplinary character and
 regional affiliations of our research benefitted from the unique scholarly environment afforded by
 SOAS’s wide range of discipline-based departments and research centres. Staff were members
 of: the Centre of African Studies (Durán and Impey); SOAS China Institute and Centre for
 Contemporary Central Asia and Caucasus (Harris); SOAS South Asia Institute (Widdess,
 Williams); Centre for Creative Industries, Media and Screen Studies (Melville, co-chair). It is hard
 to conceive of a more fertile environment in which to develop the cultural study of music; this
 context thus shapes our distinctive character (see 3.2).

 1.3 Research Strategy
 In the current REF period we built on our existing research strategy, while introducing new
 priorities that we will continue to develop in the next cycle. The research strategy outlined in the
 2014 REF submission entailed fieldwork-based research across a wide regional and disciplinary
 spectrum, contributing to theoretical paradigms; co-operation in interdisciplinary and
 international projects; and development of funding applications for particular thematic areas.
 Feedback from the REF panel noted that our researchers have “a strong track record of
 producing world-leading and internationally-excellent research” but sought more “clear evidence
 of the mechanisms which have maintained and will maintain the vitality of the research culture”.
 In this report we provide such evidence with reference to the School of Arts (1.1, 1.3, 3.2, 4.4)
 and the recently created Research Group in Engaged Ethnomusicology (below).


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3.1 The current cycle
 Our research strategy was consolidated and developed in the current REF cycle in line with
 departmental and institutional strategic aims (see 1.1). We continued to support the study of
 regional music cultures of Africa, Asia and diasporas as the ground upon which broader
 perspectives could be built, and we contributed to new directions in ethnomusicology, especially
 through interdisciplinary and intercultural collaborations (4.1). Mechanisms to support our
 strategy included regular meetings between REF Co-ordinator, Research Tutor and staff
 members to review outputs, funding applications and impact plans, and progress reports to
 department meetings, SoA Research Committee and SOAS REF Co-ordinators’ Panel.

 The retirement of Wright (2014), Howard (2017) and Widdess (August 2020) reduced our
 involvement with Middle Eastern texts, Korean music traditions, and music analysis/cognition
 respectively, but Williams’s appointment in 2017 ensured the continued study of South Asian
 music, and new interests in South Asian religion and aesthetics that fit well with the SoA’s
 interdisciplinary remit. In line with the ongoing strategy, individual researchers were encouraged
 to apply their regional expertise to diverse interpretive strategies and collaborations, as
 illustrated by Gray’s and Durán’s promotion of creative dialogues between Balinese, Malian and
 Western musicians; Widdess’s collaborative studies of cognitive dynamics in South Asian music;
 or Harris’s, Webster-Kogen’s and Impey’s applications of sound studies methodologies in
 Central Asia, Israel and Namibia. Strategic planning and support for individual research was
 supported through the Staff Development and Review process, where staff review their goals
 and achievements annually with the Head of the SoA.

 A new strategic priority was to strengthen the relevance of our research to global society. We
 paid particular attention to music of marginalised communities—related to religious persecution
 in China (Harris), Afro-Mexican youth identity in Oaxaca (Durán), Jamaicans in the UK (Melville)
 and Ethiopians in Israel (Webster-Kogen)—and cultural de-territorialisation and environmental
 justice in Africa (Impey). A Leverhulme Visiting Professorship in 2019 enabled us to invite
 Professor Linda Barwick (University of Sydney) to lead a programme of events focussing on
 songs in endangered languages.

 Our strategy to raise external funding for staff and PhD research generated a total income of
 £908k (see 3.1). To support skills development and new initiatives in the use of digital
 technology, SOAS created a new Media Studio (see 3.2.3).

 In view of changes in the market for Music degrees, and post-Coronavirus economic uncertainty,
 we are currently streamlining our BA programmes in order to concentrate ethnomusicology
 teaching primarily at MA and PhD levels. This is intended to provide greater financial stability,
 free staff time for research, and attract more high-quality doctoral researchers. We thus face a
 challenging future for HE with a robust strategic response that aims to sustain our ongoing
 research.

 1.3.2 Future strategic plans
 Support for interdisciplinary research has developed within the SoA, embedded in a Research
 Strategy (2019) that supports a shift in emphasis from individual to collaborative research
 projects, building interdisciplinary relationships through Research Clusters, and participation in
 interdisciplinary conferences and networks. This strategy has been supported by the creation of
 an interdisciplinary SoA Peer Review College for funding applications.

 Over the next assessment period we aim to build on our current strategy, specifically:
    • making our research more collaborative and more interdisciplinary, working especially
        with scholars in the global south;
    • engaging with global challenges in such areas as marginalised communities, migration,
        post-conflict social integration, post-Coronavirus social and economic recovery, etc.;
    • promoting cultural awareness and transformation of social attitudes through music by
        acknowledging indigenous voices, supporting decolonising and anti-racist initiatives, etc.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To help implement these aims, the UoA has established a Research Group in Engaged
 Ethnomusicology led by Harris. By “engaged” ethnomusicology we mean that from a basis in
 ethnomusicology and in the musical cultures of Asia and Africa, we reach out to other disciplines
 and to global issues where our knowledge, skills and perspectives can make a difference. This
 group will initiate and co-ordinate innovative, ethical and effective collaborative research projects
 and grant applications in line with our research strategy.

 1.4 Interdisciplinarity
 Crossing disciplinary boundaries—between music and anthropology (Harris, Impey, Webster-
 Kogen), art history (Williams), religions (Williams, Widdess, Harris), languages (Williams),
 cultural history (Williams, Widdess), performance (Duran, Gray), composition (Gray), cultural
 studies (Melville), music analysis and cognition (Widdess)—is fundamental to our research
 activity. In addition to their single-authored outputs, staff produced a significant number of co-
 authored articles and collaborative edited volumes.

 During the cycle we organized interdisciplinary conferences and workshops in collaboration with
 local partner organizations, e.g., Performing Arts in The Islamic World (Harris, Chinese
 University Hong Kong); Analysis, Cognition and Ethnomusicology (Widdess, University of
 London). See 4.1.1.

 Three PhD students have benefitted from the Bloomsbury Studentship scheme, which supports
 interdisciplinary research supervised jointly in two institutions: this has enabled research in world
 music education in collaboration with UCL Institute of Education (2 students), and mathematics
 and Indian music, with Birkbeck College.

 1.5 Impact Strategy
 1.5.1 Strategy in the current REF Period
 In the previous REF submission, we undertook “to develop impact more broadly through the
 conscious formulation of research projects, whether individual or collaborative”. REF panel
 feedback commended “evidence of very considerable to outstanding impact across a range of
 activity”, but also noted that “the template did not fully articulate the unit’s strategy to build on
 current strengths in the future.”

 We therefore updated our Impact and Engagement Strategy in 2014, implemented it in the
 current REF period, and plan to continue it in the next. The strategy comprises four areas of
 impact-generating activity, linking closely with the strategic research objectives outlined
 above; it was regularly discussed and monitored with individual researchers, and additionally
 with Impact Case Study authors.

 1.5.1.1 Promoting public awareness and understanding of the music of Asia, Africa and
 diasporas
 We aimed to interest and inform the public about our research, (a) locally, through lectures
 linked to concerts and exhibitions in SOAS’s Brunei Gallery (“Celebrating Art and Music” 2017;
 “Stolen Moments: Namibian Music History Untold”, Impey 2019) and the think-tank Asia House
 (“The genders of Indian music” 2017, “Music of the three worlds” 2018, with Asian Music Circuit);
 and (b) internationally, through contributions to general and reference literature (collaborative
 publication Pieces of the Musical World, Harris and Pease eds. 2015 (4.3.1)), and dissemination
 through far-reaching media including radio broadcast, podcast, CD and film (Impey, Durán),
 YouTube videos (Gray, Durán), social media (Harris, Melville) etc. See 4.2.1.

 1.5.1.2 Repatriation of recordings and other documentation to communities of origin and
 diasporas
 We regard this as a fundamental ethical responsibility, contributing to Open Research, and
 benefiting performers, communities and researchers. Where possible we return copies of
 recordings to the performers, and where appropriate, audio/video material is placed online (e.g.,
 Durán’s Growing into Music series; Harris’s Sounding Islam and Uyghur Meshrep project

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 websites). Since many partner regions do not possess viable or accessible archives, we also
 collaborate with the British Library Sound Archive, by depositing recordings and assisting with
 cataloguing. The BLSA itself has a strong repatriation mission and works with us to put materials
 online and copy to local archives where available. See 3.2.4.

 1.5.1.3 Fostering creativity in performance, composition etc. involving or reflecting music
 of Asian and African origin
 This aim is reflected in our sponsorship of the SOAS World Music Summer School and Concert
 Series, outreach projects managed by a co-ordinator appointed by the Department; and in our
 support for performances of creative work by staff, research associates and doctoral
 researchers, notably Gray’s gamelan-inspired compositions, and Harris’s engagement with
 cross-cultural maqam performance (4.1.2) leading to research articles and planned funding
 applications. Performance and composition have been central to Durán’s work with the Kronos
 Quartet and Afro-Mexican communities, in both cases involving musicians from Mali in creative
 collaborations, drawing directly on her long-term research and engagement.

 1.5.1.4 Promoting use of (Asian/Middle Eastern/African) music in social, educational, and
 cultural development projects
 Reflecting our mission to increase the social relevance of our research, staff have worked with
 marginalised communities in Mexico, southern Africa, and Central Asia, to promote music-
 making as a means of transforming social attitudes and educational systems. This mission is
 also increasingly addressed by PhD researchers, especially those trained in our MA pathway in
 Development. To showcase our socially engaged research, Durán, Harris, Webster-Kogen and
 Impey presented their work with marginalised communities at the Consortium for Asian and
 African Studies 2018 conference, and in the 2019 departmental public seminar.

 We also worked to increase research impact and public engagement through new forms of
 communication and partnership. Harris’s work with Muslim communities in Xinjiang placed her in
 the front line of international concerns about cultural erasure, and she actively responded
 through media articles, interviews and Parliamentary briefings.

 Our future strategic plan for impact will pursue the four-point plan detailed above under the
 aegis of the newly established Engaged Ethnomusicology Research Group (see 1.3), which will
 co-ordinate and integrate impact into collaborative research projects, in line with the institution’s
 impact strategy (see Institutional Statement, §2), supported within the School of Arts (1.5.3).

 1.5.2 Approach to impact and 2021 case studies
 As the foregoing strategy makes clear, the UoA pursues and achieves impact beyond two case
 studies; and we pursue diverse forms of impact beyond the definition that the case studies
 embody.

 Our first Impact Case Study is closely related to Aim 3 described above and focuses on Durán’s
 collaboration with Malian musicians and the Kronos Quartet, including production of award-
 winning CD albums Ladilikan, and Toumani and Sidiki. Durán’s award-winning film Voice of
 Tradition, resulting from her AHRC-funded project Growing into music, and her new film
 TEGERE TULON – girls’ hand clapping songs in Mali, also arising from her collaboration with
 the Kronos Quartet, are both freely available online. This body of work has created significant
 benefits for Malian musicians, developing new audiences and understandings, and new
 opportunities worldwide.

 Our second case study “Using music to benefit marginalised communities” combines work by
 Durán and Impey, and pursues Aim 4 of our Impact Strategy. Durán collaborated with Dr Sergio
 Navarrete Pellicer, Centro de Investigaciones y Estudios Sociales en Antropología Social,
 Mexico, on Afro-Mexican musical youth in Oaxaca (Newton Advanced Fellowship 2015), leading
 to the CD album Forontó Afroaxaca (2019). The project used CD and radio to raise awareness
 of African-origin communities in Mexico, and to educate the communities in their musical

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 heritage, with the collaboration of African musicians. Impey was co-investigator on an AHRC-
 funded research project in west Namibia entitled Future Pasts in an Apocalyptic Moment: A
 Hybrid Analysis of 'Green' Performativities and Eco-cultural Ethics in a Globalised African
 Landscape (2013–2018). This project explored tensions between local and indigenous
 conceptions of human/nature relationships as encoded in songs, oral narratives and healing
 rituals. Impey used film to help re-ignite cultural awareness and memory of musical repertoire in
 Namibia associated with ways of life eroded by industrialisation.

 These case studies are strong examples of verifiable impact in line with our Impact Strategy. Our
 mechanism of regular review led to the formulation of the second joint case study. Although
 facilitated by our strategic framework, such examples of impact also rely on opportunities that
 arise in the course of individual research, often unpredictably, but as a result of the reputation
 and track record of the researcher; it is a strength of our approach to impact that it allows the
 flexibility to take advantage of such opportunities.

 1.5.3 Facilitating impact, vitality and sustainability
 SOAS’s impact strategy places high value on this kind of international collaboration and
 engaged research. The central impact team support us through regular feedback on plans and
 achievements, advice on how to achieve impact, and funding to help promote or gather evidence
 of impact. Impey and Durán were awarded a total of £13,360 to support work on their case
 studies. SOAS rewards impact achievement in its promotion policy, and Durán’s promotion to
 Professor in 2018 explicitly recognised her outstanding impact and public engagement record
 over several decades. More generally, SOAS provides space and funding for the Concert
 Series, World Music Summer School, exhibitions, and their respective administrators.

 1.6 Open Research and Research Integrity
 Our strategy embodies a strong commitment to openness and integrity in research practice. This
 includes:
     • involving performers and community representatives in designing and carrying out
        research;
     • crediting performers and research partners in publications;
     • making research material, especially recordings, available to communities of origin and
        other researchers, through local archives and/or through the British Library Sound
        Archive (see 1.5.1.2, 3.2.4)
     • making research accessible through the institutional online repository SOAS Research
        Online, Academia, ResearchGate etc.;
     • publishing in, editing, and reviewing for online Open Access journals (e.g., Analytical
        Approaches to World Music).

 In line with SOAS policy, all staff completed the Epigeum Research Integrity online course. All
 external funding applications are channelled through the institution’s Research Office, and
 internal ethical approval is mandatory, as it is also for PhD upgrade. We also engage with
 research ethics protocols such as the Society for Ethnomusicology ethical guidelines.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy
 Our staffing policy is to maintain the highest standards of research excellence, a range of
 disciplinary methods and specialities, and a diversity of expertise in the cultural regions of Asia
 and Africa, their diasporas, and global popular music; and within these objectives to ensure EDI
 compliance by implementing institutional recruitment procedures. We achieved (2019) a gender
 balance of F:M = 4:3.2, and a balance of seniority including 3 Early Career Researchers (F:M =
 1:2) and 2.2 professors (F:M = 2:0.2).

 ECRs were accorded the same financial and other support for research as more senior staff
 (see Institutional Statement, §3.1, para. 3). They were allocated a 66% teaching load while on


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Probation (3 years), and two terms post-probation research leave. They were integrated into
 departmental research by participating in Departmental and SoA research seminars and
 research policy discussions. One ECR took two periods of maternity leave, in respect of which a
 reduction in departmental outputs was granted.

 Staff support: New staff were allocated a mentor during probation. All staff on at least 0.4
 contracts had an annual Staff Development Review meeting to agree objectives and discuss
 training and other development needs. Staff benefitted from training courses provided by the
 Research Office and Learning and Development, for example on grant writing and impact
 generation. This training helped us achieve high levels of external research funding (see Section
 3).

 The SOAS research leave policy, which allows applications for 1 term of sabbatical leave after
 every eight terms of normal duties, has enabled all Music staff to take sabbatical and/or funded
 leave in the REF period; the associated teaching replacement scheme, open to all PhD students
 and PhD graduates, gives opportunities for experience as Graduate Teaching Assistants or
 Senior Teaching Fellows. The SoA encourages staff to apply to the SOAS Engagement and
 Impact Fund (3.2.2), and facilitates short periods of leave for impact-related activities. SOAS
 also supports research through infrastructure and internal funding (see 3.2.2). Research and
 impact achievement are both rewarded through the promotion system. In the assessment
 period two staff were promoted to Professor, one to Reader and one to Senior Lecturer.

 Postdoctoral researchers, both employed on larger research projects and on independent
 fellowships, worked closely with individual staff, and enriched the life of the department,
 participating in SOAS seminars, and representing SOAS at international conferences. In the
 current REF period, we had three postdoctoral researchers funded by major external grants
 secured in the previous REF cycle. All three contributed to the development of departmental
 research themes: Catherine Ingram (Newton) worked on music and language in southern China
 (collaborating with Howard); William Tallotte (EU Marie Curie) worked on ritual and improvisation
 in South Indian temple music (collaborating with Widdess); Ha Guangtian was a core team-
 member of the Sounding Islam in China project (Harris). All three generated research
 publications and went on to secure permanent academic positions.

 2.2 Research students
 Doctoral Researchers are supported by two supervisors; the SoA Director of Doctoral Studies;
 the Doctoral School and Academic Development Directorate (see Institutional Statement, §3.2).

 Research training is provided in year 1 by the Doctoral School (research methods and ethics
 across disciplines), the SoA (methods relevant to arts subjects), and the Music department
 (music-specific training). It prepares students for a career beyond the PhD as well as writing the
 thesis, and includes a range of practical skills (academic writing, qualitative research methods,
 audio/video recording, fieldwork methods, transcription and analysis, etc). Doctoral Researchers
 complete an annual Training Needs Analysis. They may attend relevant taught courses,
 including language courses. While many relevant languages are taught in SOAS (e.g., Burmese,
 Persian), funding for training in other languages (e.g., Dutch, Chagatay) is provided by the
 Doctoral School.

 Progress in training is assessed through an Annual Report, signed by supervisor and student,
 and shared with the Doctoral School.

 Each student’s progress is monitored by their Supervisory Committee; through our online
 system (PhD Manager) maintained by student and supervisor; through the Annual Report; and a
 sequence of assessment points:
    ● term 3, year 1, upgrade: 12,000-word written submission and 20-minute presentation;
    ● term 1, year 3: 3,000-word fieldwork report and presentation;
    ● September year 3: draft thesis.


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Doctoral Researchers are integrated into the research culture of the department and School of
 Arts by attendance (required) at the Departmental Research Seminar, and the Research
 Training programme.

 With the support of external and internal scholarships, we recruit outstanding doctoral
 researchers, on average 5–6 annually. Four doctoral researchers held AHRC studentships
 during the period, but the withdrawal of AHRC Block Grant funding 2014–19 forced us to look
 elsewhere for PhD funding. We addressed this by attracting scholarships from internal funds
 (SOAS 8, Bloomsbury Consortium 2), charitable trusts (Djam Foundation 1, Felix Trust 2, Jewish
 Music Institute 4), AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Partnerships Scheme (1, with the British
 Library), and the governments of Germany, Taiwan and Canada (3). The Leverhulme project
 Sounding Islam in China (Harris) funded another studentship. In 2016, in recognition of Durán’s
 work on the remake of ROOTS (4.2.1), the production company donated scholarships for
 studying West African music, including support for doctoral fieldwork. With the return of AHRC
 block funding through the CHASE Consortium, we gained one of the first tranche of scholarships
 in 2019.

 The quality of our PhD students is demonstrated by the distinctions they win and their career
 achievements. Recent winners of the annual British Forum for Ethnomusicology Student Prize
 included SOAS PhD students in 2015 (2 joint winners) and 2019 (1 winner and 2 highly
 commended). In 2019, Saeid Kordmafi won the Rob Schultz Junior Scholar Award for world
 music analysis, Robert Campbell was nominated Student of the Month (May) by the Society for
 Ethnomusicology, and Georgette Nummelin was awarded a £10K Sasakawa studentship for her
 work on Ainu language and music revitalisation. Recent SOAS PhD graduates were appointed
 to lectureships in Ethnomusicology at Istanbul Technical, Manchester, Salzburg, Xi’an, and
 Wesleyan Universities, and to post-doctoral fellowships at Copenhagen and SOAS (British
 Academy).

 In the assessment period, 33 PhD students within the UoA completed successfully, an average
 of 4.5 per staff.

 2.3 Diversity and Equality
 A profound commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion underpins our research and teaching
 mission, which is dedicated to the music of communities and regions often excluded from other
 Music research programmes. Our increasing focus on marginalised communities and the role of
 music in promoting their own self-understanding and their recognition by dominant societies, our
 support for research on music and disability/health issues, and our inclusion of culture-
 representatives in the design and implementation of research as performers and research
 partners, demonstrate our commitment to inclusion at all levels.

 We welcomed PhD researchers of diverse identities, including four with physical or learning
 differences. SOAS PhD scholarships now prioritise BAME applicants, and this has enabled an
 outstanding Music graduate of Nigerian origin, who also has a physical disability, to undertake a
 PhD. Nurtured by our MA pathway in Development, the study of music, disabilities and health is
 a growing subject of research, accounting for 4 current projects, including a study of music and
 dyslexia in Africa by a researcher who himself has dyslexia.

 This commitment is supported by institutional procedures and policies. SOAS holds an Athena
 SWAN (AS) Bronze award. The EDI strategy of SOAS is set out in the Code of Practice, §1.10 –
 27; EDI training for all new staff, and unconscious bias training for selection panel members, are
 mandatory (see IES 3.3).

 In preparing the Music REF submission, drafts of this Environment Statement were circulated
 periodically to all staff for comment; submitted outputs were selected by a panel including three
 Music staff, one an ECR, with a gender balance of F:M = 2:1. The balance of representation by
 outputs is F:M = 9:7.


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 As a small research unit that aims to be world-leading in the study of ethnomusicology and the
 music of Asia and Africa, we exploit the support and facilities of SOAS, a specialist institution of
 international reputation, the interdisciplinary School of Arts to which we belong, and research
 income generated from external sources.

 3.1 Income
 We encourage and support staff in submitting funding applications to sources including the ERC,
 British Academy, Leverhulme and AHRC, taking advantage of grant-writing workshops provided
 by the Staff Development Office, Seed Corn Funding, and increasingly robust procedures for
 project development and internal review developed in the School of Arts and SOAS Research
 Office. This strategy resulted in 29 applications, a strong success rate (31%) demonstrating high
 quality bids, and a total income of £908K, averaging £126K per FTE.

 Because of the time required to complete projects and bring major outputs to publication, some
 outputs and impacts in this REF cycle are linked to projects funded in previous cycles. Thus
 Durán’s film The Voice of Tradition: Bako Dagnon and her Family (2015) arises from her AHRC-
 funded Growing into Music (2009–12); Impey’s impact case study arises from Future Pasts in an
 Apocalyptic Moment (AHRC) (2013–18). Of projects begun in this cycle, Harris’s Sounding Islam
 in China (Leverhulme, £304K) has generated 6 articles and book chapters, a book and an edited
 volume; and Melville’s book It’s a London Thing reflects his participation in a project with
 University of Westminster, Bass Culture (AHRC, £14K).

 Recent awards include £300K for Towards an alternative model of heritage as sustainable
 development: Uyghur meshrep in Kazakhstan (British Academy, Harris), £70.6K for Afro-
 Mexican musical youth in Oaxaca: roots, creativity, community (British Academy, Durán), £33.7K
 for Endangered songs: creativity and diversity in language and music (Leverhulme, Widdess).

 Our strategy also includes increasing external financial support for PhD and post-doctoral
 research. As a result, we acquired two Bloomsbury studentships, one studentship from
 Leverhulme (part of Sounding Islam in China) and one AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Partnership
 (with the British Library); post-doctoral researchers have been supported by the British Academy
 (two Newton International Fellowships), EU (Marie Curie) and Leverhulme (Sounding Islam).

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 3.2.1 Structures
 Responsibility for co-ordinating and supporting research is shared between the School of Arts
 and the Music Department:

 (a) School of Arts

 The Head of School co-ordinates financial planning and research strategy, by approving
 applications for internal and external funding, research leave, and faculty, Visiting Scholar and
 Research Associate appointments; supervises monitoring of early-career researchers, oversees
 Staff Development and Review, and encourages research collaborations. He is assisted by three
 officers of whom two were Music staff:
      ● Director of Research (Harris 2016–20): oversees staff research; responsible for SoA
         Research Strategy; supports research collaborations, grant applications, research
         initiatives and clusters across the SoA; convenes SoA Research Committee;
      ● Director of Doctoral Studies (Harris 2020–21): oversees PhD research, and co-ordinates
         research training across the SoA; oversees the progression and examination of Doctoral
         Researchers;
      ● Staff Research Seminar convenor (Williams): convenes monthly staff seminars reflecting
         activities of the Research Clusters.


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (b) Department of Music

    ●   REF Co-ordinator (Widdess) oversees the department’s research and impact strategies,
        advises staff on their individual research plans, monitors research publications and co-
        ordinates internal and external review, drafts and revises the REF submission, and sits
        on SoA and SOAS REF working groups;
    ●   Research Tutor (Impey) co-ordinates research training for Doctoral Researchers in
        Music, advises the Doctoral School on MPhil/PhD applications;
    ●   Music Public Seminar co-ordinator (Williams) organizes a programme of public seminars
        with invited internal or external speakers fortnightly during termtime.

 3.2.2 Support
 Research infrastructure includes the SOAS Library, a unique collection of resources on Asia and
 Africa of international significance. The Library collects publications on Ethnomusicology,
 including books and journals relating to and published in our regions of research and in relevant
 languages, rarely available elsewhere in the UK. The Library collects music on CD and DVD,
 and provides on- and off-campus access to online resources including Oxford Music Online,
 Garland Encyclopaedia of World Music, Smithsonian Global Sound, RILM, JSTOR, etc. The
 Library’s Archive holds unique documentation on A.A. Bake and other early ethnomusicologists
 associated with SOAS.

 The Research Office advise and assist with preparation, internal review and submission of grant
 applications; and the Impact Officer advises on the generation and collection of impact data and
 the preparation of impact case studies.

 SOAS invests financially in Music research, through: an annual research allowance (£750) for
 each staff member; competitive Seed Corn funding for individual and group research activities
 leading to external funding applications (£39.9K received for 11 projects); and Impact
 Acceleration and Enhancement funding (£13K received). Impey’s Seed Corn grant (£8000) led
 to a commission to evaluate two music and peacebuilding projects in Palestine and El Salvador.

 3.2.3 Facilities
 Staff are provided with a computer and appropriate software, including database, music notation
 and analysis software (FileMaker, Sibelius, Transcribe! etc.) if required. Online access to key
 databases and reference works is available on- and off-campus through the SOAS Library
 (3.2.2). Video, audio recording and photographic equipment are available for loan from the IT
 department. An online repository for publications, website hosting facilities, and SoundCloud and
 YouTube channels are available for dissemination of research findings.

 Estate and facilities relevant to our research include the Brunei Gallery, a purpose-built
 exhibition space with professional management, which hosts exhibitions by internal and external
 exhibitors. This space was used for a SOAS Centenary Exhibition Celebrating Art and Music,
 organized by the SoA, featuring the history of research in art and music at SOAS (2017); and
 Stolen Moments – Namibian Music History Untold, linked to Impey’s research, in collaboration
 with the Namibian High Commission (2019). The same building houses the Brunei Gallery
 Lecture Theatre, which accommodates conferences and the SOAS Concert Series, managed by
 the Music department through a concert organiser; other space in the institution is used for the
 annual World Music Summer School.

 In 2019, SOAS made a significant investment (c. £200,000) in facilities by creating a Media
 Studio, and appointing a Studio Manager (0.8, Grade 7–8). The facility came on stream in
 autumn 2019, and—although temporarily stalled by Covid—will support research training and
 staff research, leading to research income generation and impact, when we return on campus.

 Another specialist facility located on campus is the film company Chouette Films, which creates
 innovative documentary films with an ethical and environmental agenda. Chouette collaborated
 with Widdess in 2019 on the documentary film Musical heritage of the Kathmandu Valley,

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supported by a Seed Corn grant, using digital technologies to documented marginalised
 musicians in Nepal, in line with our strategy on knowledge exchange (1.4.1).

 3.2.4 Archives
 Staff of the UoA typically accumulate personal archives of unique sound/video field recordings
 and other materials. These collections are deposited at the British Library Sound Archive, and at
 local archives in relevant countries where available, as a contribution to the research base, to
 Open Access, and to repatriation (see 1.4, 1.5, 4.3). Melville deposited filmed interviews with
 Jamaican music-makers in the UK at the BLSA, arising from his Bass Culture project, and Harris
 gained Newton International Scholar funding for a post-doctoral scholar to work on private
 archives in Xinjiang in collaboration with the BLSA. Durán and Widdess have deposited their
 complete collections.

 A symposium on Digital Archiving and Community Engagement was organised at the BLSA by
 Widdess as part of Linda Barwick’s Leverhulme-funded Visiting Professorship.

 Historic archives deposited at SOAS have been transferred to BLSA, namely the sound and film
 collections of Bake, King, Rycroft and others, and staff of the UoA advise the BL on cataloguing
 such materials. Such collaboration has resulted, for example, in Durán’s editing of an unfinished
 film documenting the construction of a kora in the Gambia shot in the 1970s by the late Anthony
 King, and shown in the Celebrating Art and Music exhibition (2017). Our close relationship with
 the BLSA also resulted in the award of an AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Partnership (2016,
 Widdess) to work on the Bake collection.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The UoA plays a leading role within the international discipline of ethnomusicology, through
 research collaborations, interactions with non-academic institutions and audiences,
 administrative roles in subject organisations, and our publication series. Awards and invitations
 to present high-profile lectures in international fora demonstrate international recognition of our
 role.

 4.1 Collaborations, networks and partnerships
 4.1.1 Academic research collaborations
 In addition to participating in subject associations (4.3.2), we collaborated with national (7)
 and international (13) research institutions, including Bath Spa University, Chinese University
 Hong Kong, International Centre for Transitional Justice, Sydney Conservatorium of Music,
 Shanghai Conservatory, Kathmandu University, etc. Our expertise enabled involvement in
 interdisciplinary collaborative projects with other institutions, which furthered the specific
 research goals of the UoA, contributed to national and international priorities, and/or led to
 significant impact.

 Some projects were led by UoA members. Harris led the Leverhulme-funded Sounding Islam in
 China, in collaboration with Maria Jaschok (Oxford University), investigating changing patterns of
 religious belief and practice among Muslims in China through the medium of sound. She led the
 two-year project Uyghur meshrep in Kazakhstan, investigating the premise that intangible
 cultural heritage can be harnessed as a tool for sustainable development. Uyghur community
 organisations and academic partners in Turan University collaborated in the project, which
 aimed to build research capacity in Kazakhstan, and promote the transmission of Uyghur
 musical heritage. SOAS was the base for Widdess’s collaboration with Leverhulme Visiting
 Professor Linda Barwick in 2019. The project included two symposia: Language and music, co-
 hosted with SOAS World Languages Institute to celebrate the UNESCO Year of Indigenous
 Languages, and Digital archiving and community engagement, co-organised with the British
 Library Sound Archive.



                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In other projects, UoA staff were part of a team based outside SOAS. Impey was co-investigator
 on the AHRC-funded Future Pasts in an Apocalyptic Moment (2013–18) with collaborators at
 Birkbeck, Edinburgh and Keele, and local affiliations with the National Museum of Namibia and
 the Namibian film company, Mamokobo Productions (1.5.2). Melville joined the AHRC project
 Bass culture: Mapping the impact of Jamaican music on the UK in collaboration with the
 University of Westminster. This led to the exhibition Bass Culture 70/50 (November 2018),
 marking seventy years since the arrival of the HMT Windrush, and fifty years since the term
 “reggae” was coined. This project aims to feed back to a marginalised community their musical
 impact on UK culture, and to highlight this impact to the wider UK community. Widdess
 collaborated with Martin Rohrmeier (Lausanne) and Tudor Popescu (University of Vienna) on
 cognition in Indian music, leading to three articles. He is a member of the Music and Science
 research group, University of Cambridge, and a team investigating MIR and music transcription
 (Stockholm, Queen Mary, and Sheffield) bringing together the perspectives of ethnomusicology
 and science. Previously mentioned collaborations with the British Library Sound Archive are also
 relevant here (see 1.5.1, 2.2, 3.1, 3.2.4).

 4.1.2 Collaboration with performers
 Our expertise has enabled practice-based research in collaboration with performers. Such
 collaboration is fundamental to Durán’s work, as evidenced by her projects with Malian
 musicians (1.5.2); and Gray, whose collaborative composition projects include The Birth of Kala
 and The Watchers by the Well with story-teller and movement artist Tim Jones; Bawang Merah
 Bawang Putih with Balinese choreographer Ni Made Pujawati; the album My Tricksy Spirit, and
 Ardhanariswara for string quartet, with Malaysian dancer Mavin Khoo. Harris’s engagement with
 maqam across borders brought together Central Asian musicians and SOAS students in a series
 of performances supported by the Association for Central Asian Civilizations. Widdess’s work on
 cognition in Indian music involves collaboration with sitarist Dharambir Singh and vocalist Ritwik
 Sanyal.

 4.2 Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences
 4.2.1 Engaging with diverse communities and publics
 In 2018 the Music Department was nominated as one of the UK’s “100 best breakthroughs”
 by the MadeAtUni campaign (“showing how universities improve our everyday lives”), for our
 “major role in bringing world music into mainstream awareness in the UK”. Our reputation for
 expertise in particular music cultures makes us in demand as consultants or advisors for
 cultural organisations, media and creative projects. This is especially the case with Durán,
 reflecting her many years’ research in the music of West Africa and experience as a music
 producer and radio presenter. In 2015 she was employed by the production team of ROOTS—a
 critically acclaimed remake of the famous TV series—to advise on Mandinka music, language
 and culture.

 Another significant collaboration was with the Aga Khan Music Initiative 2011–16, involving
 Durán and Harris as consultants; Harris advised on Central Asian concerts and recordings and
 helped set up a music school in Kazakhstan; Durán coordinated a programme at the National
 Museum of Mali to stimulate and showcase musical children in oral traditions. AKMI
 subsequently commissioned the album Ladilikan (1.5.2).

 From 2014–20, Impey was International Advisor to “Hidden Years Music Archive Project”,
 Africa Open Institute for Music, Research and Innovation, Stellenbosch University, South Africa
 (funded by the Volkswagen Foundation). Her role included steering archive policy and research,
 giving public lectures, and PhD supervision. Impey’s Seed Corn grant “Strengthening the Case
 for Cultures in the SDG Post-Conflict Agenda” (£8000) for a collaboration with Netherlands-
 based organisation, Musicians Without Borders, led to a commission to evaluate two music and
 peacebuilding projects, in Palestine and El Salvador (private funding, €25,000).

 Widdess and Williams acted as advisors on Indian music for BBC television programmes
 Rhythms of India and Queen Victoria: My musical Britain respectively (2019), and for two
 exhibitions at Asia House in collaboration with the Asian Music Circuit (2017, 2018). Harris was

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a jury member for the International Festival of Maqam, Shahrisabz, Uzbekistan, and briefed UK
 and EU Parliaments on religious repression and cultural erasure in China.

 4.2.2 Responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives
 We demonstrated the relevance of our socially engaged research by responding to several
 international priorities and current global challenges. Impey’s Future Pasts project responded to
 the AHRC’s 2012 highlight notice on ‘Environmental Change and Sustainability’, and her
 engagement with Musicians Without Borders responded to urgent international peacebuilding
 initiatives (4.1.1). Harris’s Uyghur meshrep in Kazakhstan project responded to the British
 Academy Sustainable Development Programme, supported by the UK Government’s Global
 Challenges Research Fund; her Sounding Islam project led to direct responses to the human
 rights situation in Xinjiang. Durán’s collaborative research in Mexico, supported by the Cultural
 Commission of the Senate House of Mexico, responded to a national campaign to increase
 awareness of Afro-Mexican communities, and their inclusion in the national census.

 4.3 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline
 The unit contributes to the sustainability of the discipline of ethnomusicology, (a) through
 strategic promotion of new research, through its publication series and conferences; and (b) by
 taking a leading role in the organisation of subject associations.

 4.3.1 Promoting new research
 Our flagship strategy for promoting the sustainability of the discipline is the Routledge SOAS
 Studies in Music series (formerly SOAS Musicology Series), edited by Howard (to 2017) and
 Harris (from 2018). It is the largest scholarly book series in ethnomusicology in the world,
 with 83 volumes published by 2020. Impey and Widdess serve on the Editorial Board, alongside
 seven international scholars. The Series produces high-quality, ethnographically rich studies of
 music-making in the world’s diverse musical cultures, engaging critical issues in
 ethnomusicology, historical and analytical approaches. Several volumes have won international
 awards. Since 2018 we have diversified the editorial board, and we use them actively to guide
 the series, assess applications, and solicit strong proposals which engage with contemporary
 concerns and methodologies in the discipline.

 We published a research-based ethnomusicology textbook, Pieces of the Musical World (Harris
 & Pease eds. 2015). Reflecting the department’s distinctive theoretical voice, this collection
 shows how broad issues in ethnomusicology can be illuminated by a close cultural and musical
 analysis of individual items of repertoire.

 We promoted new research and interdisciplinary conversations by organising conferences
 ranging from small workshops (e.g., a 1-day conference on Music and Language in Cross-
 cultural Perspectives, 2016) to large international conferences. Analysis, Cognition and
 Ethnomusicology, 2014, brought together the British Forum for Ethnomusicology, Analytical
 Approaches to World Music, Society for Music Analysis, and Centre for Music and Science
 (Cambridge), and was attended by 200 international delegates. Harris co-convenes the annual
 Middle East and Central Asia Music Forum, and co-organised the “Islamic Soundscapes of
 China” conference (SOAS, 2014), which led to a special issue of Performing Islam journal, and
 the ‘Ethnographies of Islam’ conference (SOAS, 2017), which led to a co-edited volume.
 Williams convened two workshops of the South Asia Music and Dance Forum, on “Mediating
 South Asian Music: Manuscripts to YouTube” (2019) and “Music histories of the Kathmandu
 Valley” (2020).

 4.3.2 Supporting subject associations
 Staff are active members of the main national and international subject associations in this
 discipline: the British Forum for Ethnomusicology, the International Council for Traditional Music,
 and the Society for Ethnomusicology. During the cycle we contributed to these organisations as
 UK liaison officer and conference organizer for the ICTM (Howard), committee members of BFE
 (Howard, Webster-Kogen), and chair of prize committees for BFE and SEM (Harris, Impey), the
 Royal Anthropological Institute Ethnomusicology Committee (Impey), the Islam in China Network

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Harris) etc. We encourage our postgraduate students to become actively involved in subject
 associations; currently (2020) the unit is represented on the BFE committee by three recent PhD
 graduates.

 4.4 Indicators of wider influence, contributions and recognition
 Our national and international reputation is reflected in positions of influence, honours and
 prizes, and invitations to give prestigious lectures. Staff referee publications for journals, on
 average several times per year, including Yearbook for Traditional Music, East and Central
 Asian studies journals (Harris), Analytical approaches to world music (Widdess), and book series
 (OUP, Illinois: Harris). Harris edits the SOAS Studies in Music series (see 4.3.1); Widdess
 serves on the Editorial Board of Analytical approaches to world music (Widdess). Senior staff
 are called upon to assess promotion and tenure applications in the UK and USA. Harris is an
 External Evaluator for the Research Grants Council of Hong Kong and Kazakhstan’s National
 Center of Science and Technology, and a member of the AHRC peer review panel since 2019;
 Widdess serves on the British Academy Standing Committee, History of Art and Music, and a
 cross-member of the Asia and Africa Section.

 4.4.1 Awards and Prizes
 Members of the unit received numerous awards for research and for specific outputs, including:
     ● Fellow of the Royal Anthropological Institute (Impey);
     ● Award from the World Uyghur Congress for outstanding contributions to the Uyghur
        nation, 2019 (Harris);
     ● Fellow of the British Academy, 2015 (Widdess);
     ● Winner, Arts & Humanities Research Council 10th Anniversary Research in Films Award,
        “Best AHRC-funded film since 1998” for the film The Voice of Tradition: Bako Dagnon
        and her family, 2015 (Durán);
     ● ROOTS Critics Poll Album of the Year (2018), and Songlines Best Fusion album of the
        Year (2018), for CD Ladilikan (Durán);
     ● Grammy Award Nomination for CD Toumani & Sidiki, 2015 (Durán);
     ● Recent books by Webster-Kogen and Impey nominated for the SEM book prize 2019;
        Webster-Kogen’s awarded the prize for best book on Jewish music, SEM 2019; Impey’s
        awarded Commendation by BFE Book Prize committee, 2019.

 Our Doctoral Researchers also won awards for their work; for example: BFE Student Paper
 Prize 2019—V. Tadros (winner), L. Chiarofonte and C. Stacey (highly commended).

 4.4.2 Prestigious lectures
 Every year our staff give several keynote and other invited lectures at prestigious conferences
 and institutions in the UK and overseas.

 The following selection demonstrates the remarkable diversity of contexts in which we are
 invited to present our research:
 Durán: Singing Storytellers, Cape Breton (SSHRC Canada) (2014); John Blacking keynote
 lecture, Royal Anthropological Institute (2016);
 Harris: Cambridge (Music), Haifa (Music), 2017; Yale (East Asian Studies); Michigan (Music),
 2018; University of Washington (Anthropology); UBC (East Asian Studies); LSE (Anthropology);
 Brussels Free University; KCL (Law), 2019, UCLA (Music), 2020;
 Impey: SEM/ICTM, Limerick, 2014; SEM President’s Roundtable, 2016;
 Webster-Kogen: Institute for Musical Research Distinguished Lecture Series, 2017; Joe Loss
 Memorial Lecture, Jewish Music Institute (London);
 Widdess: Hook Lecture, Sydney Conservatorium, 2015; Analytical Approaches to World Music,
 New York; Saṅgītaratnākara conference, Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, New Delhi, 2017; Society for
 Music Analysis, London, 2018;
 Williams: Max Planck Institute for the History of Science, Berlin-Dahlem, 2018; Wellcome
 Collection; RMA Study Day; University of Lausanne, 2019; Royal Anthropological Institute, 2020.



                                                                                           Page 14
