Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   Institution: University of York

   Unit of Assessment: 16 - Economics and Econometrics

   1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


  Context and structure
  The Department of Economics and Related Studies (DERS) at the University of York is one of
  the largest economics departments in the UK. We create and disseminate original, significant,
  and rigorous research that spans the breadth of economics and related areas, including
  economic history and finance. This underpins research-led teaching across our undergraduate
  (c. 700 students) and postgraduate (c. 250 students) programmes. While we are committed to
  excellence in all areas, we have distinctive strengths in econometrics, economic theory, macro-
  finance, and health economics.
  Since REF2014, we have:
  •   Published over 450 outputs in academic journals, with significant growth in the number of
      outputs that can be judged as world-leading.
  •   Achieved funding successes and research capacity investments, with an average
      annual research income of £400k from a wide range of funders.
  •   Achieved wider economic and social impact in the fields of health, macro-finance,
      labour, and mechanism design.
  •   Actively and effectively supported career progression and investment in our staff,
      with promotion of 12 lecturers to senior lecturers (SLs), 1 SL to reader, and 5 SLs to
      professors. Appointment of 2 new professors, 1 SL, 9 lecturers and 5 post-doctoral
      researchers. Among the 5 SLs promoted to professorships, 2 are women.
  •   Been awarded an Athena SWAN Bronze Award in Spring 2020, one of just 11 economics
      units (submitted to UOA Economics and Econometrics in REF2014) to hold the award.
  •   Expanded dissemination, with 30 research conferences, 6 new seminar series, 6 Ken
      Dixon Public Lectures, 2 Royal Economic Society Public Lectures, and 17 mini-courses for
      early career researchers.
  •   Expanded our networks, hosting 80 distinguished visitors, 120 regular visitors and 260
      seminar speakers.
  •   Ranked as a “top 100” (76th) economics department in the world in the most recent
      Tilburg Ranking (2015-2019). In IDEAS/RePEc, York ranks 54th in the world (in the UK top
      10) for economics, 6th in the world for health economics, and 17th for econometrics.


  This success is underpinned by effective organisation and a collegial atmosphere in which
  staff feel valued and supported, combined with our strategic goals and commitment to research
  excellence. Research is organised within a cluster structure, which has been in place for more
  than ten years, with all researchers, including post-doctoral researchers (PDRs) and
  postgraduate research students (PGRs), affiliated with at least one cluster.
  We have seven research clusters: Applied Microeconometrics; Econometrics; Economic
  History; Economic Theory; Health Economics; Macroeconomics and Finance; and Political
  Economy. The cluster structure stimulates and supports research by promoting and monitoring
  research excellence and embracing opportunities for funding, organising events, international
  and interdisciplinary collaboration, engagement with research users, and impact. The clusters
  are beneficial to all researchers and particularly to early career researchers (ECRs) and PGRs.
  This structure respects autonomy while encouraging interaction across clusters. Many members
  belong to two or more clusters, which nurtures new synergies across different areas and
  expertise.


                                                                                          Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Research policy and strategy are managed by the Departmental Research Committee (DRC).
  The DRC is an important driver of research strategy and policy within the Department, and the
  membership composition (e.g., elected and by role) is key to this. Membership includes at least
  one representative of each research cluster, the Head of Department (HoD), and three elected
  ART representatives (at least one of whom is a lecturer), as well as the Department’s
  representative on the University’s Ethics Committee, the Research Concordat coordinator,
  Postgraduate Research Student Coordinator, Research Facilitator (RF), Research Grants
  Champion, Impact Champion, and elected representative of the PDRs.


  Achievement of strategic aims during the assessment period
  The strategic aims in our REF2014 submission, were:
  “Strength across all areas is a core aspiration but ... our research strategy has identified priority
  areas ... mechanism and institution design, heterogeneity and interactions in panel data, and
  the economics of the family and early life.”
  The evidence that we have achieved these objectives is:
   •   High-quality outputs. We achieved a significant growth in the number of outputs that can
       be judged as world-leading. During the REF2021 census period we developed the
       international reach of our research through publishing in the following leading peer-
       reviewed international journals: American Economic Review, Annals of Statistics,
       Econometrica, Economic Journal, Journal of Econometrics, Journal of Economic Theory,
       Journal of Financial Economics, Journal of Monetary Economics, Journal of Political
       Economy, Journal of the American Statistical Association, Review of Economic Studies,
       Review of Economics and Statistics. This represents a 64% increase in the number of
       publications in these journals compared to the previous REF period.

   •   Research impact. Besides the long-established societal impact of our health economics
       research, there has been significant impact in new areas. For example, our research on
       methods and software for interest-rate forecasting is used by prominent policy institutions
       and commercial companies; our developments of the GVAR approach are used by central
       banks and financial institutions; and our research on kidney exchange mechanisms
       contributed to the establishment of the Swedish kidney exchange programme, which has
       evolved into the Scandiatransplant Kidney Exchange Programme (STEP).

   •   External research income. The number of academics in the Department with one or more
       external funding successes during the REF2021 period increased from the previous REF
       period from 13 to 28 (within a roughly stable overall Department FTE), spanning funding
       from individual fellowships and large grants, to conference grants and funding for
       interdisciplinary projects. The Department has been successful in obtaining EU funding,
       particularly under the European Commission’s Marie Skłodowska-Curie scheme, with four
       individual fellowships awarded since 2017.


  Research clusters and their contributions
  Applied Microeconometrics:
  The cluster excels in the areas of social networks, child development and outcomes,
  investments in children, and policy interventions. It has built a strong reputation in estimating the
  role of peers in decision-making using administrative data and evaluation of how public policies
  and investments in children help to protect families. Using administrative data for the UK,
  Norway, and Germany to identify social networks has provided credible estimates of peer
  effects in co-workers’ spillovers on productivity (American Economic Review, 2017), mothers’
  labour supply (American Economic Journal: Applied Economics, 2018), and sibling spillovers on
  school achievements (Journal of Applied Econometrics, 2019). Our research on the effect of
  public interventions on families has provided insights into the effects on child skills of time

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  investments in formative activities (Journal of Labor Economics, 2017), universal childcare
  (Journal of Political Economy, 2018), early school exposure (American Economic Journal:
  Economic Policy, 2019), school expenditure (Journal of Royal Economic Society A, 2018), and
  the role of policies in protecting families (European Economic Review, 2016). A new research
  strand is on family formation and dissolution and an empirical framework for matching (Journal
  of Political Economy, 2019).
  Econometrics:
  The cluster is flourishing in the areas of methods for the analysis of panel data, high-
  dimensional data, and time-series analysis. For panel data analysis, we have proposed
  methods of estimation and inference for panel data models with multi-factor or hierarchical
  factor structures (Journal of Econometrics, 2014, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019a, 2019b, 2020), as
  well as methods to efficiently analyse unbalanced panels (Annals of Statistics, 2015). Having
  developed novel econometric methods for networks, we have provided new insights into
  financial contagions (Journal of Econometrics, 2016, 2018). For high-dimensional data analysis,
  we have developed a method for constructing financial portfolios (Journal of Econometrics,
  2016), semiparametric dimension-reduction methods for forecasting (Journal of the American
  Statistical Association, 2018), estimation in a high-dimensional quantile setup (Journal of
  Business and Economic Statistics, 2018), and a novel method for two-step semiparametric
  empirical likelihood estimation (Annals of Statistics, 2020). For time-series analysis, we have a
  new approach for estimating localised temperature risk (Journal of the American Statistical
  Association, 2016) and have extended the autoregressive distributed-lag approach into quantile
  regression (Journal of Econometrics, 2015).
  Economic History:
  The cluster spans development economics, monetary history, and Eastern European economic
  history. Our research has demonstrated the influence of environmental factors (European
  Economic Review, 2017) and infrastructure projects (Canadian Journal of Economics, 2019) on
  economic development in the very long run. We have shown how a successful government
  response to major health challenges, such as pandemics, can increase the legitimacy of a state
  (Economic Journal, 2019).
  Economic Theory:
  Our research has resolved some important open problems in economic theory by proposing an
  efficient and incentive compatible dynamic auction for selling multiple complementary goods
  (Journal of Political Economy, 2014), a strategic framework to analyse multilateral bargaining
  with coalitional externalities (Journal of Economic Theory, 2015), and beliefs‐based
  explanations for the winner's curse (Econometrica, 2015). Matching markets and mechanism
  design have produced notable results, with a breakthrough in the incorporation of blood group
  incompatible transplantation in kidney exchange programmes (Review of Economic Studies,
  2020), a general random decentralised market process that almost certainly converges to a
  competitive equilibrium (Journal of Economic Theory, 2016), a dynamic competitive adjustment
  process for partnership formation that either finds an equilibrium or exclusively disproves the
  existence of any equilibrium (Games and Economic Behavior, 2014), a school choice
  mechanism that is fair and satisfies diversity objectives (Games and Economic Behavior,
  2016), and a college admissions mechanism that is fair, while ensuring that students cannot
  benefit from strategising over affirmative action privileges (American Economic Journal:
  Microeconomics, 2020).
  Health Economics:
  Our research has estimated the health opportunity costs associated with additional health care,
  which is central to a range of resource allocation decisions (Health Economics, 2018). We have
  shown that more competition in the hospital market can increase or reduce quality depending
  on the type of health services and institutional context (Journal of Health Economics, 2019,
  RAND Journal of Economics, 2020). We have provided methods to equitably allocate resources
  to providers of care, and investigated the rise in health care expenditures and the determinants

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  of expenditure at the end-of-life (Journal of Health Economics, 2018). We have developed a
  programme of work that explores inequality of opportunity in health using the new biosocial data
  available in Understanding Society (Journal of Health Economics, 2020).
  Macroeconomics and Finance:
  Our key contributions in macroeconomics have been on the impact of monetary policy
  announcements on financial markets (Review of Economics and Statistics, 2019), the effects of
  labour on inflation dynamics (Review of Economics and Statistics, 2014), the effect of
  demographic structure on automatic stabilisers (Journal of Monetary Economics, 2016), the
  relevance of capital rigidities to explain movements in macroeconomic variables (European
  Economic Review, 2015), how trade integration leads to greater business-cycle synchronisation
  (European Economic Review, 2017), new tests of optimal policy in linear-quadratic frameworks
  (Journal of Applied Econometrics, 2018), and how and when government deficits in open
  economies provide Keynesian fiscal stimulus (Journal of International Money and Finance,
  2020). Our research in Finance has advanced our understanding of the effect of cash-flow
  pledgeability on firm investment (Journal of Financial Economics, 2020), how ambiguity
  aversion can improve welfare (Journal of Economic Theory, 2014), how optimal allocations can
  be implemented in insurance markets with adverse selection (Games and Economic Behavior,
  2018), the importance of new tools in the empirical analysis of the term structure of interest
  rates (Journal of Financial Economics, 2017), the links between monetary policy and interest
  rates (Journal of Econometrics, 2016), the yield curve of government bonds (Journal of
  Economic Dynamics and Control, 2020) and its relation to macroeconomic fundamentals
  (Journal of Business and Economic Statistics, 2015) and forecast evaluation (Journal of Applied
  Econometrics, 2020).
  Political Economy:
  This new cluster serves as evidence of the organic growth of our research clusters and support
  for interdisciplinary research. In collaboration with Daron Acemoglu (MIT), we have shown the
  impact of the Mafia on electoral results (American Economic Journal: Economic Policy, 2017)
  and human development and public policy (Review of Economic Studies, 2020). A second
  theme has analysed political polarisation and its implications for corruption (European Economic
  Review, 2020). Using innovative night-lights data, we found systematic evidence across the
  globe of favouritism in public policy linked to the ethnicity of political leaders (Journal of
  Development Economics, 2018).


  Impact strategy
  Our impact strategy is to view the relationship between research and impact as self-reinforcing.
  Engagement with policy makers and their agendas shapes our research, and we believe
  significant research should reach non-academic audiences and enhance policy-making.
  Our strategy is twofold: to embed an understanding and recognition of impact within each
  academic’s research plans and the Department’s research culture; and to enable meaningful
  engagement with partners outside academia. Our strategy addresses all our research
  clusters/academics, and is supported by our Impact Champion (Rice) and approach to external
  disseminations/engagement (Section 4.2).

  Our REF2021 impact case studies (ICSs) have emerged from areas where there is critical
  mass of research activity, external funding, and long-term engagement with government and
  non-academic organisations. All our impact has been promoted and developed by our
  integrated approach to research, impact, and income generation coupled with our support for
  staff development (Section 2.1).

  Our research that has achieved the most enduring impact on policy is within health economics.
  We note that our strong links with the Centre for Health Economics (CHE), through strategic
  joint appointments (Claxton and Rice) and long-standing collaborations (Siciliani and Jones)
  have been particularly conducive to linking with policy-makers to guide and shape research that

                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  responds directly to their needs and has public relevance. For example, Claxton has led on
  research to inform the opportunity cost of adopting new technologies in the NHS (REF3), and
  also on characterising uncertainty and value of information in health care decisions (REF3), and
  has received widespread media coverage; and Siciliani has informed policy thinking/practice at
  the EU (waiting times, effective investments in health) and OECD (performance measurement,
  waiting times) (REF3).

  In recent years the breadth of our impact and engagement has significantly widened (Section
  4.3) and now includes macro-finance. In particular we highlight research on the methodological
  developed of the Global VAR approach to the estimation of the macroeconomic impact of
  shocks to global markets accounting for the complexities and interdependencies that exist
  across countries (Smith), and research to develop tests to reliably assess the accuracy of
  economic forecasts (Coroneo) (REF3). Together these methods and supporting software have
  been influential in guiding policy analysis and risk management strategies to inform monetary
  policy development and financial decisions across a large number of international organisations
  (IMF, ECB), central banks and commercial businesses (e.g., Citi Research).


  Strategic initiatives to facilitate our achievements
  Our achievements across research outputs, impact, and income have been facilitated by a
  series of strategic initiatives:
  •   Consolidating and establishing policies for our Research Expectations, Impact Strategy,
      Peer-Review Process for Grant Applicants, and Additional Research and Impact Leave, in
      order to streamline administration and improve transparency and equity in research
      management.
  •   Extending the support provided with appointments of a Research Facilitator (RF), an
      academic Research Grants Champion who coordinates peer support for funding
      applications, and an academic Impact Champion to lead on developing impact initiatives
      and to support colleagues in fostering external partnerships with research users and policy
      makers. The RF’s role has been extended to support the strategic planning of impact and
      aid linkages across the Department’s research clusters and institutional research themes
      (i.e., “Health and Wellbeing”, “Justice and Equality”, REF5a:4) and interdisciplinary research
      initiatives (i.e., Interdisciplinary Global Development Centre (IGDC), REF5a:10).
  •   Enhancing financial support for research and impact by increasing the annual personal
      research and impact allowance by a third (to £2,000), the annual research cluster budgets
      from £1,000 to £1,500, and providing a Research and Impact Support (RIS) Fund, with an
      average of £56k annually allocated to stimulate research collaborations, develop early-stage
      research ideas and funding applications, and to promote research impact. Additionally, staff
      accessed a wide range of financial support for travel and events, or for time, research
      assistance etc. to actively support potential ICSs.
  •   Expanding our research priorities. We added a seventh research cluster in the area of
      political economy, recognising the development of our research expertise in this area. We
      reviewed our Research Strategy and added a new priority area, on risk and decision-making
      in financial markets and the macroeconomy.
  •   Strategic hiring in priority areas to strengthen research excellence, and for additional
      professional support and Teaching & Scholarship (T&S) colleagues to ensure time for ART
      staff to advance their research and impact agendas.
  •   Developing research talent. With external funding successes we have hosted 5 PDRs
      since 2014 (1 British Academy (BA), 3 Marie Skłodowska-Curie, and 1 Economic and Social
      Research Council (ESRC)). This shows the attractiveness of the Department to talented
      new researchers and contributes to a more vibrant research environment. By providing
      resources and dedicated mentoring to support their career development, PDRs have gone
      on to academic posts in the UK and overseas (e.g., University of Southampton, University of
      Groningen).
  •   Hosting high-calibre conferences and symposia on our research themes and promising
      new areas. We are actively engaged in international events and collaborations, not only

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      presenting at leading conferences, but also organising major international conferences. The
      York Annual Game Theory Symposium (since 2010), York Econometrics Symposium (since
      2012), and Workshop for Labour and Family Economics (since 2016) have all become
      prominent events.


  Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact
  Our objective is to be a world-leading, research-intensive department that generates innovative
  ideas and rigorous evidence on the economic issues that drive societal challenges such as
  COVID-19. We will support existing areas of research excellence and develop exciting new
  research themes that contribute to the discipline, our teaching, wider society, and the public
  good, both responding to and shaping policy (Section 4.3 and REF5a:18).
  Our specific research goals include:
  •   Designing private and public resource allocation mechanisms under complex and practical
      environments that are efficient, fair, robust, incentive-compatible, and easy-to-understand
      and implement.
  •   Advancing high-dimensional statistical methods for machine learning and artificial
      intelligence that enable analysis of heterogeneous and dependent financial, economic and
      biosocial panel data.
  •   Combining rigorous empirical and theoretical analysis focusing on child human capital,
      household decisions and investment in children, matching and family dissolution, social
      learning, and the division of labour and allocation of resources within the household.
  •   Extending our work on public expenditure and allocation decisions across diverse health
      and care systems, and exploring welfare-improving market configurations and reforms.
  •   Developing our international reputation in applied macro-finance by consolidating our
      expertise on linkages between risk and decision-making in financial markets and the
      macroeconomy.


  Our specific impact goals include:
  •   To maintain and strengthen the outstanding significance and reach of health economics
      research impact at York. This is enhanced by close collaboration with researchers at the
      Centre for Health Economics (CHE).
  •   To support the development of impact in the Centre for Applied Macro-Finance (CAMF)
      through engagement with central banks and networks of independent fiscal institutions.
  •   To develop an agenda of high-calibre policy engagement, at national and international
      levels, in family, education, and labour market economics.
  •   To develop public and commercial partnerships, for example through our research on
      market design in the economic theory cluster.
  •   To build upon successes with the ESRC Knowledge Exchange and Impact Accelerator
      Awards and to use collaborative projects with local partners, such as City of York Council
      and Joseph Rowntree Foundation to build and enhance opportunities for research at a local
      level.


  We will achieve this within a research environment that maintains and extends:
  •   An inclusive and collegiate working culture that promotes equality and diversity.
  •   High standards of research integrity and open research.
  •   Allocation of resources to foster impact-oriented research, knowledge exchange activities,
      and interdisciplinary research.
  •   Streamlined and simplified decision-making, whenever possible and appropriate, to face new
      challenges with agility and protect time for research.
  •   Further support for the development of talented colleagues, at all stages of their academic
      career, building on the successes of our academic hiring during this REF cycle.

                                                                                           Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  •   From 2021/22 we will offer an Integrated PhD, which is a four-year doctoral programme and
      will provide a thorough training in economics for researchers, and a structured graduate-
      training pathway equipping our PGRs with the necessary skills and knowledge to pursue
      research in economics.


  Supporting interdisciplinary research
  Working with the Politics Department, we established the Political Economy cluster and a
  partnership with the IGDC. The Centre for Historical Economics and Related Research at York
  (CHERRY) includes members from History and the Management School (UYMS). Colleagues
  (Smith, Swaffield) have established research connections with UYMS under their research
  themes, i.e., Equality, Justice, and Ethics. Our Econometrics cluster undertakes joint research
  with the Mathematics Department as well as holding joint workshops and seminars. The Game
  Theory Symposium brings together researchers in game theory from multiple disciplines, with
  presenters specialising in mathematics, political economy, finance, information, computer
  science, and more. The 18th Foundations of Utility and Risk Conference in 2018 was a major
  interdisciplinary conference hosted by the Department, spanning multiple disciplines including
  decision theory, philosophy, psychology, and neuroscience. The Department’s commitment to
  promoting interdisciplinary research is also demonstrated by its role in founding the
  interdisciplinary Journal of Mechanism and Institution Design in 2016, which publishes research
  from computer science, economics, finance, mathematics, operations research, and social
  policy. Finally, we have positioned our interdisciplinary research contributions under the most
  relevant UOA in REF2021 and REF2014 (i.e., History, Business and Management Studies)
  rather than flagging outputs as interdisciplinary on UOA Economics and Econometrics.


  Open Research
  Open Research and open access is of fundamental importance for producing rigorous
  research that can be scrutinised and communicated to key stakeholders and the public. We are
  committed to developing an open research environment and our open access strategy goes
  beyond complying with REF and funders’ open access rules. This includes requiring all research
  outputs to be deposited in the institutional repository (White Rose Research Online), making
  colleagues aware of publishers with a limited embargo period for green open access, ensuring
  that open access publishing fees are built into grant applications, and ensuring that our Data
  Management Plans, submitted as part of UKRI applications, allow collected data to be
  accessible to a wide audience (REF5a:17).
  As one of the three founding institutions, our Department provides significant financial and
  administrative resources in establishing and running the open-access Journal of Mechanism
  and Institution Design. Also, in 2014, V. Smith developed and released a suite of tools for
  macroeconomic modelling, the GVAR Toolbox, which is currently used by researchers and
  institutions such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the European Central Bank
  (ECB). V. Smith has also led in disseminating the GVAR approach through the running of
  modelling courses to participants from the EcoMod Network, Bank of Italy, and Banco Central
  Do Brasil.


  Research integrity
  The Department’s research integrity and ethics processes are embedded within the wider
  University policies and provision in support of research (REF5a:14). The Department has
  developed a research culture where the highest standards in research practice are expected,
  based on the principles of honesty, rigour, transparency, and open communication. The
  Department is compliant with the UUK Concordat codes of practice on research integrity,
  principles of good ethical governance, and research misconduct. All our PhD students
  undertake an online research integrity tutorial and supervisors ensure students have a clear
  understanding of appropriate practice.


                                                                                          Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  No data collection of any kind can be undertaken without the explicit approval granted by the
  Economics, Law, Management, Politics and Sociology ethics committee (ELMPS), which
  meets throughout the year to review staff and PhD research project applications. ELMPS
  comprises 11 members of academic staff from across the five departments together with two
  PhD representatives and one lay member. The ELMPS member for the Department sits on the
  DRC and contributes to the development of research strategy and policy in respect to research
  integrity.


   2. People


  2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
  Our staffing and recruitment strategy has four core principles:

   •   Appointment of high-quality ECRs who are nurtured and developed for professional
       advancement, promotion and succession planning.

   •   Embedded commitment to Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion practices across all strategies
       and policies.

   •   Clear expectations on research activity and achievement for all academics on research &
       teaching (ART) contracts.

   •   Developing a mix of academic (ART, T&S, and PDR) and professional support roles so we
       can deliver, individually and collectively, our aspirations for research and impact.


  Recruitment and staff development
  During the REF2021 period, the Department appointed twelve open-contract ART staff and
  seven T&S staff, and hosted five PDRs. All our REF2021 census staff are on full-time, open
  contracts. Our PDRs are all on fixed-term contracts due to their external funding (Marie
  Skłodowska-Curie, UKRI). We have chosen to actively recruit junior colleagues, and this has
  supported a significant rebalancing of the Department’s seniority profile when set against
  professorial retirements (nine since summer 2015).

  We provide support for academic career development throughout the career-cycle, covering
  peer support, resourcing, benchmarking, research expectations, support for impact and a
  culture of research that, whilst being collegial and supportive, is also ambitious and challenging.
  For ART staff, our strategy has been shaped by investing in academic leadership; by identifying,
  recruiting, and developing high-quality ECRs; and by building and consolidating research
  excellence in areas identified as strategic priorities.

  The University offers a structured programme for staff development at all career points. We
  have robust staff development, mentoring and support processes informed by a collegiate and
  mutually supportive ethos, and framed by the University Statement on Research Performance
  Expectations (REF5a:22). The Department has a comprehensive peer-support system covering
  teaching, research, and grant applications. DRC (in partnership with the HoD) leads on the
  ongoing assessment of academic research performance and identification of specific training
  and resource needs.

  Additional training needs are identified via annual performance review and addressed through
  the University’s Researcher Development Framework, the White Rose University Consortium,
  and other internal and external training opportunities. The University’s Research Excellence
  Training Team provides facilities and training sessions for all staff, with a particular focus on

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  researcher development (ECRs and beyond) (REF5a:32). Training includes grant writing
  sessions tailored to the social sciences, and courses on research leadership and management
  for senior staff. Engagement is reviewed on an on-going basis by DRC.

  All ART staff are eligible for research and/or impact sabbatical terms, accrued at a rate of one
  term in nine and subject to a satisfactory proposal. During a sabbatical, teaching and
  administration commitments are removed to enable focus on research and external
  engagement/impact. In addition, the Department RIS fund has been used to develop significant
  impact: via support for research assistance to find and document external engagement, and
  evidence of impact; support for policy focused symposia; and departmental peer-review.


  Support for early career researchers
  The appointment of ECRs, who are nurtured and developed for professional advancement,
  promotion, and succession planning, is a key approach to our staffing and recruitment strategy
  (REF5a:29). All ART lecturers appointed between January 2009 and December 2013 have
  been promoted to either SL/reader at the REF2021 census point (Coroneo, Madeira, Pickering,
  Santos Monteiro, Smith, and Thornton), or to SL then full professor (Chen, De Luca,
  Tominey) by summer 2020. Since REF2014, we have made seven new ART lectureship
  appointments, in 2015, 2018, 2019 and 2020. The first of these (Cornelissen) published in the
  American Economic Review and the Journal of Political Economy, with research excellence
  recognised by promotion to SL in 2017, and to full professor one year later. The other six
  appointments all have high-quality research profiles; two (Kratz, Weber) have published in the
  Review of Economic Studies and Journal of Political Economy since joining the Department.

  We support the personal development of new appointments at all levels of seniority with initial
  teaching workload reductions, and by pairing ECRs with a senior mentor. For newly appointed
  staff, there is a 1/5th reduction in teaching load in the first year, as well as a 1/3rd reduction in
  the number of student supervisees allocated. All our ECRs receive a further reduction in
  teaching load to enable completion of the University’s Postgraduate Certificate of Academic
  Practice. Our Promotion Advisory Panel (including the HoD, DRC Chair, and at least two
  additional senior colleagues) provides advice and consultation for academic colleagues who are
  preparing a promotion application. This initiative has been very successful; in the last five years,
  13 ART staff who used the panel were subsequently promoted.

  A major development is that, since 2014, we have hosted five PDRs. Our large department
  provides a critical mass that supports their progress, and we embrace “The Concordat to
  Support the Career Development of Researchers” (REF5a:27-28). In doing so we have set up a
  comprehensive programme of support:
  • A dedicated Concordat Coordinator role.
  • Each PDR is given a tailored induction.
  • PDRs are paired with an academic mentor.
  • PDRs belong to at least one research cluster.
  • DRC Chair is the performance reviewer for each PDR.
  • PDRs are included in all departmental activities.
  • Peer review and administrative support from the RF when the PDRs apply for external
     research grants and through our annual research-funding forum.


  2.2 Research Students
  Recruitment of PGRs
  Our research students contribute to the strength and diversity of the Department’s research
  community, offering innovation and capacity, and creating opportunities for impact. We view our
  PGRs as both students and co-researchers. Our PGR programme currently has 58 registered
  students and has awarded 97 doctoral degrees during the REF2021 period, many involving joint
  supervision with CHE, UYMS (66.3 attributed to UOA16). The group is internationally diverse
                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  and our PGRs originate from 31 different countries. We are as committed to EDI in our PGR
  recruitment as we are for staff. Our aim is to recruit a student body that reflects the full diversity
  of graduates in the UK and internationally. We have monitored EDI data at application,
  shortlisting, and recruitment stages and have analysed these data for trends to assist with the
  ongoing re-evaluation and improvement of our EDI policies and procedures. For example, our
  2019 Athena SWAN submission noted that the percentage of female PGR students recruited
  over the assessment period was above the Russell Group average (39-44% female, compared
  to the Russell Group average of c. 36-38%). Our female PGR applications rose from c. 29% to
  40% in this period, and offers were evenly split by gender. Although the number of acceptances
  was lower for female PGRs, female PGR students are not receiving fewer scholarships than
  male students: 16.2% of our male students were awarded a scholarship, compared to 16.4% of
  female. Further understanding of PGR recruitment by gender is part of our Athena SWAN action
  plan.


  Funding for PGRs
  Most of our students hold scholarships, including ESRC, Commonwealth, Marie Skłodowska-
  Curie, CHE, Departmental Studentships, and government scholarships (e.g., China, Indonesia,
  Mexico, and Pakistan). Since 2014, we have on average been awarded two ESRC studentships
  annually through the White Rose Doctoral Training Partnership (WRDTP), a joint venture
  between the Universities of Leeds, Sheffield, and York. Attracting talented PGR students and
  integrating them within our research programmes is key to a vibrant research environment, and
  we devote substantial resources to our studentships (c. £1.05 million from January 2014 to
  December 2019). The Department has awarded 21 studentships since 2014, while CHE has
  awarded 4 studentships over the last 4 academic years, as well as a ‘Thanzi la Onse’ (Health of
  All) studentship for 2019/20 (REF5a:11e).


  Support for progression and completion
  Our PGR students have biannual thesis advisory panel (TAP) meetings to support and
  monitor progress up to the end of the third year. Additionally, PGR students meet their
  supervisors and TAP members regularly and receive guidance on their research. Each PGR
  student is assigned to at least one cluster relevant to their research interests, receiving support
  from the cluster members through PGR presentations, round-table discussions, and reviewing
  of ongoing research.
  We have formal progression points in the summers of years 1 and 2, with progression
  contingent upon completion of examined modules, a progress report (year 1) or draft chapter
  (year 2); completion of two TAP meetings, with satisfactory reports; and presentation of a
  research workshop (year 2). If progression to year 3 is not recommended, the student is given
  the option of switching to the MPhil degree, or withdrawing from the programme.
  Evidence shows that the process is effective; during this REF2014 period only two students
  have switched to the MPhil, while, in that time, 97 students have been awarded their PhD. 112
  students have registered on our PhD programme since August 2013, of whom 58 are current,
  41 have completed, and 13 have withdrawn. We did not award any research-based professional
  doctorates during this period.


  Support for skills development and future careers
  Specific training sessions are offered to strengthen our PGRs’ skills, and are also available to
  other academics (i.e., ECRs). Topics include academic writing, presentations, viva preparation,
  conference attendance, academic publishing in economics, and participating in the economics
  job market. Training in conference participation is also provided through an annual one-day
  WRDTC conference for PGRs in economics, organised jointly by the three WRDTC economics
  departments. The conference attracts around 80 participants and all presentations are by
  students.

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  All PGRs in the Department are given the opportunity to acquire teaching experience,
  improving their teaching skills and employability. Every year around 25 Departmental Graduate
  Teaching Assistantships (GTAs) are awarded to provide experience in teaching undergraduate
  seminars (for which GTAs are trained by experienced colleagues) and generous financial
  support.
  PGRs are directly involved in organising major research events in the Department. Since
  2014, the Department has hosted more than 30 major events, many co-organised by PGRs,
  enabling them to gain valuable skills. The Department’s “Distinguished Visitor” scheme invites
  world-leading economists (e.g., Johannes Horner (Yale), Joel Sobel (UCSD), Michael Ostrovsky
  (Stanford), Shmuel Zamir (HU Jerusalem), Alessandro Pavan (Northwestern)) to visit the
  Department for a week, engage with colleagues, share their research, and deliver specialised
  mini-courses to PGRs. Our PGRs actively engage with the seminar programmes and have one-
  on-one meetings with the external speakers. In addition to attending the Departmental and
  cluster seminars, PGRs play an important role in the Thursday Workshops, in which internal
  speakers present their research. PGRs also present their work in the Research Student
  Workshop series, attended by the student’s supervisory team, other interested academics, and
  fellow PGRs. Opportunities for PGRs to disseminate their research to wider external audiences
  are provided, and the Department offers financial support (up to £750 annually) to students
  presenting at international academic conferences.
  Our academic PhD Placement Officer helps with the job search process. We have developed
  initiatives to improve the competitiveness of our PGRs on the academic and professional job
  markets, including: use of internal workshops to practice their job market presentation, mock job
  interviews, funds to attend job market events (AEA, EEA, RES), and dedicated profile pages on
  the Departmental website for job market candidates. PGRs receive support in applying for post-
  doctoral grants; we had one successful BA application in 2017 and one successful ESRC
  application in 2018.
  Among the students awarded PhD degrees since 2014, around 80% proceeded to a job at a
  university or a research institution, around 10% to a job in the public sector, and 10% found
  employment in the private sector. Finally, averaging results from the Postgraduate Research
  Experience Survey run in 2015, 2017, and 2019 reveals that more than 90% of respondents
  are fully satisfied with the supervision and training provided at the Department, and 87% are
  satisfied with their overall experience in our doctoral programme.


  2.3 Equality and diversity
  Our Department is large and diverse, with academic staff from more than fifteen countries. EDI
  is central to our values and practices. We are committed to transparency and fairness in all our
  staff and student policies and have undertaken much work connected to our successful Athena
  SWAN Bronze submission, led by our HoD and colleagues on the Department’s Equality
  Challenge Working Group.
  Our recruitment, retention and promotion policies for academic ART staff have delivered
  diversity across age, ethnicity, and gender. For example, at the REF2021 census our UOA16
  submission included 26% female academics, and 25% of the professoriate were female (Chen,
  Nicoletti, Tominey, and Wang) comparing favourably (though not creating any complacency) to
  the latest 2017 Royal Economic Society (RES) Women Committee’s statistics of 15.5%. Further
  we note that one in three female academics (ART, T&S, and Research-only) across the
  Department are professors, compared with equivalent RES figures of one in seven. Our Athena
  SWAN Bronze award in May 2020 demonstrates our commitment to having EDI at the core of
  all our ‘people’ policies. Our Department, like our discipline, is on a journey to deliver substantial
  improvement on EDI in culture and composition of academic staffing. We have achieved
  improvements and have committed ourselves to a serious and challenging future agenda.
  The Department has introduced several initiatives in recent years. We support promotion
  applications via the Department’s promotion advisory committee. We offer substantial flexibility
  and support for staff with caring responsibilities for children or adults, or with other challenging

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  personal circumstances. We promote an inclusive culture by scheduling meetings and research
  activities within core working hours. All staff can submit a request for timetable adjustments to
  meet their caring responsibilities, and we ensure staff are informed of our part-time and parental
  leave arrangements. Three members of staff took maternity leave during the REF2021 period.
  As part of our Athena SWAN action plan, staff returning from maternity leave are offered one
  term’s research leave during their first year of return, or a tapered return to full teaching and
  citizenship roles, as they prefer. We actively balance gender, BAME, and academic rank
  composition across our committees. We have an Athena SWAN coordinator (Wang) and a
  Departmental Diversity Champion (Ahmed).
  To monitor our progress, we have a standing Departmental EDI committee that includes ART
  and T&S staff, student representatives, and professional support staff (across all grades),
  chaired by our HoD. Our EDI committee is working towards an Athena SWAN silver award, and
  addresses other protected characteristics in addition to gender, including race and ethnicity.
  The Department gives leadership to gender and equality work in the economics discipline via
  the RES Women’s Committee (i.e., Nicoletti).
  Our process for selecting REF2021 outputs was undertaken by a panel that was diverse in
  gender, ethnicity, and nationality, and all members successfully completed the University’s
  unconscious bias training. Of the staff on the REF2021 census date, 73.2% were male and
  26.8% female, while 72.6% of outputs are from male staff and 27.4% from female staff. Further,
  we note that our EDI processes and outcomes for REF2021 mirror the approach we took in
  REF2014 where (in a selective submission) a larger share of female staff were submitted
  (71.4%) than male (62.9%).



   3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


  3.1 Income
  Research income has grown, from about £220k around the end of the last REF cycle to the
  average annual income of £488k in the last 5 years. Our strategy has been to support all
  colleagues with external research grant applications, through peer support/review, horizon
  scanning, and viewing external grant engagement as both a core research activity and an
  enabler to delivering research outputs and impact. We are conscious that supporting colleagues
  to apply for the right grant, rather than any grant, is key. This has resulted in a diversification of
  applications and successes. We have been awarded significant income from research councils
  (ESRC, BA, Medical Research Council), governmental health research funders (National
  Institute for Health Research, Department of Health and Social Care), and charitable
  organisations, most notably the Leverhulme Trust, the Health Foundation, and Joseph
  Rowntree Foundation. The Department has been successful in obtaining EU funding,
  particularly under the European Commission’s Marie Skłodowska-Curie Action Individual
  Fellowships scheme, with four fellowships since 2017. The Department received a significant
  award under the European Commission’s Horizon 2020 programme (Zerilli: Co-I and Scientific
  Coordinator) for a substantial research collaboration focused on the development and adoption
  of renewable energy and technologies which has potential to lead to significant policy impact
  (XPRESS; €2,999,974 total award, £223,518 to York).

  Claxton, Rice, and Siciliani have significant collaborations with CHE and are involved (two as
  Co-Is, one as project lead) in two major programmes of research (jointly with LSE and
  University of Sheffield) on the economics of health and social care (ESHCRU) and on
  healthcare economic evaluation (EEPRU), funded through the NIHR Programme Research
  Units. These are substantial awards of £5m (£3m to York) for ESHCRU and £4.5m (£3m to
  York) for EEPRU over a five-year period.
  The Department has pursued smaller awards to provide experience of developing funding
  applications for ECRs and as a means to obtain funds to hold prestigious research conferences.

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  This has brought success from the Bank of England, British Academy, Department for
  International Development, Fritz-Thyssen Foundation, Japan Society for the Promotion of
  Science, Money Macro and Finance Research Group, Newton Fund, and RES.
  In addition to supporting research excellence and building capacity, external funds have allowed
  the Department to shift the balance of our income towards research activity. Increased grant
  funding has enabled dedicated and sustained staff research time, leading to high-calibre peer-
  reviewed publications. This has reinforced the culture of applying for funding, which has led to
  more proactive and strategic planning of research activities. An emphasis on impact has
  enhanced our thinking on influencing policy, disseminating research findings to appropriate
  stakeholders, and considering the wider social impact of our work (Sections 1 and 4.3).


  3.2 Infrastructure
  The Department has supported research activity by increasing the internal funding and
  operational infrastructure available to all academics. For example, the annual personal research
  and impact allowance has increased over the course of the REF period by a third (to £2000).
  We have also introduced an enhanced teaching buyout policy that allocates a greater share of
  time to research than the previous scheme. The aim of this policy is to encourage staff to apply
  for ambitious research funding schemes, and to provide time for excellent research to take
  place.
  The Department has a subcommittee of DRC to manage the Department’s RIS fund to foster
  applications for external research and impact funding. In the academic years 2013-14 to 2019-
  20, RIS has allocated £390,000 in awards ranging from £150 to £5,000 for research and impact-
  generating activities, such as the organisation of workshops and conferences (e.g., Game
  Theory Symposium, York Fiscal Policy Symposium 2016, Asset Pricing Workshop (CAMF and
  BoE), support for staff visits, and engagement with non-HEI organisations (e.g., CAMF Advisory
  panel meetings 2019), conference attendance (e.g., AEA Chicago 2017 / Philadelphia 2018 /
  AEA Atlanta 2019, co-author visits (e.g., Acemoglu, MIT), dataset purchases, and research
  assistance. These funds are awarded on a competitive basis. Further research funding
  opportunities are available in the form of several University-level research theme-based and
  other priming funds (REF5a:10).
  Financial management of internal and external research funding is undertaken within the
  Department by our experienced Finance Officer, while pre-award and administrative support for
  projects is provided by the Department’s RF. The Research Grants Champion provides support
  with identifying funding opportunities and preparing grant applications. Established
  departmental procedures ensure all applications receive peer-review and feedback prior to
  submission and, particularly, advice and support on delivering impact at an early stage of
  proposal development. Where relevant, mock interviews are provided to help prepare
  candidates in advance of presenting to funding panels. Mentoring and support for grant
  applications is also provided within the research clusters.
  The Faculty Research Development Manager provides strategic advice on external bid
  development and coordination of cross-departmental funding applications. Advice on impact
  and knowledge exchange activities can be sought from the Social Sciences Impact Manager
  and Partnerships Manager, who also coordinate applications to the University’s allocation of
  funding from the ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (REF5a:50) and National Productivity
  Investment Fund. University-level approval of applications, along with post-award financial
  management and reports to funders, are provided by the University’s Research Grants and
  Contracts team.


  3.3 Facilities
  A bright, spacious and comfortable staff room (open to our PGRs) is the hub of the Department
  and serves as the venue for our Thursday Workshops. In 2018, investment in the building
  resulted in a new seminar room - used for research seminars, workshops and training sessions

                                                                                         Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  - and an informal departmental library space where publications and PhD theses are stored.
  Both facilities are located in an area largely given over to PGR offices, giving the students
  access to local facilities and further integrating them into the life of the Department. This space
  has recently been extended and entirely refurbished to maximise its integration within the
  Department and improve the quality of our PGRs’ working environment. Individual offices are
  allocated to PGR students in their 3rd and 4th years of study. The management of the dedicated
  study area is the responsibility of elected PGR students.
  The University’s Research Centre for Social Sciences, established in 2013 with a dedicated
  building (c. £1.8m), provides all social science departments in the Faculty with facilities for
  additional research development, impact and research training, collaboration and support
  (REF5a:48). The Centre has workspaces for research groups, research meetings, workshops,
  and conferences, as well as a multi-functioning training suite, and interview and focus group
  rooms. This social science hub has supported the interdisciplinary research undertaken in the
  Department, e.g., between our AME research cluster and Social Policy, between our Political
  Economy research cluster and Politics, and between our Department and the School of PPE. In
  addition, the Alcuin Research Resource Centre houses a first-rate auditorium, which is used to
  host high-profile visiting speakers and conferences, and also houses the Experimental
  Economics Laboratory.
  The University Library provides access to over 21,000 journals, has ample study spaces, and
  has made significant investments in data centres and IT services that have further enhanced a
  high-quality research resource. For computationally intensive tasks, there is local and remote
  access to the University’s new high performance Viking computing cluster. The availability of
  high-performance computing is critical to our strategic plans for econometrics and applied
  microeconometrics, including the initiatives in panel data analysis and economics of the family
  (REF5a:41). The Department has a dedicated full-time IT officer covering all IT-related issues
  across research, teaching, and support functions.


   4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


  4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
  National and international academic research collaborations are critical to our delivery of
  research excellence. The extent of our successful research collaborations is demonstrated by
  the fact that 81.9% of our research outputs during the REF2021 period are co-authored and, of
  these, almost 90% include external/international collaborations with co-authors based outside of
  York and/or the UK, including Acemoglu (MIT), Chernozhukov (MIT), Del Boca (Turin), Greene
  (NYU), Pesaran (USC), Roemer (Yale), Salvanes (NHH Bergen), Sjöström (Rutgers), and
  Wooldridge (MSU).

  Our faculty members have extensive international networks, are regularly offered visiting
  fellowships, and are invited to visit internationally prestigious institutions for academic
  interaction and collaborations, including: CEPR (Siciliani), Oxford, Cambridge, and Bielefeld
  (Yang), MIT (de Luca), IZA Bonn (Nicoletti, Tominey), Academia Sinica and Max Planck
  Institute for Tax Law and Public Finance (Ju), Monash University (Jones, V. Smith, Yamagata),
  Tokyo University (Yamagata), Southern California (Smith, Yamagata), Pompeu Fabra and
  Brown University (Flueckiger), Princeton, Chicago, and Michigan State University (Wang), Bank
  of Finland (Coroneo, Golinski), Federal Reserve Dallas (V.Smith), Federal Reserve Saint
  Louis and Central Bank of Portugal (Coroneo).

  The Department encourages partnerships with other organisations. Since 2019 our
  Department and the School of Business and Economics at Maastricht University have
  established the York-Maastricht partnership in Economics and Finance to foster research
  collaboration (REF5a:6). Together with the economic theory group at Durham University, we
  have established annual Durham-York economic theory workshops.

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Our staff contribute to a broad range of national and international professional associations that
  support and sustain research in economics and the development of the profession. For
  example:
  • Yang is the president of the Society for the Promotion of Mechanism and Institution Design.
  • Jones was president of the European Health Economics Association, 2016-2018.
  • Siciliani chairs the International Health Economics Association Kenneth J Arrow Award
     Committee.
  Colleagues also serve as organisation committee members of major international conferences,
  such as the Econometric Society European Meetings (Coroneo) and the RES Conference
  (Pickering). The Department has increased its engagement with our main professional societies
  such as the RES, and has hosted the RES Annual Public Lecture since 2018.
  Our commitment to disseminating research is further evidenced by our activities in supporting
  the discipline through editorial work. The two main international journals in the field of health
  economics (Health Economics and Journal of Health Economics) have been edited from York
  with Claxton, Jones, Siciliani, and Rice all serving as editors. Jones edited the Oxford
  Encyclopedia of Health Economics, published in 2020. The Journal of Mechanism and
  Institution Design (Editor: Yang) and the Bulletin of Economic Research are also edited from
  York (Co-editor: Ju), and 13 colleagues belong to the editorial boards of other journals.
  We have hosted major international conferences. In 2017, the Society for Economic Design
  invited the Department to host its 10th Conference on Economic Design. This biannual
  international conference is a leading event for the area and the invitation is a recognition of our
  research strength in mechanism design. In 2018, we hosted the 18th Foundations of Utility and
  Risk (FUR) Conference, another large-scale biannual international conference, featuring more
  than 200 presentations. FUR is one of the most prestigious conferences in behavioural science,
  and this invitation recognises the outstanding quality of our research in behavioural economics
  and related themes on risk and decision-making.
  International esteem is also highlighted through prizes and keynotes. For example, in 2018
  Shin received the Maekyung Korea-America Economic Association (KAEA) Economist Award
  for his outstanding professional achievement; Jones and Rice were awarded the inaugural
  Willard G. Manning Memorial Award for the Best Research in Health Econometrics in 2016;
  Yang was a plenary speaker at the 2016 China Meeting of the Econometric Society; and Morys
  was a keynote speaker at the 2019 BALTIC Social Science History Conference.


  4.2 Research users, beneficiaries and audiences
  Our engagement with users and beneficiaries takes place locally, nationally, and
  internationally.
  In applied macro-finance, we have developed important links with OECD and EU networks of
  independent fiscal institutions (IFIs) and their individual members. These are independent
  official bodies that provide oversight over and/or input into the process of preparation and
  evaluation of national general government budgets. The institutions we have engaged with
  include the UK Office for Budget Responsibility, the Spanish Independent Fiscal Responsibility
  Authority AIReF, the Portuguese Public Finance Council CFP, and the Italian Parliamentary
  Budget Office UPB. In 2017, CAMF co-organised a fiscal policy workshop at the Nuffield
  Foundation in London with a panel involving executives from prominent IFIs. The event was
  funded from an award received from the UK-wide Money Macro and Finance Research Group.
  Staff and PGRs from CAMF now contribute to the network’s biannual publication, the European
  Fiscal Monitor. Staff expertise includes:
  • Coroneo is an executive committee member of the Money, Macro and Finance (MMF)
       Society.
  • Horvath was a member of the Fiscal Council of the Republic of Serbia, Slovakia Council for
       Budget Responsibility, committee member of the National Bank of Slovakia, panel member



                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      for the National Audit Office of Lithuania, Network of EU Independent Fiscal Institutions, and
      is now Chief Economist at the National Bank of Slovakia.
  •   Monteiro sat on the Advisory Group for the European Commission: Directorate General for
      Internal Market, Industry, Entrepreneurship and SMEs.
  •   V. Smith served as a consultant for the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for
      Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP).
  •   Spencer (Emeritus Professor) is an Advisory Panel member of the Office of Budget
      Responsibility.
  •   Wickens (Emeritus Professor) was Specialist Advisor to the House of Lords Economic
      Affairs Committee.
  We have strong links with external partners in health policy (REF3 Claxton and Siciliani).
  Members of the Health Economics cluster have strong and long-lasting relationships with policy
  makers within the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC), the NHS, and bodies such as
  the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE), the Bill and Melinda Gates
  foundation, and international institutions such as the OECD, World Bank, and World Health
  Organisation:
  • Claxton is a member of a WHO working group for the Fair Pricing Forum and advised the
      DHSC, NHSE, NAO, ONS, Canadian Patented Medicines Price Review Board, and Ministry
      of Health in Malawi.
  • Rice was a member of the DHSC’s Technical Advisory Group for healthcare resource
      allocation.
  • Siciliani is a member of the European Commission Expert Panel on Effective Ways of
      Investing in Health, which is part of the Directorate General for Health and Food Safety.

  We have promoted our work via dissemination to non-academic audiences through talks to
  local groups and business-people (e.g., Aviva and the North Yorkshire Chamber of Commerce),
  and non-technical publications (e.g., The Conversation, The RES Media Briefings, and the VOX
  CEPR Policy Portal). Our commitment to knowledge exchange and dissemination to the wider
  society can also be evidenced by our hosting of large-scale public lectures, such as the RES
  Public Lecture (2018-21) series, of which the 2018 lecture was delivered by Professor Oriana
  Bandiera (LSE) on ‘what economists really do’ to a large audience of school pupils from across
  the North of England. Our Department also hosts the long-running annual Ken Dixon Lecture to
  the public, with speakers such as Andy Haldane, Martin Wolf and Lord David Sainsbury.

  While our non-academic audiences are generally policymakers, colleagues have had notable
  success in disseminating research findings to a broader audience through engagement with
  the media, including BBC News, BBC Radio 4 and 5, Sky News, the Daily Mail, the Daily
  Telegraph, the Financial Times, the Guardian, the Independent, and The Times. For example,
  research by Claxton and Rice on the opportunity costs to the NHS of buying expensive drugs
  received significant media attention both nationally and internationally, and major national
  newspapers reported on Jones’ research on the value added of grammar schools.

  Our Web Committee (Horvath, Wagner) coordinates the Department's online and social media
  presence. Our research blog (https://economicsatyork.blog/) along with our Department's
  Twitter account is a highly effective mechanism for disseminating our research in an
  approachable form to a non-academic audience. The blog has received 1,948 unique visitors
  since its inception in 2017, with the most-read article - ‘Coronametrics: Using Econometrics to
  Forecast the Effects of COVID-19’, by Golinski and Spencer - receiving 335 views.


  4.3 Contributions to the research base, economy and society
  Our research has greatest impact in guiding debates on public policy and services, for
  example: forms of regulation (e.g., value-based pricing for new pharmaceuticals health, wages
  in the labour market); shaping or influencing government policy (e.g., macro-financial policy
  advice); changes to the delivery of public services (e.g., resource and health care decisions in


                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  the NHS and education sector); and informing policy debate more broadly (via blogs, the media,
  etc.).
  Building on the foundation provided by our success in health economics, in recent years the
  breadth of our impact and engagement has widened significantly to include macro-finance
  (Section 1 and REF3). For example, our research has impacted a number of countries by
  influencing policy research and analysis in major financial institutions (e.g., the Bank of
  England, ECB, the EU Directorate General for Economic and Financial Affairs, US Federal
  Reserve Banks, Bank of Canada, IMF, World Bank, the Bundesbank, Reserve Bank of
  Australia, Central Bank of Iceland, National Bank of Belgium, and Central Bank of Turkey), as
  well as independent assessors of governments’ macroeconomic and budgetary projections
  (e.g., IMF, Office of Budget Responsibility and the Network of Independent Fiscal Institutions).

  Our impact and engagement also includes microeconomics, both theoretical and applied. This
  includes our work in labour economics (e.g., Low Pay Commission, Department for Work and
  Pensions, Joseph Rowntree Foundation, and City of York Council), experimental (e.g.,
  Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs), public sector (e.g., Ofsted and
  Department for Education), and mechanism design (STEP). Finally, Rice was part of a
  multidisciplinary research team of G8 Northern Universities studying the links between health
  and productivity in the Northern Powerhouse, culminating in a report launched at a Westminster
  Ministerial Reception.


  Our response to COVID-19
  Given our research strengths, we have been able to contribute to the wider economy and
  society on the many challenges posed by COVID-19. Before the end of July 2020, our staff
  members engaged with the following research activities on COVID-19. Siciliani was part of the
  working group and contributed to the policy report "The organisation of resilient health and
  social care following the COVID-19 pandemic" for the European Commission. Jones has
  studied the impact of COVID-19 on inequality of opportunity in psychological distress, as well as
  unmet need and horizontal equity in access during the pandemic. Rice is a Co-I on a grant
  funded by the Health Foundation - The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, and the policy
  response, on health, work and health inequality - which delivered a draft report to the funder
  together with written and oral evidence to the Work and Pensions Committee’s inquiry into the
  disability employment gap during the pandemic. Rice is also an advisor for a DHSC project,
  “Unmet needs deep dive”, which is a review of the implications of the COVID-19 on unmet
  health care needs. Tominey is on the editorial board of The Economics Observatory – a project
  aiming to bridge the gap between research, policy, and the general public in matters related to
  COVID-19 – and wrote two articles for Observatory focusing on the scarring effect on the young
  and inequalities in the impact of COVID-19 on children. In a VOX article, Nicoletti and Tominey
  investigated the likely mental health effects of COVID-19 on children. Using econometric tools,
  Coroneo and Monteiro tested the predictive accuracy of the COVID-19 forecasts, Smith and
  Yamagata assessed the impact of COVID-19 on global fossil fuel consumption and CO2
  emissions, Madeira studied spatial and temporal clustering of the COVID-19 contaminations in
  China, Flueckiger analysed the role of networks in the spatial spread of the COVID-19, and
  Golinski modelled and forecasted the evolution of the COVID-19 epidemic.
  Our collective effort to understand and respond to the impact of COVID-19 on the economy and
  society illustrates how our research will inform the future evolution of policy and practice.




                                                                                           Page 17
