Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Reading

 Unit of Assessment: 28 History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 History at Reading delivers depth and breadth, from medieval to modern history across
 European, Asian, African and American continents. From 2014, the division has proactively
 internationalised and rejuvenated its research profile through a strategy of recruiting early career
 scholars studying outside British and continental European history. We have initiated new ways
 of thinking and working through cross- and interdisciplinary research focusing on gender,
 subaltern peoples, health, science and culture. Attention has been given to digital humanities,
 new partnerships and collaborations with an emphasis on cultivating impact. Our strengths are
 gathered into four research clusters: i) emotion, devotion and belief; ii) gender history; iii) health
 humanities; iv) revolutions and utopias. These clusters are designed to enable collaborative,
 cross- and interdisciplinary working, integrating colleagues from throughout and beyond the
 division with post-doctoral researchers and PhD students. Our 20 academic staff form part of the
 School of Humanities alongside Philosophy and Classics, with colleagues leading and engaging
 in numerous interdisciplinary research centres and projects supported by the University theme of
 Heritage & Creativity.

 Research & Impact Strategy
 History’s vision towards a vibrant and sustainable culture has been designed to enable staff at
 all stages of their career to drive their research agendas within a collaborative environment of
 mutual support. A particular emphasis is placed on empowering Early Career and/or newly-
 appointed colleagues to foster their research potential, though all colleagues are encouraged to
 develop ways of working that both broaden our research-reach and invigorate the discipline.
 This is embedded in the annual review of the division’s research strategy, which channels our
 ambition through clusters, interdisciplinary centres and networks. The strategy was developed in
 2015 and commits the division to:

    •   Engaging across disciplines to broaden cross- and interdisciplinary debate.
    •   Enabling innovative methodologies and problem-driven research.
    •   Maintaining high standards of peer-review to raise aspiration and allow for pathways to
        collaboration and career development.
    •   Pursuing public engagement and co-creation of research through strategic partnerships
        to ensure a wide and diverse audience.
    •   Undertaking research-led teaching.

 The plans set out in REF2014 have been realised via strategy, strengthened research
 leadership coupled with enabling research structures and support, and focused recruitment. The
 research interests and approaches of our new appointments, research clusters and centres
 enable cross- and interdisciplinary debate and embed innovative methodologies and
 problem-driven research into the division. The clusters – i) emotion, devotion and belief; ii)
 gender history; iii) health humanities; iv) revolutions and utopias – serve as mechanisms for
 collaboration and maintaining high standards via peer-review and mentoring. Cluster
 activities include monthly meetings, seminar series and webpage/blog posts, providing for
 collegiate and constructive relationships to develop across the division. In such a way, too,
 History at Reading directs research towards impact and public engagement, further
 developing and establishing strategic partnerships to garner a widening and diversifying
 audience. From this, our teaching is research-led and our practice bound to the University’s
 code of practice. More specifically:

    •   New appointments have enabled us to widen our expertise in international history,
        with posts in the history of Asia, Africa, Russia and the Middle East. We have also
        strengthened our expertise in gender history and American history. An earlier ambition to


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        develop History of Art into a defining component of the division has not been met due to
        staff retirements and a strategic decision to focus our efforts on the current clusters.
    •   We have reorganised our research into clusters to create critical mass on our key
        research areas, and are delivering on our ambition to develop a focus on
        interdisciplinary health and humanities. Health Humanities received University
        Interdisciplinary Centre status in 2019 (combining with colleagues from Archaeology,
        Biological Sciences, English Literature, Pharmacy and Psychology). Our aim to cultivate
        international networks has been bolstered by the establishment of the interdisciplinary
        Monroe Group (US history) and the continued development of the Reading-hosted
        Interdisciplinary Network for the Study of Subcultures, Popular Music and Social Change
        (Subcultures Network). Research seminars, workshops and conferences highlight our
        research focus, with guest speakers invited to complement and develop the dialogues
        initiated within the division.
    •   We have nurtured and promoted impact, embedding plans for potential impact into
        new and on-going research projects. This is managed through termly discussion between
        the Research Division Leader, Impact Lead and the Heritage & Creativity theme Impact
        Development Officer. All colleagues are encouraged to think about how their research
        can develop impact beyond scholarly communities and how it can be disseminated
        through public engagement initiatives. Internal funding and practical assistance from the
        University’s Impact Team enables staff development (see below), providing for
        workshops, events, training and means to engage with non-academic partners, enabling
        co-creation, capture and dissemination of research and its impact as evidenced in our
        impact case studies in this submission. Both case studies have been nominated for a
        University Research Engagement and Impact Award, with the Astor100 project winning
        in 2020.
    •   In order to fulfil our commitment to research innovation, priority has been given to
        fostering a vibrant ECR community to ensure succession planning into the future. The
        vitality of such strategic new ECR appointments can be measured by their external grant
        capture (x 4), award-winning monographs (x 3), British Academy rising star awards (x 2)
        and AHRC New Generation Thinkers (x 1), achievements shared across the division’s
        ECR and newest members. In addition, History ECRs have won two prestigious
        University fellowships and won three of the last four annual ECR output prizes awarded
        by the University’s Heritage & Creativity theme. Two of History’s ECRs have co-directed
        the Health Humanities Centre alongside colleagues in English Literature; another History
        ECR helped initiate and leads the Monroe Group. The balanced responsibilities given to
        ECRs and newer colleagues are designed to ensure sustainability, providing leadership
        and administrative experience in a supportive environment. In addition, History has
        embraced digital humanities, facilitating and contributing to an array of projects with
        regard to their design and dissemination (see Section four).
    •   Strategic partnerships have been added to over the current REF cycle. More detail is
        given in Section four, but it is worth noting that our encouragement of ECR initiative has
        helped enable some of our newest and most productive partnerships with Demos, the
        National Coal Mining Museum, National Maritime Museum, Plymouth Museum and the
        US Embassy in London. These complement the focus of our research clusters and
        encompass relationships with the: Banque de France; Berlin Wall Memorial Foundation;
        Comite Scientifique; Comité pour l’Histoire Economique et Financière de la France;
        Global Institute for Women’s Leadership; Houses of Parliament (Vote100); National
        Trust; Ndabaningi Sithole Foundation; Royal Society; Sir John Soane Museum; Youth
        Club Archive and Archiv der Jugendkulturen.
    •   History’s contribution to the interdisciplinary Early Modern Research Centre (EMRC)
        has been extended by new appointments and the on-going success of its international
        conference. The Graduate Centre for Medieval Studies (GCMS) continues to nurture
        post-graduate scholars, organise conferences and publish Reading Medieval Studies.
        Both reach across divisions of Business Studies, Economics, English Literature, Modern
        Languages, Philosophy and Politics.



                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Forward Research & Impact Strategy
 The reorganisation of our research and the initiatives generated by our staff recruitment strategy
 have enabled us to envision a future shaped by the following drivers:

    •   Innovative interdisciplinary and transnational history, especially subaltern peoples
        neglected in traditional narratives.
    •   The possibilities opened up by the University’s partnership with the British Museum.
    •   The continuing opportunities afforded by digital technologies and analyses.
    •   Managing the financial challenges across the sector to enable continued support for
        innovative research.
    •   Increasing the number and quality of PGRs within the division.
    •   Supporting ECRs to become leaders in their field.
    •   Extending impact, public engagement and Open Access.

 To meet these objectives, we will:

    •   Sustain and extend high-quality, innovative research across interdisciplinary and
        transnational history. This will be ensured by regular Personal Research Planning (PRP)
        meetings with individual colleagues; constructive processes of internal and external peer-
        review; close-cooperation with the University’s Research and Enterprise Services (RES).
        In particular, we will continue to ensure our ECRs and PDRs (Post-Doctoral
        Researchers) are supported, mentored and nurtured as they deliver publications and
        develop research projects. We shall consistently review the division’s research clusters,
        encouraging activities and synergies within and beyond the University. Future
        appointments will be made strategically to sustain and broaden the division’s focus,
        thereby enhancing Reading’s reputation as an innovative research-led University while
        also serving to attract students to a range of courses built on colleagues’ specialisms.
        The division’s focus on subaltern peoples and connections between history, health and
        science will be nurtured to further develop Reading’s distinction in these fields.
    •   Cultivate the University of Reading’s partnership with the British Museum (BM),
        established in 2018. This is the first institutional partnership between a national museum
        and a UK university and provides access to a range of research collections, including the
        BM Archaeological Research Collection, to be based at the University of Reading’s
        estate. Four ‘BM champions’ from History have been appointed to develop the
        relationship, with regular workshops planned and seed-corn funding provided jointly by
        the University and the Museum. The planned 2020 Stenton Lecture, by Sadiah Qureshi
        (on exhibitions, empire and anthropology) in partnership with the British Museum, marks
        a statement of this intent (postponed until October 2021 due to Covid-19).
    •   Work with Heritage & Creativity and the University’s Research Communications Team to
        further utilise the possibilities afforded by digital technologies and social media. These
        have already enriched work within the division and enabled impact, supporting external
        training and feeding into the Academic Forums organised by the H&C theme. History
        aims to further embrace the opportunities of digital humanities by prioritising their
        inclusion in future research projects/bids.
    •   Seek to increase and diversify our funding sources of innovative research. As well as
        collaborating with internal and external colleagues to develop projects addressing the
        thematic priorities of the AHRC, ESRC, Leverhulme and Wellcome Trusts, we shall
        encourage colleagues to formulate and participate in projects directed towards ERC/PGR
        recruitment and Horizon2020 funding (if available). Outreach work and connections
        beyond the academy will also be mined to enable applications to such bodies as the
        National Lottery Heritage Fund.
    •   Seek to increase our PGRs through focused funding applications, including Collaborative
        Doctoral Awards including our links to the British Museum. We also intend to add to and
        nurture PhD students through continued participation in the AHRC South, West and
        Wales Doctoral Training Partnership (SWW DTP), where History provides institutional
        leadership (Foxley), and internal funding/bursary opportunities. Equally, interested

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         undergraduates will be encouraged towards postgraduate study through our two taught
         MA courses (History and GCMS) with clear pathways to PhD study.
     • Continue to extend our leadership of and participation in existing and new national and
         international research networks. In addition, we strive to grow local and regional
         opportunities for collaboration by affirming connections with Cliveden House (National
         Trust), Reading Abbey (Reading Museum) and the University of Reading’s Museum of
         English Rural Life.
     • Encourage engagement with non-academic audiences in our research and teaching. As
         well as promoting the prestigious annual Stenton Lecture and its associated workshops
         comprising invited speakers, members of the division and PGRs, we will build on the
         successful public lectures given by colleagues in History (see section four).
 Continue to publish our research with high-quality presses and in high-quality journals, while
 also engaging proactively with Open Access. Good practice has already been demonstrated by
 the open-access publication of monographs by, for example, Deb Roy and Newton, and of
 chapters within edited books as by Lawrence. For the future, important monographs are already
 in preparation for publication after 2020, the development of which will be reviewed and
 supported by the division’s research committee. These efforts are supported by an institutional
 Open Access Monograph Fund where Newton is the institutional academic representative,
 further demonstrating our leadership and commitment in this area.
 Impact will be a central component of our sustainable forward planning. As noted above,
 resources and effort have been put into developing impact in the current REF cycle and
 preparing the ground for the next. As well as termly meetings between the division’s Impact
 Lead, Research Division Leader and Heritage & Creativity Impact Development Officer,
 workshops have already been held to identify impact potential amongst colleagues’ research
 and to support individuals. So, for example, the rich impact possibilities of Rezk’s work have
 been subject to an intensive day-workshop to assess the scope for impact. Funds have been
 provided for relevant training courses and the means for impact capture provided. Given that our
 recruitment strategy was developed with impact in mind, embryonic impact case studies among
 our newest and ECR colleagues are in development. These emergent studies – relating to
 maritime history and women in Britain’s coalfield communities – are mentored by the Impact
 Lead and Impact Development Officer.

 At a general level, and with more detail given in Section four, colleagues in history seek to
 collaborate and co-create research, disseminate their work and generate impact through:

    •   Contributing to civil society and cultural life via public lectures, websites, social media,
        consultancies, exhibitions, blogs and media contributions.
    •   Engaging in policy-making and related debates. For example, Oliva is part of the UKRI-
        AHTC 2020 Engaging with Government scheme, submitting evidence to the inquiry on
        environmental diplomacy and developing a policy paper.
    •   Working with community groups and creativity partners.

 Such activity is generated by mentoring pathways to impact as part of the division’s termly
 research meetings. Reflections on impact and impact potential form part of the individual
 research plans drawn up by colleagues each year and submitted to the Research Division
 Leader. All staff attend the yearly impact workshops organised within the division and School. As
 outlined below, funds are available to develop impact potential via the University’s Building
 Outstanding Impact Support Programme (BOISP). In between times, colleagues are encouraged
 to record and reflect on the impact generated by their research. This can then be discussed
 within research meetings or presented in the form of blogs and podcasts designed to
 disseminate research and generate interest.




                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and staff development
 History currently has 20 academic staff of which 9 are professors, 9 associate professors and 2
 lecturers. Our recruitment priority since 2014 has been to invest in the next generation of
 scholars and embed both equality and diversity into the division. To this end, 7 of our 8 newest
 full-time appointees since REF2014 have been early career researchers (ECR). Such a strategy
 has allowed the division to expand the breadth of its coverage in international and non-European
 history whilst also renewing and extending existing fields (American, Early Modern, Modern
 British) in innovative ways via a focus on gender and post-colonial history. Simultaneously,
 senior members of staff have committed to providing research leadership across the clusters
 and mentoring new and ECR colleagues. The success of our approach to appointing ECRs is
 further evidenced by their rapid career progression: six of our ECRs have been promoted to
 Associate Professor in this period.

 To determine new appointments, we identify emergent research fields and either correlate
 these with present strengths in the division or consider how they may add benefit to our research
 profile and potential. The appointments made in the current cycle have enabled us to rejuvenate
 prevailing research themes and develop emergent interests in health humanities and gender
 history. Between them, our 8 post-2014 appointees produced 7 monographs, 3 edited
 collections, 19 articles and 15 book chapters. Two are Co-Is on AHRC projects; another holds a
 prestigious Wellcome Trust University Award; one has recently won a Leverhulme Research
 Fellowship and another leads an impact case study for the division.

 More generally, a commitment to equality and diversity may be recognised in the division’s
 composition, with colleagues ranging across social and national contexts. Comprising 13 female
 and 7 male colleagues, a quarter of the division were born outside the UK, including 2 BAME
 and 3 European colleagues. Female colleagues have, in the current REF-cycle, held leading
 positions relevant to the division (Head of School, Head of Department, Research Division
 Leader, Director of Postgraduate Studies, School and Department Director of Teaching &
 Learning) and run various research centres and groups (Graduate Centre of Medieval Studies,
 Health Humanities, Monroe Group). Balance across all the division’s committees and practices
 are ensured and maintained by the Head of Department in consultation with colleagues. Among
 postgraduates, History saw 50 people start PhDs in History and Medieval Studies since January
 2014. Ten of these were externally funded (9 x AHRC, 1 x Wellcome; 8 women, 2 men). Of the
 50, 33 were women and 17 were men. Including our rising number of MA students, History has
 seen more BAME and Transgender students continue their studies at Reading.

 Equality and diversity has driven our recruitment, promotion and management strategy,
 moving to ensure a balanced department in terms of leadership, support and workload. Such
 processes of staff mentoring and development are under constant review, both in relation to
 probation and personal titles procedure, and for sessional and temporary staff whose career and
 personal development needs are often under-recognised. All staff have undertaken on-line
 training in equality and diversity. Two History colleagues have chaired the School’s Athena
 Swan Committee and another is the School’s Diversity and Inclusion Lead (Schmidt). Two
 female colleagues from History have benefitted from the Aurora Programme (a national
 Women’s Leadership Development Programme) and members of the division have applied to
 the University’s Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives Fund to support such events as the Society for
 the History of American Women (SHAW) annual conference in July 2019. The Stenton Lecture
 for 2021 is to be delivered by one of the co-authors of the Royal Historical Society’s report on
 ‘Race, Ethnicity and Equality in UK History’ (Sadiah Qureshi). Through exhibitions, blog posts
 and other initiatives, colleagues engage with Black History Month, the Women’s History Month
 and the LGBT History Month, highlighting the division’s commitment to researching and teaching
 related histories. More generally, the School’s application for an Athena Bronze Award was
 submitted in November 2020 (awaiting result) and preparations for the REF included courses on
 unconscious bias and regular appraisal of the planned submission between the UoA Lead and
 the Research Division Leader. Throughout, History engaged with the development and

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 implementation of the University’s Code of Practice for REF. We communicated transparently to
 colleagues with regards to REF processes. Our process for outputs selection followed the
 provisions established in the Code, including self and peer review in line with the University-wide
 peer review system (ROSS). Our selection aims at optimising for quality whilst being mindful of
 equality and diversity issues. The University carried out an interim Equality Impact Assessment
 in 2020, and bias analysis for our final pool in 2021. No statistically significant differences for
 protected characteristics in our selections where identified through these processes.

 With regard to the REF 2021 submission, History embraced and adhered to the University’s
 Code of Practice. This set out ways to guarantee the UoA submission was transparent,
 consistent and inclusive. To do this, attention was paid to equality and diversity issues, ensuring
 that the peer review process was both comprehensive and transparent. All research outputs
 were treated equally in terms of how they were peer-reviewed and how the reviews were
 recorded and relayed to colleagues. All outputs were assessed through peer assessment, then
 discussed with the respective colleague. Agreed scores were reviewed by the UoA Lead and
 Research Division Leader, with decisions as to what was submitted (and kept as reserve items)
 was based purely on the quality assessments maintained by ROSS. An interim Equality Impact
 Assessment report carried out at University level and looking at mock data, showed no
 statistically significant differences across the UoA, providing us with confidence that our
 processes were effective.

 Collegiality is important at Reading; we are a collaborative division working together to ensure
 the best for students, each other and the University. An Operating Plan is reviewed annually
 alongside a Five-Year Vision Plan, both of which are developed by the Research Division
 Leader in consultation with the Research Dean. Mentoring of the Research Division Leader is
 supplied by the Research Dean, following a code of practice developed for the Arts and
 Humanities to grow research leadership. Within the division, all new colleagues and especially
 ECRs receive a comprehensive and supportive induction, with an appointed mentor and
 reduced teaching and administrative load in their first year. Seed-corn funding for research
 initiatives and external training is provided (as with Oliva’s development of the Monroe Group)
 and for work with impact potential (as with Rezk’s projects on security and social media). The
 three-year probationary period is tailored by our staff development policy and complemented by
 detailed annual reviews by the Head of School. ECRs are integral to our research culture, being
 involved in the peer-review of both research outputs and draft grant bids. Committees
 throughout the department are organised to ensure they are gender-balanced and reflect the
 division as a whole.

 Across History, colleagues attend termly divisional research meetings and twice-yearly individual
 Personal Research Planning (PRP) meetings. These are run by the Research Division Leader
 in conjunction with the REF Unit of Assessment and Impact lead(s). Staff are encouraged to
 think holistically about their research as comprising three inter-related elements (outputs,
 external grant capture and impact/public engagement). Medium and long-term research plans
 are discussed in the PRP meetings alongside funding possibilities, impact potential, projected
 publications and possible collaborations. The subsequent PRP report then feeds into an annual
 staff review meeting with the Head of department and balanced against teaching and
 administrative responsibilities. Annual research and impact days are also held, both to showcase
 work and discuss future planning.

 Impact, both in the division and via support from the centrally directed Building Outstanding
 Impact Support Programme (BOISP), is nurtured and encouraged at all levels. From 2014, every
 new research project is discussed in terms of impact potential with practical support offered by
 BOISP. In the current REF-cycle, BOISP provided £26,000 of support for History. In addition,
 Division and School funds are made available to support impact initiatives and study leave is
 directed to enable the fulfilment of impact-related activity.

 Support for developing grant applications and advice on ethics comes for the University’s
 Research & Enterprise Service (RES) in accordance with University policy, with large grants

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 peer-reviewed through the Heritage & Creativity Grant Development College (on which History is
 well-represented). Both large and small grant applications are peer-reviewed within the division
 and worked up in conjunction with RES and the Research Impact Officer for Heritage &
 Creativity. All colleagues on internal research leave in Humanities are required to meet with our
 research grants manager and develop submissions for external funding. The University’s
 Heritage & Creativity theme and Research Endowment Trust Fund (RETF) provide ‘pump-
 priming’ to nurture new grant bids and enable conference participation, with funds also accessed
 via the Research Travel Grant Scheme (RTGS). The University-wide Research Fellowship
 Scheme facilitates additional research leave outside the rota system, for which History
 colleagues (e.g Deb Roy) has successfully applied. Finally, research plays a significant part in
 promotion procedures (alongside funding applications and impact generation), for which all
 fixed- and part-time staff may apply annually. Fifteen promotions have been supported and
 successfully awarded over the REF-cycle. Discussion of and encouragement to apply is
 facilitated through the Personal Research Planning meetings held with the Research Division
 Lead and UoA lead. Mentors are appointed to ECRs to advise on applications in accord with
 recognised career development and achievement.

 Time for research for all staff is ensured by: i) a sabbatical rota that allows for an automatic ‘light
 term’ in every eight (there are three terms per academic year); and ii) a teaching timetable that
 guarantees every staff member one research day a week during term time.

 Research students
 Nurturing and training PhD students is fundamental to History’s research strategy at Reading.
 As part of the competitive SWW DTP process, we recruited nine AHRC-funded PhD students
 since 2014. Two AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Partnerships have been secured, working with
 the National Archives and the Royal Society. Support for doctorates has further come from the
 Wellcome Trust, with the division also funding 2 Graduate Teaching Scholarships in the current
 REF cycle. Both of these proved successful and led to the scholars securing post-doctoral
 positions at universities beyond Reading on completion.

 Outside the SWW, offers are made to prospective PhD students on the basis of academic
 record, suitable references, the quality of the proposal, supervisory interest and relevance to our
 research focus. Undergraduate and MA students constitute an important part of PhD
 recruitment, while local students and those whose employers support their PhD studies benefit
 from University-funded fee-waiver scholarships. Numbers on the History MA at Reading have
 consistently been over 25% higher than in the previous REF period, with yearly recruitment
 almost doubling between 2015 to 2020 (from 10 to 18 students). The GCMS Masters
 programme saw a modest increase over the census period.

 The division cultivates its most eager and promising undergraduates as future researchers,
 enabling History to participate in the University’s Undergraduate Research Opportunities
 Programme (UROP) to fund assistantships working with staff. History-based UROP students
 have won University prizes for the best project and presented their work at ‘Posters in
 Parliament’ in the current REF-cycle before going onto postgraduate study. Articles selected
 and/or considered for the REF submission were co-written with former UROP students and
 based on UROP projects (e.g West with Knight (2017) and West with Shearer (2019)).

 Once recruited, PhD students benefit from:

    •   A range of events and training courses held by the University Graduate School, with
        students’ individual requirements assessed by a training needs analysis.
    •   Regular supervision by the primary supervisor supported by a secondary supervisor.
    •   An annual monitoring meeting held each summer to assess progress and the quality of
        work.
    •   Divisional postgraduate groups and events including career-focused training sessions
        and a writing group for SWW-funded students.


                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Interdisciplinary cohort-wide training, thematic clusters and opportunities to edit and write
        for postgraduate journals.

 In addition to workspaces in the Graduate School and a dedicated postgraduate common room,
 offices are provided for PhD students in the division to ensure affinity and contact with staff.
 Postgraduates are welcomed into the division’s research clusters and centres to further integrate
 students and staff, from where they contribute to and initiate related seminars and conferences.
 Within the GCMS, postgraduate students gain important experience and contacts via bequests
 to enable national and international conference attendance. More generally, annual MA and PhD
 postgraduate symposiums are organised to allow students to share their research with
 colleagues in the division and across the wider postgraduate community. In 2018, Liz Barnes –
 as a second-year PhD student – gave the prestigious (and competitively-judged) University of
 Reading Fairbrother PGR Lecture; in 2020, Darius Wainwright was awarded the Society of
 Historians of American Foreign Relations’ ECR Global Scholar Award for his paper on US sports
 diplomacy in Iran in the 1950s. Teaching opportunities are afforded where possible, while
 supervisors encourage and assist towards publication in peer-reviewed journals as a means of
 preparing a competitive CV post-graduation. In this REF cycle, Reading PhD students have
 published articles in the Geographical Journal, Journal of International Communication, Journal
 of Southern History, Journal of War and Culture Studies, Patterns of Prejudice, Twentieth
 Century British History (nominated for the Duncan Tanner Prize) and Women’s History Review.
 Altogether, 50 PhDs were initiated between 2014 and 2020, with 36 completing over the census
 period.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income
 The division regards external research grant income as integral to achieving its aims,
 developing innovative projects, cultivating interdisciplinary and collaborative research, and
 disseminating research to as wide an audience as possible. Despite our relatively small size and
 the evermore competitive nature of constrained funding opportunities, colleagues in History have
 been involved as PIs or Co-Is in projects worth over £1,000,000, with money secured from each
 of the core funding bodies. Major grants awarded include: ‘Fiscal Origins of the French
 Revolution’ (ESRC: £160,000); ‘Medieval Meteorology in Context’ (AHRC: £91,500); ‘Sensing
 Sickness in Early Modern England’ (Wellcome Trust: £238,000); ‘Politics and Popular Culture in
 Egypt’ (AHRC: £80,000 of £345,000); ‘Women and the Miners’ Strike’ (AHRC: £45,500 of
 £248,000); ‘Punk, Politics and British Youth Culture; (Leverhulme Trust: £110,000); and,
 beginning in late 2020, ‘History and Politics of English Protest Music’ (£23,000 of £292,000).
 History staff served as PIs or Co-Is on three AHRC Network grants (‘Landscapes Network’,
 ‘Mothering Slaves’ and ‘Subcultures Network’) and a Leverhulme Research Fellowship for
 £55,000 was further secured to begin in late 2020 on the project ‘Virtue, Violence and Virility:
 Making Egypt's Presidents’. In addition, History colleagues received smaller awards from the
 British Academy, the British Association for American Studies, the British International Studies
 Association, the British Society for the History of Science, Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences
 Sociales, the Forum on European Expansion and Global Interaction, the Hakluyt Society, the
 Institute of Historical Research, the Royal Historical Society, the Royal Society and the US
 Embassy. Both Rezk and Willimott won British Academy Rising Star Awards, with Rezk also
 winning an AHRC New Generation Thinkers award in conjunction with the BBC.

 All colleagues engage positively in the development of external research applications. Once
 grants are awarded the division provides support through regular individual research meetings,
 reduced workload allocation and coordination with the Impact Team to manage related aspects
 of the project.

 As described in Section 2, all staff receive support to develop grant applications, through the
 theme dedicated Research Development Manager and officers, and the Impact Development
 Officer within RES. Support is accessible to all staff and tailored to meet different needs.


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Infrastructure and facilities
 History is based on Whiteknights, a campus boasting modern facilities and close proximity to
 important and well-used archival resources. Reading Library holds over 1,100,000 print books
 and some 64,250 journals across a range of packages and subscriptions and was subject to a
 £40-million refurbishment (completed 2020). Colleagues (and students) make use of the
 University’s extensive Special Collections, which hold a distinctive range of archives and objects,
 including important personal papers and social historical sources designated of ‘national
 importance’ by the Arts Council England. The Heritage Lottery funded refurbishment of the
 University Museum of English Rural Life (completed 2016), which included a member of History
 on its advisory panel (Burchardt), and was shaped around the rich archives and collections for
 rural history. Fellowships are funded by Heritage & Creativity to enable research on MERL’s
 archives, Special Collections. The Astor papers and Ladybird Book archive are two examples of
 University of Reading archives that have fuelled our research. The BBC Written Archives Centre
 at Caversham also continues to feed into research in the division (including forming the basis of
 a recent PhD and published articles by Major), while Reading is extremely well placed to allow
 researchers to access major collections in London, Oxford and elsewhere. Extensive computing
 facilities are supplemented by support from the University’s Digital Technology and Technical
 Services.

 In terms of internal financial support, the Research Endowment Trust Fund, bursaries and
 fellowships are competed for to develop grant bids and projects respectively; the Building
 Outstanding Impact Support Programme supports Impact; the Research Travel Grant Scheme
 supports travel to present at conferences. Throughout the census period, History has formed
 part of the University’s Heritage & Creativity research theme. The theme has supported research
 across nine divisions, forging partnerships with the British Museum and initiating a series of
 events and projects designed to celebrate the value of arts and humanities to people today.
 Heritage & Creativity’s work is informed by engagement with archives, material culture and
 emergent digital humanities. History has been integral to this, contributing to Reading
 International (a contemporary visual arts organisation led by the University’s School of Art), the
 Being Human festivals of 2018 and 2019, and participating on digital humanities training groups
 and projects. Crucially, Health Humanities and the Monroe Group were both developed with
 Heritage & Creativity support, including seed-corn funding and mentoring of emergent research
 leaders.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 History at Reading’s contribution to the research base, economy and society is developed from:

     •   A commitment to extending public understanding of innovative, world-leading
         research that informs the economy and society.
     •   Leading, collaborating and contributing to the research base to widen knowledge and
         maintain the highest levels of scholarly rigour.

 These contributions take a variety of forms. First, we facilitate research dialogues and
 partnerships with organisations and institutions beyond the academy, such as: Banque de
 France; Berlin Wall Memorial Foundation; Comite Scientifique; Comité pour l’Histoire
 Economique et Financière de la France; DEMOS, Global Institute for Women’s Leadership;
 Houses of Parliament (Vote100); Sir John Soane Museum; National Trust; National Coal Mining
 Museum, National Maritime Museum, Ndabaningi Sithole Foundation; Plymouth Museum, the
 Royal Society, the US Embassy, the Youth Club Archive and the Archiv der Jugendkulturen. An
 array of projects, events and publications have developed from such partnerships, both
 academic and public-facing. The interdisciplinary dimension is signalled by a Royal Society
 funded project with Planning and Real Estate to research land use decisions and collaboration
 with the University of Reading’s world-leading Department of Meteorology examining how
 weather was affected by The Blitz. Reading’s interest in gender, health and humanities ensures
 work is cited in scientific journals, as with West’s work on wet nursing.

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Second, Reading colleagues – notably ECRs – contribute to various policy committees and
 forums. In the current REF cycle, colleagues served in briefings for the Cabinet Office, Home
 Office, the Ministry of Defence, NATO and the U.S. Division of Defence, as well as contributing
 to the Speakers’ Advisory Committee on Works of Art and the Vote 100 National Programme for
 Parliament. These initiatives informed policy and briefings with regard national security and
 environmental diplomacy; they have also helped shape public awareness of both the
 anniversary of the 1918 Representation of the People Act and the first female parliamentarians.
 So, for example, Oliva is part of the UKRI-AHTC 2020 Engaging with Government scheme (on
 environmental diplomacy) and her work on BAME women in US foreign policy has received
 financial support from the British Association of American Studies. Rezk’s work on security and
 social media was developed in tandem with UROP funding and led to briefings for NATO and
 the British government. Reports on the past, present and future of the 2011 Arab Spring were
 proffered, providing historical perspectives as to the short, medium and long-term outlook for the
 Middle East.

 Third, colleagues enhance public understanding through social media, public lectures, media
 contributions and exhibitions. As well as reporting on the UoA’s research, the division’s
 History Blog engages with seasonal and prescient topics to notable success. More generally,
 social media is utilised to both disseminate research and engage with public debate. So, for
 example, our Astor100 project generated over 2,000,000 Tweets following the unveiling of Lady
 Astor’s statue in Plymouth (November 2019), while on-line footage of the Astor plaque placed at
 the House of Commons registered more than 8,000 views. One standout contribution to The
 Conversation – on ‘decolonising science’ (Deb Roy) – was read over 100,000 times and fed into
 the ‘Decolonising’ Battle of ideas at The Barbican in 2018. It has since been used in the
 Merriam-Webster dictionary as an example of how to use the word ‘decolonise’. During the
 recent Covid-19 crisis, Deb Roy was also sought out by journalists from India, the US and UK to
 comment on the controversy surrounding Hydrochloroquine (HCQ). Kate Williams (on a
 Teaching-intensive contract but supported to develop ways of promoting and disseminating
 research) has advised, presented and collaborated on an array of public and media-centred
 events relating to constitutional matters. Colleagues regularly give public lectures, including
 Turner’s International Women’s Day Lecture to Parliament 2019 and Major’s ‘Space Blitz:
 Discovering the hidden impact of WWII bombing raids’ (February 2019). The annual Stenton
 lecture remains a prestigious and celebratory occasion for the University, attracting large public
 audiences for renowned speakers complementing our research clusters (e.g Professor Steve
 Smith (‘revolutions’) and Professor Nicholas Vincent (‘emotion, devotion’)). Finally, History
 colleagues work with community groups and creativity partners that range from the Moxie Brawl
 dance troupe working in schools to the Allotment association and individual artists such as Kate
 Corder, Scott King, David Lisser.

 Fourth, the division champions digital humanities, both with regard to dissemination and
 project design. Digital projects within the division include Nancy Astor and the centenary of
 female suffrage; CIRCLE (a Calendar of Irish Chancery Letters); the feminist Red Rag journal
 (funded by Amiel and Melburn Trust); the Berlin Wall (Digital Berlin); a digital exhibition on
 enslaved women with the College of Charleston’s Lowcountry Digital History Initiative; Modelling
 Sino-American rapprochement with the History Lab at Columbia University, New York; mapping
 the New York Trade Far with the New York Historical Society (City Diplomacy); and a
 collaboration with the Youth Club Archive to develop a timely ‘virtual museum’ (and, eventually,
 a ‘physical’ museum) of youth culture. Of particular note is Rezk’s Social Listening project which
 developed qualitative methods to understand digital cultures in the past, present and future. This
 led to a British Academy Rising Star award and complemented work comprising social media
 workshops to provide unique training programmes for postgraduate students and ECRs. The
 project also enabled discussion between academics and practitioners using social media data to
 promote collaboration between sectors as diverse at the Mathematics Division at Reading, the
 Metropolitan Police, the Cabinet Office and Bloomberg. A digital archive – ‘Politics, Popular
 Culture and the 2011 Egyptian Revolution’ – has also been launched to engage with researchers
 and students.

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Fifth, Collaborative Doctoral Partnerships combine research with opportunities for PGRs to
 gain invaluable experience and contribute to the research infrastructure. Reading currently holds
 two collaborative doctoral awards: with the Royal Academy (Stack) on ‘Eugenics and the Royal
 Society, 1860-1950' and the National Archives (Blakemore) on ‘Prosecuting Piracy in Peacetime:
 Crime, Empire, and the High Court of Admiralty, 1607–18’. In both cases, the student gains work
 experience, including the provision of new digital resources and participating in media
 engagement and outreach work.

 With regard to the research base, History at Reading leads and collaborates on several
 international and national collaborative projects, many of which are interdisciplinary. These
 include: American Studies Network (EISU); AveTransRisk (Exeter); Codex Corner (Birmingham);
 The Contractor State (Navarra); La construcción de las haciendas hispánicas y francesa(s)
 (Institut Universitaire de France); Keep it Simple, Make it Fast (Porto); Legacies of the
 Enlightenment (Michigan State University); Les transfers culturels dans les mondes normands
 médiévaux viii-xiiie siècles (Caen); Mothering Slaves (Newcastle and Sao Paulo); Ordered
 Universe (Durham); Reassessing the roles of Women as ‘Makers’ of Medieval Art and
 Architecture (Madrid); Re-evaluating 1958 (University of Beirut); S. Maria della Pace (Rome);
 Subcultures Network (Reading) and Translating Cultures (Warwick/Glasgow).

 Such projects attract international researchers to Reading and feed into networks that initiate
 and support events across the world. To this end, we have organised and hosted several
 international conferences/symposiums over the current REF-cycle, including: the American
 Politics Group Annual Conference (2016); the BrANCH-HOTCUS annual conference (2014); the
 Fifteenth Century Conference (2018); Folklore Society Conference (2018); Mothering Slaves
 (2016); Society for the History of Women in the Americas (2019); Subcultures Network (2018).
 Beyond Reading, colleagues contributed to the staging of international events on subjects
 relating to: DIY Cultures (KISMIF, Porto); Paris Archaeology (Sorbonne); Social Media (British
 Academy); US History (US Embassy).

 The division’s research culture is given expression in thematic research seminars, at which
 papers from internal and external colleagues are given approximately every other week. In the
 REF cycle, notable speakers invited to engage with and complement the division’s research
 focus have included Prof Maria Luisa Maggioni (Milan), Prof Larry Neal (Illinois), Carl Miller
 (Demos), Prof Patrick O’Brien (LSE) and Prof Richard Sharpe (Oxford). Regular symposiums
 are hosted by the GCMS, which also continues to host the peer-reviewed Reading Medieval
 Studies journal, while the biennial EMRC conference has become a renowned international
 gathering for early modern scholars. In addition, the third and final AHRC-funded Mothering
 Slaves conference brought to Reading scholars from the US, Brazil, the Caribbean, continental
 Europe and the UK, following which the Second International Conference of the Subcultures
 Network (2018) comprised scholars and guest speakers from both sides of the Atlantic, Europe
 and Asia. Covid-19 obviously disrupted our approach. However, we immediately switched to a
 virtual seminar format, enabling a variety of international speakers and audience members to
 partake in on-line seminars.

 Staff regularly present their research in lectures and conference papers, with all members of
 History giving invited lectures during the census period. A selective list of international keynote
 addresses includes those presented at: Carleton College, Minnesota; Charles University Prague;
 the French Ministry of Finance; the House of Commons; Lebanon Valley College, Annville; the
 Norwegian Academy; University of Geneva; University of Porto. Prestigious UK-based keynotes
 at international conferences were also given e.g. the Peter Parish Memorial Lecture.

 We are members and fellows of a range of national and international subject associations, and
 colleagues have served during the census period on the boards/committees of the: Allen
 Brown Memorial Trust for Anglo-Norman Studies; American Politics Group; AQA; British
 Archaeological Association; British Association for American Studies; British International
 Studies Association; Commission historique de la Banque de France; Historical Association;

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 History UK; Institute of Historical Research; International Studies Association; Socialist History
 Society; Southern Historical Association. A number of funded visiting fellowships and
 secondments were also received since 2014, including from Archbishop Marsh’s Library,
 Dublin; Harvard University; John Hopkins University; Kentucky Historical Society; the Robert H.
 Smith International Center for Jefferson Studies, Monticello, Virginia; Rothermere American
 Institute, Oxford; Università di Tor Vergata; University of Rome.

 The division contributes to the discipline through extensive participation in peer review,
 internationally and nationally, as members of peer review panels for the Agenzia Nazionale di
 Valutazione del Sistema Universitario e della Ricerca, AHRC and ESRC. Colleagues more
 generally assessed funding applications for the AHRC, British Academy, ESRC, Leverhulme
 Trust, the Research Foundation Flanders and KU Leuven (Belgium).

 At the level of publication, colleagues at Reading served as editors, advisors and reviewers of
 numerous book proposals and manuscripts. Among the book series edited by members of the
 division are: British Association for American Studies Paperbacks (Edinburgh University Press);
 Communist Lives (Bloomsbury); History of Subcultures and Popular Music (Palgrave Macmillan);
 Intelligence Studies (Anthem Press). Across the division, staff reviewed manuscripts for UK-
 based and international publishers, including Cambridge University Press, Edinburgh University
 Press, Manchester University Press, McGill-Queen’s University Press, Oxford University Press,
 University of Mississippi Press, University Press of Kentucky, as well as for Bloomsbury,
 Palgrave, Routledge and others.

 The division makes a major contribution towards the shaping of journal content through fulfilling
 roles as journal editors, peer-reviewers and members of editorial boards. Between 2014
 and 2020, colleagues served as editors for Architectural History, American Historical Review,
 British Journal for the History of Science Themes, Punk & Post-Punk, South Asian History and
 Culture and Twentieth Century Communism, as well as editing distinct ‘special issues’ of Britain
 and the World, Comparative Studies of South Asia, Africa and the Middle East, Contemporary
 British History and Women’s History Review. Throughout the census period, Reading colleagues
 peer-reviewed articles for an array of international journals that reflect the division’s research
 specialisms, including African Studies Review, American Historical Review, Canadian Journal of
 History, Critical African Studies, English Historical Review, Gender and History, Gesta, Historical
 Journal, History Journal of American History, Journal of British Studies, Journal of Medieval
 Studies, Journal of Southern History, Renaissance Quarterly, Speculum, Tradition, Twentieth
 Century British History, William and Mary Quarterly and Women’s History Review.

 Senior staff contributed to the assessment of promotions to chairs and other positions at
 several universities, including Flinders University, Australia; Indiana University, US; Rice
 University, US; University of Cologne, Germany; University of Regina, Canada; University of
 Toronto, Canada; University of Waterloo, Canada; Vassar College, New York, as well as for
 numerous universities across the UK. They have also contributed to external examining of PhD
 candidates both in the UK and overseas (including France, Italy, Pakistan and Taiwan).




                                                                                             Page 12
