Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Warwick

 Unit of Assessment: C23 Education

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and structure
 We believe that to influence the education system, and the outcomes of individuals within it,
 education research must comprehensively address all aspects of the system. Our researchers
 take into account both formal and informal contexts for learning: schools, universities,
 workplaces and other sites in which teaching and learning occurs. This also extends beyond
 classrooms to other contexts in which learning and teaching happen: the life worlds of teachers
 and learners, the needs of learners, the nature of learners’ future lives and the resources
 needed to support teaching and learning. Our research includes training, development and
 practice of a range of professionals, and policy development and implementation; and
 fundamentally includes impact, which evaluates and informs these areas of practice. We
 undertake research from early years to adulthood, including participants who are typically
 developing and those with special educational needs (SEN) and disabilities (SEND), and
 parents/carers. Our research is characterised by many disciplinary interactions including
 linguistics, psychology, sociology, economics, philosophy, and health sciences. It is substantial,
 comprising 148 externally funded projects during REF2021, value >£34.12 million, with Warwick
 income of >£5.26 million; and 177 doctorates.

 The Education UoA, Faculty of Social Sciences, comprises two academic departments
 (Education Studies, DES: 17, 16fte researchers and Applied Linguistics, AL: 17, 16.73fte), plus
 a separate well-established (1987) research centre (Centre for Educational Development,
 Appraisal and Research, CEDAR: 12, 9.9fte). The Education UoA comprises 47 REF eligible
 staff, including one from Warwick Medical School (WMS), total 43.63fte plus two past staff: 12
 professors, 5 Readers, 15 Associate Professors, 7 Assistant Professors, 1 Principal Research
 Fellow, 4 Senior Research Fellows, 3 Research Fellows. We also have non-REF: 3 Research
 Assistants, 5 Honorary Professors and 7 Honorary Research Fellows who bring additional
 expertise to research studies and PhD supervision. Four staff are in Stanford University’s global
 list of the top 2% of the world’s scientists: Francis, Hastings, Lindsay and Spencer-Oatey.

 The three departments are independent, separately answerable to the University (e.g. line
 management, 5-year financial planning) and each has specific research interests and strengths.
 However, we share research values, philosophies and aims, including commitment to high
 quality ethical research, and respect for equality and diversity. Each department has a Director
 of Research and Impact (DoRI: DES has separate DoRI/DoI roles) who oversee all research and
 impact activity. We meet at least twice a term as the Education Research and Impact Committee
 comprising the DoRIs and Heads of Departments (HoDs) to consider our overall research and
 impact plans and activities, including REF. Research and scholarship are further supported
 across the UoA through designated research committees (DES and AL) and in CEDAR,
 because it is smaller and wholly research/impact focused, by the twice-termly whole-staff
 meetings. These departmental committees have oversight of the development of research
 strategy, procedures, and cultures, eg mentoring for all early career researchers (ECRs) and
 peer review of developing publications. They benefit from the inclusion of staff at all levels,
 including experienced, internationally recognised researchers and scholars, alongside newly
 emerging researchers, supporting and shaping innovative, forward-looking research strategies.
 We hold annual doctoral research conferences, including both doctoral research presentations

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and keynotes by expert contributors for c60 students (DES); weekly research seminars and a
 biannual research forum for all staff (AL); programmes of research seminars reporting both our
 own research and external speakers aimed at both Education and other staff across the Faculty
 and the Faculty of Science and Medicine (CEDAR).

 1.2 Research strategy and objectives
 Research strategy across the UoA builds on the same fundamental elements of
 interdisciplinarity, national and international collaboration and extended partnerships. Following
 the 2013 disestablishment of Warwick Institute of Education, planned hub-and-spoke
 development was continued, supported by new professors and ECRs. This comprised
 collaborations between DES (hub) and other departments (spokes) that overlap with Education
 subdisciplines, (CEDAR, Psychology, WMS, Economics, Sociology, Law, and Theatre,
 Performance Studies). AL diversified its research focus to include a stronger base for linguistics
 and qualitative research. AL’s research objectives have evolved to fit emerging directions in
 applied linguistics with a focus on language, learning and teaching, language teacher education
 and development, working, relating, and adapting across cultures, professional and workplace
 communication, discourse analysis, and language structure, variation and change. AL’s
 research profile as part of the Education UoA includes research in descriptive linguistics and
 sociolinguistics. This work on the description and use of language is an integral part of AL’s
 research approach that seeks to integrate research on languages and their use with applications
 in educational contexts. Specific outputs of five staff working in these areas (Angouri, File,
 Schnurr, Smith-Dennis and Strelluf) will be cross-referred to UoA26.

 CEDAR developed its SEND focus, as predicted following Hastings’ appointment (end of
 REF2014) to the Cerebra Chair in Family Research in CEDAR, by substantially extending our
 research on intellectual disability (ID) and autism, and methodological strengths including
 randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and systematic reviews. This brought new researchers and
 collaborations, and consequently new research objectives developed over REF2021 in all
 strategic domains. Research strands continuing from REF2014 future objectives include
 parenting support, families, early intervention, and SEND policy.

 Interdisciplinary research and impact
 Our common strategy now and going forward (see Objectives) is based primarily on
 interdisciplinary collaboration and a focus on applied research, with impact on a range of
 beneficiaries. Researchers in the Education UoA come from a range of disciplinary
 backgrounds. In addition to education itself, these include psychology, linguistics, applied
 linguistics, religious studies, economics, philosophy, and sociology and these researchers work
 together on related projects. The broad focus of education research, and the grouping of
 researchers with diverse disciplinary backgrounds within Education, embeds interdisciplinarity
 within the structure of our research. Our mentoring of ECRs, two supervisor system of
 supervision for PhD students, and seminar series also support interdisciplinarity.

 We work with researchers from within and outside education to develop research projects, eg
 WMS for studies of parenting programmes and mental health, also including partners (providers,
 local authorities (LAs)) outside of the university, eg practitioners. We are international in our
 outlook, including research partnerships and implementation, both within Warwick’s international
 agenda (Monash-Warwick partnership, with Monash University in Australia; Eutopia, with six
 European universities. REF5a-2.12.1) and our own specific agenda. For example, AL staff are
 involved in international collaborations on the history of language teaching and learning and


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 intercultural mediation that bring together applied linguists, historians, sociologists and
 anthropologists.

 Our research addresses issues that typically can only be carried out successfully by teams of
 members from different disciplines: eg in the arts, drama specialists work with social scientists to
 undertake applied research with organisations such as the Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC),
 Artis and the Coventry City of Culture. Religious education research has benefitted from
 psychology. In SEND, partners include SEN practitioners. eg educators, educational
 psychologists; Voluntary and Community Services (VCSs), eg Autism Education Trust, and
 Communication Trust to support staff development; and special schools, to develop curricula
 and pupils’ behaviour through our research. Economists have benefited large-scale
 effectiveness trials. in examining cost effectiveness of disagreement resolution under the
 Education Act 2014, and both universal parenting programmes (CANparent), and those
 specifically for parents of children with ID (EPAtS). This varied research is also characterised by
 producing strong impact.

 Research objectives require the use a wide range of methods including quantitative, qualitative
 and combined (mixed) methods, largely driven within major themes but also with space for
 individual scholarship, including theoretical and conceptual development research. This range of
 disciplinary and methodological expertise produces rich, creative and value-enhanced
 combinations to address complex research. Overall, we collaborate with 13 Warwick
 departments/disciplines on interdisciplinary studies, and extensively with other universities, UK
 and overseas, and non-HEI partners, eg LAs, VCSs.

 Our research and impact programmes are built around four main themes; Learning, Society,
 Cultures and Special Educational Needs and Disabilities (SEND) within the superordinate
 theme of Inclusion. Research is often related to two or more themes. Our objectives are
 frequently interdisciplinary and require a range of research methods and theoretical/conceptual
 approaches. Objectives also vary with respect to focus on policy, practice, fundamental research
 questions, or combinations of these.

 Within Learning we have researched the use of technology for learning (Hammond), early
 years’ education (Palikara), childhood (Wyness), language learning and teaching (Liddicoat,
 Mann, McConachy, Murray, Pinter, R Smith, Ushioda, Wharton) and parenting support
 (Lindsay, MA Cullen, Hartas); educational leadership and development (including South Africa,
 Moorosi); language teacher development (Mann, R Smith); and philosophy of mind and
 thought (Williams).

 The Society strand takes a critical approach exploring subjects at the intersection of society with
 education, including race and racism, gender and intersectionality (Warmington, Henderson),
 ranging around social and economic inequalities, to the development of well-being and access
 for all: eg, the educational needs of young refugees (Wyness), academic mobilities
 (Henderson), STEM skills shortages (E Smith), further and higher education, and national and
 international contexts (Morris, Henderson, Warmington). We maintained an international
 profile for innovative research within religious education within schools and faith communities;
 and the public and social significances of religions and theologies, including ways in which
 young people negotiate religious and cultural diversity, the effectiveness of Anglican secondary
 schools, and students’ perceptions of the distinctiveness of Anglican primary schools within the
 state-maintained sector in Wales (Francis).



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cultures research explores subjects at the intersection of arts, cultures, religious education and
 related fields. In drama education we researched the RSC‘s Associated Schools programme and
 local communities, including the Canley Youth Theatre oral history project (Turner-King,
 Winston) and Artis’s training to enhance creativity for Hyundai workers in South Korea
 (Lindsay). Warwick is a key research partner in Coventry City of Culture 2021: Neelands,
 Academic Lead for the Monitoring and Evaluation, now Warwick Business School (and DES),
 with Education researchers Turner-King, Hammond, Wyness, R Smith, Strelluf) leading five
 projects. Studies of language teacher development and practice include teacher adaptation to
 different cultures, (R Smith, Mann, Murray, Liddicoat) and intercultural issues in international
 education (Spencer-Oatey, Dauber), both the foci of impact case studies; and descriptive
 linguistics and sociolinguistics: professional and workplace communication (Dauber, Spencer-
 Oatey, Schnurr, Angouri, File). Other research includes language structure, variation and
 change (Strelluf, Smith-Denis).

 SEND research objectives include nature of and needs associated with different SEN including
 cognitive, behavioural, communication, and educational abilities; intersectionality of SEN with
 demographic factors (eg ethnicity) and comparative studies of children with ASD and those with
 speech, language and communication needs (SLCN: Lindsay, Palikara); studies of the
 effectiveness of interventions, including feasibility and randomised controlled trials (RCTs:
 Hastings, Totsika, Gray, Langdon, Grindle). We evaluated the development of the national
 scheme for training the education workforce about autism (S Cullen, Lindsay, MA Cullen), and
 the transition of pupils with autism from school to post-16 (MA Cullen, S Cullen, Lindsay,
 Totsika). Policy research included a DfE-funded study of disagreement resolution for parents of
 children with SEN: our report was mandated to be presented to Parliament to inform the
 Government’s implementation of the Children and Families Act 2014 (MA Cullen Lindsay,
 Totsika); and research on families of children with SEN (Langley). Our early intervention
 evaluation of A Better Start, led by Barlow (Director, WMS) and CEDAR (Lindsay, Co-Director,
 MA Cullen, S Cullen) influenced practice in five very deprived areas. Our formative evaluation
 helped to shape development of the Early Intervention Foundation (Lindsay, Cullen, Totsika).

 Since REF2014 we have built strategically on our previous experience with large-scale parenting
 intervention trials, bringing RCT expertise of researchers in both health (Gray, Hastings,
 Langdon) and education (Hastings, Morris, E Smith). These projects typically require large-
 scale academic partnerships across multiple universities, methodology experts (including
 specialist trials units, health economists); and development of feasibility and pilot testing
 projects, ultimately leading to definitive effectiveness RCTs. Effectiveness trials have examined
 reading, behaviour challenges, parenting skills, (Denne, Hastings, Lindsay); systematic
 reviews included measures of well-being and mental health (Flynn). We conducted discourse
 analysis (Angouri, File, Liddicoat, Wharton, Schnurr); analysis of large datasets including
 cohort studies, eg the Millennium Cohort Study (Bailey, Hartas), British Cohort Study (E Smith)
 and National Pupil Database (Morris); interviews (Wyness) and focus groups (MA Cullen);
 questionnaire surveys (S Cullen, Morris); autoethnography (Henderson, Turner-King), and
 historical and policy research (Warmington).


 Objectives for the next 5 years: We expect topics to remain relatively stable, given our
 research development agenda and staff appointments during REF2021, eg ID, autism and
 mental health, psychology and education, social policy and education, and in education and
 social justice. We will develop further our extensive interdisciplinary collaborations with
 universities and VCSs, eg within applied linguistics (British Council); ID and autism (Cerebra,

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Royal Mencap Society (RMS)); SLCN (Communication Trust, Royal College of Speech and
 Language Therapists, ICAN); parenting support (Triple P, Family Lives) from design to
 implementation and dissemination; with explicit purpose of undertaking scientifically strong
 research with direct and indirect impact. We will develop further the process whereby successful
 collaborations lead to research, to impact through dissemination, training, and/or policy
 development, and then to further research (see our impact case studies). We will also continue
 theoretical and conceptual development, and both mono- and interdisciplinary research. AL will
 continue to develop collaborations with providers in the field of English language education and
 intercultural education. These activities have already generated significant collaborations,
 especially in impact work, and AL aims to extend such relations to develop further both impact
 and research opportunities.

 1.3 Impact
 Our strong research environment, supported by our fundamental commitment to applied
 interdisciplinary research, enhances vitality and sustainability. Experienced senior
 researchers provide mentoring and hands-on experience, collaborating with ECRs and PhD
 students to develop commitment to impact, This lays the foundation in terms of interest and
 attitude leading to increased knowledge and skills, as interdisciplinary publications and impact
 of our studies are acknowledged by beneficiaries. Fundamentally, we enable impact because
 our research is designed to build understanding of the education system to inform and effect
 positive change for individuals, families and educational contexts; is in collaboration with key
 stakeholders and is international in scope; and explicitly facilitates implementation to produce
 powerful impact, during the research and/or through further collaborative work to embed
 research findings.

 Impact is culturally embedded within Education and achieved through, i) Planned pathways from
 research questions, through development with collaborators and stakeholders (including with eg
 parents and people with ID), measurement of change, and continuing post-project engagement
 with funders and stakeholders leading to impact. This includes dissemination and training and,
 particularly, changes in policy and/or practice on the basis of the research. ii) Working
 purposefully to build up collaborations, led by the departments’ DoRIs, which benefit research,
 policy and practice with a range of partners. These methods are themselves supported by, iii)
 the overall UoA commitment to undertaking impactful research; iv) University and faculty
 provision including Impact Officers who provide training to develop skills and direct practical
 support (eg data collection); v) funding, including four ESRC Impact Acceleration Account
 initiatives, which supported our impact case studies; University Public Engagement and
 Delivering Results funding; vi) and recognition of individuals’ impact development and
 achievement, eg in promotions.

 Ensuring vitality and sustainability is exemplified by our case studies, which demonstrate
 our strategies to develop staff and produce high quality initiatives. Strategies include: developing
 teams; engaging staff, including ECRs, in long-term collaborations with beneficiaries; including
 mentoring in impact as well as research; international impact studies; active engagement with
 beneficiaries; varied forms of impact including quantitative analysis, creative dissemination (eg
 conferences, videos, blogs). Examples from case studies include: fostering long-term (14 years),
 relationships with VCS providers, programme developers (Lindsay, MA Cullen, Parenting
 support case study); senior academics working alongside and mentoring junior staff, (Hastings
 mentoring Denne, Positive Behaviour Support Academy, PBS); working with universities
 implementing the Key Performance Indicator tool, developed to enable universities to profile
 their internationalisation, and developing international implementation (Spencer-Oatey, Dauber

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Global Education Planner); R Smith, Ushioda and Pinter working with the British Council to
 introduce a scheme increasing teacher motivation via teacher-inquiry in low income countries
 (Latin America, India and Nepal); membership of VCS boards and committees (Hastings, Royal
 Mencap Society). These strategies assisted: development of the PBS Academy, a unique model
 of working directly with stakeholders to co-produce resources, which has changed the
 understanding and delivery of behaviour support among practitioners, and informed government
 policy (Hastings, Denne); working directly with LAs and parenting programme providers,
 providing evidence and support to benefit parents and children (Lindsay, MA Cullen, Totsika).
 But our impact focus goes beyond our case studies, eg engagement with the Council of Europe
 and the Inter-European Commission on Church & School (Francis).

 1.4 Open research environment
 We are in progress towards open science, reflecting the changing national and international
 context and the development of Warwick’s policy (REF5a-2.10), including the Warwick Research
 Archive Portal, our institutional repository; adoption of the Leiden Manifesto and Wellcome Trust
 open access policy. Our activity is informed by Warwick’s policies regarding publications and
 data sharing, which are evolving towards greater open science: eg membership of publisher
 subscription schemes. Individuals have become engaged in this major development, eg Lindsay
 was invited by Frontiers, one of the largest open access publishers, to be Chief Editor, Frontiers
 in Education: Special Educational Needs. AL has supported the open access journal English
 Language Teacher Education and Development, launched from Warwick (1995). We
 increasingly publish in major publishers’ open access journals, eg BMC Psychology, BMC Public
 Health, Frontiers in Education, Frontiers in Psychology, BMJ Open. Also, Education staff
 contribute to Warwick’s engagements with national debate.

 1.5 Support for a culture of research integrity
 Research integrity is supported at both the university and departmental level, (REF5a-2.11), as a
 fundamental characteristic of all Education researchers’ practice: i.e., ethical research is integral
 to thinking about and practising research – not just compliance with protocols. At University
 level, all research must comply with the UK Concordat to Support Research Inquiry (2019) and
 must receive ethical approval, normally through the Humanities & Social Sciences Research
 Ethics Committee. All staff and doctoral students undertake University training (additional to
 earlier qualifications) to demonstrate compliance with Warwick’s Code of Practice. All receive
 tutorial support. ECRs and doctoral students also receive ongoing support eg for ethics
 proposals; support extends to experienced staff, important when challenging ethical issues arise.
 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy
 Staffing strategy is developed between each department and the University through 5-year
 horizon annual planning processes with full consideration of equality and diversity throughout all
 processes in accord with University policy (REF5a-3). Departments develop their proposals
 collaboratively, focusing on research and leadership (and teaching). Engagement with the
 University entails making academic and financial cases. The University has supported staff
 replacements and expansions according to UoA strategic aims regarding both research (and
 teaching) priorities and leadership. During REF2021 our successful research and impact staffing
 strategy recruited research-active staff at different career stages. Regarding the five new
 professors, we enhanced leadership and specialisms: E. Smith (educational policy, inequality),
 was recruited as HoD (DES); Liddicoat (applied linguistics) and Warmington (equity, post-
 compulsory education) appointed as DoRs (AL and DES respectively); Gray and Langdon


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (CEDAR) increased leadership for ID, autism and family research. Outstanding ECRs (Morris,
 Henderson, Williams, DES; McConachy and Strelluf, AL; and Flynn, Langley, Bailey,
 CEDAR) already producing impressive research and publications profiles, are REF2021-
 included, and three have been promoted to associate professor: Williams, Henderson and
 McConachy. This has increased and diversified expertise to support a wider range of research
 activity in linguistics, ID and autism, SLCN, philosophy of education, and quantitative methods;
 and built towards future sustainability and succession planning.

 Our strategy is to produce high quality research and publications and implement impact,
 supported through mentoring, integration into research teams and disciplinary support groups.
 All staff, including ECRs, are encouraged to take leadership positions in recognised research
 and impact activities, so gaining experience in working collaboratively with research teams,
 developing research projects, and contributing to departmental research directions. Specific
 support and guidance are provided to help ECRs develop their academic writing (publications,
 funding applications) and impact skills. To optimise equality of opportunity, special consideration
 is paid to p/t staff, those with caring responsibilities, health needs and career breaks.
 Fundamentally, we recognise that a range of these factors are relevant to most staff, at different
 times in their academic careers, and that differences in effects and severity, as well as through
 aggregation, require personalised pathway development with both common (all staff), group (eg
 ECRs, p/t,) and individual considerations.

 Demographic profile of Education UoA is (rounded): Gender: 55% female, 45% male; Age: 26-
 35, 13%; 36-45, 21%; 46-55, 28%; 56-65, 32%; 66+, 6%; Ethnicity: BAME, 11%.

 REF submission. All processes were formally conducted under Warwick’s REF2021 Code of
 Practice auspices, which fully reflects Warwick’s Equality Objectives. (REF5a-3.5) including
 confidentiality, supporting requests for special circumstances, and ensuring agreed reasonable
 expectations. All staff, particularly ECRs, were mentored to produce high quality outputs –
 combining equality with aim for excellence. All eligible and potentially eligible staff (RAs, ECRs)
 were invited to submit outputs through seven review exercises. All outputs were reviewed by at
 least two of the Education Review Group (ERG) comprising the HoDs and DoRIs (all
 professors), with both gender and ethnic diversity: 4 male, 2 female; 2 BAME; all were
 moderated by the full ERG then discussed with author; a minority requiring additional specialist
 knowledge received further review; and four external reviewers provided further moderation. Our
 system’s success is indicated by only 1 of >200 outputs’ grades being challenged.

 Regarding equality, the final output selection, made strictly by moderated ratings, comprised
 45% from female, 55% from male staff, compared with a gender profile of 55% female, 45%
 male. This relative proportionality reflected interaction of high ratings with
 experience/employment grade, eg 67% of FA9 staff (3F, 5M) provided 4 or 5 outputs. Reflecting
 our support of ECRs, the average submission for research fellows was 2.67 outputs.
 Furthermore, regarding ethnicity 20% of BAME staff (compared with 11% ethnicity profile)
 provided 5 outputs. With respect to Impact case study leads, gender was 6F, 4M.

 a) Staff development and support.
 All of our policy and practice is within an equality and diversity framework. This starts with
 extensive University policies, developed with Warwick staff fully involved, including,
 appointments, promotions and all aspects of practice. Staff development draws on support from
 both the departments and Warwick’s professional services, in particular Organisational
 Development (OD) and Research and Impact Services (R&IS), (REF5a-1.7), within the

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University’s HR policies. OD provides information and support to aid all staff development, from
 pre-arrival and welcome, through induction and then continuous professional development,
 including awards and benefits available to staff. Formal induction is undertaken within the
 department, aided by a staff handbook and the HR department, including support from a senior
 colleague, and varies by grade. This system includes both Probation and the annual Personal
 Development Review (PDR), including Appraisal. Flexible/remote working is supported with
 clear guidance on staff responsibility as well as flexibility to aid optimal working arrangements to
 ensure high quality research. We have agreed authorship guidelines to ensure fair recognition
 of all authors/contributors. Study leave, generous at one term per six worked, was granted to
 >30 staff, at all career levels, to work on data, publications or grant proposals, in line with equity,
 departmental research strategy and agreed objectives, reviewed on return. Research leave
 applications are discussed within departments with the HoD and normally agreed, with
 occasional deferrals to meet teaching needs. R&IS has supported research bids and accessing
 research funding, including four successful ESRC-funded Impact Acceleration Account bids.

 Mentoring, available to all staff, is focused on individuals’ needs, including development of
 knowledge and skills; preparation for leadership roles, promotion within the department or
 University; and national and international contributions (eg learned societies, government
 advisory roles). Promotion preparation is supported by senior staff, including ‘critical friend’
 reviews of research bids and draft publications. Equality is integral to all these processes. ECRs
 are mentored to become PIs, eg Hastings mentored Flynn in her first PI role leading an
 Education Endowment Foundation (EEF)-funded RCT. REF preparation is a specific aspect of
 support and mentoring, aiming to optimise individual staff’s achievement of high quality outputs
 and contributions to impact case studies. Major support approaches include: research teams,
 whereby ECRs and staff with other special circumstances (eg career breaks, illness) are joint
 authors of outputs and supported to undertake first author roles; informal peer review of
 colleagues’ draft papers and research proposals. The success of these approaches is evident in
 the number of such staff, including ECRs, having multiple high-level REF outputs and impact
 contributions.

 Support. Warwick has detailed policies addressing well-being and personal support (REF5a-
 3.4). Enhancing equity, we operate ‘family friendly’ policies e.g. timing of meetings, recognition
 of normal and emergency caring responsibilities. Regarding health, we support requests for
 reduced contracts for temporary periods, and encourage applications to the University’s
 academic returners’ fellowship scheme following illness or maternity leave for staff having
 reduced teaching and administration. Flexitime, working at home and parental leave are
 available to all staff, subject to meeting teaching and research commitments. Following
 occupational health assessments, we have made appropriate workplace adjustments for staff by
 providing, eg, specialist software or office furniture; environment monitoring and management for
 serious asthma. For full-time international PhD students unable to take long-term temporary
 withdrawal for family or medical reasons because of visa restrictions, we always seek to support
 requests for exceptional extensions to their registration period. All doctoral students have a
 personal tutor in addition to their supervisory team.

 Integrating and supporting early career staff. All ECRs are given clear expectations of
 research being fundamental to their appointed role. DES and AL ECRs have a 40% allocation
 for research; in CEDAR this is essentially 100%. All ECRs have a mentor and are integrated into
 a research team or scholarly partnership, forming the basis for successful development during
 induction, and maintained. New staff are reviewed during probation, then annually through the
 PDR, where achievements, contributions, research, impact training needs, and promotion plans

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 are discussed. Postdocs are recognized as full members of the department and supported by a
 research mentor, including securing further grants/contracts. We have also welcomed Warwick’s
 Institute of Advanced Study Fellows and international Visiting Fellows.

 Probation. A carefully arranged system operates within University policies, normally 5 years
 during which assistant professors enjoy reduced teaching. Support criteria and guidance are
 explicit; progress is assessed annually and considered by a University committee. Research-
 only staff are subject to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researcher
 (Revised 2019), overseen by Warwick’s Research Committee, which is popular with staff.
 Probation for research-only staff lasts 6 months (with three interim reviews). Mentors also meet
 their mentees informally. Appraisal comprises annual PDRs of 1-1.5 hours to review staff
 achievements and contributions, conducted by HoDs and senior colleagues following self-
 completed University templates that provide the basis for discussion. Previously agreed
 objectives are reviewed, new objectives and Continuing professional development needs are
 identified. Staff have an annual allowance to support conference and research-related activity.
 DES and AL staff also have a substantial workload allowance for department-funded research
 and impact activity, including leading REF case studies. Research and impact successes (staff
 and students) are recognized in regular newsletters. Warwick’s OD department provides
 extensive staff development and training support, online and F2F including both generic (eg in
 health and safety; equality, diversity and inclusion) and research-specific (eg writing grant
 applications, producing impact). Each department has regular open research seminars, including
 programmes funded by the University’s Research Active Staff fund, eg the Education and
 Psychology Research Active Network Seminar Series. ECRs are prioritized in applications for
 seed funding from the Social Sciences Research Development Fund.

 b) Recruitment policy
 Our recruitment practices include attention to equality and diversity, fairness, transparency
 and integrity throughout. Systems are governed by Warwick’s Code of Practice with explicit,
 progressive policies based on the university’s Statement of Values, including positive action to
 recruit (staff, research students) where current rates of protected characteristics are low
 (REF5a-3.4). All departments are active in achieving Athena Swan requirements: CEDAR
 (Bronze) is working towards silver; DES and AL are working towards bronze. All interviewers
 receive recruitment and interview training, with additional training for senior staff who chair
 appointment panels, which are carefully formed to address diversity, achieve gender balance
 and both senior and more junior staff. Professorial appointments are chaired by the Provost,
 others by a PVC or senior deputy. Staff contribute to department recruitment policy through
 strategic staffing development discussions, and for individual posts through feedback on
 candidates’ presentations.

 Contracts. Other than contract researchers, including post-docs and RAs (fixed term), staff are
 appointed on indefinite contracts, aligning with the strategy of enabling academic career
 progression and promotion. Research staff appointed on a fixed-term contract funded through
 the grant/fellowship are supported in their career development, whether as researcher,
 academic, or other preferred route eg, three CEDAR RAs moved, as planned, onto educational
 psychology professional doctoral training. Others who extend their employment on subsequent
 projects are mentored to be co- and lead-applicants on external funding bids, and to extend their
 publication profiles. In recognition of their growing independent researcher status, these staff
 have been appointed core-funded research fellows, with promotions to senior and principal
 grades. This very successful strategy will continue for research-only staff post-REF2021.


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Succession planning for HoDs (three: 2F, 1M; I BAME) comprises effective partnership
 between department and University, flexible but rigorous, involving all staff within the relevant
 department, and occurs during University annual 5-year planning meetings: DES, E Smith was
 appointed from a chair at Leicester; AL, Ushioda, internal appointment replacing Spencer-Oatey;
 CEDAR, Hastings, internal replacing Lindsay, retiring 31.12.20).

 Recognizing achievements happens in many ways, starting with the fundamental ethos we
 engender, based on information sharing, positive focus, active recognition and celebration.
 Formally, recognition and appreciation are part of the annual rigorous but supportive PDR and
 probation reviews; reviews and future objectives are individualized and developmental,
 challenging but achievable, so optimizing both high quality and success. This leads to high
 levels of satisfaction and achievement orientation as demonstrated by the annual University
 PULSE staff survey (CEDAR 3rd and AL 4th of 43 academic departments) in terms of
 satisfaction. Annual Senior Performance and Remuneration Reviews for professors and merit
 pay awards open to all other staff, identify individuals with excellent achievements, which are
 recognized financially. Publications, new funded projects, and impact successes are reported
 regularly through department newsletters or reports to staff meetings, with specific celebrations.
 Impact dissemination events showcase contributions of all research team members, balanced by
 gender and experience, RAs to professors.

 2.2 Research students
 We continued to run very popular and robust doctoral programmes which enabled our 177.33 fte
 students to develop a range of skills designed to develop existing careers or take new directions.
 We value doctoral students as important members of our research community, as partners in
 Education research, supporting their research development and success. All are supported in
 producing conference papers and journal articles. CEDAR’s new PhD programme comprises
 research which is integral to the department’s research programme; the structure includes
 published papers, jointly authored with supervisors (and other students/staff). Recruitment and
 support of students are governed by the same values and comparable policies as staff, including
 equality and diversity (see above), including positive action to recruit where current rates of
 protected characteristics are low.

 Our substantial and richly diverse doctoral research community has continued to thrive, built on
 the well-established programmes in DES and AL plus the new CEDAR PhD programme.
 Overall, we have had around 25 PhD awards annually. Our doctoral community has comprised,
 Gender: about two thirds female students; Ethnicity: about 35% White British, 40% BAME, 25%
 Other; and around 25% part-time and over 50% international students. Positive action has
 included attracting male students for CEDAR’s new programme (initially 100% female, now 18%
 male).

                                        Doctoral degrees awarded
     Year       2013-14     2014-15     2015-16 2016-17 2017-18           2018-19    2020-21

     PhD          20.1        27.5        29.7        10.0       23.4       23.0       26.63
     EdD          1.0         5.0         1.0         4.0        2.0         1.0        3.0

 PhD programmes. Whereas DES/AL programmes reflect the wide range of research foci and
 expertise across the departments, the CEDAR programme is explicitly focused on Education &
 Psychology, with a particular focus on neglected populations in research (children and also


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 adults with ID and/or autism and their families) and explicit partnership with external disability
 organisations. The nature of DES/AL doctorates reflects the breadth of constituent Education
 subdisciplines, topics and methodologies. All CEDAR research is applied (describing
 inequalities, associated risk and protective factors, and development and evaluation of
 interventions focused on educational or mental health/well-being outcomes). UoA Recruitment
 comprises both individual applications and those sponsored by an employer, eg ministries,
 charities, schools. Prospective doctoral students are encouraged to make informal contact with
 the department first to discuss their proposal with a potential supervisor. All applicants are
 interviewed before being offered a place. DES/AL accommodate large programmes, whereas
 CEDAR is building, increasing from two to five+ enrolments annually as senior supervisors have
 doubled to 4, and ECRs have joined supervision teams.

 CEDAR’s programme (started 2014, total 17 students) has been developed with funding from
 external disability organisations (eg Cerebra, Mencap, Sibs). All home full-time students are
 supported with external funding from these collaborative partnership organisations, through
 ESRC and internal collaborative award schemes, or are already professionals working in
 education, health or social care with people with ID/autism. Part-time students are professionals
 working in external organisations where they are supported explicitly by the organization to
 pursue collaborative PhD research (eg through paying for PhD fees, providing some research
 time in their role). All PhDs are structured to include submission of journal papers, co-authored
 with one or more supervisors, during the research, and at least one at the end. The programme
 has 4 successful completions since establishment and also produced >20 peer reviewed
 publications with PhD student authors. AL launched two new PhD degrees, in Discourse Studies
 and in Intercultural Communication, and have recruited new students to these courses and
 enabled existing PhD students (in Applied Linguistics) to transfer. AL is also introducing a PhD
 program in Linguistics. These new PhD degree titles are designed to accommodate the more
 diversified research specialisms of the department and PhD student body beyond a traditional
 primary focus on English language teaching and language teacher education. DES/AL
 continued to provide regular seminars on theory and research methods for PGR students,
 including guest lecturers from prestigious UK and international HEIs. In 2016-17, AL launched a
 new competitive funding scheme for PhD students’ professional development and research
 activities, with four application points in the year. This competitive scheme is in addition to the
 standard conference funding allowance offered to students.

 Funding. We have been very successful in gaining PhD studentships to support our students
 including: 14+ESRC, 3 BECAS Chile, 4 European Research Council and from within Warwick 7
 Chancellors and 2 Warwick China, and scholarships awarded by other UK or international
 organisations (Commonwealth, Council for At Risk Academics, DAAD/German Academic
 Exchange Service, SENESCYT Ecuador/Secretariat of Higher Education, Science, Technology
 and Innovation), as well as awards from government ministries in Malaysia, Jordan, Saudi
 Arabia, Kazakhstan, China Scholarship Council/ government of China. CEDAR was very
 successful in being awarded five Warwick Collaborative Postgraduate Research Scholarships
 during REF2021, each with 50% of the funding from outside of the University.

 Support starts with the integration of our doctoral students into the departments, emphasizing
 their being research colleagues as well as students. We recognize equality and practical issues
 with our high proportion of experienced practitioners (eg teachers) and more part-time mature
 students, often with demanding jobs and family commitments. We arrange academic and social
 programmes accordingly; we also have shared staff/doctorate common rooms, and doctoral
 student membership of formal committee meetings. Our monitoring and support systems are

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sensitive to these demands. All students have 2+ supervisors to optimize expertise and
 continuity in the case of absence. Regular tutorials are held, both face-to-face and remotely to
 meet personal circumstances. Students produce summaries and actions, agreed with
 supervisors, to ensure effective monitoring. Separate informal doctoral personal tutor schemes,
 an initiative developed with the student groups, offer non-academic, pastoral support from
 another staff member. Upgrades are required to move from MPhil to PhD registration after 12-18
 months. By this point students have undertaken a substantial literature review, firmed up their
 research questions and begun empirical work, data analysis and reporting. The CEDAR
 programme upgrade requires the draft of a first paper for publication. UoA completions continue
 to be high, with just 4 cases of non-completion (permanent withdrawals for personal reasons,
 changes of work or health-related).

 Students participate in a dedicated programme of research, impact and professional skills
 development, based in each department and the Doctoral College Programme (REF4a-3.10),
 including departmental seminars, Research Group activities, and annual research conferences.
 DES has an active PGR student committee responsible for planning and leading the annual
 Postgraduate Research Conference. Students, particularly in CEDAR, include impact activities
 specifically in their PhDs, eg curriculum development and evaluation research in special schools
 which have immediate impact. Each department has a PGR student-staff liaison committee,
 which play an important consultative role, enhancing their place within departmental and faculty
 research developments including: the introduction of AL’s new PhD degrees in Discourse
 Studies, Intercultural Communication and Linguistics to accommodate a more diverse doctoral
 student body and widening range of research area beyond English language teaching and
 language teacher education; the personal tutor scheme (above); and instituting a competitive
 funding scheme to support PhD students’ research and professional development. Destinations
 reflect the different doctoral programmes across Education. Most AL PhD graduates have
 proceeded to academic positions in the UK or international HEIs. For DES, a majority, whether
 home or international, are education professionals. Some remain in the classroom but attain
 more senior positions. Others enter academia, government departments or third sector
 bodies. CEDAR’s new programme has 4 graduates: 2 continued their existing academic posts, a
 3rd became an ESRC research fellow in CEDAR; the 4th is a special education practitioner.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research funding
 Income. As a UoA we secured 148 externally funded research projects, value >£34.12 million,
 with Warwick income for the period of >£5.26 million. The largest sources were Big Lottery
 Fund, value £7million (incl. vat) and National Institute for Health Research (NIHR), 18 awards
 value £11.03milliion. Research councils: ESRC £172K, BBSRC, British Academy.
 Government departments: DfE, DH, DWP, National Institute for Social Care and Health in
 Wales, LAs: £1.04million. Charities/Foundations: Baily Thomas Charitable Fund £488k,
 Sharland Foundation £447K, Education Endowment Foundation £291K, Cerebra £670K, Youth
 Endowment Fund £254K, plus Leverhulme, Nuffield, Wellcome, Early Intervention Foundation,
 Mencap, Autism Education Trust, Autistica, Gatsby, Paul Hamlyn, John Templeton Foundation,
 Fair Chance Foundation. International: British Research Council, Australian Research Council,
 European Research Council, European Union, European Commission, Research Council of
 Norway, Ministry of Community and Social Services Ontario. Others: RSC, Artis, Coventry City
 of Culture.




                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strategies. We have four main strategies for generating research funding for high quality
 research (project funding varied from <£10,000 to £7million). i) Small-scale studies are typically
 funded by a range of organisations with specific cognate links to the research areas (eg RSC,
 £25K, Artis, £17.5K). Individual researchers or small teams identify funding for single projects,
 and build relationships to create accumulative research, based on continuity of funding, eg AL’s
 research was primarily funded through EU programs and industry bodies, eg the British Council;
 DES’s diverse research is funded by a range of major research funders.

 ii) Large-scale studies collaborating with other universities and VCSs. CEDAR secured
 substantial NIHR funding for trials eg Cluster RCT to evaluate the Kiva programme’s
 effectiveness and cost-effectiveness to reduce bullying in schools (£1.85million) and BEAT-IT
 depression RCT, (£1.21m) Hastings, Gray, Denne; TraumaAid, (£1.32m), Langdon; and large-
 scale, non-trial policy-related studies, eg A Better Start, £7million, Big Lottery Fund (Barlow
 WMS, Lindsay); Disagreement resolution for parents of children with SEN, (DfE, £226K, MA
 Cullen, Lindsay).

 Collaborations with VCSs that funded series of studies included Cerebra (£670K): 1000 Families
 study of children with ID, which is providing both unique substantial data on this group, both
 children and families, for analysis and also >1000 families available as participants in future
 research (Hastings), and these studies have already produced publications from staff and PhD
 students; and S Cullen’s four cumulative evaluations of the Autism Education Trust’s education
 workforce training programmes (£102K).

 iii) We developed evidence bases built on pilot projects and feasibility RCTs towards larger
 grant funding for definitive RCTs in schools, including: adapting delivery of the Headsprout
 reading programme for children with significant learning difficulties (Grindle), leading to EEF
 funding of the first large-scale RCT in UK special schools (£320k, Flynn, Denne); and for
 evaluations for the Youth Endowment Foundation (Langdon). iv) Through the Monash-
 Warwick partnership we undertook 3 Australian Research Council funded studies, developing
 our international large-scale research (Gray, £469K).

 Links between funding and high-quality outputs are exemplified by the DfE-funded Better
 Communication Research Programme (£1.3million)) directed by Lindsay which produced 19
 DfE published research reports initially and, during REF2021, 10 refereed journal papers
 (including Learning and Instruction, International Journal or Language and Communication
 Difficulties). Regarding ID research, the largest (NIHR-funded) individual psychological therapy
 RCT of adults with ID (Hastings, £1.2million) has led so far to 5 journal publications (including
 Lancet Psychiatry); Baily Thomas Charitable Fund support for secondary data analysis of the
 Millennium Cohort Study (Totsika, Hastings, Bailey; £44k) led to outputs in the Journal of Child
 Psychology & Psychiatry and Child Development; a staff training intervention in ID services
 cluster RCT (NIHR School for Social Care Research £303k, Hastings, Flynn) led to 6 journal
 publications, including one co-authored with people with ID who were the trainers in the
 research.

 Links between funding and impact. High quality impact was achieved from smaller and large
 grants. i) Two impact case studies developed from small-scale activities: production of a Key
 Performance Indicator tool Global Education Planner to enable universities to profile their
 internationalisation: (Spencer-Oatey, Dauber, British Academy, >£23K); and collaboration with
 the British Council (>£34K) to implement a successful scheme to increase teacher motivation via
 teacher-inquiry in low income countries: (R. Smith, Ushioda, Pinter). ii) Two case studies

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 based on large-scale series of projects: Sharland Foundation collaboration funded the
 Developmental disabilities applied behaviour analysis research and impact network (Hastings,
 Denne, £319k), developing into the Positive Behaviour Support Academy (PBS), >£3.2million;
 and Parenting support, which evaluated parenting programmes’ effectiveness in large-scale
 trials and then collaboration with LAs and VCSs on take-up and impact in LAs (Lindsay, Cullen,
 Totsika, £2.45million).

 3.2 Organisational infrastructure
 Development of distinctive areas of work. i) The major discipline development was SEND,
 including associate professor Palikara (SLCN) and, in particular, ID led by Hastings, firmly
 linked to CEDAR’s development of networks, collaborations, and PhD programme. Investment in
 2 new professors (Gray, Langdon), 1 Associate Professor (Grindle), 3 Research Fellows
 (Flynn, Bailey and ESRC post-doc Langley), has produced a very strong research team in
 ID/autism led by Hastings. AL developed capacity and infrastructure to support corpus-based
 projects and hosts the Warwick English Language Teaching Archive, a unique collection of
 materials relating to the history of teaching English as a second/foreign language. E Smith’s
 appointment as professor expanded our quantitative research capability (large educational
 datasets: National Child development Study 1958, British Cohort Study 1970, Millennium Cohort
 Study), plus Bailey (experimental design, longitudinal datasets), Flynn (systematic reviews),
 Lefringhausen (cross-cultural psychology, intergroup contact and quantitative methods).

 3.3 Operational and scholarly infrastructure
 Education benefits from Warwick being a top research university. Our library holds one million
 printed works, c.900,000 electronic books and provides unrestricted access to subject-specific
 databases and 102,000 electronic journals (REF5a-4.4). Warwick’s organisation, to which
 Education staff have made strong contributions, combines central direction and management
 together with empowered, strong departments; with an intermediate faculty structure whose role
 is supportive and developmental rather than as another management tier (Lindsay Faculty
 deputy chair, Hastings chair Faculty Research and Impact Committee, MA Cullen Equality and
 Diversity Committee). University research strategy is developed iteratively with faculties and
 departments, overseen by the PVC Research and University Research Committee (REF5a-2.4).
 Research and Impact Services support staff to develop their skills and produce excellent
 research proposals. R&IS also administers research projects and funding, from proposal,
 through successful set-up, financial management and closure. Research Integrity and Ethics
 are addressed by university level codes and guidance; at faculty level mainly by the Humanities
 & Social Sciences Research Ethics Committee, which reviews ethical proposals for all research);
 and at department level, with support for individual researchers. IT Services provide high quality
 security systems to protect data, support and training in Information and Communication. All
 research staff have their own up-to-date PC/laptop (1-2 PhDs share computers), and access to
 the university’s network on and off-site. Hardware is purchased through the University; extensive
 software is available through the University network and home computers. University regulations
 cover all data storage and use (GDPR). Warwick is arranging secure data access (ONS:
 SafeHub) for large datasets (Bailey accredited). We also engage with Warwick’s Global
 Research Programme: Connecting Cultures, an oral history project about language teaching in
 Coventry.

 3.4 Equality and diversity are considered in all planning and practice. All staff are supported to
 apply for research funding, either as individuals (including fellowships) or as members of teams.
 The latter is especially common in CEDAR where almost all research is team-based. Teams are
 constructed with respect to expertise and professional development – supporting staff to develop

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research, leadership and management skills. IT Enhancements (eg powerful PCs) are funded by
 need (eg large dataset analysis). Room allocation follows university space guidelines, typically
 assistant professors and senior research fellows and above have single rooms; RAs, RFs, part-
 time staff share rooms. All three departments are very active in Athena Swan development:
 (Totsika Faculty committee chair), with many staff at all levels engaged in planning and
 applications; and Warwick’s Race Equality Task Force, set up to take forward the
 recommendations of the University’s Social Inclusion Strategy on race equality issues affecting
 both staff and students (Warmington). The Faculty has led on new E&D facilities, including a
 breast-feeding facility, within a very strong University developmental agenda. This included a 5-
 session course for all senior management, including the VC, Provost, Registrar and all HoDs
 and professional services heads, led by independent consultant, international expert Professor
 Binna Kandola and c10 experts in specific issues, eg disability, gender, ethnicity and trans.

 3.5 Impact support (See 1.3.) Faculty Impact manager and two impact officers provide
 excellent support: developing impact skills, collaborating with researchers to collect impact data
 and evaluate impact activity (REF5a-2.6). Funding through the ESRC Impact Acceleration
 Account and Delivering Results has supported: dissemination conferences eg our parenting
 research for LA parenting support leads; outreach to teachers in remote areas for developmental
 work with and resources for language teachers in difficult circumstances, including workshops
 and support for teacher-led projects; one term’s Impact leave for three case study leads; and
 Family Research Ambassadors to help disseminate research findings to family carers,
 developing a resource to help parents of young children with developmental delay to promote
 their child’s wellbeing. Warwick’s Impact Capture System provides high quality storage and
 retrieval capabilities, and our press office has extensive capability for research press releases
 and links with the media to disseminate our research.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  4.1 Collaborations and partnerships.
 Staff prior experiences as school, FE and university teachers, school leaders, educational
 psychologists, industry managers, and health professionals, provide a basis for natural, informed
 collaborations for impacts on practice and policy. Our studies have been enhanced by our
 primary focus on applied research and commitment to interdisciplinarity, supporting the
 development of collaborations of varying combinations of researchers, practitioners, and
 policymakers, including networks whose development we have led, (e.g. Positive Behaviour
 Support in the UK) and those where we have a collaborative leading role (e.g. SEN Policy
 Research Forum). We are committed to engaging non-researchers in research practice, and
 providing training for people with ID, parents, practising language teachers, and other
 professionals. These strategic developments have been highly successful during REF2021. Our
 collaborations have grown networks of universities and VCSs to undertake large-scale studies.

 Process. Typically, collaborations and networks have been built up over time by staff in various
 ways but, especially for large collaborations, via a similar progression: starting with small
 collaborations followed by an iterative process involving addition of researchers/teams to the
 network to expand expertise and capacity; and of funders recognising the research quality and
 relevance to their needs/interests through explicit emphasis on impact, e.g. our research on
 children with ID developed from networks enhanced during REF2021 with other ID research
 teams, e.g. Cardiff Centre for Trials Research and charity funders. CEDAR/DES’s acceptance
 onto the EEF evaluation panel and Morris’s appointment enhanced the hub-and-spoke model


                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 within Education, leading to new collaborative EEF-funded research; international collaborations
 have resulted from larger scale University initiatives: Monash-Warwick alliance, including 3
 studies, and in Europe through Eutopia we have begun collaborations with VUBrussels,
 Gothenburg.

 4.2. Successful effective collaborations have enriched the research environment, produced
 high quality research, contributed to both impact and engagement and secured funding from
 new sources (e.g. NIHR, EEF, YEF). Examples include, in Drama Turner-King is the UK lead
 researcher on the 5-year international, multi-sited ethnographic study led by Professor Kathleen
 Gallagher (University of Toronto) ‘Global Youth (Digital) Citizen-Artists and their Publics:
 Performing for Socio-Ecological Justice’.

 Successful collaborative ID studies with other universities and VCSs included 6 randomised
 controlled trials (RCTs), 3 feasibility and 2 pilot studies; and other non-RCT studies of new
 interventions e.g.: Who’s Challenging Who? a programme of staff training to improve staff
 attitudes and empathy towards adults with ID and challenging behaviour (NIHR: £303k,
 Hastings, Flynn) and Positive Approaches to Support (E-PAtS) for families of young children
 with ID (NIHR: £531k, Hastings, Lindsay, Totsika). Cerebra, a research charity focused on
 children with neurodevelopmental conditions (including ID) and their families, founded a CEDAR
 Chair in Family Research (Hastings); funded CEDAR research on families of children with ID
 continuously since 2014; collaborated with CEDAR to recruit families into research (e.g., the
 1000 Families Study); co-funded ESRC collaborative PhD studentships and two other full-time
 funded collaborative PhD scholarships; and worked collaboratively with CEDAR and family
 carers on two ESRC Impact Acceleration Account awards to disseminate research findings to
 families.

 Royal Mencap Society (RMS), the largest ID charity in the UK has had a research relationship
 with CEDAR throughout REF2021: Hastings as research consultant and chairing their External
 Advisory Forum. RMS senior staff have been co-applicants on major research grants (two
 funded by NIHR, with CEDAR leads and total value >£500k), co-authored research papers
 arising from these studies, and co-funding a collaborative PhD studentship. RMS research
 partnership has focused on two key topic areas: outcomes in social care (including skills
 teaching, and challenging behaviour training), and on families and early intervention. CEDAR
 staff have presented at RMS policy events on early intervention, and RMS have been the
 delivery partner in a further >£500k NIHR grant to test a new early intervention programme for
 families of children with ID. RMS also funded preparation of outputs for the Positive Behavioural
 Support Academy (Impact Case) and organised the consultation exercise for Hastings’ report to
 the Nuffield Council on Bioethics on Non-Invasive Prenatal Testing.

 Impact collaboration additional examples include: the Developmental Disabilities Applied
 Behavioural Analysis Research and Impact Network (Sharland Foundation: £585k, Hastings,
 Denne); the development of the Positive Behaviour Support Competence Framework for
 practice (RMS, £58k) and accreditation standards of PBS (RMS, £20k), both Denne, Hastings
 [Case study]; Parenting support collaboration with 11 LAs, VCSs, parenting programme
 providers (Lindsay, MA Cullen, Totsika [Case Study]; and additionally a 5-year collaboration
 with the Autism Education Trust to evaluate and assist formalising the development of their
 training programme(s) for the school workforce on the characteristics and needs of children with
 ASD (£102k, S Cullen, Lindsay, Hastings, MA Cullen). Collaboration with Calthorp, a large
 Birmingham special school, has resulted in funded PhDs and direct impact on the school’s
 curriculum development.

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4.3. Wider contributions to society have been made by a range of Education researchers,
 engaging with diverse communities and publics and producing a wide range of impact on policy
 and practice. The British Council invited Liddicoat to help shape their strategy document on
 English Medium Instruction based on his research in language planning and policy. Murray
 leads a collaborative project with Shanghai Jiaotong University to deliver professional learning
 workshops for university teachers of English in remote and rural areas of China and is
 developing online materials to support ongoing professional learning. File ran workshops for
 professional sports coaches in communication skills based on his discourse analysis work on
 language use in sporting teams. Mann developed a repository of practical resources for using
 digital video in teaching and learning through his involvement in the European Video for ALL
 educational project, based on longstanding research on using video in language teacher
 education.
 Francis’s research on young people’s attitude toward religious diversity led to the development
 of an open access curriculum resource sponsored by the Welsh Government (published in
 Welsh and English) to promote positive attitudes toward living in religious diverse societies
 among young learners. We evaluated the International Food Systems Teaching and Learning
 project, a multi-disciplinary, multi-institutional initiative (Warwick, Reading, Oxford, City and
 LCIRAH) that aims to develop students’ understandings of global food systems and offers
 students experience of multidisciplinary learning and teaching and work placements in the food
 sector (Warmington, Dynes, McKenna).

 We have engaged with policy-makers at national and local level, impacting on understandings of
 educational attainment and inequalities, and on wider debates around future education policy.
 Researchers specialising in educational leadership conducted three commissioned research and
 evaluation projects for LAs (Birmingham, Peterborough and Warwickshire) aimed at identifying
 the most effective strategies employed by schools to raise attainment levels and to close
 attainment gaps. E Smith, Morris and Dynes were commissioned to be the research partner for
 a cross-parliamentary Education Commission that will provide a template for the future of pre-18
 education in England. Lindsay chaired Birmingham City Council’s Inclusion Commission which
 developed the City’s strategy for SEND; and was the research representative on Bercow: 10
 Years On, the independent review of provision for children with SLCN, and on the Government’s
 Communication Council.

 Turner-King’s Strategic Project Unlocking living stories of hope, care and civic engagement in
 Campus, Canley and Coventry collaborated with Canley Youth Theatre’s Oral History Project.
 Winston and Lindsay contributed to developing the RSC’s Associated Schools programme,
 designed to expand the RSC’s relationships with schools by researching new approaches to
 teaching Shakespeare. Francis’s research on student attitude toward the distinctiveness of
 Anglican primary schools within the state-maintained sector in Wales was employed by the
 church in Wales to inform the Section 50 inspection process and to effect changes both in policy
 and practice in order to reflect the responses of schools to the student voice. The project was
 adopted by Anglican schools within the Republic of Ireland, commended by the Minister of State
 as exemplary practice, and the model is now under consideration for adoption by the Catholic
 sector in Ireland.

 Communities and publics. Our research within Christian churches (Francis) led to an initiative
 to upskill Muslim educators and imams, leading to a significant benefaction from Islamic
 foundations to develop parallel streams of research and educational engagement
 (Sahin). Turner-King’s research includes collaboration with Coventry’s Climate Action Network,

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 inviting youth participants to explore local and global questions of environmental and ecological
 degradation using verbatim theatre, ethnography and digital media, with Coventry’s youth as
 active co-researchers; and Audacious Citizenship, which provides Coventry youth opportunities
 to connect and share their work within and across global ‘locals’ in Canada, Columbia, Greece,
 India and Taiwan, where young people will receive each other’s digital-live theatre productions.
 Hammond, collaborating with the Coventry Association of International Friendship, an umbrella
 group which promotes peace, friendship and understanding through exchange visits with similar
 groups abroad, has explored the purpose and value of the twinned town and cities movement,
 including school and business exchanges. Mann, Pinter, R Smith, Ushioda delivered
 professional development workshops, training and presentations based on their research for
 various non-academic professional audiences such as language teachers, textbook publishers
 and school managers. Strelluf communicated his research to non-academic audiences through
 community-based projects (part of Coventry City of Culture activities) and extensive work with
 radio and other media channels. Williams’ British Academy-funded Mental Health, Education
 and Therapeutic Philosophy project produced a podcast series aimed at teenagers, exploring
 key mental health concepts.

 Responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives have included four
 studies of refugees and migrants from Syria and Iran (Wyness) exploring children’s resettlement
 and identity formation, considering community organisations, educational needs and transition
 17-21 years; and the role of community education, particularly supplementary schools, in
 supporting identity formation of children of 2nd and 3rd generation Iranian migrants. Henderson
 collaborated with Warwick Law School on A Fair Chance for Education: Gendered Pathways to
 Educational Success in Haryana. This five-year action research project (2017-22) seeks to
 contribute directly to the educational success of female learners in this Northern Indian state by
 developing policy-changing interventions. Much DES research focuses on raising attainment and
 closing attainment gaps, including Closing the Gap: Raising Achievement for Disadvantaged
 Pupils, conducted for Warwickshire and Peterborough Councils.

 Sustainability of the discipline has occurred through our fundamental focus on interdisciplinarity
 and applied research leading to impact. exemplified throughout the submission. Other specific
 examples of sustainability include research by Denne, Hastings, Grindle (Sharland Foundation
 Network grant), which was instrumental in supporting a special disciplinary area of research:
 behavioural psychology as applied to ID/autism. AL hosted the flagship annual conference of the
 British Association for Applied Linguistics (BAAL), September 2014, and has had four staff
 (Angouri, Harrison, R. Smith, Wharton) on BAAL’s executive committee, thus contributing to
 shaping the strategic direction of applied linguistics at a national level. Our dedicated PhD
 programme has been responsible for shaping the next generation of religious educators on an
 international level in terms of academic and professional leadership (Francis, McKenna).
 Hastings (RMS) and Langdon (Asperger East Anglia) were trustees of charities, influencing
 their research development programmes.

 4.4 Measures of esteem/wider influence
 Editorship: Education staff held 136 editorial positions as editors or editorial board members of
 international journals during REF2021.
 Editors (9): Arweck, Journal of Contemporary Religion; Dauber, European Journal of Cross-
 Cultural Competence and Management; Francis, Rural Theology, Hastings, Journal of
 Intellectual Disability Research; Langdon, Journal of Applied Research in Intellectual
 Disabilities; Liddicoat, Current Issues in Language Planning; Lindsay, Frontiers in Education:
 Special Educational Needs; McConachy, Intercultural Communication Education; and Schnurr,

                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Leadership (special issue). Associate Editors (7, 9 journals) comprised Gray, American
 Journal on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities and Review Journal of Autism and
 Developmental Disorders; Hastings, International Review of Research in Developmental
 Disabilities, Journal of Child and Family Studies, Journal of Intellectual and Developmental
 Disability; Francis, Journal of Beliefs and Values, Lefringhausen, Journal of Cross-Cultural
 Psychology; R Smith, ELT Journal, Warmington, Journal of Vocational Education and Training.
 Staff also edited special issues: Lindsay, Frontiers in Education, Educational & Child
 Psychology; Books series (5) were edited including: Warmington (Race, Inequality, Social
 Justice and Education), Francis Explorations in Practical, Pastoral and Empirical Theology,
 Religion, Education and Values. Editorial boards: Additionally, staff had >90 seats on journal
 editorial boards.

 Grants committees: Staff reviewed research proposals for 33 funders, UK and overseas
 including: Hastings, a commissioning panel external member for NIHR School for Social Care
 Research and of the ESRC Peer Review College; Lindsay, member of the Academy of
 Finland’s annual review of research proposals on five occasions (psychology or education, once
 as chair); and Liddicoat, McConachy, Strelluf, (Australian Research Council).

 Fellowships: Francis and Hastings became Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences;
 Langley, the first graduate of CEDAR’s PhD programme was awarded an ESRC post-doc
 fellowship.

 Prizes: Strelluf received the American Dialect Society Roger Shuy Award for the best paper in
 American Speech 2019 and the American Dialect Society Audrey Duckert Award 2020; Angouri
 was nominated for the BAAL Book Award 2019; Hastings received the 2014 and 2018 Tizard
 Learning Disability Review Outstanding Paper award; Palikara received the Presidential Citation
 Award, International School Psychology Association.

 Research and appointment committees. Research: Education staff were substantially
 involved in national and international research bodies. Arweck has been a member of several
 international associations of research into religions and education including the Association for
 the Sociology of Religion, where she was chair of the International Liaison Committee and
 American Academy of Religion. Henderson is a member of the Governing Council, Society of
 Research into Higher Education. Hastings sat on four National Institute of Excellence for Health
 & Care (NICE) committees; is chair of the RMS External Advisory Forum and Research Adviser
 for the charity Sibs (for siblings of disabled children and adults). We also provided expertise to
 government. Liddicoat was a member of the recruitment panel for the Barcelona government
 Serra Hunter Post-doctoral Programme in Spanish and Catalan Language and Literature
 education. Lindsay was Specialist Adviser to the House of Commons Education Committee in
 its examination of the Children & Families Bill 2014, and member of three DfE-funded SEND
 research steering groups.

 Professorial: Staff advised as members of >35 appointment panels for senior posts (including
 34 professors) in the UK and overseas e.g.: US, Canada, Australia, Israel, and Saudi Arabia.

 Invited talks, conference chair roles
 Education staff were frequent contributors to top international conferences, a total of >500
 presentations. Of these, >260 comprised invited/keynote papers. Overall, these presentations
 were made across many countries, including Europe (42), e.g. US, Australia and Canada.
 Conferences included the Royal Society, AERA, BERA, European Educational Research

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Association, Social Scientific Study of Religion, Society for the Scientific Study of Reading,
 Society for Research in Higher Education, British Association for Applied Linguistics, English
 Language Teachers Association of India, World Congress of the International Association of
 Applied Linguistics, British Psychological Society, Australasian Society for Intellectual Disability,
 Association for Child Psychology and Psychiatry.

 Research proposals Over 45 staff reviewer appointments for UK and overseas funders
 included: UK, ESRC, AHRC, Nuffield Foundation, Leverhulme, National Institute for Health
 Research, Medical Research Council, Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council,
 Chief Scientist’s Office (Scotland), Research and Development Office (Northern Ireland);
 European: Swedish Research Council, Swiss National Science Foundation, Nordic Council of
 Universities, Netherlands Initiative for Education Research, and Belgian Science Policy Office;
 Beyond Europe, proposals were reviewed for the National Health and Medical Research
 Council (Australia), Hong Kong, National Institute of Education Singapore, and the Ontario
 Center of Excellence for Child and Youth Mental Health (Canada).

 Doctorate external examining. Staff examined 174 doctoral research theses, 163 PhDs and 11
 professional doctorates in education, educational psychology or clinical psychology. Those in
 UK universities included Oxford, Cambridge, UCL, KCL, Durham, Manchester, Birmingham;
 Europe included KU Leuven, Helsinki, University College, Dublin, Groningen, Gothenburg;
 Australasia, Australian National University, Auckland, Sydney, Monash; US Pittsburgh,
 Northwest Missouri State; Other, Universiti Putra (Malaysia); National Institute of Technology
 Rourkela (India); Cape Town, Stellenbosch, Hong Kong University.




                                                                                               Page 20
