Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Nottingham Trent University (NTU)

 Unit of Assessment: D28 - History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and Impact strategy

 1.1 Context

 NTU History researchers are committed to generating world-leading research that engages with
 challenges at the core of today’s cultures and societies, promoting inclusive and interdisciplinary
 research that encompasses medieval to contemporary periods. The number of NTU History
 researchers has grown from 8.25 FTE in REF2014 to 12.35 FTE in July 2020, who have published
 more than 100 outputs: 18 monographs, 10 edited collections, 39 book chapters and 49 articles
 in addition to datasets, exhibitions and content designed for specialist and public audiences.
 Across the whole cycle (2014-2020) we have accumulated awards totalling £927k, nearly six times
 our income from REF2014. Our cohort of postgraduates (16 in REF2014) has increased
 considerably through internal and external investment: as of July 2020 there were 25 active PhD
 students attached to the Unit, with 11 completions in the current cycle, and the addition of a further
 11 students in 2020-21 attests to the growing vitality of the Unit.

 We embrace and lead debates relating to social, economic, cultural and public history; poverty
 and welfare; identity; race; gender and sexuality; legacies of violence; heritage and memory. Our
 specialisms include Crusader and Reformation Studies; pre- and post-Columbian Mexico; the
 British Civil Wars; the Antebellum South and Transatlantic Slave Trade; American and Irish Civil
 Rights; Britain and Europe in the context of World Wars and Welfare Systems; Holocaust and
 Genocide; Family History and Memory Activism.

 Research synergies within the team are driven by the activities of the Centre for the Study of
 Religion and Conflict (CSRC) and the Centre for Public History, Heritage and Memory (PHHM).
 NTU historians make a central contribution to the University-wide strategic research theme (SRT),
 Global Heritage. We build on and develop close connections with a wide range of academic and
 heritage industry partners for research such as the National Holocaust Museum (Niven), National
 Museums Northern Ireland (Reynolds), and for the supervision of research students (e.g. British
 Museum; British Library; London Society of Antiquaries – Hodgson). Our interdisciplinary
 approaches incorporate oral history; visual, textual and material analyses; and have generated
 productive partnerships with colleagues in fields such as Digital Humanities and Heritage Science.

 D28 is committed to improving Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI), with many of our
 researchers engaging in significant research relevant to racial inequalities (Lussana, Woodley),
 social inequalities (King, McCallum, Black), religious diversities (Niven, Morton, McCallum,
 Bennett, Hodgson, Fantoni), identity (Fuller, Hodgson, Wüstenberg, Reynolds, Hayes) and
 gender (Hodgson, Lussana, Woodley). We also share best practice with the wider academic field.
 In September 2019, the Royal Historical Society funded a two-day visit and research colloquium
 organised by McCallum that president Margot Finn described as “first-rate” and “a model of its
 kind”. This incorporated a workshop in which members of our team outlined current and future
 strategies for research and EDI, to which the president responded that our Unit “is meeting
 challenging times with impressive collegiality, commitment and imagination”. Our commitment to
 meeting societal challenges will continue its upwards trajectory into the next REF cycle, with key
 researchers from our Unit taking formative roles in University-wide initiatives like BHM365 and
 Museums for the Future, and spearheading the development of a new multidisciplinary
 International Association for the History of Heritage and Welfare.

 1.2 Structure

 D28 participates actively in the formulation of NTU research strategy. The Associate Dean for
 Research (ADR) in the School of Arts and Humanities, Yousaf, works closely with the Deputy
 Vice-Chancellor - Research and Enterprise and is a member of NTU’s Academic Research

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Leadership Team (ARLT) and the University Leadership Team. As D28 Centre Directors and
 participants in the Cultural Heritage research peak, Hodgson and Wüstenberg are part of the
 extended ARLT and help to formulate NTU2025 research strategy planning as well as
 representing the Unit at a School level. Institutional support and funding has enabled us to reflect
 on the shape and direction of our research, and to review, assess and strengthen research support
 mechanisms. History’s approach to environment development is responsive and ensures support
 for individual and group ambitions that express what is distinctive about the Unit.

 The two History Research Centres, CSRC and PHHM, shape agendas for individual researchers
 and Postgraduate Research Students (PGRs) working in specific areas of the discipline while also
 being open to collaborative researchers from other units. Following REF2014 and to reflect the
 appointment of staff with new interests, we streamlined the Colloquium for Historical Urban and
 Rural Studies and the Centre for Public History, and Museum and Heritage Management into a
 single interdisciplinary centre, PHHM.

 PHHM, directed by Wüstenberg, provides a dynamic forum for collaborative researchers,
 teachers, practitioners and the public to develop co-created content in the connected areas of
 identity; representation and memorialisation; internationally significant, community-driven and
 regional history; and museum and heritage management. Researchers challenge current
 interpretations and explore points of tension in order to meet the needs of a range of communities.
 The Centre includes both ICS leads, Niven and Reynolds, who have brokered key partnerships
 with the National Holocaust Museum and National Museums Northern Ireland. The Centre’s scope
 is global. It comprises projects which focus on areas of the United Kingdom and Europe (Niven –
 Legacies of the Holocaust; Fantoni – The Jewish Brigade Group in Italy), the United States and
 Central America (Woodley – Mourning as Resistance; Fuller - The Wailing Woman: La Llorona),
 as well as broadly comparative projects (Wüstenberg - Remembering Family Separation in
 Canada, Australia, US, UK and Germany).

 CSRC, directed by Hodgson, furthers understanding of the origins, ideology, implementation,
 impact and historiography of religion and conflict in pre-Modern periods. The context of ‘conflict’
 is interpreted broadly within the Centre, using religion as a lens to explore military, social, political,
 cultural and economic forms of dispute and conflict resolution. It has established an internationally
 significant profile through its biennial conferences and leading publications, and incorporates a
 growing network of international scholars investigating different faiths, confessions and
 heterodoxies from these periods, so that comparisons and contrasts may contribute towards the
 development of new paradigms for understanding the roles played by belief in national, communal
 and inter-personal conflict. CSRC scholars also focus on societal challenges relating to poverty
 (McCallum - Emotional Landscapes; Poverty, Charity and Welfare in Early Modern Scotland), the
 pre-Modern construction of racism (Lussana - Religion and gender in the Early Modern
 conceptualisation and development of race) and gender (Hodgson – Crusading and Masculinities).

 1.3 Research and Impact Strategy

 1.3a Achievement of REF2014 Strategic Aims

 Research and impact strategies are developed by the History Research Strategy Group (HRSG)
 comprising both Centre Directors and a range of researchers from early career to
 professorial level which is chaired by the Unit of Assessment Co-ordinator (UoAC), Hodgson.
 Since 2014, we have developed a Unit strategy that brings together our research and impact
 guided by four core principles: Ensuring Sustainability; Strategic Development; Targeted
 Investment; and Flexibility and Review. These are intrinsically linked to our impact strategy:

 1. To support the development of research projects with potential for impact and embed impact in
 all stages of the research design process.




                                                                                                    Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. To support researchers in developing the impact and reach of their research through institutional
 contacts and participating in networking opportunities, including the NTU SRTs where
 appropriate.

 3. To support the facilitation of partnerships and relationships with appropriate institutions and
 partners through involving partners with the co-production and design of research projects and
 impact activities.

 Nurturing a stimulating and supportive research environment was seen as fundamental to our
 strategic development in order to achieve growth in terms of FTE and postgraduate intake, but
 also in enhancing our global reputation in line with NTU strategic values. It was recognised that
 certain types of research activity (e.g. overseas archives, access to rare collections) required
 additional resources and that timeliness was important both in terms of research planning and
 outputs. We thus aimed to take a flexible approach to employing targeted investment, built on
 regular review of our approach. Progress and achievements have been measured against these
 aims:

 Aim 1: Ensuring sustainability

 Since 2014 History has increased its sustainability by pursuing strategic recruitment and providing
 personalised, flexible and targeted support. During the current cycle our Unit has benefitted from
 investment in new appointments (see staffing strategy) which has seen our FTE increase from
 8.25 to 12.35. Securing investment for staff to carry out and enhance the impact of their research
 has also been a priority. In addition to senior, ECR and RA appointments, sabbaticals and PGR
 recruitment, NTU has invested £140k in History research through a combination of institution-wide
 schemes and strategic investment for impact. The activities of CSRC and PHHM have been
 supported by the internal Strategic Research Fund (£15k). In 2014-15 Black received £10k to
 support the Innovation in Museum Displays project. Hodgson won a SPUR (Scholarship Projects
 for Undergraduate Research) Bursary (£2k), followed by £9k from the Global Heritage SRT to
 support research on the Canterbury Roll project and to design a web app for exhibition. Global
 Heritage also supported Niven’s 2018 trip to Berlin to work in archives researching the post-
 war history of the film ‘Jud Süβ’ (£1k) and to create a new exhibition on the Kindertransport (£2k)
 as part of his ICS, which was prominently displayed in Berlin from August-December 2019. Most
 recently, Wüstenberg has received funding from Global Heritage for two potentially highly
 impactful projects: “Remembering Children” (£4k) to workshop and establish a collaborative
 research network, and “Transformative Memory” (£25k).

 A driving force behind our sustainability is PGR recruitment. A significant development in PGR
 funding and cross-HEI collaboration was the late-2013 launch of the AHRC-Midlands3Cities
 Doctoral Training Partnership. In 2018, M3C evolved into the Midlands4Cities DTP (ranked by the
 AHRC 1st of 10 successful applications). An active founder member, NTU has shaped and
 embraced the ethic of shared research and engagement that defines this consortium. NTU History
 has been particularly successful, receiving 10 awards up to July 2020, with a further 3 students
 joining us in October 2020. Unit staff and PGRs work across the DTP to deliver researcher
 development activities. Engaging with institutions through the Midlands4Cities DTP in
 supervisions, on selection panels, and co-creating projects with industry partners has played a
 key role in enhancing the impact activities of staff and students.

 Aim 2: Strategic Development

 We hold regular Unit research planning meetings to develop and feedback on group strategy.
 Targeted responses to key issues are the province of the HRSG. Senior staff members (UoAC,
 professors and associate professors) are allocated to mentor those at more junior career stages.
 Further training is offered through grant capture and impact workshops which have been held at
 Unit, School and University level.



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 While supporting individual research interests, we also seek to stimulate and enhance the impact
 of common areas of research excellence. The Research Centres CRSC and PHHM represent
 hubs around which we foster Unit and University-wide collaborations as well as promoting cross-
 disciplinary working. CSRC collaborates with staff from the Nottingham Business School and the
 School of Science and Technology, while PHHM incorporates staff from Heritage and Museum
 Studies, Linguistics, the Business School and Art and Design. Centres provide a focal point for
 projecting our expertise to a global audience of potential academic and industry partners,
 generating further collaborations (see Section 4).

 Centres hold regular seminars with additional lectures, workshops and conferences throughout
 the academic year which are open to the public, hosting national and international speakers (e.g.
 Chris Jones, University of Canterbury, NZ), public and practitioner speakers (e.g. Mike Robinson
 Ironbridge Institute, Birmingham) and Tim Locke, a second generation ‘Kind’ talking about the
 legacy of his mother’s experiences on the Kindertransport. Focused academic workshops on
 specific themes, such as “The Thirty Years War: 400 years on” (supported by the British Military
 Commission) and “ReCAP - Remembering Children - Approaches and Practices” have also taken
 place. McCallum organised the externally funded visit by the RHS outlined in 1.1a, which included
 a one-day symposium on “Charity, Welfare and Emotions in Early Modern Britain and Ireland”. In
 2017 CSRC instituted a biennial three-day networking conference which incorporates a public
 lecture, two keynotes, panels and round tables. These conferences have attracted attendees from
 Europe, the US, Canada, Australia and New Zealand, a testament to the Centre’s growing global
 reputation. Two essay collections have been edited by CSRC thus far for Routledge, including
 work from NTU staff and PGRs.

 Aim 3: Targeted Investment

 Hodgson, McCallum, Reynolds, Niven, Woodley and Morton have been granted sabbaticals in the
 current cycle. ECRs have benefited from protected research time, a policy which has allowed them
 to flourish in the current cycle, all producing at least one monograph (Woodley, Lussana, Fuller).
 Where additional targeted research time was needed for smaller projects, we incorporated
 flexibility by apportioning extra protected time on an annual basis, enabling researchers to
 complete articles and essays (Fantoni, Lussana, Fuller) and edited collections (Hodgson). A six-
 month RA (Morgan-Brown) was appointed to work on a community curated project “Stories and
 Objects” for PHHM; and Hodgson’s Canterbury Roll project benefitted from a three-month RA
 (Gower) to support data-gathering and schools’ outreach. This support has not only enhanced
 project outputs, impact, and the employability of ECRs, it has also fed into student recruitment and
 grant capture. Gower has since applied for and been awarded M4C funding to begin her PhD with
 NTU History starting October 2020.

 Niven and Reynolds also benefitted from targeted investment for the development of the two
 History ICS. Niven recruited RAs (£21k), and received support from the Global Heritage SRT to
 finance a digital exhibition at the National Holocaust Centre and Museum and schools’ outreach
 materials. Investment for the exhibition elements of Reynolds’ ICS co-created with National
 Museums Northern Ireland (NMNI) was shared between partners with £50k from NMNI and £51k
 from NTU and significantly enhanced our global reputation. During 2018-2020, the travelling
 exhibition which uses Augmented Reality to provide an interactive and immersive experience for
 visitors was hosted at 31 venues around the UK, Ireland, mainland Europe and the United States.

 Aim 4: Flexibility and Review

 Our flexible approach enables us both to instigate and respond quickly to public interest, seeking
 opportunities to showcase the relevance and significance of our research. For example, debates
 surrounding Spanish celebrations of the 500th anniversary of the arrival of Cortés in Mexico in
 2019 inspired Fuller to organise a public lecture on the initial meeting between Cortés and
 Moctezuma. This looked at indigenous perspectives (Caroline Dodds Pennock, Sheffield),
 Spanish perspectives (Fuller), and a more general presentation on anniversaries as a focal point


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for cultural memories from public historian Greg Jenner (BBC Horrible Histories/You’re Dead to
 Me Radio 4 podcast).

 Researchers have also been supported to follow up appropriate opportunities to increase public
 engagement with their research, for example, through providing media commentary or writing for
 sites such as The Conversation. Articles by seven D28 staff in The Conversation (Woodley, Niven,
 Hodgson, Morton, Bennett, Hayes, King) have collectively resulted in 322,493 reads. They have
 had regular opportunities to engage with the public through social media, TV and radio. Bennett
 presents a history documentary programme, now in its second series: Rediscovering Notts on
 Notts TV and has been a consultant for the ‘Who do You Think You Are’ series, UK (Danny Dyer)
 and US (Josh Duhamel, Jon Cryer); Hodgson was filmed for TVNZ 6 News and Radio NZ (New
 Zealand) in relation to the Canterbury Roll. We have also appeared on international and local
 radio, for example, Morton has promoted his research on WVGU “The morning show”; (US) “The
 Source”, WOCA-AM (US); “Idea Sphere”, KCBX (US). Hodgson featured on BBC Radio 4 “In Our
 Time – Queen Melisende of Jerusalem” (c. 3,200,000 listeners) and on Radio NZ and BBC
 Radio Nottingham in relation to the Canterbury Roll project. We also seek public engagement via
 podcasts. Fuller recorded a podcast for History Today on “Day of the Dead”, as did Hodgson for
 BBC History Extra discussing “Women and the Crusades,” (c. 100,000 listeners) with a supporting
 article on Melisende of Jerusalem in BBC World Histories Magazine (2020). Reynolds has
 established a reputation as a media consultant with a range of international news platforms
 (France 24, Sputnik News, A News Turkey, Smithsonian Magazine) as a commentator on French,
 Irish and transnational experiences in 1968, and in connection with the ‘Yellow Vest’ movement.
 We also engage at a local level with history societies, museums and archives across the East
 Midlands region about the issues that matter to them, evidenced by the collaborative writing and
 exhibition activities of the East Midlands History and Heritage Society (EMHHS).

 To enable longer term planning, Unit members complete annual Individual Research Plans (IRPs)
 and engage in one-to-one meetings with the UoAC to review their research support needs. These
 are fed into a wider ADR-led School Research and Innovation Plan incorporating the planned
 management of workloads to respond flexibly to teaching and research activities throughout the
 year.

 1.3b Research Integrity

 Matters relating to research integrity and ethics are overseen centrally (see REF5a) and managed
 locally. Scrutiny of staff and PGR projects in D28 is overseen by a cross-School committee to
 ensure that projects are scrutinised from different disciplinary perspectives. Resources are
 available to staff and students in the form of online modules which cover different aspects of
 research integrity and these are complemented by training arrangements at School level.

 1.3c Future Strategic Aims and Goals

 Moving beyond REF2021 the Unit has developed a number of enhanced strategic aims:

    To ensure a sustainable research capacity for the Unit, supporting both established ECR/new
     academic staff to produce high quality original research with a commitment to Open Access.

    To develop existing and create new cross-disciplinary links which enhance opportunities for
     innovation and co-creation in historical research, capitalising on strengths in Cultural Histories,
     Heritage, Memory Studies, Digital Humanities, and Heritage Science across institutions.

    To continue developing opportunities for maximising research impact implemented through
     good practice workshops at Unit and School level, and to support established staff, ECRs and
     PGRs in non-academic engagement.




                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    To raise the profile of NTU History globally in line with core University strategic values, and to
     optimise links established with local, national and international institutions to develop our
     reputation for research expertise, attracting a wide and diverse PGR cohort.

 These aims were discussed with the Royal Historical Society when presented to them in our
 workshop in September 2019 and were very well-received. On the strength of this meeting,
 additional emphasis was placed on developing our Open Access strategy through the HSRG with
 a particular view to supporting ECRs. Overall, we have made a considerable investment in
 succession planning, staff and postgraduate recruitment (see 2.1 and 2.2) and are seeking to
 make a further ECR appointment in Digital History as well as increasing postgraduate training in
 DH. We are actively seeking to develop more collaborative doctoral awards with new and existing
 partners such as the Nottingham Castle Trust and the Open Theatre. NTU contributed £250k
 towards the refurbishment of Nottingham Castle. The Lab is a room at the centre of the Castle’s
 galleries which NTU will use for research, experimentation, play and performance; presenting
 interactive events and installations created by NTU’s academics, students and partners, designed
 for the public and promoted by the Castle. NTU will also contribute to The Lates - a programme
 of late-night openings at the Castle targeted at a diverse audience.

 The impact of coronavirus in 2020 has encouraged us to explore new opportunities in delivering
 research and creating impact online, for interacting with international scholars and research
 groups, and creating innovative content for dissemination. New international initiatives including
 Museums for the Future and the Association for the History of Heritage and Welfare will open up
 further opportunities for partnerships, collaboration and co-creation, seeking to embed resilience
 in the hard-hit Culture and Heritage sectors. Cultural Heritage is the first of NTU’s Research Peaks
 which exemplifies our commitment to excellence and societal impact. Investment will recruit three
 early-career research fellows on a fast-track to an academic post along with several fractional
 professorial posts from renowned international institutions, thereby further increasing excellence,
 sustainability and international reputation. Hugely significant developments in BAME and
 LGBTQI+ debates have furthered our Unit’s resolve to engage even more proactively with EDI
 over the next cycle. NTU’s support for this strategy is further evidenced by the appointment of a
 three-year Leverhulme ECR: Simmons joined us in October 2020, expanding our scope into
 medieval Africa. The new CDA developed with Nottingham Castle Trust to start in 2021 seeks to
 improve inclusivity in a castle heritage environment, while the project with the Open Theatre
 explores how work in institutions and the wider community is organised for, experienced and
 understood by, and used to either support or hold back people with learning difficulties.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 In accordance with the Vitae Researcher Development Framework (see REF5a), the Unit seeks
 to recruit, select and retain a diverse and inclusive community of researchers with the highest
 potential to achieve excellence in research. There are 12.35 FTE staff with a significant
 responsibility for research. The gender and career-stage balance across the Unit is: 3.6 FTE
 women/8.7 FTE men; 3.2 FTE professors; 2.6 FTE associate professors; 6.5 FTE lecturers/senior
 lecturers. There have been some staff and contract changes over the review period, with two
 colleagues moving to fractional contracts and a 1.0 FTE appointment and departure, while
 Reynolds has progressed from associate professor to professor (September 2020).

 The arrival of Associate Professor Wüstenberg has built on existing strengths in the remembrance
 of violence and genocide, as well as exploring current issues such as family separation in history
 and memory; transnational memory networks and memory activism. The addition of King, funded
 by NTU’s strategic investment fund, as Professor of Economic and Social History reflects
 departmental research strategies in terms of broadening our effectiveness in tackling societal
 challenges through his focus on poverty and disability.



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 D28 has benefitted from partnerships held by new appointments to widen our reach, such as
 King’s current partnership with Paul Carter of the National Archives. Together they hold an £820k
 AHRC grant which has resulted in a number of co-authored publications that will develop into the
 next REF cycle with the prospect of future public engagement events and the open access
 provision of images and over 2 million words of transcripts on the TNA website in perpetuity. As
 an experienced and collaborative researcher and winner of the British Academy Peter Townsend
 Prize (2019), King’s appointment is strategic in terms of succession planning and for ensuring
 high-quality mentoring to early and mid-career staff. Both new appointments enhance our growing
 international profile and reputation for research excellence.

 D28 offers a supportive framework for staff development in terms of research, balancing the
 management of workloads with extra training (e.g., grant capture workshops, round table
 discussions on impact). The mentoring system offers the opportunity for both formal and informal
 feedback on planned research activities and outputs, supplemented by staff-led group initiatives
 such as a regular Research Café and monthly virtual writing retreats held by both Centres. IRPs
 form the basis for internal funding bids, primarily for research time, research assistants,
 conference funding and research trips. IRPs also identify training needs, and these are supported
 by NTU’s research development team. D28 facilitates staff networking not only with other
 academics but practitioners, educators and industry through hosting international events, while
 also offering internal funding for national and international travel. In the current cycle, Unit
 members have been supported to carry out and present research at conferences in France,
 Germany, Denmark, Italy, Poland, Switzerland, Australia, New Zealand and the USA amongst
 others, enabling us to develop some of the fruitful collaborations outlined in Section 4.

 Exceptional achievements in research are recognised through the appraisal process and by
 internal awards. Niven received a Vice Chancellor’s Outstanding Researcher reward in 2017, an
 annual accolade recognising research excellence.

 2.2 Research Students

 Postgraduate training and administration are managed by the Doctoral School. All students have
 at least two supervisors to oversee research planning and progress, with twelve mandatory
 meetings each year. Students produce annual monitoring reports and all students must submit a
 Project Approval Report. These are scrutinized by the supervisory team and an internal
 independent assessor before requiring approval by the University Research Degrees Committee.
 All research students enrol on the NTU DoctoratePlus Programme of workshops and training
 events to support their professional development, which is mapped to the VITAE Researcher
 Development Framework.

 Our success with M3C and M4C applications has enhanced D28’s ability to recruit and retain high
 calibre students. In addition to 13 students based in the Unit over the current cycle, four cross-
 disciplinary (Physics/History) and cross-institutional supervisions have also been supported by
 M4C. Internal PGR investment has also been significant, with 12 NTU doctoral studentships
 awarded. We continue to attract a number of self-funding students (16 up to July 2020, with 6
 more in 2020-21). This represents a strong upward trajectory from the cohort of 16 PhD students
 in REF2014. It has also allowed us to forge new collaborative relationships with other HEIs and
 the DTP’s Heritage and Cultural sector partners.

 Our commitment to developing new collaborative research also drives our postgraduate projects.
 Several PGRs are connected to Heritage institutions with projects designed to be forward-thinking
 and interdisciplinary, enhancing project impact and PGR employability. Pickup
 and Hondsmerk’s projects are connected to the redevelopment of Nottingham Castle
 Museum. Hondsmerk has co-organised a number of M4C conferences relating to digital themes,
 and her PhD employs gaming theory to inform learning tools in Heritage environments, while
 Pickup engages with 3D video and scientific analysis in order to enhance the presentation of
 material objects such as alabaster statues. Hodgson co-supervises two cross-disciplinary Heritage
 projects with Liang from NTU Physics: Butler, who uses AI and spectral analysis to examine South-

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 East Asian manuscripts at the British Library and Tsunoda who is using similar techniques to
 explore the development of Japanese Nanpin School paintings at the British Museum and the
 Ashmolean Museum.

 We fully endorse the ethics of postgraduate development, support, and career progression. We
 ensure that our doctoral researchers cultivate skills and professional relationships that make them
 exceptionally well-qualified to take up academic, cultural sector, and other research and
 professional roles. Our PGRs have benefitted from the M4C DTP in terms of financial support from
 the Cohort and Student Development Funds (totalling £30k). A number of external events and
 placements have also been co-ordinated: for example, Williams and Kendrick at National
 Holocaust Centre and Museum; and Kendrick and Wilson at the Imperial War Museum. In 2016-
 2017, Wilson was awarded the European Holocaust Research Infrastructure Fellowship for a
 placement at the Emanuel Ringelblum Jewish Historical Institute, Warsaw. PGRs have been
 successful in securing M4C funding for workshops and seminars open to the full postgraduate
 cohort. For example, “Debates in Contemporary Memory Studies”, enabled us to bring renowned
 memory studies specialist Astrid Erll to Nottingham. In 2018 alone, students co-organised
 postgraduate research workshops at the National Holocaust Centre, the Stanley Burton Centre,
 and Leicester and Nottingham Conference Centres, the latter in connection with World Jewish
 Relief.

 PGRs benefit from attendance at research seminar series across the School and participate in
 Centre-organised events. Five have spoken at CSRC conferences with opportunities to publish in
 the resulting essay collections (e.g. Bradley). PGRs are also encouraged to develop media profiles
 and explore avenues for impact beyond the realm of academia. With mentoring from their
 supervisors, both Bradley and Spry had public-facing articles published in History Today. Articles
 by four of D28’s PGRs published by The Conversation (Long, Leachman, Williams, Cheetham)
 have resulted in 119,724 reads. PGRs are encouraged to engage creatively and collaboratively
 with pathways to impact for their own research. One aspect of Williams’ PhD on the
 Kindertransport was developed into a play and performed at Nottingham Playhouse in 2018. An
 additional grant (RHS Postgraduate Speakers scheme) in 2016-17 supported PGR networking.
 We also hold special postgraduate workshops aimed at PhD, MA and Third Year students to
 develop the postgraduate cohort. Our students curate and organise an annual History
 postgraduate conference with guest speakers supported by internal funding from the School, and
 contribute regularly to the annual School research conference.

 2.3 Equality and Diversity

 NTU was awarded the bronze Athena Swan charter mark in April 2019 (see REF5a) and targets
 a silver submission after 2023. Supporting this, the School of Arts and Humanities has established
 its self-assessment team (SAT) and has carried out cultural surveys and started work on data
 analysis.

 The NTU EDI intranet links staff to relevant policies, resources and staff networks, including the
 REACH, LGBT+ and Women’s Staff Networks. The School’s Athena Swan champion signposts
 School-level EDI events including International Women’s and Men’s week and LGBT+ History
 month. D28 is fully embedded in these programmes, for example this year’s events have included
 speakers on Portuguese-African crusades, women in Great Yarmouth workhouse, Black female
 intellectuals in nineteenth century America, the colonial countryside and Queer Memory Activism.
 A number of D28 staff have organised sessions for the year-long Black History programme “BH
 365” (2020-21), for example King on “Black voices in British cities 1800-1900” and the wrap-up
 talk: “Politics - the problem or the solution?”

 The School began working towards an Athena Swan Silver Award in 2019, with Wüstenberg
 representing D28 in this effort. All researchers in D28 take part in training sessions relating to
 equality, dignity, and unconscious bias as part of the NTU RESPECT programme. We have taken
 a proactive stance in relation to the RHS report on Race, Ethnicity and Equality in History (Oct
 2018), and held a dedicated workshop on these issues during the RHS visit to the Department in

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2019. Wüstenberg represents History in the School’s work on “Decolonising the Curriculum.” We
 support our institutional target to increase the representation of women within the professoriate to
 35% by 2022: Hodgson took part in the HE Aurora scheme for women in leadership (2019-20).
 We also encourage a flexible and inclusive approach for staff working from home or remotely.

 Academics in D28 directly address EDI issues in their research. Woodley’s project on the Bethune
 memorial and other important Heritage sites in the context of the Civil Rights Movement made her
 uniquely qualified to address the contention over the Confederate statue in Charlottesville in 2017,
 for which she wrote a piece in the Conversation (56,601 reads) and appeared on Radio 4’s World
 at One programme. Wüstenberg has also examined the use of East German memorial sites by the
 far right. Research by the CSRC into diverse religious groups explores ethnicities and identities in
 the contextual underpinnings of conflict. Morton has engaged with emerging western perceptions
 of Islam at the outset of the Crusade movement. Fuller engages in the recovery of lost colonial
 voices in Mexico and the emergence of new hybrid identities, while Hodgson explores the
 relationship between medieval masculinities and crusading ideologies which have found a new
 resonance in the culture of the modern alt-right, as outlined in her recent panel at Leeds
 International Medieval Congress “Myths of the Crusades” (2019). Lussana’s research challenges
 accepted understandings of gender by examining cultures of masculinity and friendship amongst
 slaves in the Antebellum South. Our impact case studies tackle controversial issues that are
 of extraordinary national and international importance, Genocide and Anti-Semitism (Legacies)
 and the intersection of political and sectarian conflicts in Northern Ireland (Voices of 68), thus our
 researchers seek actively to engage the public in debates about how, and in what ways, these are
 remembered.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 Within the current REF cycle D28 has accumulated awards totalling £635k in addition to its AHRC
 PGR income representing £292k. This compares favourably to £164k in REF2014 and constitutes
 significant improvement in successful bid writing over the current period. Income has been drawn
 from major awarding bodies, such as Arts Council England for the Innovation in Museum
 Displays project (Black: £105k) in 2014. Both Niven and Woodley have been awarded British
 Academy small grants: Woodley for ‘Mourning as Resistance’ (£9k), and Niven for ‘Untroubled by
 the Nazi Past: Third Reich Actors after 1945’ (£8k) and ‘Hitler and Film in the Third Reich’ (£4k)
 which fed into his acclaimed 2018 monograph. Grants have also been awarded by smaller
 institutions such as: the Marc Fitch Fund; Friends of Local English History; the Thoroton Society;
 Nottinghamshire Local History Association; and Society for Lincolnshire History and Archaeology
 (£14k) to support the publication of East Midlands History and Heritage magazine, now on its tenth
 biannual issue.

 Fellowships, too, have resulted in substantial income and outputs. Niven’s Visiting Professorship
 for Professor Andrew Port in 2018 was supported by Leverhulme (£25k). Hodgson’s fellowships
 at St Andrews (Donald Bullough Fellowship £4k) and the University of Canterbury NZ (Canterbury
 Fellowship c. £8k) received external funding. The former resulted in an edited collection on
 Crusading and Masculinities, while the latter enabled a collaborative bid to the AHRC for the
 Towards a National Collection call in 2020. Niven received a Humboldt Fellowship in 2015 (c. £2k)
 for Hitler and Film and was awarded a Senior Fellowship at the Munich Institute for Contemporary
 History to write ‘Jew Süβ: The Afterlife of a Nazi Film’ (c. £9k).

 Our trajectory for grant capture is gaining momentum into the next cycle. Simmons’ Leverhulme
 ECR fellowship began after the census date, but his match-funded grant awarded in May 2020
 represents a further £144k, with two monographs in the pipeline. In December 2020 Wüstenberg
 was awarded an AHRC grant as Co-I with Professor Sara Jones (University of Birmingham, PI)
 for ‘Post-Socialist Britain: Memory, Representation and Political Identity amongst German and
 Polish Immigrants in the UK’ totalling £921k, c. £300k of which will enable Wüstenberg’s research
 and the employment of an RA. This impactful project interweaves memories of authoritarianism

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and experiences of migration in the formation of political identities among Polish and German
 migrants in the UK.

 Speakers at our events and conferences have been supported by external grants: from the Royal
 Historical Society (Conference fund £1.5k; Postgraduate Speakers Scheme £110); the Society for
 the Study of the Crusades and the Latin East (£400) and the British Military Commission (£200).
 We have also been awarded considerable funds by international partners for travel to participate
 in events: for example the University of Queensland and the University of Canterbury, NZ
 (Australasian Crusades Network, c. £1.5k; and Marsden Seed Fund Grant c. £600 – Hodgson).
 Morton was supported to attend Leeds International Medieval Congress in 2018 by
 the Institut für Mittelalterforschung, Österreichische Akademie der Wissenschaften (£650), and to
 speak at the Kenyon Institute in Jerusalem (2014) by the Council for British Research in the Levant
 (£800).

 Our involvement in the M4C DTP has resulted in PGRs successfully applying for AHRC support
 from the Cohort Development Fund (CDF) and Student Development Fund (SDF) totalling over
 £25k.

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

 Over the current cycle, D28 has benefitted from the establishment of the new Research
 Information Management System, Worktribe, which allows the collation of data regarding outputs,
 tracks funding applications and enables staff to develop and evidence their career profiles. Our
 staff have participated in centrally-organised events, including talks from funding bodies such as
 the AHRC and Leverhulme Trust, training workshops, access to tools such as Research
 Professional, and a bespoke ‘Winning Grant Funding’ programme for researchers across the
 University. D28 has actively created spaces for staff to develop contacts and share research
 interests but have also benefitted from ‘sandpit’ events organised by SRTs as well as support from
 professional services teams to connect either with existing NTU partners or to broker new
 partnerships. NTU Library services also play an active role at the School research committee,
 engaging with developing researcher needs and ensuring that our research meets open access
 and data management requirements.

 This commitment to developing infrastructure has also extended to PGRs with the NTU Doctoral
 School co-ordinating postgraduate monitoring, progression, and completion; maintaining
 professional research degree standards; ensuring compliance with EDI regulations at
 postgraduate level; and being responsible for the delivery of the DoctoratePlus researcher
 development programme. Both the Postgraduate Research Tutor for the School of Arts and
 Humanities and the UoAC for History contribute to the School Research Degrees Committee
 which forms an essential component of postgraduate monitoring, enabling effective
 communication between PGRs and supervisors at Unit level, and the Doctoral School. Working
 space allocated to PGRs improved significantly in 2017, with a large office assigned to doctoral
 researchers based within the School.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations, Partnerships and Networks

 Collaboration forms a key element of the Unit’s approach to research, especially mutually
 beneficial partnerships with key institutions. Niven is a founding member of the National Holocaust
 Centre and Museum advisory board, collaborating through student placements (Kendrick,
 Williams), and on the creation of a digital exhibition Legacies. He is part of a select working group
 developing a vision for the Centre’s future research strategy. In May 2019, NTU signed a
 memorandum of understanding with the National Holocaust Centre – significantly the only
 University to have done so.



                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We also support ongoing collaborations with individual researchers. During the current REF
 period, King and Professor Andreas Gestrich, (University of Trier, Germany) have enjoyed a multi-
 level collaboration including jointly authored and edited work. They held a grant jointly from the
 AHRC and DFG for a project on British and German Pauper letters between 1750 and 1929. This
 will result in published outputs and a contextualised, fully searchable online digital edition of the
 letters which launches in 2021, hosted by the German Historical Institute.

 The Canterbury Roll project offers an example of NTU’s strategic support and investment in
 international collaborations. In 2017, Hodgson developed a collaboration with Dr. Chris Jones at
 the University of Canterbury, New Zealand (UC), based on the digitisation of a fifteenth-century
 genealogical roll in their University library. The first collaboration with UC Digital Arts Lab
 generated a prosopographical database for incorporation into a new digital edition of the roll, and
 was co-financed by an NTU SPUR and UC. Hodgson then brought in the Imaging and Sensing
 for Archaeology, Art History and Conservation (ISAAC) mobile lab at NTU. A team travelled to
 New Zealand in 2018 to undertake cutting-edge spectral imaging and pigment analysis on the roll,
 supported by the Global Heritage SRT and UC. The research revealed an image of Noah’s ark
 obscured under a Lancastrian Rose for c. 600 years, and hidden writing central to reinterpreting
 the object. This pilot project attracted national and international press e.g. p. 3 of the Times (av.
 circulation 440,558 readers Jan 2018); and online articles in the Sun; Fox News; the Daily Mail;
 Daily Mail Australia; The Australian and a variety of syndicated New Zealand papers. The Global
 Heritage SRT is currently supporting the development of a technical design for a web-based app
 for the project, and plans have been confirmed for an exhibition roll in partnership with Nottingham
 Castle Lab and Lates in 2022.

 Our researchers have instituted scholarly networks such as Crusading Masculinities (Hodgson)
 and play leading roles in others, for example, the Northern Network for the Study of the Crusades
 (Hodgson, Morton) which incorporates seven UK institutions (Manchester Metropolitan University,
 NTU, Leeds, Lancaster, Liverpool, Huddersfield, Leicester). Wüstenberg is the co-founder and
 has served in the leadership of international research networks, including the Interdisciplinary
 Network on Memory Studies (German Studies Association, Co-Chair 2016-2019), the Research
 Network on Transnational Memory and Identity in the Council for European Studies (Co-Chair
 2015-2019), and the Memory Studies Association (Co-Founder and Co-President 2016-present).
 From 2018-2020, Wüstenberg was appointed a member of the Commission Memory Cultures of
 Social Democracy by the German Federation of Trade Unions. Black participates in the REACH
 (Re-designing Access to Cultural Heritage) project which brings together academics and museum
 practitioners from five countries within the EU. Reynolds is a member of the Academic Advisory
 Board of the Ulster Museum and Woodley is on the Executive Board of the British Association of
 American Studies and on the Board of the European Association of American Studies. She is also
 part of the AHRC-funded research network, ‘Black Female Intellectuals in Historical and
 Contemporary Context’. Fuller is a founding member of the East Midlands Teaching Indigenous
 Histories Network (with Dr. Deborah Toner, University of Leicester).

 We have worked collaboratively to organise conferences outside NTU with external partners, for
 example, Hodgson, Mesley (University of Zurich) and Lewis (University of Huddersfield) convened
 the inaugural Crusading Masculinities Conference in 2015 supported primarily by the Swiss
 National Science Foundation (total funding captured by the team – c. £13.5). In 2017, Niven co-
 hosted a conference The Afterlife of Nazi Film with the ZZF (Centre for Contemporary History,
 Potsdam, Germany) in Berlin, supported by a 5,000 Euro grant. In 2016, together with the Stanley
 Burton Centre for Holocaust and Genocide studies, Niven initiated the Postgraduate Conference
 in Holocaust Studies, of which so far three were held between 2016-2019.

 4.2 Contribution to Research Base

 4.2a Outreach

 The Centres and networks in D28 also form an important focal point for capturing the individual
 and collective impact of staff and postgraduates co-ordinated through social media, websites and

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 blogs such as the CSRC website. Typical activities include public lectures (e.g. Bennett and
 Morton at Bromley House, Hodgson at Christchurch Historical Association NZ), invited talks (e.g.
 Hodgson at the German Historical Institute, Paris; Morton at the Pontifical Biblical Institute, Rome;
 McCallum at the Humboldt University of Berlin; Bennett at The Musée de Picardie, Amiens) and
 book festivals (e.g. Bennett at Lowdham Book Festival; Fuller at Gloucester History Festival).
 CSRC has an extensive programme of schools’ outreach which includes talks and interactive
 sessions with online resources (e.g. Hodgson for Kings Macclesfield, Rushcliffe School and
 Salisbury College, Morton at Oakham, Highgate School for Girls and Rugby School). Hodgson
 has lectured on the Crusades for multiple schools including Westminster, Monmouth, King’s Ely
 and Monkton Coombe School and via the A-Level Conference Company Ltd. Gaming also
 features as part of our public outreach strategy, with Bennett and Morton delivering lecture and
 war gaming sessions for schools, and featuring on Notts TV programme: Ey Up Notts. PHHM also
 has a strong track record in schools’ outreach. Niven has worked together with 6 schools in the
 UK and Germany, educators and the National Holocaust Centre to develop teaching on the
 Holocaust for primary and secondary students. This includes the provision of teaching materials
 for the app “Virtual Journey,” which traces the experience of a Kindertransportee. Reynolds has
 led a successful (and ongoing) GCSE study programme that included dedicated study days and
 the creation of a set of bespoke online resources on 1968 in Northern Ireland.

 In addition to his strong media presence during the ‘Yellow Vest’ uprisings Reynolds has given
 dozens of presentations and public lectures in the UK, France, Mexico, and the United States.
 Niven is a sought-after headliner at national and international conferences (Italy, Finland, US,
 Spain, Netherlands, Germany, China) and public events commemorating the Holocaust, the First
 World War, the sinking of the Cap Arcona, or forced migration movements. Niven’s expertise is
 broadly recognised, (with research cited in publications as diverse as The Atlantic, Volkskrant,
 Times Higher Education, The Hollywood Reporter, Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, Der Spiegel,
 and many more). Wüstenberg’s research has been featured in articles in National Geographic
 magazine and DAAD Aktuell. The June 2019 conference of the Memory Studies Association
 received extraordinary coverage in the Spanish media, featuring quotes by Wüstenberg, which
 were included on the cover of the daily El País, in El Salto, and on Spanish National Radio.

 4.2b Editorial

 Members of D28 hold a number of significant editorial roles and participate in learned societies.
 Since 2011 Bennett has been the editor of the Thoroton Society Journal, Hodgson is co-editor
 of Nottingham Medieval Studies and McCallum is General Editor and Publications Secretary for
 the Scottish History Society. Hodgson edits two book series for Routledge: Advances in Crusades
 Research; and Themes in Medieval and Early Modern History. Morton edits Rulers of the Latin
 East and The Military Religious Orders: History, Sources, Memory also for Routledge.
 Wüstenberg co-edits the Worlds of Memory book series for Berghahn Publishers. Niven is
 editorial board member of the Journal of Holocaust Research, the Journal of War and Culture
 Studies, Germanistik in Irland, Jahrbuch für Politik und Geschichte, and is chief editor of the
 Boydell and Brewer History series. Reynolds is a member of the editorial team for Modern and
 Contemporary France.

 We have also produced a number of public-facing articles to support research impact, for example,
 in History Today (Hodgson, Fuller, Morton, Niven, Woodley); BBC History Magazine and BBC
 World Histories Magazine (Bennett, Hodgson); Military History Matters (Bennett), and The Times
 Higher (Hodgson, Morton). Niven, Williams and Wilson have contributed blogs to the International
 Holocaust Remembrance Alliance and the Wiener Library.

 One of our key local networks is the EMHHS. Set up by Hayes in 2014, it brings together academic
 expertise from universities across the region, working with other specialists and local history
 associations, to promote, mentor and co-produce high-quality research within local communities.
 It issues a regular free publication, East Midlands History and Heritage Magazine for non-
 academic groups on topics of community interest such as the 1947 floods, women’s suffrage,
 memories from the Great War, RAF bomber bases during the Second World War, workhouses

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 during the inter-war period, hospital fundraising before the NHS, and Nottingham’s County
 Asylum. EMHHS also offers an editorial and curatorial advisory service which makes use of
 available expertise in D28.

 4.2c Peer Review, Esteem and Awards

 D28 research staff regularly take part in peer reviewing processes for academic journals such
 as English Historical Review, the Medieval Review, the Journal of Medieval History, Nottingham
 Medieval Studies, the Medieval Feminist Forum, Gender and History, Central European History,
 the Journal of Contemporary History, the Journal of American Studies, Comparative American
 Studies, Modern Italy, the SAGE Journal of Memory Studies, History & Memory, Perspectives on
 Politics, German Politics & Society, European Journal of Cultural and Political Sociology, French
 Cultural Studies, International Studies Review, International Journal of Politics, Culture and
 Society, German Studies Review, Seventeenth Century and Scottish Historical Review and
 the British Journal for Military History. We also peer review proposals and monographs for a
 variety of publishers for example Routledge, Palgrave Macmillan, Columbia University Press, and
 Edinburgh University Press.

 We hold a variety of roles on peer review panels for funding applications. King is a member of the
 Peer Review College for the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission (2015-present); for the
 European COST programme (2012-present); and the ESRC Peer Review Panel for grant
 applications (2010-present). Hodgson is a regular member of the AHRC M4C DTP doctoral awards
 panel A, which includes History. Morton has worked as a European Commission rapporteur,
 expert and vice-chair for Horizon 2020: Marie Skłodowska-Curie - Individual Fellowships, (2016,
 2017 and 2019); Cultural Cooperation 5, (2017) “Religious diversity in Europe”; Cultural
 Cooperation 8, (2016) “Virtual museums” and International Society 7, (2015). Other staff
 collectively review for the Fund for Scientific Research; the Irish Research Council; the European
 Research Council and Research Foundation Flanders.

 D28 staff have a well-established global reputation for research. Our international esteem as
 measured in terms of fellowships is listed above in 3.1, but we also have roles as members of a
 variety of learned societies: Bennett, McCallum, King and Hodgson are elected fellows of The
 Royal Historical Society. McCallum is Publications Secretary and General Editor for the Scottish
 History Society, Hodgson and Morton are members of the Society for the Study of the Crusades
 and the Latin East, while Bennett is a member of The British Commission for Military History. Niven
 is a member of advisory boards to two AHRC projects ("Photography as Political Practice in
 National Socialism” and “Knowing the Secret Police: Secrecy and Knowledge in East German
 Society”). In terms of individual accolades, Wüstenberg’s 2017 monograph, Civil Society and
 Memory in Postwar Germany, was shortlisted for book awards by the Council for European
 Studies (2018) and the Waterloo Centre for German Studies (2017) and King’s Writing the Lives
 of the English Poor 1750s-1830s is the winner of the 2020 Janette Harley prize from the British
 Records Association.




                                                                                            Page 13
