Institutional level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Warwick

 Unit of assessment: D30 Philosophy

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 A. Overview & Structure

 Our vision is to be a world-class research-intensive and inclusive philosophy department that
 actively promotes diverse philosophical traditions and sustained interdisciplinary collaborations.
 Our research strategy centres around cultivating sustainable disciplinary and interdisciplinary
 excellence and thereby engaging with issues of current pressing concern. This sustainability
 depends on attracting, and integrating into our community, outstanding PGRs and ECRs. We
 strive to be an inclusive research community and so to contribute to the progressive
 development of a more equal and more diverse discipline (section 2).

 We are privileged to be one of few departments worldwide with an international reputation for
 excellence across both analytic and continental philosophy, which offers us distinctive
 opportunities to produce research responsive to both traditions. We therefore remain committed
 to enhancing our four main areas of strength: philosophy of mind and epistemology; Post-
 Kantian European philosophy; aesthetics; and moral, political, and legal philosophy. Our
 research in these areas is organised through four highly active research centres with well-
 established interdisciplinary links within Warwick and beyond. PGRs and ECRs are fully
 integrated into centres and included in decision-making.

 Warwick Mind and Action Research Centre (WMA):
 WMA (formerly CSCRC) specialises in research in philosophy of mind and psychology, and
 epistemology. Key collaborators include psychologists and behavioural scientists.

 Core members: Butterfill; Campbell; Cassam; Crowther; Dean; Eilan; Hoerl; Lerman (teaching-
 focused); Longworth; Michael (until November 2019); Moore; Nudds; Roessler; Walker (teaching-
 focused).

 Post-Kantian European Philosophy Research Centre (PKEP):
 PKEP was formalised as a research centre during the assessment period to better organize
 and showcase the Department’s manifold, internationally leading research activities in this area.
 The centre draws in researchers in history, sociology, and political theory.

 Core members: Ansell-Pearson; Bather Woods (teaching-focused); Beistegui; Cooper;
 Houlgate; James; Lorenzini; Poellner.

 Centre for Research in Philosophy, Literature, and the Arts (CRPLA):
 Specialising in aesthetics and the philosophy of literature, CRPLA represents a longstanding and
 successful collaboration with the Department of English and Comparative Literary Studies. It is
 co-managed by the two Departments and involves researchers from across the Faculty of Arts.

 Core members: Costello; John; Lacertosa (teaching-focused); Simecek (teaching-
 focused).

 Centre for Ethics, Law, and Public Affairs (CELPA):



                                                                                              Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5b)
 CELPA is a well-established centre housed by the Department of Politics and International
 Studies, but centrally involving researchers from Philosophy and Law. Sustained activity and
 investment from all three Departments have established CELPA as the leading such research
 centre in the UK.

 Core members: Bajaj; Brownlee (until June 2020); Ferguson; Peter; Sorell (joint appointment
 with PAIS); Surgener (teaching-focused); Tomlin.

 The centrality of plurality and interdisciplinarity to our environment is illustrated below:


           •Psychology                                                •History
           •Medicine                                                  •Sociology
           •Mathematics                                               •Politics and
           •Business School                                            International Studies
           •History of Art
                                   WMA -- Warwick     PKEP -- Research
                                                       Centre in Post-
                                   Mind and Action
                                                      Kantian European
                                   Research Centre
                                                         Philosophy
                                               Philosophy

                                       CRPLA--
                                   Research Centre    CELPA-- Research
                                                      Centre in Ethics,
                                    in Philosophy,     Law, and Public
                                    Literature, and
                                        the Arts          Affairs

          •History of Art
          •Film Studies                                               •Politics and
                                                                       International Studies
          •English and Comp. Lit
                                                                      •Law
          •Modern Languages




 B. Research strategy and progress since REF 2014

 Our research strategy, continuous with that for REF2014, comprises four main elements:
 enhancing research excellence; supporting pluralism; deepening interdisciplinarity; and
 improving potential to attract grant income.

    I.      Enhancing research excellence

 During this assessment period, we enhanced the Department’s international reputation for
 research excellence and sustained high levels of productivity and strong research leadership. We
 saw a steady increase of our place in the QS rankings for Philosophy, for example, and are placed
 38th in the world in the 2020 rankings.

 Since 2014, colleagues have produced 12 monographs and 2 co-authored books, many of them
 published by leading University presses (including OUP and CUP), 8 edited volumes and 6 special
 journal issues, more than 160 journal articles, many in leading journals, both in philosophy (including
 European Journal of Philosophy, Ethics, Mind, Philosophical Studies, Philosophy and
 Phenomenological Research, Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, and Synthese) and other
 disciplines (e.g. Behavioural and Brain Sciences), and more than 100 book chapters, many in
 volumes published by leading presses.



                                                                                                  Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5b)

 Numerous examples from all areas of research strength evidence our ability to sustain and
 enhance research leadership. These include Cassam, who is at the forefront of the new field of
 vice epistemology, on which he published a monograph in 2018 (Vices of the Mind, OUP 2018),
 James’ authoritative volume on Fichte’s nationalism (Fichte’s Republic, CUP 2015), the first book-
 length introduction to the philosophy of photography (Costello, On Photography, Routledge 2018),
 and Brownlee’s ambitious treatise on a human right against social deprivation (Being Sure of Each
 Other, OUP 2020).

 In addition to prestigious grants, editorial roles, and research collaborations (sections 3 and 4),
 we also exercise leadership through the delivery of research seminars, workshops, and
 conferences to which we attract outstanding speakers and visitors (section 4). We hosted the
 2015 Joint Session (Roessler as main local organiser), for example, and we hosted a major
 conference on Hegel’s Logic in 2014 (organised by Houlgate as part of his earlier Leverhulme
 Major Research Fellowship), two large conferences on 21st Century Theories of Literature in 2014
 and 2017 (co-organised by John), and an international conference on Social Rights in 2019
 (Brownlee, AHRC network grant and other funders, including the Society for Applied Philosophy),
 to mention a few.

 Research leadership is also evidenced by our many contributions to the Stanford Encyclopedia of
 Philosophy, which reflects the authoritativeness of our researchers. During the assessment
 period, our staff have written or revised articles on Austin (Longworth), civil disobedience
 (Brownlee), computational complexity theory (Dean), disjunctivism (Soteriou), freedom of
 association (Brownlee and Jenkins), Hegel’s aesthetics (Houlgate), and political legitimacy
 (Peter).

    II.     Supporting pluralism

 Our commitment to pluralism is reflected by our expansion of expertise in both analytic and
 continental philosophy during the assessment period. We also plan further investments in expertise
 outside the Western canon, having already made an initial appointment in Chinese philosophy
 (Lacertosa).

 We strive to cultivate an inclusive, coherent and cohesive research culture that promotes and
 facilitates exchange between all areas of the discipline. Our approach to research management
 prioritises two strategies. First, we structurally embed support for pluralism through a Senior
 Management Committee and a Research Committee of the Department that include
 representatives from different philosophical traditions. Second, we actively support dialogue and
 collaboration across all areas of research strength, and across analytic and continental
 philosophy. Our regular research colloquia are dedicated to bringing together staff working on
 related topics in different areas of philosophy. Recent topics include self-knowledge (Ansell-
 Pearson, Cassam), Hegel and McDowell on perception (Houlgate and Soteriou), stupidity
 (Beistegui, Cassam, Costello), and punishment (Bather Woods, Brownlee, James, Tomlin).

 The success of our efforts to foster a cohesive research culture shows itself in several ways. Many
 of us have research interests that bridge analytic and continental philosophy, including Ansell-
 Pearson, Bather Woods, Cassam, Cooper, Costello, John, Longworth, Lorenzini, Poellner, and
 Smith (until late 2014). Our dynamic research culture also supports the emergence of new clusters
 of activity at intersections of existing areas of strength, including on self-knowledge and self-
 cultivation (Ansell-Pearson, Campbell, Cassam, Eilan, John, Longworth, Lorenzini, Roessler),


                                                                                              Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5b)
 political epistemology (Beistegui, Cassam, Lorenzini, and Peter), and reasons (Bajaj, Campbell,
 Longworth, Roessler, Peter). We also have extensive expertise on Kant, distributed across all
 areas of strength (Cassam, Cooper, Costello, Houlgate, Peter, and Roessler).


     III.         Deepening interdisciplinarity

 As the overview makes vivid, we are strongly interdisciplinary. Together with excellence in four main
 areas and philosophical pluralism, interdisciplinarity is the third leg of our research strategy. Our
 interdisciplinarity sustains a dynamic environment with enhanced opportunities for productive
 collaborations, impact and public engagement.

 Fostering a culture that supports interdisciplinarity has been a main priority for us for many years,
 predating the current assessment period, and we retain this commitment. Interdisciplinarity figures
 in everything we do. We regularly collaborate with researchers in cognitive science and
 psychology, education, English and other modern languages, law, mathematics, medicine,
 sociology, and politics, at Warwick and beyond, and we have intensified these connections
 over the assessment period. It is also evident in our research-led teaching and longstanding joint
 teaching programmes with other disciplines (including Politics, Economics, Law, Mathematics,
 Psychology, English, Classics and History).

 Direct support mechanisms include financial support for interdisciplinary research centres and
 giving weight to interdisciplinarity in research support and hiring decisions. We also benefit from
 solid University support for interdisciplinarity (REF5a 2.9). While our REF output submission
 primarily showcases our disciplinary excellence, we produced many outputs published in leading
 outlets of other disciplines and/or that enjoy strong uptake outside of philosophy—e.g. a high-profile
 paper in Brain and Behaviour (Hoerl).

            IV.      Improving our potential to attract external grant income

 Our ability to bring outstanding PGRs and ECRs into the discipline, and to devote sufficient
 time to research activities more generally, depends on research income. In this assessment
 period, we took important steps to incentivise, support and facilitate higher volumes of
 application and acquisition (see section 3). Our strategy has been to raise awareness of
 sources and forms of funding whilst supporting staff to develop applications that best fit their
 research goals, independently of income, with the aim of stimulating a pipeline to further
 applications. From initial development stage, applicants are supported internally by our
 Director of Research (Cassam) and Research Manager (Hargreaves, Department
 Administrator) and externally by Research & Impact Services (R&IS). These steps resulted in
 an increase in value of applications from just under £5 million to more than £14.5 million over
 this assessment period, and a growth in external grant income from £271k in 2013/14 to £452k
 in 2018/19 (2019/20 is less representative due to Covid-19).

 C. Impact and public engagement

 During the REF2021 assessment period, we have greatly enhanced our efforts to support the
 development of meaningful impact and public engagement from our research. The Department’s
 impact strategy prioritises a responsive and tailored approach to impact and public engagement
 development. We do not have a blanket expectation for staff to engage but aim to achieve high
 quality impact by supporting each staff member to identify appropriate impact and public



                                                                                                    Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5b)
 engagement strategies for their research. In this way, the Department reaches a diverse set of
 audiences and partners and achieves many different types of impact (see section 4).

 Support for impact and public engagement starts at the framing stage of new research projects
 and is maintained throughout the project’s lifecycle. It includes ensuring that staff have the
 resources needed to pursue impact activities, whether through additional research leave, flexible
 use of research allowances, or access to funding and resources (section 4). We also benefit
 from specialised support by the University’s impact team and technology transfer office and
 institutional funding (REF5a 2.6-8).

 We have cultivated strong partnerships with users and during this assessment period. For example,
 Cassam’s epistemic vices project has involved partnerships with medical professionals and
 developed to also include the Royal College of GPs. Peter’s AHRC-funded public norms project
 partners with the media regulation NGO Impress. Brownlee’s social rights project connects with
 several human rights NGOs (see section 4).

 The Department has a strong history of public engagement. The broader dissemination of our
 research is essential to our strategic goals of contributing to issues of pressing current concern
 and promoting the value of philosophical reflection. We encourage and support staff to undertake
 a wide variety of dissemination activities: blog posts, newspaper and magazine articles; interviews
 on radio and TV or in newspapers and magazines; podcasts and videos, filmed panel
 discussions, and social media. Public engagement in all forms figures in hiring and promotion
 decisions.

 Especially successful examples of sustained public engagement work in this assessment period
 include Brownlee’s work on loneliness as an ethical problem and Cassam’s work on conspiracy
 theories. We have been able to support both researchers to establish themselves as go-to
 academic voices on those important topics.

 We are committed to the open research agenda to extend the visibility and discoverability of our
 research by other researchers and the public. We have enabled all staff to embrace this cultural
 change and support new staff to through our induction process, which details how to use our OA
 repository, WRAP, and Library support (REF5a 2.10). We ensure that where funders require,
 applications include budgets to support gold open access.
 D. Future research and impact goals and plans
 Our main priorities are to:

   I.    Continue to enhance sustainable research excellence in our main areas of research
         strength.
  II.    Deepen our philosophical pluralism, inclusiveness, and diversity through achieving better
         representation of philosophical voices and traditions currently underrepresented in the
         discipline (e.g. outside the Western canon).
  III.   Continue to embrace interdisciplinary research, including intensifying our links with
         mathematics and computer science with a view to enhancing existing strength in
         this area (Dean).
  IV.    Further incentivise and facilitate the acquisition of diverse research grants with a view to
         sustaining our vibrant research culture and enabling the pursuit of excellence, leadership,
         and enhanced opportunities for impact.
  V.     Continue to embed public engagement in our research culture, both for its own sake and
         as a steppingstone for further impact-related activities.


                                                                                                Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 2. People


 In line with our overall research strategy, our staffing strategy focuses on fostering excellence and
 leadership in an inclusive, interdisciplinary, and pluralist environment. The strategy’s main
 elements are appointing and retaining outstanding staff, investing in ECRs, and supporting
 continuous professional development for all staff.

     I.     Appointing and retaining outstanding staff

 We have invested in existing areas of research strength and used our reputation for excellence
 in those areas to attract outstanding new colleagues who are, or have the potential to become,
 leaders in their fields. This approach has been successful, and we have been able to make
 excellent permanent appointments from a competitive, international recruitment pool across all of
 our research centres.

 Philosophy of mind and epistemology (3): Campbell (Leverhulme ECF, Assistant Professor),
 Michael (Associate Professor until November 2019), Moore (UKRI Leadership Fellow).

 Post-Kantian European philosophy (3): Bather Woods (Senior Teaching Fellow), Cooper
 (Leverhulme ECF, Assistant Professor), Lorenzini (Assistant Professor).

 Aesthetics (1): Simecek (Associate Professor, teaching-focused).

 Moral, political, and legal philosophy (6): Bajaj (Assistant Professor), Brownlee (Professor, until
 June 2020), Ferguson (Associate Professor), Pinkert (Assistant Professor, 2015–2018), Surgener
 (Senior Teaching Fellow), Tomlin (Reader).

     II.    Invest in and foster development of ECRs

 As this list of appointments demonstrates, investing in ECRs has been a key strategic priority.
 This investment has allowed us to balance the Department’s age and seniority profiles, support
 the long-term sustainability of our research environment, and contribute to the vitality of the wider
 discipline. As a result of strategic investments and support measures, the demographic profile
 of our Department at the REF census date in July 2020 was well-balanced, with 15 senior and
 14 junior academic staff (including those on T or R only contracts), compared with 14/7 in July
 2013.

 We prioritise sustaining a research culture that is inclusive. We ensure that all ECRs are fully
 integrated in a research centre and work hard to include staff at all levels and on all contract
 types in decision making. Mindful of the impact of insecure contracts, we appoint teaching fellows
 for more than a year where feasible and protect a minimum of 20% of their workload for research
 and professional development. We support junior staff with significantly higher research
 allowances to enable them to access development opportunities in order to advance their careers
 (allowances are currently £1800 for assistant professors compared with £300 for full professors).

 We see fixed-term teaching and research fellowships as important career-development positions
 for ECRs. In virtue of our well-embedded culture of grant acquisition, we have a tradition of
 attracting and supporting outstanding ECRs on research grants or fellowship schemes across all
 research clusters. During this assessment period, we were able to attract a steady stream of
 more than 15 research fellows. These appointments were a mix of stand-alone fellowship


                                                                                                Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5b)
 positions and positions in support of larger funded research projects. Stand-alone fellowships
 include 4 Leverhulme ECFs (Campbell, Cooper and McClelland; Vanello, from October 2020), a
 Mind Association Fellowship (Openshaw, from September 2020) and a prestigious UKRI Future
 Leaders Fellowship (Moore). Postdoctoral Fellows appointed to support major research projects
 include those funded by the AHRC (Mandrigin, Shardlow, Sutton Fernandes, Vanzo), the ERC
 (Christensen, Ooi), and Leverhulme (Bianco, Gracieuse, Jenkins). Additionally, we have been
 able to take advantage of University support for early career research posts, through donor
 funding (Policante) and internally administered funding schemes such as IAS and COFUND (dal
 Poz, Denis, Testa, Bespalov) (REF5a 2.9.2).

 We value greatly the contribution staff in these junior positions make to the energy and diversity
 of the Department and we take their career development seriously. Staff on fixed-term contracts
 have moved on to academic positions within the University and at Barcelona, Cambridge, Delft,
 Dublin, Kent, Otago, and Stirling, among other places.

    III.    Support the professional development of all staff

 We are an ambitious Department that strives to create a supportive, inclusive research
 environment in which our world-class staff at all stages can thrive. We ensure that there are
 multiple mechanisms for understanding and developing the career goals of each member of staff
 and ensuring that they feel included in our strategic direction and supported to perform.

 A key mechanism for incubating, encouraging and supporting staff has been understanding the
 career goals of every individual colleague—from teaching fellow or early career researcher to
 full professor. We capture this information through both Personal Development Reviews (PDRs)
 and Research Planning Meetings (RPMs). These conversations are not conducted as
 performance management tools but as regular formal mentoring conversations between
 colleagues. PDRs and RPMs (with the Director of Research (Cassam) and Research Manager
 (Hargreaves, Department Administrator) help individuals identify goals, areas for support or
 development (supported by the Academic Development Centre, and the other University-level
 teams) and support planning within the Department.

 During the REF2021 assessment period, a key priority was to professionalise our research
 management and support provisions, both at the Department-level and through closer
 collaboration with the University’s Research and Impact Support service. We now actively
 support staff through the complete lifecycle of research planning, development and delivery.
 Mid-career staff are supported in obtaining experience in leadership, as well as in developing
 research networks and programmes, through the opportunities to direct research centres,
 reading groups and seminar series (see section 4).

 To further support retention and development of junior colleagues, we implemented a mentoring
 scheme during the REF assessment period. All non-professorial staff, including those in teaching-
 focused roles, are assigned a mentor, taking into account staff preferences and strategic goals.
 Mentors read and comment on work-in-progress and grant applications, advise on publication
 strategies, and other questions related to professional development, including teaching and
 career planning. The Department has also facilitated visits from publishers and journal editors to
 familiarise established staff, ECRs, and PGRs with the range of available publishing
 opportunities. Additional training is provided in constructing research funding applications,
 publishing, managing research grants, planning engagement and impact, and academic



                                                                                             Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5b)
 leadership. This training is delivered by senior members of the Department (via staff away-days,
 for example), as well as by central services.

 The Department’s promotions committee identifies candidates for promotion, paying special
 attention to ED&I. We also use PDR meetings to discuss promotion strategies, and staff are
 explicitly invited to discuss promotion planning at their PDR meeting. We hold annual probation
 meetings with all our assistant professors where we discuss progress, future objectives, and
 completing probation.

 We supported several successful promotion cases among our Category A staff during the
 assessment period, including 6 to full Professor, 4 to Reader, and 2 to Associate Professor. We
 also supported two successful promotion cases of staff in teaching-focused roles. Four out of six
 women in the Department have been promoted during this period (with a fifth having already been
 employed at full Professor level).

 Enabling dedicated time for research and impact plays an important role in our research strategy.
 Assistant professors have a reduced teaching and administration load to make space for
 research and professional development. All permanent academic staff (including teaching staff
 at assistant professor level and above) are entitled to apply for one term of study leave for six
 terms of service. External research funding supplements this accrued entitlement. In this census
 period all eligible staff have had leave for research or impact activities. We incentivize grants
 that offer a partial buyout by accommodating buyouts as flexibly as possible and by aiming to
 offer a reduction in workload corresponding to the proportion of time funded by the grant.

 We also provide support for impact and public engagement. We allow flexible use of research
 allowances, to include funding for impact-focused initiatives (contributions to practitioner-
 oriented events, meetings with stakeholders etc). We provide effective workload relief for those
 actively engaged in impact-related work, including backed by internal or external funding (see
 section 3), and two of our ICS benefitted from this type of support. A further important aspect of
 our impact support strategy, in line with University strategy (REF5a 2.6), is that we recognise
 high-quality impact in rewards, including salary reviews, study leave applications, and promotions.
 Impact-potential is also included as an essential criterion in staff recruitment, which has figured in
 recent appointment decisions.

 B. Research students

 PGR students play a central and fully integrated role in our research environment. The Department
 has a strong track-record of attracting and supporting excellent, engaged PGR students. Our
 relatively large cohort of PGR students (typically 40-50) is a vital part of our research community,
 through both their own work and their contributions to research projects, seminars, workshops, and
 conferences.

 In relation to PGR recruitment, we combine emphasis on quality and fit with sensitivity to ED&I
 considerations. We require that all staff involved in student recruitment complete equality and
 diversity training. Conscious of under-representation of certain groups within Philosophy as a
 discipline, we ring-fence PG scholarships for female applicants and for international applicants
 to ensure diversity in our cohorts. As part of an indirect PGR recruitment strategy, we have made
 efforts (e.g. further ring-fenced scholarships) to achieve better levels of diversity in our MA
 cohort, as we’re acutely aware that the ‘leaky pipe’ problem, which leads to under-recruitment
 at PGR and subsequent levels, starts there.


                                                                                                   Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5b)

 Our PhD students are supported through monthly supervisions and all PhD students have more
 than one supervisor. They also benefit from Graduate Progress Committee (GPC) meetings,
 which are held twice a year with two members of staff who are not their supervisors. The GPC
 meetings provide additional support opportunities and feedback for our PhD students and are
 an important element of the Department’s robust process to help our students to timely,
 successful completions.

 Our PhD supervision procedures support interdisciplinarity by allowing for cross-departmental
 and even cross-institutional supervision. In the assessment period, we have had students co-
 supervised with the Departments of English and Comparative Literary Studies, Law, Politics and
 International Studies, and Psychology at Warwick. Cross-institutional supervisions are fostered
 by the AHRC Midlands-4-Cities (M4C) Doctoral Training programme, which Warwick joined in
 2018 and which has already funded 5 students (REF5a 3.9.3). Before we joined the M4C
 programme, we were able to draw funding from the University’s own PhD funding scheme, which
 offers terms comparable to the AHRC, and Philosophy was successful in securing a steady
 stream of funding through this scheme. We have also had 8 PhDs funded through other
 channels, including internal funding (e.g. Chancellor’s International Scholarships) and external
 funding through research project grants and donations (e.g. our donor-funded Athena
 Scholarships for women).

 PhD students are fully integrated members of research centres and benefit from their research
 activities. We support bi-weekly postgraduate research seminars in philosophy of mind and in
 Post-Kantian European philosophy, facilitated by staff. In addition, there is a student-led Work-
 in-Progress seminar, which meets 3 to 4 times a term, attended by staff and students alike. These
 seminars are designed to provide a supportive environment in which students can practice public
 speaking, test out ideas, and build a collaborative research community.

 We have a very active PGR community and support several annual graduate conferences led by
 our students: MindGrad (since 2005), a new graduate conference in continental philosophy (since
 2018), and the interdisciplinary graduate conference in political and legal theory (since 2003).
 Additionally, we support a further four or five student-led workshops or conferences per year, many
 of them with a combination of internal funding (through the Department and Warwick’s Humanities
 Research Centre) and external funding (e.g. Aristotelian Society, Mind Association, Society for
 Applied Philosophy).

 The Department runs a series of professional development seminars aimed at PGR students. The
 seminars cover topics such as planning a PhD thesis, philosophical writing, publishing in academic
 journals, applying for academic jobs, and non-academic careers. We have a placement director
 who helps students prepare for the academic job market, for example by organising mock talks
 and interviews. Our Department-level efforts are supplemented by University-level workshops
 and seminars aimed at all PhD students at the University (REF5a 3.8).

 Although these are challenging times for the Philosophy job market, we have a strong placement
 record. About two-thirds of students who graduated during the assessment period have secured
 university positions in the UK or overseas, including academic positions at Delft, Oxford, Pacific
 Lutheran University, Singapore University of the Social Sciences, Tuebingen, and Utrecht, among
 other places, and post-doctoral research positions (e.g. Humboldt postdoctoral fellowship,
 Tuebingen; British Academy fellowship, Manchester; Irish Research Council postdoctoral fellow,
 University College Dublin, and then Leverhulme ECF, Warwick).


                                                                                              Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5b)

 C. Equality and diversity

 The Department is keenly aware of the relative underrepresentation of some social groups in
 philosophy, key factors being gender, LBGTQ+ identities, race and ethnicity, and disability.
 Tackling underrepresentation is an important priority for the Department—falling, we think, under
 sustainability—and we provide a supportive and inclusive environment for all our staff and
 students, in line with a strong University commitment (REF5a, 3.4). Our efforts in this regard have
 been recognised by an Athena SWAN Bronze award in November 2016 (due for renewal in
 2021). We were among the first Philosophy departments in the UK to achieve this recognition.

 We developed inclusive appointment practices for academic staff, which resulted in a notable
 increase in interviews and appointments of colleagues with protected characteristics. Out of 23
 category A staff, at the REF2021 census date in July 2020 4 identify as women – 2 Professors,
 1 Reader, and 1 Assistant Professor (this is in addition to two permanent colleagues on teaching-
 focused contracts who identify as women). Two colleagues identify as non-white (1 Professor
 and 1 Assistant Professor), one of whom is a new appointment during the REF2021
 assessment period. Ensuring diversity among ECRs has also been important for the
 Department. Out of the 7 assistant professors we appointed during the REF2021 assessment
 period, at least 3 identified as members of currently underrepresented groups.

 We have supported periods of parental leave in the assessment period and facilitated the return
 from leave with both Departmental and University research leave, the latter through the
 University’s Academic Returners Fellowship scheme, which extends parental leave with research
 leave of equivalent duration. Such periods of leave recognise that absence due to parental leave
 can have an impact on research programmes and subsequent publications and seek to remedy
 this.

 Key activities aimed at enhancing equality and diversity in the Department are coordinated by an
 Equality and Welfare Committee (chaired by Crowther until August 2020 and John since), meeting
 termly. The committee brings together academic and professional services staff and
 representatives from outside the Department (Law), our UG and PG cohorts, our students’ Black
 Voices Network, and MAP (Minorities and Philosophy). The scope of the EWC extends to
 supporting all underrepresented social groups and ensuring that everybody has a voice, and in
 doing so seeks to better support our diverse and inclusive community. The committee has led on
 a number of initiatives including our Athena SWAN submission, securing donor funding for PGR
 scholarships for women, running a culture survey amongst our students, and the development of
 more representative reading lists on our taught modules. It has a standing item on the agenda of
 the twice-termly Philosophy staff meeting, to raise awareness of issues, actions being taken, and
 the ways staff can contribute.

 The Department is delighted to support an active and popular local division of MAP, run jointly by
 undergraduate and postgraduate students. MAP activities include a regular programme of
 philosophy talks on MAP-related subjects and a series of staff-facilitated seminars on topics such
 as affirmative action, epistemic benefits of inclusivity, impostor syndrome, epistemic justice, and
 cognitive bias. These are in addition to more grass-roots activities such as coffee meetings and a
 student-led mentoring scheme.




                                                                                             Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 A. Research income

 We are an attractive and successful host of research fellowships and grants. Our research
 income strategy is designed to support our overall strategic research goal of promoting
 sustainable philosophical excellence in an inclusive, pluralist and interdisciplinary research
 environment, and has three main elements.

 First, we put in place measures to create a targeted and sustainable research grant pipeline and
 to foster a culture in which staff regularly apply for the most appropriate external funding, thus
 supporting the development of high quality, goal-oriented research. We support staff to apply for
 the type of funding that best supports the realisation of their research goals, whilst also
 incentivising applications for high-value, larger-scale research projects.

 As a result of these efforts, the Department has been awarded more than £3.7m of competitive
 external research funding since 2013/14. We have been successful in attracting research funding
 to support research in all four main areas of strength during the assessment period. Recent awards,
 several of them interdisciplinary, are thus illustrative of research activity across the Department.
 They included: The Sense of Commitment (Michael, ERC, €1.5 million); Time: Between
 Metaphysics and Psychology (Hoerl, AHRC, £475k); Vice Epistemology (Cassam, AHRC, £249k);
 Rethinking the Senses (Nudds, AHRC, £274k); Norms for the New Public Sphere (Peter, AHRC,
 £53k); The Communicative Mind (Moore, UKRI, £766); Oneself and Others (Eilan, Longworth, and
 Roessler, Templeton, £57k); Philosophy in a Time of Crisis (Beistegui, donor-funded, £50k);
 Investigating the Ethics and Politics of Sociability (Brownlee, Leverhulme, £235k); Experimental
 Philosophy and Empirical Ethics (Vanzo, AHRC, £196k). These awards supported PGRs and
 ECRs and enabled supervisorial and mentoring activities, as well as leading to numerous research
 outputs, including books, journal articles, special issues, and book chapters.

 Second, to further enhance the sustainability of our research culture we have successfully worked to
 expand the breadth of funders, both within the UK and internationally, and the types of grants applied
 to. Staff are supported to think beyond traditional UK funders (AHRC, Leverhulme) and to rework
 unsuccessful applications for funders wherever possible.

 From UK funders, our awards included an AHRC Leadership Fellowship, a Leverhulme Major
 Fellowship, a Leverhulme Research Fellowship and a Philip Leverhulme Prize. (An earlier Philip
 Leverhulme prize project ran until 2015.) Members of the Department were involved in 4 AHRC
 research grants, both as principal investigator and as co-investigators, 2 AHRC network grants, 2
 Leverhulme research grants, and numerous smaller grants—e.g. from the British Academy, the
 British Aesthetics Society, the Mind Association, the Analysis Trust, the Aristotelian Society and
 the Society for Applied Philosophy—that facilitated conferences, talks, new collaborations, and
 subsequent, larger research applications.

 Looking internationally, we hosted a 5-year ERC starting-grant (Michael) and were involved in an
 ERC grant to Zahavi at the University of Copenhagen (Eilan). We secured funding from the
 Templeton Foundation and two Humboldt fellowships. Renzo benefitted from a fellowship at
 Tulane and colleagues were involved as co-investigators on an Australian Research Council
 Discovery Project (Ansell-Pearson, with researchers at Monash and Deakin), and a grant from
 the Swiss National Science Foundation (Roessler, with researchers at the University of Fribourg).



                                                                                               Page 11
Institutional level environment template (REF5b)

 Third, consistent with our staffing strategy, we have grown the proportion of ECRs in the Department
 and strengthened our grant potential in this area. Moreover, our international reputation for plurality
 and interdisciplinary also makes us a destination of choice for EC researchers and means that we
 regularly support external applications to EC schemes and are able to attract the strongest
 candidates. As detailed in section 2, we have hosted 4 Leverhulme ECFs during the assessment
 period and supported successful applications to the Marie Curie postdoctoral fellowship scheme
 and the UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship.

 To further enhance our potential to attract external grant income and develop larger-scale
 projects, researchers in the Department are supported to apply for internal pump-prime funding.
 For example, a grant from our Faculty’s Research Development Fund enabled Crowther to
 organise an interdisciplinary workshop in support of the development of a collaborative AHRC
 grant application.

 B. Research infrastructure

 Like our research income strategy, the Department’s research infrastructure strategy is geared
 towards fostering excellence in an inclusive, pluralist, and interdisciplinary environment. During
 the REF2021 assessment period, we focused on two main strategic objectives: ensuring that all
 four main areas of research strength are appropriately supported through active research
 centres; and enhancing support for individual researchers in, and across, all areas.

     I.      Research centres

 As mentioned above, we organise our research through four research centres, one for each main
 area of research strength. Each centre houses a well-established research team in the
 Department. Each receives a £2000 contribution per year to use flexibly to organise activities
 supporting research or grant development.

 During the REF2021 assessment period, we made the decision to formally organise activities in
 post-Kantian European philosophy, one of our most longstanding areas of strength. The new PKEP
 centre, with Ansell-Pearson as Director and Lorenzini as Deputy, allows us to better showcase this
 area of research excellence and leadership and to strengthen existing collaborations and future
 grant applications. Many centre members are highly regarded senior researchers who attract a
 steady stream of excellent graduate students. To sustain this area of research strength, we made
 strategic investments in outstanding junior appointments (Cooper, James, and Lorenzini). The
 centre runs a well-established biweekly research seminar, which attracts audiences from
 departments across the Faculties of Arts and Social Sciences and regularly hosts workshops and
 conferences, including a new annual postgraduate conference.


 We have also made significant investments in the other research centres. As the list of recent
 appointments illustrates, investing in moral, political, and legal philosophy was a priority during
 this assessment period with a view to supporting the liveliness and growing success of CELPA.
 Since 2014, CELPA has become one of the most prominent, active and integrated centres in
 legal, political and moral philosophy globally. It has 33 official members including 5 philosophy
 staff and Sorell (who has a joint appointment with PAIS) and several doctoral students who are
 supervised or co-supervised from philosophy. CELPA holds weekly seminars, attended by
 around 30 people, and at which Philosophy colleagues frequently present. Around 30 scholars
 visit CELPA annually, including, for example, Tom Hurka (Toronto), Sophia Moreau (Toronto),

                                                                                                Page 12
Institutional level environment template (REF5b)
 Tommie Shelby (Harvard), Japa Pallikkathayil (Pittsburgh). Several day long book manuscript
 workshops have been organised involving authors and internal and external speakers (e.g. Clare
 Chambers (Cambridge), David Estlund (Brown), Rainer Forst (Frankfurt), Alon Harel (Hebrew)
 John Oberdiek (Rutgers), Jonathan Quong (USC), Anna Stilz (Princeton). CELPA hosts a
 prominent annual graduate conference. It has one of the most active informal academic
 communities in political and legal philosophy in the country, with annual dinners, lunches,
 informal reading groups and discussion groups. Members of CELPA regularly read the work of
 colleagues, and support funding applications. PGRs especially benefit from engaging with a wide
 range of members of the group.


 WMA, directed by Eilan, is the largest research centre in the Department and it hosts a great
 number of research seminars and workshops throughout the year, many of them funded by external
 research grants. WMA attracted many prominent visitors and speakers, including Boyle (Harvard),
 Brewer (KCL), Byrne (MIT), Campbell (UC Berkeley), Ginsborg (UCL Berkeley), Millar (Stirling),
 Hornsby (Birkbeck), Heal (Cambridge), O’Brien (UCL), Rödl (Leipzig), Snowdon (UCL), Stroud
 (UC Berkeley), among many others. In addition to the well-established MindGrad conference, it
 also supports two further cross-institutional student-led regular events: an annual conference
 involving students and early career researchers at Birmingham, Nottingham, and Warwick, and the
 London–Warwick Mind Forum, which again gives PhD students and early career researchers the
 opportunity to present their work. Again, members of WMA regularly discuss the work of
 colleagues, and support funding applications, and PGRs benefit from their integration into this
 centre, for example by being supported to propose and organise research events.

 While CRPLA houses the smallest research grouping in Philosophy, many colleagues have
 overlapping research interests and regularly participate in its research activities (e.g. Ansell-
 Pearson, Beistegui, Cooper, Houlgate, Lorenzini, and Poellner). As a deeply interdisciplinary
 centre, co-directed by the English Department, it includes over 30 members across many University
 departments and its bi-weekly seminar series as well as other events are very well attended.
 CRPLA hosts regular workshops and conferences, such as the 2016 interdisciplinary conference,
 Aesthetic, Psychological and Philosophical Perspectives on Mood. Due to Covid-19, John and
 Simecek postponed an international conference on the philosophy of poetry, which will bring
 together philosophers and poets, funded by the British Society for Aesthetics (£12k). CRPLA has
 collaborated with the Warwick Mead Gallery on events devoted to current exhibitions and artists
 such as Clare Woods and John Piper. CRPLA also co-sponsored a 2015 conference on The New
 Philosophy of Photography held at the Institute for Philosophy in London, as well as other events
 organised at the Institute and the University of Frankfurt.

    II.     Support for individual researchers

 Our research support for individual researchers has Departmental and University components.
 Key elements of our Departmental research support infrastructure, which we have greatly
 enhanced during the assessment period (see section 2), include the following. Research
 governance in the Department is overseen by a Director of Research (Cassam). The Director of
 Research is a member of the Department’s Management Committee and chairs the Department’s
 Research Committee. The research management team, which also includes our Research
 Manager (Hargreaves, Department Administrator) and the Head of Department (Peter), support
 all individual researchers in the Department, e.g. through regular RPMs and PDRs. Individuals
 are also supported by mentors.



                                                                                           Page 13
Institutional level environment template (REF5b)

 The Department’s team works closely with the University’s Research and Impact Support (R&IS)
 team that is dedicated to supporting Philosophy. R&IS supports all aspects of research planning
 and development (REF5a 1.7). Core members of the R&IS team include a Research Strategy and
 Development Manager, a Research Support Manager, a Research Development Officer, and a
 Research Funding Officer, a Research Impact Manager, and a Research Impact Coordinator. All
 academic staff have direct access to the Faculty R&IS team as needed, at every stage of grant
 development and acquisition. Post-award support is embedded within the Department, with
 support from Research Finance and Contracts.

 Although some of these investments in the research and impact infrastructure have only been
 made recently (since 2017), we are already seeing results in the form of a move to greater value
 and diversity of applications, more impact and public engagement activity, better and more
 sustained access to University resources (REF5a 2.6, 4), and more collaborations within and
 beyond Warwick.

 C. Building facilities

 The Department is located in the Social Sciences building of the University. Our location is on
 central campus, close to the library and other amenities. All our offices are along one corridor,
 facilitating communication and interaction. Our PGRs have shared office space in the
 Department, and we believe that their colocation with staff is important to fostering our sense of
 research community.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 A. Research collaborations, networks, and partnerships

 Research collaborations enhance the excellence of our own research as well as that of our
 collaborators. We have continued to stimulate and support collaborations during the assessment
 period, both within philosophy and—in line with our strategic aim of fostering interdisciplinarity—
 with researchers in other disciplines, both in the UK and internationally.

 During the assessment period, we were involved in a number of collaborative research grants.
 These have involved researchers at CEU (with cognitive science), Central Lancashire (with
 psychology), the Centre for the Study of the Senses, Copenhagen, Fribourg, Glasgow, Queen’s
 University Belfast, and Stirling, among others. Several colleagues have close research links to
 Monash University and have received funding for collaborative research by the Warwick Monash
 Alliance (REF5a 2.12.1).

 We also support collaborations through leadership in research networks. Examples of those with
 which we have been centrally involved include: the Groupe International de Recherche sur
 Nietzsche; the Forum for European Philosophy; the Leipzig Action Group; the London Nietzsche
 Circle; the Midlands Logic Seminar; the Network on the First Person (involving the Northern
 Institute of Philosophy in Aberdeen and the interdisciplinary Jean Nicod centre, Paris). Cooper co-
 organises the London Post-Kantian European Philosophy seminar, funded by an AHRC network
 grant.

 In addition to those more formal collaborations and networks, we support staff to initiate and
 maintain ad hoc collaborations arising from their research connections. In this more informal way,
 we are connected with a wide range of researchers in philosophy and other disciplines, in the UK

                                                                                             Page 14
Institutional level environment template (REF5b)
 and internationally. Universities include Bochum, British Columbia, CUNY, Geneva, Kent, KCL,
 Kobe University, Milan, Oxford, Pittsburgh, Radboud University in Nijmegen, Rice, Salzburg,
 Sheffield, Tuebingen, Victoria University of Wellington, and Wollolong. Thanks to several recent
 Humboldt Foundation scholarships, we have built successful collaborations with German
 institutions, especially the University of Frankfurt, Humboldt University, and LMU Munich.

 In recognition of our research excellence, our staff are regularly invited to visit other Universities
 both nationally and internationally. Research visits funded by other departments included the
 following: All Souls College Oxford (Brownlee, as Visiting Fellow), ANU (Brownlee, Peter), Boston
 College (Beistegui as Gadamer Visiting Professor); Corpus Christi College Cambridge (Cooper);
 Hagen (James, as visiting professor); Rice University (Ansell-Pearson as Senior Visiting Fellow);
 Ruhr University Bochum (Butterfill); St Louis University (Eilan as Jack Collings Visiting Professor);
 UC Irvine (Dean); University of Chicago (Cooper); Uppsala (John).

 In turn, the Department has welcomed more than 20 visitors, a number of whom were funded for
 their visit. These include those supported by Warwick’s Institute of Advanced Studies (e.g. Brake
 (Rice), Kessler Ferzan (Virginia) and Renz (Salzburg), Newton Mobility Awards (Özaltun (Koç),
 and the Swiss National Science Foundation (Dorsch and Giananti (Fribourg).

 B. Engagement with research users and beneficiaries

 The Department is committed to generating high-quality impact and recognises that this is
 typically a product of sustained and meaningful engagement with key partners. A number of our
 staff successfully established or maintained relationships with research users and non-academic
 networks.

     I.     Partnerships with research users

 We increasingly build impact into our research and project design from the outset and continue to
 develop relationships. An example is Cassam’s work with medical professionals, GPs, and the
 Royal College of GPs. Developing these relationships was part of the impact strategy of his AHRC
 Leadership Fellowship and Cassam has continued to cultivate these relationships beyond the
 lifetime of the grant (see Impact Case Study). Peter’s collaborative AHRC research project on
 Norms for the New Public Sphere includes the founder and CEO of the media regulation NGO
 Impress as a Co-I (Heawood). The research project was conceived from the outset as a
 collaboration with Heawood, and the project aims to clarify the philosophical underpinnings of
 regulatory frameworks for social media. Hoerl’s AHRC project on Time was developed in
 collaboration with three different groups of artists with whom the research team co-produced a
 series of performances.

 Partnerships also arise as a result of research activities. Brownlee’s research on social
 deprivation and loneliness, for example, became immediately relevant to the UK government’s
 commitment to combating loneliness and unwanted isolation following the report of the Jo Cox
 Commission on Loneliness (2017). With support from the Department, primarily in the form of
 extended research leave, and the R&IS team, Brownlee has engaged several of the key players
 working at the heart of the government-led initiative to combat loneliness, including policymakers,
 charities, human-rights NGOs, and social commentators (see Impact Case study).

 Within the University, the Warwick Impact Fund, the ESRC Impact Acceleration Account, the
 Warwick Public Engagement Fund, the Warwick Innovation Fund, and Warwick Ventures fund
 larger-scale, stand-alone projects that the Department would not otherwise be able to support

                                                                                                Page 15
Institutional level environment template (REF5b)
 (REF5a 2.6-2.8). We have been successful in accessing these different funds, including for our
 impact case studies. Cassam, for example, benefitted from funding and support from Warwick
 Ventures in establishing the online resources that underpin his impact case study. Eilan’s Only
 Connect project was supported by the Warwick Impact Fund and successfully brought together
 philosophers and practitioners to explore our understanding of our emotional connections with one
 another.

    II.     Public engagement

 We have a longstanding commitment to public engagement, both as contributing positively to
 issues of pressing concern and as promoting the wider value of philosophy, and we have a history
 of successful engagement. We encourage all staff to devote some of their research time to public
 engagement activities by promoting opportunities, discussion in PDRs and RPMs, and by
 showcasing successful examples.

 Since 2014, 8 of our colleagues have been interviewed by Richard Marshall at what is now called
 3:16AM and 4 more at Philosophy Bites. We regularly contribute to publications or blogs that operate
 as channels for disseminating academic work to general audiences, including Aeon, the
 Conversation, the OUP Blog, or Philosopher’s Magazine. Several colleagues have contributed to
 videoed public debates at the LSE Forum, on topics including prisons, intellectual vices, language,
 and the relationship between morality and politics.

 Our research has also appeared in formats that target even broader audiences, for example by
 being interviewed on BBC Radio 3, Radio 4 or Newsnight, or with publications in Prospect
 Magazine, TLS, or The New Stateman. Cassam has recently published a book for a more general
 audience on conspiracy theories (Polity Press 2019) and delivered a very successful TEDx talk at
 Warwick on this topic (185k views), in addition to publishing articles in major news outlets.
 Colleagues’ work and interviews with them have been cited by news outlets including ABC news,
 the Atlantic, Guardian, Independent, Irish Time, Quartz, and have been the focus of news articles
 (e.g. Irish Times, on Brownlee’s and Cassam’s work). Brownlee produced a highly successful video
 for the BBC Ideas series on the right not to be lonely (68k views).

 C. Leadership in the Discipline and Measures of Esteem

 Our Department exercises leadership in shaping the discipline of philosophy in numerous ways,
 including our innovative research and the organisation of workshops and conferences, leading roles
 in professional associations and prestigious editorial positions, work as reviewers of research
 grants, as external assessors of professorial appointments at other universities, and as external
 evaluators of other departments.

    I.      Keynotes and lead papers

 Members of the Department are highly active at conferences, workshops, and other research-
 focused events organised elsewhere. Our staff regularly give talks at workshops and conferences
 in the UK and abroad and at research seminars at universities including Cambridge, Oxford,
 Chicago, Harvard, and Rutgers.

 Our colleagues give keynotes or lead papers at large international conferences, for example at
 annual learned society meetings or similar (e.g. American Association for Political and Legal
 Philosophy; Association for Legal and Social Philosophy; European Society for Aesthetics; the
 European Congress of Analytic Philosophy; and the Joint Session). John gave the Richard

                                                                                             Page 16
Institutional level environment template (REF5b)
 Wollheim Lecture at the American Society for Aesthetics Annual Conference in 2019. Peter will
 give the Wittgenstein Lectures at the University of Bayreuth in 2021.

 It is notable that there have been series of events specifically organised around our research. In
 2018, the Institute of Philosophy organised a conference to celebrate Cassam’s Self and World, 20
 years after it was first published. There were also workshops on Cassam’s Vices of the Mind held
 at the University of Nottingham and a conference on his Self-Knowledge for Humans in Padua.
 The University of Tuebingen hosted two workshops dedicated to Butterfill’s Developing Mind.


 Colleagues are regularly invited to lead sessions at international summer schools or doctoral
 training programmes on their own research (e.g. Crowther, Imperia; John, University of Geneva;
 Longworth, University of Oslo; Peter, University of Rijeka; Roessler, University of Tuebingen;
 among others) and give keynotes at graduate conferences (e.g. CEU Graduate Conference;
 Pavia Graduate Conference in Political Philosophy; St Andrews Graduate Conference in Moral
 and Political Philosophy; Sheffield’s Understanding Value Conference; UCL Philosophy Graduate
 Conference).

    II. Prizes

 Our research has been recognised through a number of prizes and awards during this
 assessment period. Ansell-Pearson’s book on Bergson (Bergson: Thinking Beyond the Human
 Condition, Bloomsbury 2018) was recognised by a Choice Outstanding Academic Title award in
 2018. There is currently much interest in Bergson in the English-speaking world, but the
 secondary literature in English is underdeveloped, allowing Ansell-Pearson’s book to play a major
 role in shaping his reception.

 Tomlin has been awarded the 2017 Berger Memorial Prize for his Ethics article, “Retributivists!
 The Harm Principle Is Not For You!” and his Philosophy and Public Affairs essay “On Limited
 Aggregation” was a runner-up in the 2019 Gregory Kavka/University of California, Irvine Prize in
 Political Philosophy.

    III.    Services to the profession

 Several colleagues serve as committee members of learned societies. Brownlee was active in the
 British Philosophical Association until 2016. Longworth is editor of the Proceedings of the
 Aristotelian Society and is an executive member of the Society’s committee; Brownlee was on
 that committee until 2017. Our WMA research centre takes a leading role in the European Society
 for Philosophy and Psychology, with Eilan as the former President and Roessler as the current
 Secretary. Ansell-Pearson is an executive committee member of the Friederich Nietzsche Society.
 Houlgate is President of the Hegel Society of Great Britain.

 Department members have been involved in evaluations of other philosophy departments (e.g.
 Cork, KCL, UEA, York) and have served as assessors or referees for academic appointments
 and promotions (e.g. Aberdeen, Auckland, Binghamton, Boston University, KCL, UC Santa
 Barbara, LSE, LMU Munich, Oxford, Sheffield, UCL, York, and Vienna), and as assessors for
 early career fellowship competitions (e.g. Cambridge, Oxford).

 We continue to serve regularly as PhD examiners at universities in the UK (e.g. Aberystwyth,
 Birmingham, Birkbeck, Cambridge, Durham, KCL, Kingston, Leeds, Liverpool, Open, Oxford,



                                                                                           Page 17
Institutional level environment template (REF5b)
 St Andrews, Sheffield, Southampton, Sussex, UEA, UCL, and Virginia) and abroad (e.g.
 Amsterdam, Copenhagen, and Geneva).

    IV.     Peer review

 We are regularly asked to serve as assessors of research grants and are active in the AHRC peer
 review college (Brownlee, Cooper, Costello, Eilan, Hoerl, Peter, Tomlin), as well as assessing
 grant proposals for the Canadian Social Sciences and Humanities Research Board, the ERC, the
 Icelandic Arts and Humanities research council, and the Swiss National Science Foundation,
 among others. Members of staff serve on advisory boards for research centres or projects (e.g.
 Institute of Philosophy, London; Subjectivity Research Centre, Danish Research Council; Centre
 for Ethics, Politics, and Society, University of Minho).

 We see editorial work as a service to the discipline and a way to exercise research leadership.
 During the assessment period, colleagues have acted as editors or associate editors in a number
 of leading philosophy journals. Dean is an editor of the Review of Symbolic Logic. Longworth is
 editor of the Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, replacing our former colleague Soteriou in
 2016. Lorenzini is a co-editor of Foucault Studies. Peter was an editor of Economics and
 Philosophy until 2016, and main editor during 2015/2016, and associate editor of the Journal of
 Applied Philosophy until 2014. Tomlin is an associate editor of Ergo and Law and Philosophy.
 Butterfill and Longworth are active members of the editorial board of Mind and Language. Eilan
 and Roessler served as associate editors of Philosophical Explorations.


 In addition, many of our staff are members of editorial or advisory boards of academic journals or
 book series and we regularly support the advancement of research in philosophy through peer
 review of journal articles. As peer reviewers, we have contributed to all leading philosophy journals
 in the assessment period, as well as top journals in other disciplines, and we have reviewed book
 proposals and manuscripts for all major academic publishers.




                                                                                              Page 18
