Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Roehampton
 Unit of Assessment: 17 - Business and Management Studies
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Roehampton Business School (RBS) is a dynamic unit that has significantly expanded its
 research base since 2014, producing theoretical and applied research on a wide range of
 contemporary issues affecting global businesses, other organisational structures and their
 managers. Our overarching strategy has been to focus on research that helps build sustainable
 organisations and enterprises that are effective, ethical and promote social justice. To support this
 vision we have sought to build a substantial research team; establish high quality external
 collaborations and grow our doctoral research community while fully integrating these new
 scholars into our research culture.

 At the time of the REF2014 submission, our embryonic unit consisted of five academics (4.8 FTE),
 all of whom were experienced researchers (4 Professors and a Reader) situated in the Centre for
 Organisational Research. Since this time, the research unit in RBS has rapidly expanded through
 sustained institutional investment which has been instrumental in attracting high quality staff,
 across all career stages, including senior, mid- and early career researchers. Our submission has
 grown significantly, and currently includes 19 (18.7FTE) staff. We have delivered on our ambitions
 through providing focused support for research active staff according to our strategic priorities. As
 a result, since 2014, we have published well in excess of 100 peer-reviewed articles in
 internationally renowned journals (e.g., CABS 3, 4 or 4* rated), collaborated extensively with
 research networks, businesses and public sectors internationally, successfully supported a five-
 fold increase in total research income and seen the number of our PhD completions rise more
 than five-fold, from 3.33 to 17.

 Collectively, our research and working practices are foregrounded by a commitment to equality in
 relation to gender, to ethnicity and migration, and to ethical considerations including corporate
 social responsibility, sustainable development and environmental concerns. RBS research is led
 by the Research and Knowledge Lead (Drinkwater) and is now organised across three research
 clusters (Accounting, Finance and Economics; Marketing and Supply Chain Management; People,
 Organisation and Strategy), each of which is led by a Professor, and sustains a critical mass of
 researchers and doctoral students who collectively enrich RBS’s lively and ambitious research
 culture.

 Research Clusters
 Accounting, Finance and Economics (Busco, Drinkwater, Elmassri, Foresti, Harris,
 Malafronte, Parhi). Researchers in this area examine the interrelated systems of reporting and
 decision making related to accountancy, investment, finance and labour. Busco has developed a
 new approach to accounting and reporting – the maieutic machine – which is an open platform for
 participation, engagement, and knowledge generation and which has been adopted by
 multinational organisations across Europe. Drinkwater’s research examines labour market
 discrimination and interregional migration, exploring the migration strategies, labour markets and
 social integration of Easter-European migrants. Elmassri focuses on strategic investment
 decisions, particularly in environments of extreme uncertainty and Foresti examines monetary
 and fiscal policy and their interactions. Harris’ research explores how managers make sense of
 risky business propositions in reaching strategic investment decisions. Malafronte’s work on
 accounting and finance covers subjects such as integrated thinking and reporting, risk disclosure
 and management while Parhi’s research investigates technological change and economic
 development, the diffusion of technology and economic growth. Cato has led impact work in the
 area of green economics in this cluster, whilst she also represented the South West England as
 Member of the European Parliament (MEP) between 2014 and 2020.

 Marketing and Supply Chain Management (Asgari, Chen, Rafiq, Yu, Zarantonello). Scholars in
 this area examine supply chains, logistics, consumer behaviour and the dynamics of marketing.
 Asgari’s work explores supply chains in the car and maritime sectors, oil products distribution and
 agri-food industries. Chen’s research focuses on consumer behaviour in tourism and tourist

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 decision-making, particularly luxury consumption. Rafiq examines the dynamics of e-markets,
 such as e-tailing, relationship quality, e-loyalty and brand loyalty. Yu's research explores big data
 analytics for operations and supply chain management, retail operations and logistics, while
 Zarantonello’s work focuses on brand management and consumer psychology, along with food
 experiences and wellbeing.

 People, Organisation and Strategy (Daskalaki, Guillaume, Hullova, Izak, Osabutey, Powell,
 Ruiz Castro). Organisation and labour relations inform the work of researchers in this cluster,
 particularly in relation to equalities. Daskalaki's research explores solidarity within an economic
 context, including grassroots organising and social movements. Guillaume focuses on
 employment relations, particularly equality, diversity and discrimination in the workplace; Izak
 investigates technological, conceptual and spatial reformulations of modern workplaces, and the
 redefinition of the concept of work through 'mobile' and 'flexible' working. Hullova investigates the
 impact of changing economic paradigms on firms and broader ecosystems, studying innovative
 and disruptive companies to better understand the effect they have on their industries. Osabutey's
 research covers a wide range of international business and strategy, including foreign direct
 investment, technology and knowledge transfer and SME innovation strategies, whilst Powell's
 research addresses how organisations create and capture value with a specific focus on
 knowledge related practices. Ruiz Castro explores multiple aspects of equality and ethics in
 professions and organisations, particularly regarding women and the workplace.

 These research clusters provide a framework for implementing our research strategy, integrating
 and supporting the work of RBS researchers and creating a focus for key objectives – the
 management of research mentoring, the development of the volume and quality of outputs and
 impact, the maintenance and enhancement of research (especially research income), and the
 recruitment of increasing numbers of well-qualified PGR students.

 Approach to Research Impact
 Since 2014, our strategy has been to support and develop research, external partnerships and
 public engagement activity which delivers benefits for our stakeholders, including community
 organisations, private businesses, third sector organisations, non-governmental organisations,
 and central and local government. We seek to develop and engage networks of collaborators and
 partners who align with our mission to build sustainable organisations and enterprises that are
 effective, ethical and that promote social justice. We work with these networks to shape our
 research and its outcomes, and to ensure its practical application for both policy and practice.

 Our success in achieving impact has been underpinned by targeted support for research staff to
 build public-facing projects and pathways to impact. Projects are identified through our research
 mentoring system, supported by pump-priming funds to develop and extend their reach, and
 enhanced by central resources, including additional workload allowances of up to 10% to support
 impact. A dedicated Research Impact Officer helps to identify, promote and capitalise on
 opportunities for collaboration with business and other societal stakeholders, for outreach and
 engagement and for new funding opportunities.

 RBS academics’ work has had significant impact on the activities and practices of private sector
 organisations in the UK and Europe (Busco, Ruiz-Castro and Harris), on charities and policy
 debates (Drinkwater and Parhi) and on public sector and governmental policies and opinion at
 the European level (Cato). Research on Strategic lnvestment Decision making, led by Harris and
 involving Elmassri, has been adopted by organisations in Finland and Egypt and has influenced
 the plans of managers of private sector companies in the UK through an international knowledge
 exchange consortium in management accounting called CAM-I. Chen's research informed
 government, DMO and hotel management decision-making in relation to tourism development,
 destination marketing and customer services. Ruiz-Castro’s research on long work hours in
 professional services has informed specific recommendations for professionals and organisations
 striving to sustain work/life balance and wellbeing.



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our impact case studies illustrate the success of our approach to extending our networks of
 research users. Busco’s research on integrated reported practices has had beneficial impact on
 the accounting practices of a range of businesses, being adopted by Eni in the energy sector and
 Monte dei Paschi di Siena in banking, as well as by the Association of Italian Banks, the Chartered
 Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) and the European Space Agency. To further develop
 this impact, Busco has been supported with redistributed teaching responsibilities, seed- and
 match-funding to enable the delivery of international workshops which bring together diverse
 stakeholders and research users to extend its reach, and a Research Impact Officer to deliver
 evaluations. This flexible approach can also be seen in relation to the impact of Cato’s research.
 Underpinned by work undertaken between 2012 and 2014, Cato was supported to transition to a
 0.2 FTE fractional contract, in order to support her political role as the Green MEP for the South
 West, a position which was integral to effecting research-informed changes to policy across
 Europe.

 Interdisciplinary and Open Research
 Members of RBS engage in interdisciplinary research, both within and outside of the University,
 and are committed to developing open access to data wherever possible, with the two often being
 closely related. Research and Knowledge Exchange Leads participate in a University-wide forum
 that facilitates the management of researchers across units, and supports the identification of
 potential research affinities. Interdisciplinary collaboration is then developed through discussions
 at departmental meetings, in-house research symposia, University-wide sandpit events, and the
 work of individual staff who see opportunities for collaboration. It is also prioritised through the
 targeted deployment of internal seed-funding and development funds. Members of the unit are
 strongly encouraged to explore questions that require interdisciplinary approaches both within and
 beyond their expertise and to make their data available, where possible, to other researchers to
 increase transparency, value-for-money and potential for further collaboration. For example, Cato
 is working with research teams in Life Sciences, Social Sciences, and Humanities to establish the
 Roehampton Climate Network, which will inform our work as a member of the UN COP26
 Universities Network. Parhi is currently one of the lead researchers in a collaborative project for
 the All-Party Parliamentary Group for Prescribed Drug Dependence on the prescribing of
 dependency-forming medicines in the NHS. Collaborating with researchers in the Departments of
 Life Sciences and Psychology, the research led in 2019 to a government pledge for a national
 withdrawal and dependency helpline as well as a change in the clinical guidelines of UK’s National
 Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE). Another example of the success of this approach
 is a project on temporary migration funded by NORFACE, in which survey data collected by
 Drinkwater and Garapich (Sociology) has been used by academics and PhD students in the UK
 and Ireland. These data are held and can be downloaded from the Wales Institute of Social and
 Economic Research, Data and Methods (WISERD) website. RBS staff are also pro-active in
 adopting open access standards. RBS has achieved a 94% open access compliance rate over
 the period. 11% of the submission was made immediately open access via the gold route and
 79% via the green. 26% of our submission was already open access prior to the policy’s
 implementation in 2016.

 Research Integrity
 RBS is committed to maintaining the highest standards of research integrity and rigour. Our
 governance in these areas is informed by the University of Roehampton Ethics Guidelines and the
 Code of Good Research Practice and Research Integrity in accordance with the revised
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity (Universities UK, 2019). Our approach is distinguished
 by its commitment to moving beyond procedural ethics to the instilling of a culture of ethics and
 integrity in the work of the RBS. Ethics review is carried out at the departmental level by Ruiz
 Castro as the Research Ethics Committee representative, in conjunction with a pool of
 departmental reviewers. This review process takes the form of a dialogue between the applicant
 and the reviewer, facilitating a view of ethics and integrity as a critical, reflexive faculty. All staff
 and PGRs have access to training in research ethics and Good Research Practice, and PGR
 research is subjected to the same rigorous scrutiny as that of staff, with training provided
 for students and supervisors through the Graduate School.


                                                                                                   Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Future Strategic Objectives
 RBS has made significant progress in recent years in increasing its research profile and reputation
 and we intend to build on this. As a result of our ambitious research aims since 2014, RBS has
 developed an increasingly strong reputation for producing high quality research that addresses
 the contemporary issues facing global businesses, particularly in relation to CSR, sustainability
 and ethical behaviour. The quality of our research outputs is demonstrated by the range of leading
 peer-reviewed journals in which academics from RBS now regularly publish, resulting in their work
 reaching researchers, scholars and non-academic research users around the globe. In journals
 with a CABS rating of 4 or 4*, including the Journal of Consumer Psychology, the Journal of
 Operations Management, Research Policy and the British Journal of Management, Gender Work
 and Organisation, Work Employment and Society, Human Relations among others. These articles
 have received an average of 122 citations, including 305 and 262 citations for particular articles
 by Rafiq and Zarantonello, and public audiences. For example, Ruiz-Castro’s research on work-
 life balance in the Harvard Business Review (HBR) in English and French, has been circulated
 widely on LinkedIn.

 Over the next five years, we will continue to focus on developing a distinctive research culture that
 is invested in building sustainable organisations and enterprises that are effective, ethical and
 promote social innovation in a global context:

    1. We will continue to build interdisciplinary and non-academic collaborations, working across
       disciplines and sectors to deliver research that supports this aim. For example, the
       reintegration of Cato into our research environment following her tenure as Green MEP
       will provide new opportunities for collaboration through leading our membership of the
       COP26 Universities Network.
    2. Following our successful establishment of research leadership roles, and succession
       planning, future recruitment will focus on the expansion of our community of Early Career
       Researchers. This will support new, inclusive and challenging research in emerging
       specialisms and the addressing of contemporary needs, especially in areas such as
       entrepreneurship, organizational psychology, finance, digital marketing, corporate
       governance and big data/business analytics.
    3. We will also seek to increase our research income to grow our capacities and support the
       translation of our research into practice. Building on our successful growth of research
       income since 2013/14, our plan is to develop more large-scale and ambitious bidding
       activities, and to diversify the range of sources that fund our research. A particular area of
       focus is developing Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and consultancy to ensure that our
       research continues to be sustainable, socially engaged and relevant to the businesses we
       work with.
    4. RBS will build on the principles of engagement in our current work to originate and develop
       research and knowledge exchange with local businesses. As a member of the Greater
       London Authority-funded South London Knowledge Exchange Partnership and BIG
       (Business, Innovation and Growth) scheme in South London, the product of a sub-regional
       partnership between five London Boroughs and six universities, we will make a material
       contribution to the local economy, from the immediate environs of the Alton Estate to the
       Borough of Wandsworth, and more widely across London.

 Our Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy was designed and launched prior to the effects
 of the global pandemic and we remain committed to its delivery. However, we will also take
 advantage of the opportunities afforded by new working practices, such as virtual seminars, to
 extend our intellectual reach.

 2. People

 RBS aims to enable every colleague to realise their research potential and to ensure they are able
 to access the range of resources necessary to develop and disseminate research of the highest
 standard.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff recruitment and development
 Since 2014, RBS expansion has been driven by the strategic recruitment of new staff who have
 impressive existing research profiles or are ECRs who demonstrate the potential to develop strong
 research careers in line with our core priorities. In addition to making strategic appointments in
 research leadership at the Professorial (8) and Reader (3) levels, recruitment has been equally
 weighted to attract staff at the Lecturer (3) and Senior Lecturer (5) levels. We have appointed
 three ECRs who are included in the current submission. Appointments have been balanced across
 our three research clusters to ensure critical mass and sustainability, expanding the work of the
 clusters while ensuring continuity through the replacement of researchers in key areas who have
 left since 2014. This includes former colleagues who have moved to senior research positions at
 other universities having developed their research leadership skills at RBS (e.g. Benoit, Surrey).
 We have also supported staff who wish to work flexibly or to transition between sectors through
 the provision of fractional posts. The most significant example is Cato, who was supported to
 transition back to 0.6 FTE following her tenure as an MEP with a reduced fraction of 0.2 FTE
 between 2014 and 2020. Similarly, Harris has reduced her fraction to 0.8 FTE.

 Researchers are provided with up to 40% of their workload for research and are supported with a
 research sabbatical every six semesters. 24 institutionally-funded sabbaticals have been provided
 for colleagues in RBS in the period. We ensure flexibility in the scheduling of sabbaticals, including
 accelerating the scheme based on the potential for staff to develop high quality outputs, impact
 and bids. Teaching can be condensed into one semester, if that focused time will produce
 beneficial research outcomes. Academics can also make an application to reduce their marking
 load in order to achieve specific research objectives, for example through revising and
 resubmitting articles to leading journals.

 Staff development is supported by RBS’s established research mentoring system in which senior
 staff advise and provide guidance to others who are less familiar with the process of completing
 successful research projects. The current system covers all aspects of research including outputs,
 bidding activity, impact and esteem. It makes use of a ‘Mentoring Checklist’ during meetings
 between mentors and mentees and is supported by the completion of a long-term Individual
 Research Plan. RBS arranges specific and focused sessions relating to B&M research, with
 presentations made by a combination of internal and external speakers. Sessions have covered
 publishing in highly ranked B&M journals, generating impact from B&M research and sources of
 funding for B&M researchers, including workshops with editors of leading marketing journals. RBS
 has organised other development activities such as research awaydays and writing workshops.
 The research clusters have also arranged activities focused on the particular requirements of
 researchers and PhD students. An annual research budget of £50K is available in order to fund
 attendance and participation at national and international conferences, and for RBS staff and PhD
 students to attend training courses to develop skills in research techniques, including in the use
 of qualitative and quantitative software packages. A seminar series takes place on a weekly basis
 during semester time. External speakers have included staff from the LSE, SKEMA Paris, UEA,
 Loughborough, Bath, Leeds, QMUL, Lancaster, Surrey, Warwick, OU, RHUL, Washington St
 Louis and Glasgow. Internal presentations are also made by RBS staff at different stages of their
 research careers.

 All new staff are supported through their probationary period with clear objectives in relation to
 research, and additional workload allocations to support their integration in the unit. Meetings with
 research mentors and line managers support probation and all staff have access to annual
 appraisals, which offer structured opportunities to discuss career development and resources to
 support it. ECRs have a protected reduced workload for their first year, to support their integration
 into the research culture of the unit and RBS's ECRs are able to participate in the Early Career
 Academic Network which runs seminars with themed sessions on areas such as
 publishing, bidding and impact. ECRs are also supported with accelerated access to our
 sabbatical scheme where appropriate. Our reward for research performance is primarily delivered
 through promotion, which is benchmarked against clear expectations for academic roles. Fixed-
 term and part-time staff are supported through the same mechanisms as all staff, and both workload
 and progression are facilitated on a pro-rata basis in terms of research expectations.

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our mentoring and investments to support staff development have successfully enabled staff to
 achieve enhanced research profiles, resulting in the promotion of Guillaume and Parhi to Reader,
 while other colleagues, including Elmassri and ECRs Foresti and Malafronte have been
 promoted from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer. Research coaching is also provided by experienced
 mentors to staff in RBS who do not currently have a significant responsibility for research but who
 would like to develop their research profiles and through the provision of a year-long Professional
 Development Allowances we can provide dedicated workload allocation of up to 30% to support
 the transition to a research career. Staff wellbeing is delivered through our college system. All staff
 are affiliated to one of our four colleges, who provide research events, community building
 opportunities, and dedicated Wellbeing Officers for staff. All staff and PGRs have been offered
 mental health first aid training in 2020, whilst dedicated research staff and PGR wellbeing sessions
 have been delivered on mental health.

 Post-Graduate Research Students
 The growth in our research staff in the period has been accompanied by a concomitant increase
 in our PGR community. Between 2008 and 2013, 3.33 doctoral degrees were awarded. Since
 2014, 17 students have successfully completed their PhDs and RBS has a current cohort of 18
 students. This has largely been achieved through sustained investment in post-graduate
 scholarships - both Vice Chancellors’ (a total of 11) and departmentally-funded (a total of 15) -
 and three externally funded scholarships (supported by RUSI and EU funded). Over £1.3M has
 been invested in PGR funding since 2014.

 Our PGR community is overseen by the Research Degrees Convenor, Harris. We have actively
 built supervisory capacity across RBS, and a total of 17 staff now participate in PhD supervision
 (from 5 in 2014) under the leadership of senior Professors/Readers who are experienced Directors
 of Study and who have successful track records in supporting PGRs to completion. We actively
 build ECRs into supervisory teams wherever possible. PGR recruitment is facilitated through open
 competition for all funded opportunities and conforms to University Equality and Diversity policies.
 PGRs are able to approach the Graduate School to identify appropriate supervisory teams and all
 PGR applications are supported by the Research Degrees Convenor and the Director of the
 Business School. PGRs are only recruited where projects align to staff expertise and research
 strategy.

 Full-time PGRs meet with supervisors at least six times a year; part-time students at least four
 times a year. A record of each supervisory meeting is made by students and supervisors together
 and scrutinised at the RBS Research Student Review Board. The Graduate School oversees PhD
 student matters, and an Annual Progress Review, milestones for progression and flexible
 arrangements for interruption, parental and other leave. Additional support on return and access
 to well-being services ensure that research students are well-provided for throughout the doctoral
 journey. Research supervisors act as mentors, encouraging and providing assistance to their
 students in making applications for further research funding. This has led to a number of
 successes, with several students receiving funding from the Susannah Wesley Foundation and
 others from Santander bank to cover research expenditures which have been used to fund the
 presentation of papers at international conferences.

 PGR students are supported to develop their academic careers especially with regards to
 teaching, as well as through non-academic career enhancing opportunities. All RBS PGR students
 have access to the SEDA-accredited Introduction to Learning and Teaching course offered free
 by the University, which provides opportunities for paid academic mentoring to UGs and leads to
 becoming associate fellows or fellows of the Higher Education Academy. In addition, PGRs are
 given various career-development opportunities including teaching experience and research
 assistance work. They are expected to attend and present papers at conferences, and funding is
 available for such activity (up to £600). RBS research events are complemented by the university-
 wide provision of a development programme. Our PGRs receive bespoke training tailored to their
 needs and designed to advance both their research and their career progression. Recent training
 has focused on PGR professional development, developing publications from conferences and

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 applying for funding. We also recognise the diverse career paths pursued by our PGR students,
 and are committed to identifying mentoring and training opportunities that support their aspirations.
 Since March 2020, we have added further levels of support to all PGRs to help them through the
 pandemic. This has included funded extensions, extra academic and pastoral support when
 required, and the revision of research topics where necessary.

 The success of our doctoral training is evidenced by the career trajectories of our recent PhD
 graduates, who have gone on to obtain a range of high-profile roles. Research-focused positions
 have been taken up by former PhD students in organisations such as RUSI and the European
 Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Several successful PhD students have gone on to full-
 time academic employment, both at RBS (Elmassri) and other HEIs, including in the recent past,
 institutions such as Canterbury Christ Church University (Director of the Business School),
 Copenhagen Business School, Kings College London, Salisbury University, USA and the
 University of Kent.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Equality, diversity and inclusion are embedded in the research priorities of RBS. A high proportion
 of research that is undertaken within RBS is related to gender, including work on leadership, the
 under-representation of women in senior management positions and their involvement in trade
 unions. Researchers on gender are members of several international research networks and have
 hosted international conferences such as the ‘Advancing Women’s Leadership: theory and
 practice’ conference held at Roehampton in 2016 (funded by the Society for the Advancement of
 Management Studies). Ruiz Castro’s research focuses on inequalities at work and home in
 collaboration with colleagues from Harvard and ESSEC Business School (France). Daskalaki, in
 collaboration with colleagues from the University of London and Carnegie Mellon University, has
 examined the impact of the global financial crisis on women’s career paths and social reproductive
 roles, and Guillaume has received several grants from French, European and British institutions
 in relation to her research on women’s participation in trade unions.

 Our research strategy embeds equality, diversity and inclusivity (EDI) in its staffing, research
 culture and support mechanisms, implementing University policies and legislation relating to
 equality, diversity and anti-discrimination. Management, including Research and Knowledge
 Exchange Leads and Research Mentors, are all trained in EDI and implement the University’s
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion policy to ensure that recruitment, promotion, sabbatical, and
 funding decisions are made equitably. Senior staff provide bespoke support, for example, on the
 allocation of duties, timing of work, relieving pressures of internal deadlines and ensuring that
 workspaces are appropriate, while distribution of internal research support funds is always made
 with EDI in mind, to ensure that individuals’ needs and circumstances are considered. Staff
 returning from parental leave are supported via a workload concession and access to a sabbatical
 immediately preceding or following their leave. Colleagues with caring responsibilities, or
 disabilities, are given the option to work flexibly, including, where feasible, remotely. To build on
 this support further, we have developed online research training courses, which have been
 particularly welcomed by those with child-care responsibilities or health issues, whilst also creating
 opportunities for distance supervision. Staff can seek the support of HR and Working Relationship
 Advisors (colleagues across the University trained to support staff in cases of discrimination,
 bullying or difficult working situations) and PGRs are also supported by tailored University services
 (Graduate School, Staff and Student Wellbeing).

 Our research community is an inclusive one and RBS’s research staffing is gender balanced.
 Female staff account for 53% of the unit, and this is also reflected in senior research roles, where
 half of our professoriate is female. 37% of RBS members identify as Black, Asian or Minority
 Ethnic. We are international in character and 60% of our researchers originate from outside the
 UK, including France, Greece, Italy, Poland, Slovakia, China, Egypt and Mexico. Our selection of
 outputs process was conducted alongside robust equality and diversity analyses to ensure
 decisions had no adverse effect on staff with protected characteristics. 32% of the 47 submitted
 outputs are authored by BAME staff and 62% are authored by female staff, while 9% of outputs
 are attributed to LGBTQ+ staff. Across our research staff, 49% of the submitted outputs are

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 authored by Professors, 13% to Readers, 36% to Senior Lecturers, and 2% to Lecturers. All staff
 returned to this unit are on permanent contracts. In future, we will embed EDI considerations into
 our selection of external assessors, to ensure that there are no unconscious biases affecting the
 research we recognise and reward. Our PGR community is similarly inclusive, with 72% of our
 continuing 18 students identifying as Black, Asian or Minority Ethnic and 56% as female. The
 cohort is an international one, including new scholars from China, Nigeria, India, Kenya,
 Macedonia, France, the Netherlands and Saudi Arabia.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income
 RBS has had considerable success in growing research income since 2014. Total research
 income rose from £203k in the REF2014 cycle to over £992k since, representing an increase of
 388%. The growth in income from European funding sources has been especially noticeable, with
 expenditure from research projects supported by EU Government Bodies and EU Industry
 increasing from zero in both categories in the REF2014 submission to £485k and £198k
 respectively in the years since. Funding from UK Research Councils and the British Academy has
 risen from just under £9k to £65k over the two periods and academics from RBS have also
 received research funding from a variety of other sources including UK-based private sector
 organisations, professional bodies and central and local government departments. Examples of
 significant projects include Drinkwater’s involvement in two work packages (amounting to £41k
 FEC) as part of the WISERD Civil Society project, which received a £6.2m (FEC) award from the
 ESRC for the period from 2014 to 2019. WISERD will receive another 5 years of funding (£6.3m
 in total) from the ESRC until September 2024 to conduct research on a new project relating to
 Changing Perspectives on Civic Stratification and Civil Repair, with Drinkwater again being one
 of the Co-Is. Drinkwater also recently awarded a large grant with the Welsh Government as the
 lead academic through the ESRC’s Administrative Data Research UK project (£69,527, 2020).
 Since arriving in 2017, Yu has made a significant contribution to capturing research income as the
 Principal Investigator (PI) on three projects and a Co-I on another three.

 The Research and KE Lead (Drinkwater) is responsible for all mentoring and research planning
 and oversees the development of five-year research plans which include bidding intentions.
 Research mentors provide additional advice on the appropriateness of bids according to career
 stage and experience. All active bids are supported through a process of internal peer-review,
 conducted by a second reader with a track record of bidding success and relevant expertise to
 mentor the applicant. This is managed within the unit, but also draws on expertise from across the
 University where appropriate, including for all bids over a £50k threshold. For successful
 substantial grant applications match-funding support is provided by the University to employ a
 PhD student or a postdoctoral researcher. RBS also provides seed-funding and colleagues are
 encouraged to apply for smaller external grants to build capacity, develop a track record of bidding
 success and pave the way to larger and more ambitious research projects. Research workload
 allocations are fully protected, and any external grant capture or research income that funds
 academic staff time is in addition to these allowances.

 Since 2014 RBS research income strategy has been to build bids which support the development
 of links with a range of external organisations, including professional bodies. This builds on RBS’s
 engagement with external activities, including consultancy, policy advice, analysing data/trends
 and co-organising workshops. Busco was the PI for two successful applications to CIMA, a £40k
 project in 2015 and another for £32k in 2018. Harris was PI for a £20k award from the ICAEW for
 a project on Strategic Investment Decisions that also involved Elmassri. Yu led three agri-tech
 and food supply chain projects funded by the Newton Network and the STFC Food Network to a
 total of £81.5k. These involved international research workshops in China and at Roehampton
 during 2017-19 along with a training programme for around 200 Chinese smallholders, farmers,
 agribusiness managers and government officials. Our approach has also been to build capacity
 amongst staff in RBS and we have often involved ECRs by targeting small and medium sized
 grants (e.g., the CIMA funded project on integrated reporting that involved Malafronte), in order
 to develop and foster contacts and experience with the aim of delivering further research income
 growth. In support of this, RBS has developed links with the University’s Southlands College and

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 our Providing Body, the Southlands Methodist Trust, along with the Susanna Wesley Foundation,
 and each has distributed research funding for projects. This includes PhD bursaries and small
 grants received by Asgari in 2018-19 and Ruiz Castro in 2019-20 to conduct research on service
 operations management in churches, and the career trajectories of Latin American professionals
 in the UK respectively.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 As Research & KE Lead, Drinkwater chairs our departmental Research Advisory Group
 and represents the Unit on the University Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee. The
 Research Advisory Group (RAG) provides strategic oversight of the full range of activity in the
 Unit, including that of individual research staff and PGRs; the programme of research seminars,
 conferences and events; invitations to, and support for, visiting scholars and research students;
 and the development of strategic initiatives (e.g. open access) and funding bids. It also ensures
 that all work is consistent with the University’s Research and Knowledge Exchange strategy. The
 RAG is made up of the Director of RBS, Professors from the Subject Clusters, Research Degrees
 Convener (Harris), Research Ethics Lead (Ruiz Castro), the Research Bidding Champion
 (Guillaume), a PGR representative, and a Research Development Officer. All staff can also attend
 RAG meetings.

 RBS’s expansion of research activity has been supported by investment in resources and facilities.
 Our infrastructure enables staff and PGRs to conduct their own research and to collaborate within
 and beyond the Unit. Staff research is supported by dedicated Research Development and Impact
 Officers and with seed-funding to purchase small items of equipment for early-stage research
 projects through a competitive bidding process. A number of databases that are available to staff
 and PhD students, including Thompson-Reuters Datastream, WARC and Mintel, and specialised
 statistical software, such as LISREL, Matlab and Stata, have been purchased to enhance the
 research that is undertaken using more generalist software such as SPSS (including the AMOS
 add-on for Structural Equation Modelling) and NVivo. Our future plans for the development of our
 facilities include the creation of a Digital Marketing Lab and a Bloomberg Trading Room that can
 be used by staff and PhD students.

 RBS staff and students are also able to take advantage of two of the University’s high-profile
 recent investments, the Elm Grove conference centre (2016) - through which Busco and Harris
 were able to host the joint conference of the ENROAC network with the Management Control
 Association London 2019 - and the £35 million state-of-the-art library (2017). The library provides
 access to a large collection of books, journals, online resources and specialist collections along
 with IT and media-equipped study spaces. B&M specific resources include access to Business
 Source Premier, the most widely-used business research database which covers all business
 disciplines, including marketing, management accounting, finance and economics with full text
 coverage of over 2100 journals; Emerald Insight, which enables access to hundreds of journals
 and e-books covering nine subject areas including Accounting, Business Management and
 Strategy, Hospitality, HR, Marketing, Operations and Logistics; Business Expert Press, a
 collection of e-books on subjects including International Business, Corporate Communications and
 Organisational Behaviour and Nexis UK, a worldwide news and business database.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 RBS’s strategy is to work collaboratively with research-users in the origination, design and
 application of our research. We continue to engage with industry, business, SMEs, NGOs, local,
 national and trans-national government organisations, charities, professional associations and
 publics both nationally and internationally and to cultivate and expand collaborations that support
 high-quality research, in particular the co-production of research with end-users. The Research
 Office supports our strategies for international and interdisciplinary collaboration, responding to
 regulatory frameworks and providing dedicated bidding, financial and legal support. Academic
 staff are supported to develop networks and collaborations through research mentoring and
 planning, and have access to financial support to conduct research visits to institutions, industry
 and partners. We also contribute to the research base through editorial, peer review, conference

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and research dissemination, and are recognised for the excellence of our research through
 numerous awards and advisory roles.

 Contribution to the Economy and Society
 RBS staff engage with many organisations outside of academia in order to communicate their
 research, develop new projects and explore research questions and findings in applied settings.
 Our contribution to the economy and society has been achieved through direct engagement with
 businesses and organisations who use our research, a range of practitioner focused
 engagements, and links with our local government and business communities. These relationships
 are sustained through dedicated staff time and through contract research. Examples include staff
 engagement with organisations on a range of gender issues connected to management and
 leadership, including Guillaume’s ongoing links with trade unions in France and the UK and
 Daskalaki’s research on social entrepreneurship which has influenced cultural initiatives on
 sustainable forms of social participation and change in Greece. Zarantonello’s research on brand
 experience, especially regarding the conceptualisation and operation of new brand constructs,
 has been adopted by both brand consultancy agencies and multinational corporations and the
 findings of Chen’s cultural quarters project were shared with the culture and education attaché of
 Taiwan’s Embassy in London and Taiwan’s Ministry of Science and Technology.

 RBS has also sought external funding to support direct practitioner engagement, providing
 opportunities to extend the reach and influence of our research by building on successful case
 studies, including the ESRC-funded seminar series on Challenging Gendered Media
 Mis(s)Representations of Women Professionals and Leaders organised by academics based at
 RBS at the time (Elliott and Mavin: 2015-2017). Drinkwater’s research on migrants’ involvement
 in civil society organisations in Wales and across the UK was a key feature of a successful ESRC
 Festival of Social Science event he co-organised in Cardiff in 2018, attended by representatives
 from a range of public and third sector organisations. The project has also closely engaged with
 the Welsh Government and the Welsh Migration Partnership on issues relating to the integration
 of migrant workers and their families into local communities. Yu’s several data-driven agri-food
 supply chain projects in China during 2017-19, in collaboration with Rothamsted Research and
 Hunan Agricultural University, created new, agile and public-private partnerships with the wider
 agricultural community, producing long-term social and economic benefits. Harris and Elmassri’s
 ICAEW-funded project culminated in the publication of a report entitled Multi-Dimensional
 Performance Frameworks and Strategic Investment Decisions in 2018 which has since
 been used by ICAEW members to review their recent projects in line with Harris and Elmassri’s
 recommendations for improving strategic investment decision-making.

 We continue to deepen our local engagement, particularly through sustained relationships with
 the Boroughs of Wandsworth and Richmond, building on a successful research collaboration
 (Drinkwater) to explore the effects of COVID-19 on the local population in the Summer of 2020,
 and through our contribution to local high street regeneration. RBS is also involved in extensive
 collaborations and networks in South West London through South London Knowledge Exchange,
 a sub-regional partnership between five London Boroughs and six universities (including
 University of the Arts, London South Bank, Kingston, St Mary’s and the Sussex Innovation Centre
 in Croydon). This initiative is funded by a £6m grant from the Greater London Authority, and will
 be deploying a range of innovation vouchers, grants and match-funding to develop links between
 universities and businesses, delivering c.£20M of economic impact, 329 jobs, and 166
 business/HEI collaborations over its three-year programme. In addition, RBS is actively building a
 partnership with the Wandsworth Chamber of Commerce, contributing to a number of events,
 including at the House of Commons (2019) with Battersea MP Marsha De Cordova and local
 businesses. In 2017, in collaboration, we launched the Wandsworth Young Chamber of
 Commerce, delivering 16 workshops attended by 410 young people.

 RBS has established an Advisory Board to engage key research users, and to shape our approach
 to engaging diverse collaborators, networks and potential research beneficiaries. Through this
 forum we have forged relationships with senior executives and managers in Business, Finance
 and public sector organisations. They contribute invaluable input and experience towards the

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development of impact strategies for the research developed in the School, including guidance on
 partnership formation and relationship stewardship, stakeholder mapping, and industry needs and
 opportunities. The Board is made up of highly experienced and influential representatives from the
 business community, as well as not-for-profit organisations and academia. Current members of
 the Board include Chad Wilson, International Product Strategy Manager at InComm, Stephen
 Ludlow, Executive Chairman of Ludlow Thompson, one of London's leading Estate Agencies; and
 Michele Prigent, the Vice President for Sales Administration at Paramount Pictures. The Advisory
 Board will continue to play an integral role in shaping our future strategies for wider engagement
 and contributions to society.

 Contribution to the Research Base
 The contribution made by RBS to the research base, in the UK and internationally, has been
 recognised through prizes awarded by professional bodies, academic journals and at international
 conferences. Harris was awarded the Lifetime Achievement Award 2020 by the British Accounting
 and Finance Association. Best paper awards to RBS colleagues include those from International
 Marketing Review (2017), the Journal of Product & Brand Management (2017) and the 21st
 International Conference on Corporate and Marketing Communications (2016) for Zarantonello.
 Daskalaki received a best paper award in Human Relations (a Financial Times Top 50 journal).
 Yu’s paper in Business Strategy and the Environment won outstanding conference paper, and
 was also their most downloaded article in 2017-18. Best conference paper awards were won by
 Yu at the 9th and 11th International Conferences on Operations and Supply Chain Management in
 Ningbo and Kaifeng, China (2015, 2017), Osabutey at the Global Innovation and Knowledge
 Academy Conference, Valencia, Spain and Conference of the International Academy of African
 Business and Development, Nairobi, Kenya (2016, 2015), Elmassri and Harris at the New
 Zealand Management Accounting Conference, Auckland (2015), and Chen, at the Advances in
 Business-Related Scientific Research Conference, Milan, Italy (2014). RBS staff also make an
 integral contribution to the future shape of their disciplines through their involvement with a range
 of professional bodies. Harris is Chair of the Management Control Association and was co-opted
 onto the executive committee for the Conference of Professors of Accounting and Finance to
 develop a new research mentoring scheme for ECRs. Osabutey chairs the exporting,
 internationalisation and FDI committees, and co-chairs the professional development committee,
 of the Academy of African Business & Development. RBS is also extensively involved with other
 professional organisations such as ACCA, Association of Project Managers, CIPD, Chartered
 Management Institute and the Chartered Institute of Marketing.

 Our international academic and professional links are cultivated through fellowships, visitors and
 co-authorships. Drinkwater is a fellow of the IZA Institute of Labor Economics, Bonn, and the
 Global Labor Organization. Harris and Parhi were visiting researchers at the University of Cote
 D’Azur and Trinity College Dublin respectively, whilst Guillaume and Busco spent parts of
 sabbaticals at the Universities of Sydney and Southern California respectively. Izak was a visiting
 fellow at Copenhagen Business School and Vrije Universiteit (VU) Amsterdam in 2016. Yu has
 been a visiting scholar at Chongqing Jiaotong University and Henan University since 2016.
 International scholars hosted by RBS include Gurbuz (Zaragoza Logistics Center), Harrison
 (Auckland), Northcott, Van Staden (Auckland University of Technology), Pierce (Washington St
 Louis), Smith (Salisbury University, Maryland). Staff in RBS have also established ongoing and
 long-term research collaborations with academics from across the globe. Zarantonello’s
 collaborations with Schmitt (Columbia) have resulted in several publications in leading marketing
 journals such as the Journal of Consumer Psychology (2015). Other international co-authorships
 have produced high profile publications over the review period including by Yu with Jacobs
 (Dayton) in the British Journal of Management and International Journal of Operations and
 Production Management, by Daskalaki with Rousseau (Carnegie Mellon) in the Journal of
 Vocational Behavior, by Ruiz Castro with McGinn (Harvard) in Work, Employment and Society
 and by Asgari with Fallah (Louisiana State) in the European Journal of Operational Research.

 RBS staff undertake editorial and reviewing work for a wide range of journals. Harris, Osabutey
 and Zarantonello are Associate Editors of the British Accounting Review, Journal of African
 Business and Journal of Business Research respectively. Harris was the special issues editor for

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Journal of Applied Accounting Research 2010-2019. RBS staff are members of editorial
 boards of peer-reviewed journals including Economic Issues European Journal of Innovation
 Management, International Journal of Marketing Research, Journal of Brand Management,
 Journal of Accounting and Organisational Change, Sustainability Accounting, Journal of
 Hospitality and Tourism Research, Journal of Interactive Marketing, Management Learning,
 Organization Studies, Qualitative Research in Accounting and Management, Technological
 Forecasting and Social Change and Work, Employment and Society, among others. We have
 also edited special issues of ten journals since 2014, and a range of handbooks and monographs.

 Academics across RBS have been sought out to provide external and peer-review in a wide variety
 of contexts, demonstrating our international reach. Staff have reviewed articles for well-
 established and internationally renowned journals in Business and Management Studies and
 related disciplines and received prizes to recognise the quality of their reviewing. These include
 Elsevier outstanding reviewer prizes from Technovation (Hullova 2017) and the Journal of
 Business Research (Hullova, Zarantonello, Yu, 2017) as well as a recognised reviewer award
 from Research Policy (Hullova, 2019), from Emerald Literati Network for the Journal of Product &
 Brand Management (Zarantonello, 2017) and Qualitative Research in Accounting and
 Management (Harris, 2017, 2018), the outstanding contribution in reviewing award from the
 Journal of Interactive Marketing (Zarantonello, 2017), a similar accolade from the International
 Journal of Production Economics (Yu, 2017) and the Reviewer of the Year Award from
 Management Learning (Izak, 2019). Peer-reviews have also been undertaken for funding bodies
 such as the British Academy, British Council, European Commission Horizon 2020, ESRC,
 Leverhulme Trust, Nuffield Foundation, Polish National Science Centre and the Vienna Science and
 Technology Fund. In addition to refereeing grant applications, colleagues have reviewed end of
 award reports and research centre proposals for research councils such as the ESRC as well as
 research reports for government departments. RBS staff have been external examiners for PhDs
 and Professional Doctorates in many UK and overseas universities including Aston, Brunel,
 Cranfield, East Anglia, Glasgow, Kent, La Trobe (Australia), Leeds, Liverpool, Kent, Manchester
 Business School, Galway (Ireland), Nottingham, Nottingham Trent, Plymouth, Sheffield,
 Strathclyde, Sussex, Swansea, La Trobe, Macquarie (Australia), Florence (Italy) Monash,
 Nottingham (Malaysia Campuses) and Tilburg (Netherlands).

 RBS staff have organised an array of international conferences and workshops, and presented
 many papers at international conferences and seminars. Conference organisation includes
 Towards Business 2030 by Integrating Purpose and Materiality with Innovation and Performance
 workshop, Rome 2019 (Busco); Economic Policies for Economic Imbalances: Institutions, Actors
 and Emerging Issues in Naples, 2018 (Foresti); Making Integrated Thinking Happen Conference,
 Rome 2017 (Busco and Malafronte); Organisational Storytelling Conference, London 2017
 (Daskalaki and Izak); 11th International Conference on Operations and Supply Chain
 Management, Kaifeng, China 2017 (Yu, Programme Committee Co-Chair); and the European
 Association of Consumer Research conference, Ghent, Belgium 2018 (Zarantonello, Programme
 Committee). Yu organised a number of international workshops such as 'Big Data and Digitising
 the Agricultural Value Chain, Data-Driven Agri-Food Supply Chains for Sustainability and
 Productivity’ funded by the STFC Food Network+, Henan University, in 2017; Drinkwater co-
 organised a symposium on 'Migration in Turbulent Times' for the WISERED Civil Society Project,
 Aberystwyth; Izak organised a stream in the Asia Pacific Researchers in Organization Studies
 Sydney, 2015, and Ruiz Castro and Daskalaki did the same at the Gender, Work and
 Organization Conference in Sydney in 2018 (and were subsequently invited to edit a related
 special issue for the affiliated journal, Gender, Work and Organization). Harris organised the
 Management Accounting stream at the British Accounting and Finance and Association
 Conference in 2017 and 2018.




                                                                                           Page 12
