Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University College London (UCL)

 Unit of Assessment: 29 - Classics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and Structure
 Classics has been taught at UCL since the 1830s, and the Department of Greek and Latin has a
 long history of engagement with both the scholarly and the popular understanding of Greece and
 Rome. Such notable figures as A.E. Housman, J.R. Seeley, T.B.L. Webster, and E.G. Turner
 exerted a far-reaching impact on classical studies. Our areas of expertise now extend
 considerably beyond that original grounding in philology and our staffing has increased from
 13 FTE researchers submitted in REF2014 to 14.5 FTE. The Department remains
 intellectually coherent while sustaining an outward-looking approach involving long-standing
 partnerships with the other UCL centres for the study of the Classical world (History, Philosophy
 and the Institute of Archaeology). It sits within the Faculty of Arts & Humanities which works
 closely with the Faculty of Social and Historical Sciences (as the ‘Joint Faculties’ or JFs) to
 support intra- and cross-disciplinary research. A new post shared with English constitutes a
 significantly increased investment by the JFs in our interdisciplinary activity.
          We take advantage of our location in a cosmopolitan capital, in which the classical world
 is always present, to work beyond the university with libraries, museums, galleries, theatres,
 cinemas, and other spaces. In the twenty-first century, as befits our home in London’s ‘global
 university’, our research reaches an audience worldwide (Section 4). Consequently, we attract
 many international students for supervision. Two-thirds of those completing in this REF cycle
 came from outside the UK (variously, Europe, the Americas, China, Taiwan and Sri Lanka). The
 Department’s leading international standing is also evident from its role in 2019 hosting the
 quinquennial congress of the Fédération internationale des associations d’études classiques.
 Carey, Manuwald and Vasunia were key members of the committee, ensured a gender balance
 among speakers and oversaw the implementation of its Code of Conduct. Most staff gave
 papers, chaired panels or organised cultural events. Each year, a major visiting academic
 delivers the Housman Lecture to a large public audience, which is subsequently published
 openly online. Speakers include Maurizio Bettini (2016), Judith Butler (2017), Bernard
 O’Donoghue (2018), and Victoria Wohl (2019). Butler attracted over 900 attendees to her lecture
 ‘Kinship Trouble in the Bacchae’ (since viewed on the Department’s YouTube channel around
 7,800 times).

 We are committed to allowing staff a high degree of freedom to pursue their evolving intellectual
 interests and foster range, diversity, methodological pluralism and dialogue. Consequently, our
 primary research strategy is to push out the boundaries of our discipline, lay new strata in its
 ‘traditional’ fields, and infuse fresh interpretations. Currently, six interwoven strands of activity
 provide the structure for its realisation:

 Literature. The Department’s research in literature is marked by an engaged philology that
 considers texts’ relations with multiple receiving contexts and embraces modern theories as well
 as traditional methodologies. It seeks to lay foundations for the philology of the future. Manuwald
 produces editions, translations and commentaries on epic, drama and oratory that emphasize
 the texts’ civic functions and provide the underpinning for further studies. Agócs examines
 political uses of Greek poetry and myth in multiple genres as vehicles of cultural memory.
 Harman investigates the ideological constructions of Greek historiography, including the
 affective dynamics of reading. Mac Góráin analyses representations of religion and politics in
 Latin literature, with attention to the scholarly paradigms in play. Vasunia publishes on the
 politics of form in Greek literature and is the editor of a large-scale volume on the many
 literatures of the Roman Empire beyond Greek and Latin. McAuley’s monograph on motherhood
 in imperial Latin sets a new agenda for the exploration of gender paradigms in key genres. Moul
 is PI of the Leverhulme-funded project Neo-Latin Poetry in English Manuscript Miscellanies
 (2017-21). With a team of postdocs and PGRs, she is establishing a new approach to
 understanding the Latin / vernacular bilingualism of early modern literary culture.

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Historical Linguistics. UCL is one of only three UK universities with a strong tradition of research
 in Greek and Latin historical linguistics. It provides dedicated funds for a staff member and
 library acquisition (making that resource one of the best in the country). Colvin focuses on the
 sociolinguistics of the ancient world, the analysis of language in its historical context, and the
 intellectual history of inherited linguistic categories and concepts. He has partnered with
 Anthropology through the Quotation Lab (a UCL Centre for a multi-disciplinary approach to
 rethinking reported speech) and co-organised a seminar series at the Institute of Classical
 Studies (ICS) on classical literature in dialogue with anthropology (2019).

 Papyrology. The Department is one of only two in the UK in which papyrology is a major
 research focus. It has a dedicated post and library funds, and has fostered more MA and PhD
 dissertations in papyrology than any other institution worldwide. Gonis and Henry present vital
 new material that serves as a basis for scholarship in many fields. Supported by the AHRC-
 funded Oxyrhynchus Papyri project in partnership with the University of Oxford (2015-20), they
 have met their objective set in REF2014 to publish five volumes in the POxy monograph series.
 PGRs routinely contribute to the POxy publications. Gonis was PI and editor of the series and
 has published about a hundred papyri, contributing a mass of detail to the history of Roman and
 late antique Egypt. Henry has published papyri on combat sport and new pieces of tragedy. In a
 ground-breaking collaboration with an Ethiopicist in Munich, he has also recovered a major
 Greek narrative (an Old Testament Apocryphon).

 Classical Reception Studies. Eight staff investigate the appropriation of Classics in different
 media, periods and territories as examples of creative reception and the establishment of new
 cultural and intellectual movements. Manuwald’s monograph on all dramas that showcase
 Cicero (over many centuries and countries) will form the basis for much future research on his
 reception. A British Academy Research Award to visit a variety of international archives (2016-
 19) has informed Wyke’s articles and her forthcoming monograph on antiquity in silent cinema
 (an important pre-history for its presence in sound cinema). In fulfilment of our REF2014
 strategy, the appointments of Moul (above) and Barker have significantly enriched our Reception
 activity. Extending its boundaries to Russia, Barker’s project Classical Lesbians in the Russian
 Imagination is an unprecedented investigation into the problem which antiquity’s homosexual
 relations pose for a homophobic society that venerates antiquity (Leverhulme EC Fellowship,
 2019-23).

 The East. We promote cross-cultural study of relations between the Graeco-Roman world and
 the East. This strand has long flourished at UCL supported by a network encompassing
 Classics, Archaeology, History, and Egyptology. In recent years, the Department has pushed its
 research boundaries further to the East, exploring links between the Classical world and Egypt,
 Persia, and India. These attainments are visible in Colvin’s linguistic studies; the publications of
 Gonis and Henry on papyri; Vasunia’s on ancient Egypt and Iran, and colonial India; and
 Harman’s on the historiographic representation of Asian peoples. We also have long-standing
 connections with Near-Eastern history and languages in the School of Oriental and African
 Studies, establishing joint PhD supervision and reading groups (Hieroglyphic Luwian and Cypriot
 syllabic texts in 2017-18).

 Philosophy and Intellectual History. The Department is distinctive in placing a commitment to
 ancient philosophy and intellectual history at the heart of its explorations of the ancient world.
 Leonard used her Philip Leverhulme Prize to complete her project on the concept of tragedy
 (outlined in REF2014) with a monograph and a co-edited volume, and to launch a new project
 exploring the role of Classical antiquity in modern revolutions (already resulting in a co-edited
 special issue of the Classical Receptions Journal). Our expertise has been augmented by the
 appointments of Mackenzie and Fiecconi. Mackenzie has in press a monograph on the
 aesthetics of pre-Socratic philosophy and organised a conference on poets writing
 philosophically, complementing Agócs’ prior conference on philosophical poetry. Fiecconi’s work
 on ancient ethics and its relationship with ancient biology, psychology and philosophy of mind
 has strengthened our close ties with UCL’s Philosophy department.

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Research and Impact Strategy
 To support our primary strategy and develop new strands of activity, the Department works
 strategically to: (1) cross disciplinary boundaries through use of UCL’s support structures; (2)
 enhance Classical research and education in the metropolis; (3) pursue national and
 international interaction and impact; and (4) expand access to our research.

 (S.1) Crossing Disciplinary Boundaries
 The Department took a major lead in UCL by setting up the Centre for Research on the
 Dynamics of Civilisation (fulfilling its REF2014 strategy) - one of only 13 initiatives funded in the
 period by the Provost’s Strategic Development Fund. Jointly directed by Wyke and a colleague
 from UCL Anthropology, CREDOC explored the difference between the concepts of civilisation,
 nation, culture and society, and the controversial role ‘civilisation’ has played in contemporary
 debate. From 2013 to 2017, the Centre awarded 15 grants and facilitated 14 conferences (with
 c. 46,000 views on its YouTube Channel). A third of the Department were beneficiaries as well
 as staff of 12 other departments within, and collaborating beyond, the JFs. CREDOC enabled JF
 researchers to enter UCL’s ambitious multi-disciplinary network strategy and provided a gateway
 to further activity and funding. Similarly, the Department was awarded funds from UCL’s flagship
 Grand Challenges programme (Mac Góraín) and assisted in driving it forward; Wyke chaired the
 Grand Challenge of Cultural Understanding Working Group and oversaw pan-UCL grant
 applications (2015-18).
          We have made use of UCL’s hubs for the advancement of critical thinking that crosses
 faculties and disciplines. From the inception of the Institute of Advanced Studies in 2015, we
 utilised it to host CREDOC and to facilitate interdisciplinary events. Staff serve on its advisory
 panels. We have also partnered with UCL’s European Institute (EI) to run events such as
 Leonard’s conference on Hannah Arendt and the Ancients (published as a special issue of
 Classical Philology), Vasunia’s workshop with Pierre Briant (Alexander as the First European),
 and Wyke’s debates on Civilisation in Political Thought and Western Civilisation.

 (S.2) Enhancing Classical Research and Education in the Metropolis
 We take seriously our responsibility as educators in a metropolis, striving to involve London
 institutions and audiences in our work and providing fora for the presentation of new research.
 Staff regularly coordinate the London-wide Classics seminars in History, Literature and
 Philosophy based at the ICS (Colvin, Fiecconi, Harman, Manuwald, Mac Góráin and Vasunia)
 and serve on ICS committees (Leonard, Manuwald, Vasunia, Wyke). We also have co-organised
 conferences with the ICS (Manuwald), the Warburg Institute (Mac Góráin, Manuwald), the Paul
 Mellon Centre and Leighton House (Wyke). Colvin restored a relationship with SOAS to mitigate
 institutional divides between Classical and near-Eastern languages and cultures.
          We work extensively with the national libraries, archives, theatres, and museums in
 London: our impact case studies, for example, demonstrate partnerships with the Freud
 Museum (Leonard ICS1) and the British National Film Archive (Wyke ICS2). We ensure our
 impact on Classical education in London: our annual Classics Day, regularly attracting around
 300 attendees from school students to tourists, is co-organized with the British Museum and the
 adult education organization City Lit.

 (S.3) Pursuing National and International Interaction and Impact
 Our staff initiate and participate in large-scale projects. Leonard and Vasunia, through the
 Postclassicisms network (lauded in The Guardian as exemplary of ‘the most interesting and
 challenging work about the Greco-Roman world’), organise conferences on Reception with
 colleagues at Princeton, Oxford, Cambridge, Berkeley, Pisa and Queensland, hold workshops
 for PGRs at UCL, and have co-authored an associated book (Chicago, 2019). Manuwald is PI
 on the AHRC-funded interdisciplinary network Baroque Latinity (2019-21) which comprises a
 team of researchers from UCL, elsewhere in the UK, and Europe (esp. Innsbruck).
         The Department has furthered its expansive initiatives through securing multiple awards
 from UCL’s Global Engagement Office, which establishes anchoring partnerships with
 international HEIs. Activities include: seminars run by Vasunia and Leonard in Mumbai (2018,

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2019) in partnership with Princeton and Jnanapravaha; workshops for PGRs and multiple
 colloquia run by Wyke in Rome (2018, 2019), with Sapienza, Roma Tre, the British School at
 Rome, and the Polish Academy of Science.
          As these examples show, international leadership and collaboration, going well beyond
 traditional Classical fields, is an integral part of our research culture, as is international impact
 activity: Wyke has provided guided film screenings in eight countries across four continents.

 (S.4) Expanding Access to Our Research. We are committed to UCL’s Open Research and
 Open Data policies. To share our work with wider public audiences, we submit it to OA journals
 and books and deposit it in UCL’s institutional repository, UCL Discovery. We contribute to open
 scholarship through making our data widely available: Gonis publishes in UCL Discovery without
 embargo his contributions to the Oxyrhynchus Papyri project; Moul gifts data to libraries and
 archives (including Westminster Abbey, Cambridge University Library and the National
 Archives). Many of our conferences are made available on our YouTube channel and we publish
 our annual Housman lectures on our website. Staff contribute to debates about the future of
 Humanities Open Research within UCL and the British Academy, and as representatives of our
 discipline at the CUCD Steering Committee, the Classical Association Journals Board, the
 Philological Society, the Society for Neo-Latin Studies, and the Arts & Humanities Alliance.
          We take advantage of UCL’s facilities and Public Engagement (PE) funding to maximise
 the impact of our research on cultural life, while also contributing to PE strategy. Wyke serves on
 UCL’s Culture, Heritage and Museums PE sub-committee, which advises on how to engage the
 wider community with UCL’s research. Our Greek play in translation has run annually for over 30
 years in UCL’s 500-seat Bloomsbury Theatre.

 Future Strategy
 The Department will continue to apply this broad strategic framework during the next REF cycle,
 with consideration for its nuancing. This includes the development of a new strand - Race - that
 will tie in with several of our current strands, the emerging interests of a number of staff, and the
 collaboration Vasunia has initiated with UCL’s new Sarah Parker Remond Centre for the Study
 of Racism and Racialisation.
           Given that the pandemic has exacerbated career-related inequalities while diminishing
 the availability of time and money for research in the longer term, we propose also to focus on
 further improving support for students and staff to: (a) complete research, especially where they
 face caring, schooling, health, workload, resource and/or access issues; (b) develop their
 careers and expand their networks; (c) obtain external grants that bring studentships, fellowships
 or extended leave; (d) partner cultural organisations; and (e) globalise, through digital platforms,
 their collaborations with other institutions and their impact activity.
           Already, beyond the REF cycle, the Department has won two substantial awards, each of
 which will bring in an ECR (Gonis from the AHRC and the German Research Council; Vasunia
 from the Leverhulme Trust). Staff continue to be promoted or rebanded upwards (Leonard), and
 PGRs to obtain post-doctoral appointments (van Dijk). The Housman lecture for 2020 was
 delivered online by Ellen Oliensis to an international audience, with a response by McAuley.
 Vasunia is now Deputy Director of UCL’s Institute of Advanced Studies (2020-23), enhancing
 our opportunities for interdisciplinary networking and collaborative research within and beyond
 UCL. A recent donation to our Department of £1.25 million is funding a new post in the
 languages of the ancient Middle East.

 2. People

 (2.1) Staffing Strategy and Support
 The Department’s submission comprises 14.5 FTE researchers, of whom 12 are permanent (six
 full professors, two associate professors, four lecturers) and three fixed-term (two postdoctoral
 fellows, and one research associate). Project-based, REF-ineligible, researchers receive the
 same support as those submitted.
          In our appointment strategy, we look to strengthen the quality of our core research
 strands and generate new ones through productive interconnections with them. We involve all
 staff and PGRs in the selection process, and interviewers receive EDI training. The appointment

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Vasunia to replace Carey (retired) adds a reception dimension to Greek literature, a
 theoretical concern with race, imperialism and colonialism, and a focus further east. The
 appointment of Fiecconi (after the departure of Bryan) adds psychology to our interest in ancient
 philosophy and sustains our partnership with UCL Philosophy’s Keeling Centre. Our second
 Leventis Fellow, Mackenzie, has furthered our philosophical interests, created a stimulating
 nexus with Agócs on the poetics of philosophy, and brought expertise on pedagogy to our
 engagement with schools. McAuley enriches Roman literature with fresh questions about gender
 and the sensorial. Moul, our new appointment (split 0.7/0.3 with English), consolidates our
 engagement with the Latin culture of early modernity and adds to our interdisciplinary dialogues.
 These appointments demonstrate our primary commitment to range and pluralism in our
 research and diversity and internationality in our staff.
          We sustain a collegial system of mentoring for all new staff (permanent or fixed-term)
 that offers guidance on career plans. Mentoring on research-driven teaching, publications,
 networks, conference organisation, grant applications, and leadership continues informally after
 the staff member becomes established. All ECRs and probationary staff take part in UCL’s
 comprehensive Professional Development Programme and the Doctoral School’s training in
 research supervision (discipline-specific training is provided by our experienced supervisors).
 With UCL and departmental support, six staff have become HEA Fellows and four Senior
 Fellows. We continue UCL training throughout our careers (from project management to the
 prevention of sexual harassment). All staff attend annual appraisals with the HoD to define
 objectives, establish training needs, support progress and identify routes to reward. The Dean
 appraises our HoD.
          Probationers have reduced workloads to maximise their time for research (Harman,
 Agócs, McAuley, Fiecconi). Post-probation, the norm for teaching is 120 hours across two terms,
 with reductions below that to balance onerous administrative duties. In a spirit of openness, all
 staff see the Department’s workload allocation. They are encouraged to teach to their research
 strengths. Such curriculum design is efficient and enriching for staff and students and
 establishes a pipeline to our PhD programme; UGs have thus gained access to modules on
 literary theory, papyrology and linguistics, and MAs to a staff/student philosophy reading group.
 Meetings are held only in term time and during core hours. One term’s leave is available after
 every three years of service, in line with institutional policy (which continues through COVID-19).
 To facilitate career advice, staff are asked to apply for leave and report on its outcomes. They
 are assisted in extending leave through external awards.
          We participate in and help coordinate the uniquely large London network of researchers
 and PGRs in Classics. Staff are encouraged to lead the weekly seminars at the ICS. We also
 run a termly in-house seminar where staff and PGRs present work in progress. Throughout the
 year, we hold outward-facing colloquia designed to facilitate exchange between staff, students
 and visitors, and enhance our research strands.
          The transition of our first Leventis Fellow (Andújar) to a permanent post at KCL
 demonstrates the success of our support mechanisms, as does the attainment by Agócs of a
 residency at the Centre for Hellenic Studies (Washington DC), Harman of a residency at the
 British School at Athens, and Fiecconi of a Mind Fellowship. All probationary staff have been
 promoted to a higher grade, two staff have been promoted to associate professor (Mac Góráin
 and Bryan, since left), two to full professor (Colvin, Gonis). Three professors have been re-
 banded upwards (Manuwald, Vasunia, Wyke).
          Our research culture has enabled our staff to be especially productive. We have
 produced more than 157 substantial outputs (11 monographs, two commentaries, five editions,
 five contributions to editions, four journal special issues, two translations, 10 co-edited books,
 one co-authored book, 60 journal articles, and 57 book chapters), as well as research notes,
 contributions to dictionaries, encyclopaedias, theatre programmes and exhibition catalogues,
 book reviews, bibliographic surveys, articles for school journals and for the press, social media
 blogs, and radio and television interviews.

 (2.2) Supporting Research Students
 The nurture of research students is a key aspect of our mission. Thirty-six doctorates were
 awarded (a 12% increase per year over REF2014). Although the funding environment has
 become increasingly difficult, five PGRs won studentships from the London Arts & Humanities

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Doctoral Training Partnership (LAHP), one from Wolfson, and one from Germany’s Academic
 Scholarship Foundation; two were supported by Moul’s Leverhulme project, and one by a
 scholarship from the Chilean government. We also use endowed funds to make awards to
 incoming PGRs (£32,125 in total to 13 students); two won partial funding from the JFs. Three of
 the 10 students commencing in 2020 have won studentships from UCL, the AHRC/LAHP, or the
 Onassis Foundation. Students are also encouraged to draw on funding from the UCL Doctoral
 School, the IAS, the Dean’s Strategic Fund and our Leventis Fund for their activities, including
 public engagement.
          The Departmental Graduate Tutor (DGT) has overall responsibility for the academic and
 pastoral care of our PGRs. Students have advisory meetings with the DGT at points throughout
 the year. The DGT inducts students individually and collectively, arranges bespoke training,
 assigns a peer mentor, monitors progress, and reports to the Research Committee. The
 carefully staged training for PGRs provided by UCL’s Doctoral Skills Development Programme is
 augmented by the interdisciplinary and A&H orientation of LAHP‘s training (128 activities or
 series of activities in the REF cycle). LAHP has also funded two training events in Neo-Latin
 which our staff co-organised.
          Our students have at least two academic staff on their supervisory team. Supervisions
 are held monthly for established students, more frequently in the first six months of study. To
 assist interdisciplinary projects, we co-supervise with other UCL Departments (History,
 Anthropology, Film Studies, English, Centre for Study of Racism and Racialisation, and the
 School of European Languages Cultures and Societies) and with partner institutions in London
 (KCL, ICS, SOAS and Warburg). We also welcome practice-based projects (students graduated
 in 2015 and 2017 with documentary filmmaking components). Fostering consistency across the
 university, UCL maintains an electronic log of supervisions, progress reports and upgrade
 exercises that is monitored locally by our DGT.
          PGRs are invited to teach after a year of enrolment; they start as a PGTA to a language
 class and may subsequently teach more advanced classes. We provide subject-specific training
 in addition to UCL’s postgraduate development programmes and assist our PGTAs to become
 Associate Fellows of the Higher Education Academy (15 AFs in this cycle). They meet the HoD
 termly to discuss their experience. The DGT participated in a successful campaign at UCL to
 provide regularised contracts of employment for PGTAs and place representatives on Teaching
 Committees.
          The Department implements UCL’s rigorous process for upgrade from MPhil to PhD
 status, which takes place within 18 months of registration for full-time students. PGRs are
 interviewed by a panel and present their upgrade paper at our departmental seminar. MA
 students also attend and are brought further into the community at an annual colloquium where
 they learn how to present their own projects. We support all our postgraduates in seeing
 themselves as professionals, so we embed participation in departmental, cross-UCL, and
 external seminars and conferences into their understanding of the research culture they have
 joined. We fund a weekly postgraduate seminar organised exclusively by our students (Lyceum)
 to train them in peer presentation and feedback. Lyceum is open to students from across
 London (and, while online during COVID-19, internationally). Our students are active participants
 in the London-wide postgraduate work-in-progress seminar held weekly at the ICS. They present
 papers in the UK and abroad (including Chile, Finland, Italy, Switzerland, and the USA). We
 integrate PGRs into our research culture through social events; we run receptions and lunches
 for students, staff and visitors to interact. A lively Facebook group led by the PGRs provides a
 site for informal communication.
          We assist our students to become academic citizens and leaders. Our PGRs have
 become student representatives on the Women’s Classical Committee, the ICS Advisory
 Council, and the Executive Committee of the Society for Neo-Latin Studies. One student set up
 The Historical Linguistics Network at UCL (2018-20) that drew national and international
 speakers and promoted inter-institutional collaboration between London researchers working on
 different languages. Another co-founded the OA Classical receptions journal Pericles at Play,
 which has produced four issues since 2019 (readership 13,986 in 71 countries).
          Further testimony to the success of our support mechanisms is the number of
 conferences or workshops our PGRs and some former PGRs have run in addition to those they
 have co-organised with staff. Out of 14 events, the five most recent are: Erudition and Allusion in

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Theocritus (2016, in Athens), Narcissism (2017), Digital Tools for Classicists (2018), Rejecting
 the Classics (2018), and The Greeks and the Irrational Revisited (2019). Supported by our
 guidance on writing, our former PGRs have also published seven academic monographs, three
 co-edited collections, one full-scale translation and a literary biography, as well as many journal
 articles and book chapters.
         In a challenging market, our students have been remarkably successful in securing
 academic posts, nationally and internationally: Bakola (Warwick), Biffis (Edinburgh), Carbone
 (Brunel), Cole (Bristol), Fragoulaki (Cardiff), Freer (Reykjavik), Kanellou (Cyprus), Lecznar
 (Leeds), Lord-Chow (UC Santa Barbara), Plastow (Open), Serafim (Cyprus), Taousiani (KCL)
 and Zali (Liverpool). Many have obtained postdoctoral appointments, including: Alexandrou
 (Cyprus), Bortolani (Heidelberg), Freer (Durham), Kanellou (Academy of Athens), Lecznar
 (Bristol), Micucci (British Library), Dal Borgo (Cambridge), Fogarty (Geneva), Mantzouranis
 (Edinburgh) and Xinyue (Warwick).

 (2.3) Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity
 The Department sought out participation in the Gender Equality Charter Mark Trial in 2014 and
 was one of only two Classics departments in the country to achieve a Bronze Award, followed by
 an Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2019. These awards are testimony to our track record in
 operating an inclusive and merit-based culture and attracting and retaining a diverse pool of staff
 and students. We remain at the forefront of UCL in our commitment to achieving EDI: Manuwald
 is a member of the UCL Athena Forum alongside our Equal Opportunities Officer; our
 department now mentors others applying for Athena SWAN awards. We were one of the first
 departments in UCL to sign up to the Student Union’s Zero Tolerance to Sexual Harassment
 Campaign. Nationally, Manuwald (as Secretary of the Council of University Classical
 Departments) provided a lead in establishing a UCL-funded project to gather data about EDI in
 UK Classics and the resulting statistics and recommendations were published in November
 2020. Maintaining this pro-active stance, we have a permanent EDI Group to monitor our
 activities and policies. Consequently, we have introduced surveys of staff and students to
 capture EDI concerns and act on them, increased the flexibility of our working arrangements,
 and ensured that our website and publicity feature diversity.
          Our appointments have sustained the equal gender distribution of the last REF cycle and
 put a BAME professor in post (Vasunia). Of our current student body, 63% are female, 15%
 BAME, and 7% disabled. Half are from outside the UK, matching the non-UK proportion of our
 staff. Nationally 38% of professors are female (according to CUCD’s figures based on 2018-19),
 whereas we have 50%. Vasunia provides an especially valuable role model when numbers of
 BAME staff and students continue to be low in Classics. We flag on our website and in open
 days the new UCL Research Opportunity Scholarship (UCL-ROS) and support applications to it
 from BAME postgraduates. We note from the CUCD report on BAME experience that a
 significant obstacle to progression is the reluctance of departments to discuss race and ethnicity.
 Inspired by the Black Lives Matter movement and such EDI reports, we have initiated an internal
 debate on decolonizing our curriculum. From 2021, we are offering new BA and MA modules on
 race and antiquity. We believe these sorts of steps will make our discipline more inclusive.
          The Department provides a caring and responsive environment for staff and students.
 Two academic staff, a research fellow, a teaching fellow and four PGRs took Maternity Leave,
 followed for academic staff by a term of Gender Equality leave. One member of staff took
 paternity leave. We work to ensure no staff or students are disadvantaged in their career
 progression through such absences or as a result of ill health, bereavement, caring
 responsibilities, disability, religious practice or part-time status. We helped our PGRs obtain
 professional counselling, extensions, interruptions, or waivers of regulations when they were
 affected by personal circumstances and took care to ease them back into study. We obtained
 specialist software for a student who developed sight problems. A staff member reported their
 gratitude for the support they received ‘in past and current periods of ill health, maternity leave
 and on-going caring responsibilities (to young and old)’ and commented on how colleagues have
 ‘always been so quick to come up with inventive solutions when the need arose’.
          In relation to REF2021, the Department is answerable for EDI to UCL’s Main Panel D
 Working Group and has implemented UCL’s Code of Practice transparently. The Department
 excluded only one person (as a project-based researcher) in its staff selection process. It

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supported staff with equality-related circumstances to manage their production of outputs, and
 communicated clearly the processes for seeking mitigation (though none sought output
 reductions). Staff commented on their own outputs which were also reviewed internally by a
 team of six. The three members of the Review and Selection group (diverse in terms of gender,
 nationality and race) all received EDI and bias training in order to select outputs fairly and
 according to quality and coverage. Our review of our selection based on UCL’s equality impact
 assessments indicates that it is inclusive and women are strongly represented. Staff have been
 informed by the HoD and the Director of Research and at Research Committee that these
 selection procedures are wholly distinct from performance management.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 The Department encourages staff to apply for funding appropriate to their research needs and
 benefits from robust institutional support. Consequently, we have increased our research
 income by 17% per FTE per year over REF2014, winning new external research income to the
 value of £1,832,212, including forward-rolling grants. Major successes for collaborative work
 include: an AHRC project grant to Gonis for Oxyrhynchus Papyri (£393,170, 2015-20) and
 additional BA awards (£19,742, 2016-20; £24,219, 2020-25); a Leverhulme Trust Grant to Moul
 for Neo-Latin Poetry (at UCL: £305,719, 2019-21); and an AHRC Network Grant to Manuwald
 for Baroque Latinity (£34,132, 2019-22). The following Fellowships were awarded: a Fellowship
 in Hellenic Studies from the A. G. Leventis Foundation for Di Martino (£273,000, 2020-24),
 following those for Mackenzie (£259,735, 2016-20) and Andújar (2012-16); a British Academy
 Fellowship for Foster for The Emergence of the Original in Western Culture (£287,163, 2015-18,
 transferred to Cambridge for personal reasons); a Polonsky Fellowship at the Van Leer
 Jerusalem Institute for Fiecconi (£31,828, 2017-18); a Leverhulme Fellowship for Barker for
 Classical Lesbians in the Russian Imagination (£92,667, 2019-2022). Leonard won the Philip
 Leverhulme Prize for Classics in the Enlightenment and the French Revolution (£70,000, 2014-
 15), Fiecconi a Mind Research Fellowship (£26,106, 2020-21), and Agócs a Center for Hellenic
 Studies Fellowship (£1,288, 2015). British Academy research grants were awarded to Andújar
 for Ancient Greek Drama in the Hispanic Caribbean (£7,300, 2016-17) and Wyke for Ancient
 Rome in Silent Cinema (£6,143, 2016-19).
         Each permanent member of staff receives an annual Personal Research Allowance of
 £1,000 from the Faculty (and will continue to do so). From 2020, Lecturers (Teaching) also
 receive a £500 research allowance. The Leventis Fellow receives £1,500 annually from the
 Department’s Leventis Fund. Established through the generosity of the A.G. Leventis
 Foundation, we draw on the Fund to support staff (especially ECRs and PGRs) in running
 research events and research-driven public activities, and to further our outreach with pupils and
 teachers - total in this cycle £99,750. We have also radically increased the volume of awards
 won for staff and students from UCL (Global Engagement Office, Grand Challenges, the
 Doctoral School, the Provost’s Strategic Development and Campaign Funds) and Faculty
 sources (JF’s Graduate Studies / Octagon Fund, Institute of Advanced Studies, Keeling Centre,
 European Institute, and Dean’s Strategic Fund) - total £309,606. Notable successes include:
 Wyke’s award from the PSDF for CREDOC; Vasunia, Leonard and Wyke’s five awards from the
 GEO for partnerships in Mumbai and Rome; three graduate visiting fellowships to Yale; two JF
 graduate studentships. These internal grants were supplemented by awards from external
 funders in the UK (University of London’s School of Advanced Study and ICS, London Arts &
 Humanities Partnership, Classical Association, Hellenic and Neo-Latin societies, CRASSH
 [Cambridge], Jowett Trust, Institut Français); and abroad (FIEC, the Harvard Centre, Princeton
 University, MINECO [Spain], NWO [Netherlands]) - total £37,268.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 Research is supported and driven by the Research Committee (RC), which meets in terms 1 and
 2 of the academic year. All staff with research interests attend. The RC keeps under review the
 Department’s strategies and the integrity of their achievement (individual projects, data
 management, and conduct are monitored by an Ethics Committee and requirements displayed in
 the Staff and PGR Handbooks). The RC oversees our environment for staff and students,

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborations, funding opportunities, grant applications, events, impact and outreach activities,
 leave allocation, REF and other evaluations. It undertakes an annual holistic review every spring
 of PGR recruitment, support and funding, progress, completion and career development. In term
 3, staff meet individually with the Director of Research (as an informal mentor) to maximise
 career opportunities, identify impact pathways and help articulate future strategy. Lecturers
 (Teaching) who wish to go on to a research-oriented post are also offered this mentoring. A
 biennial Research Away Day explores key mid- and long-term strategic issues and opportunities,
 as well as providing a setting for colleagues to exchange ideas on collaborations. The DoR
 represents the Department at the Faculty RC and the Department Graduate Tutor does so at the
 JF Research Degrees Committee. They report back on pan-UCL strategy and good practice.
          Students are invited to the PG Staff-Student Consultative Committee (SSCC) that meets
 each term. Two PGR representatives are formally appointed to the SSCC and one is delegated
 as co-chair. In addition to scrutinising the UCL-led Postgraduate Research Experience Survey,
 they collate the views of our own students in local surveys (in response to which, for example,
 we supplied more quiet study space and established an annual workshop on academic careers
 open to all London PGRs).
          Staff and students frequently draw on the wide variety of UCL’s central services. We
 enjoy excellent support from dedicated professional services staff with expertise in grant
 capture, management, public engagement and impact (including one-to-one guidance on
 proposals and project management; advice on the generation and evaluation of impact; and
 brokerage of relations with diverse communities). We win UCL funding for PE activity (recently
 Wyke and Leonard). UCL Culture enables our collaborations with the Petrie Museum and
 participation in UCL’s annual Festival of Culture. Its stage managers assist the presentation of
 our annual Greek play. The Office of the Vice-Provost for Research advised on the
 establishment and operation of our Research Centre CREDOC. The cross-faculty Institute of
 Advanced Studies hosted CREDOC and promoted its work through the provision of space,
 staffing and publicity. The IAS consistently enables us to enrich our research through
 interdisciplinary dialogue and reach wider audiences, as does the European Institute. IAS has
 facilitated 15 events run by staff and five by PGRs, including workshops (Edges of the Human,
 Re-Performance) and roundtables (Nancy Worman). Two PGRs have won IAS grants to co-host
 interdisciplinary Friday Fora. UCL Library’s Publications managers facilitate our Open Access
 engagement.
          Benefitting from UCL’s investment programme, the Department has spread to a fourth
 floor in Gordon House, with generous workspaces for staff, ECRs and PGRs, and a seminar
 room that also houses a departmental library (re-catalogued in 2019 using the Dean’s Strategic
 Fund). We display our activities to visitors through a digital screen and display cases in the
 reception area. Not least as a result of our lobbying, Gordon House has been redesigned as
 much as possible to accommodate users with physical disabilities. Staff who need reasonable
 adjustments are provided with the necessary equipment on the advice of the Occupational
 Health Service. PGRs have their own common room containing networked computers. Staff and
 students also take advantage of UCL’s dedicated work and seminar spaces, especially in the
 IAS, the new 24/7 Student Centre and the Senate House Hub. Networked computers are
 regularly upgraded, and we receive tailored IT support from the Information Services Division.
 We also can acquire specialist equipment and software, such as video-editing programmes for
 impact activities, HD scanners, and microscopes for papyrology.
          We take advantage of local access to the world-class British Library and the libraries of
 the Warburg, ICS, Senate House, BFI, National Theatre and SOAS, and museums (British
 Museum, Petrie Museum, V&A, Freud Museum, Sir John Soane). Staff are members of the ICS
 Joint Library Committees and thus contribute to deciding on its purchases, to ensure that all
 important works on Classics are available in London. UCL itself has excellent library holdings in
 Classics, Papyrology, Comparative Philology, Ancient History, Archaeology and Classical
 Reception. Our Subject Liaison Librarian updates them and provides personalised training in
 research resources. The Library’s special collections contain many works relevant to our
 projects, and PGRs are introduced to their content as potential material. Electronic resources for
 Classics (including a wide array of databases and e-book collections) have been extended
 thanks to an additional investment by the JFs of c. £33,000 above our regular budget. Since the
 pandemic, the Library has increased investment for us in online resources such as CUP HE,

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Oxford Scholarly Editions and Bloomsbury Academic e-books. Remote access enhances staff
 flexibility.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  The Department has a vibrant history of holding events that provide foci for intellectual
 exchange, ECR and PGR training, and public engagement with its research. In addition to 14
 CREDOC events, we have run or co-run 22 conferences and 28 symposia or panels at
 UCL, elsewhere in the UK, India, Italy, Poland, the USA or, latterly, online. Four further
 undertakings were postponed because of COVID-19. We have also hosted many public lectures,
 round-table discussions with distinguished authors (such as Simon Goldhill, Brooke Holmes,
 Richard Seaford), and masterclasses run by visitors (from across Europe, China, the USA and
 Australia). We have partnered with UCL’s Keeling Centre for Ancient Philosophy to organize an
 annual Memorial Lecture, the Keeling Colloquia, a scholar-in-residence (Sarah Broadie 2017-
 21), and a weekly reading group conducted jointly with KCL. Fiecconi has also been involved in
 inaugurating the London Centre for Ancient Philosophy.
          The Department has taken a lead in training the next generation of classicists. From
 2014 to 2017, Colvin served as Deputy or Acting Director of LAHP, was instrumental in setting
 up its doctoral training and networking programme (that brings together eight London institutions
 including KCL, LSE, Queen Mary, University of London School of Advanced Study and UCL)
 and initiated the provision of modern language training by the Goethe Institute and Institut
 Français. Fiecconi co-organises with the philosophy departments in UCL, KCL, Cambridge and
 Oxford a termly, rotating workshop for PhD students. We supervise PGRs located abroad (at
 Brown, Los Angeles, Paris, Princeton), and welcome visiting PGRs (from Brazil, France,
 Germany, Italy, Spain, the USA) whom we integrate into our local and national Classics
 communities.
          We see these activities as vehicles for our students and staff to communicate and
 exchange their ideas, and to bring scholars at all career stages and from other relevant
 disciplines to UCL or take UCL to them.
          Our commitment to engaging the non-academic community with our research is broad
 and deep. In addition to our annual in-house summer schools, we have worked closely with the
 UCL Academy and the East End Classics Centre to widen access to Classics through school
 visits. Our annual Classics Day, which regularly attracts around 300 attendees (from school
 students to tourists), is co-organized with the British Museum and City Lit (to whose Classics
 seminar series we also routinely contribute). Our annual play in the Bloomsbury Theatre is one
 of our signature activities for increasing public understanding of Greek drama. Performances
 play to a full house, to residents of London, hundreds of school students and their teachers (total
 in REF period c. 12,300). Staff with interests in ancient drama deliver pre-performance lectures
 and contribute essays to the study guides included in the programmes and made available
 online. Productions are regularly reviewed in the national press and some have been re-
 performed at the British Museum and at national and international student drama festivals
 (Scarborough, Messene).
          We seek out further collaborations with libraries, museums, and theatres in the form of
 lectures and courses, advice on collections, exhibitions, catalogues, and performances, and film
 screenings: the British Library and National Archives (Gonis, Moul), Wellcome (Manuwald),
 British Museum (Gonis, Vasunia, Wyke), Cinema Museum (Wyke), V&A Museum (Vasunia),
 National Theatre (Wyke), Young Vic (Colvin). Beyond London, staff have contributed to
 exhibitions at the Benaki Museum, Athens (Leonard, Vasunia), MIT’s List Visual Arts Centre
 (Leonard), the Polish Institute, Rome (Wyke), and the Museum of Fine Arts, Budapest (Agócs).
 We are regular contributors to the nationwide festival of the Humanities, Being Human. Wyke co-
 ordinates workshops on silent antiquity films at the Cinema Ritrovato film festival and Mac
 Góráin has been a consultant for the Irish-language literary festival IMRAM. Barker gave the
 LGBT+ History Month Annual Public Lecture in Durham.
          We widen our engagement with students and other learners through the publication of
 accessible introductions - as authors (Wyke, Twelve Voices from Greece and Rome, 2014;
 Manuwald, Cicero, 2015 and Römisches Theater, 2016); or series editors (Vasunia, general
 editor for Bloomsbury of Ancients & Moderns, 11 volumes to date). We also maintain a lively

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 twitter feed (c. 7,600 followers) and YouTube channel (c. 35,000 views), showcasing our
 research on topics on school curricula. We regularly utilise our research in media appearances
 or consultancies, for documentaries on BBC television (Mac Góráin, Manuwald, Vasunia),
 Channel 5 (Wyke), London Live TV, Science Channel and the Associated Press (Leonard), and
 programmes on BBC Radio 4 and the World Service, Athens Radio, and Cyprus Radio.
 Highlights include Wyke’s multiple appearances on BBC Radio 4’s ‘In our Time’, the roles of Mac
 Góráin and Vasunia in the BBC4 programme 'Bacchus Uncovered' with Bettany Hughes (2018),
 and Vasunia’s in a ten-part history of philosophy for Cosmote TV (Greece, 2018). Leonard,
 Manuwald, Vasunia and Wyke all feature in podcasts. Our annual ‘Teachers’ Day’ is organized
 jointly with the British School in Athens. Vasunia has taken part in several panels (Oxford,
 Cambridge, London) on decolonizing the Classics curriculum and is organizing a joint public
 panel for the Hellenic and Roman Societies on Race: Antiquity and its Legacy for April 2021.
          We provide leadership and extensive service to the institutions and processes of
 Classical scholarship in the UK and worldwide. Staff serve on the subject’s major councils and
 societies (Council of University Classics Departments, ICS, Hellenic and Roman Societies,
 Philological Society, Virgil Society) as well as that for Renaissance Studies, and lead the Society
 for Neo-Latin Studies (Manuwald) and the Classical Reception Studies Network (Wyke). Gonis
 has been on the governing body of the Comité International de Papyrologie (2010-19). We
 examine doctorates both in the UK (Birkbeck, Bristol, Cambridge, Glasgow, KCL, Oxford, RHUL,
 SOAS) and abroad (Crete, Madrid, Malta, Parma). We assess colleagues for tenure or
 promotion (Australia, Belgium, Germany, Greece, UK, USA), review Oxbridge fellowship
 applications, and assess grant applications for UK research funders (AHRC, BA, Leverhulme)
 and Research Councils abroad (Australia, Austria, Cyprus, France, Netherlands, Switzerland,
 USA). Colvin is on the Classics sub-panel for REF 2021, while Wyke is its Chair. We also
 undertake reviews of research in HEIs abroad (for national agencies in Croatia, Germany, Italy
 and Spain).
          The world’s leading scholarly publishers and journals for Classics regularly draw on our
 expertise to assess the work of our peers, as well as those for related disciplines, especially
 Philosophy, History, Political Theory and Victorian Studies. We are members of the boards of
 twelve journals and five presses based in the UK or aboard. Our staff shape research agendas
 by editing or co-editing influential book series. Gonis is General Editor of Graeco-Roman
 Memoirs of The Oxyrhynchus Papyri project and Senior Editor of Duke Databank of
 Documentary Papyri. Leonard co-edits the interdisciplinary OUP series Classics in Theory (six
 volumes), while Mac Góráin co-edits the Bloomsbury series New Directions in Classics (four
 volumes). Manuwald is Series editor of Fragmentary Republican Latin for Loeb, Oxford
 Commentaries on Flavian Poetry, Brill Research Perspectives on Classics in the Early Modern
 Period, and production editor for Classical Review. Manuwald also established and co-edits a
 new Neo-Latin series with Bloomsbury: its first two volumes are anthologies designed to
 facilitate the teaching of Neo-Latin texts.
          In order to engage in global exchange, staff have presented their research as papers or
 keynote addresses on over 220 occasions at universities in Africa, Australia, Europe, India, the
 Middle East, Saudi Arabia, South and North America, as well as the UK and Ireland. They have
 also held distinguished lectureships or fellowships (at Berkeley and Princeton) and given named
 lectures (Thomas Spencer Jerome Lectures at the University of Michigan and the American
 Academy in Rome, Lansdowne Lectures at the University of Victoria, Christopher Roberts
 Lectures at Dickinson College). A further nine papers were postponed because of COVID-19
 (including in Israel, Turkey and Japan) and two named lectures - the Lorenz Eitner Lecture at
 Stanford and the Joan Palevsky at UCLA.
          We work to bring different approaches to Classics together (whether Anglo-American,
 French, Germanic, Eastern European or Global) in order to shape an intellectual eco-system
 that nurtures future research. Through the International Workshop for Papyrology and Social
 History, Gonis engages with academics from the USA, UK, Belgium, France and Germany. He is
 also a member of the Austrian research project Imperium und Officium and collaborates with the
 University of Vienna. Similarly, Leonard and Vasunia were involved in the Comparative History
 of Comparatisms project in Cambridge (2014-16), and Vasunia contributed to the resulting
 volume. Both Mac Góráin and Vasunia have worked on the ERC-funded Aarhus project
 Classical Influences and Irish Culture. Our partnership with the Keeling Centre has led Fiecconi

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to an international collaboration in ancient philosophy with KCL, Oxford and Yale. Vasunia is the
 co-founder and convenor of the UCL-based Network on Ancient and Modern Imperialisms that
 holds regular collaborative events globally. Barker is a member of the Women Writers and
 Classics Network. Most staff collaborate on editing texts or essay collections, and/or writing co-
 authored papers or textbooks. The collection Varronian Moments (2017) co-edited by Mac
 Góraín is one outcome of our partnership with UCL History. Staff have also co-edited or co-
 authored works with colleagues at eight other universities in the UK, nine in Europe, six in the
 USA, one in China, and one in New Zealand.
         We encourage research and collaborations beyond the traditional centres of Classics in
 Western Europe. Our visiting scholars have included three from China. The first Leventis fellow,
 Andújar (2012-16, now KCL) investigated Hellenic classicisms in Latin America. Barker
 researches the effects of antiquity on Russian culture (and vice versa). Her translations of
 Russian Classical receptions bring Russia’s unique take on the Classics to a wide Anglophone
 audience. Agócs sustains partnerships on literature, linguistics and art history both in Hungary
 (funded by its National Research Council) and Poland. Wyke has co-edited a volume with a
 Polish scholar that brings to Anglophone readers understanding of the impact of Polish
 classicism on ‘Western’ popular culture. The impact of our research is equally widespread.
 Leonard, Mackenzie, Vasunia and Carey (retired) are responsible for ten of the videos in a
 MOOC course for students at Chongqing University. McAuley supports the University of
 Witswatersrand’s off-syllabus project to provide classes in Latin. Vasunia has co-authored a
 textbook for Chinese university students (A Journey to Greek Culture and Civilization, 2019) and
 through his columns for the NDTV news website (about e.g. Gandhi, archaeology, and
 colonialism) has shaped understanding in India of Classical Greek culture and its reception for a
 readership in the millions.
         The Department, in keeping with its long and distinguished history, thus makes this
 submission as a vibrant centre of rigorous, innovative, and impactful scholarship, from a position
 of enhanced global prominence, and on the brink of further expansion.




                                                                                            Page 12
