Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Exeter

 Unit of Assessment: 24 Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview

 Sport and Health Sciences (SHS) is one of four departments within the College of Life and
 Environmental Sciences (CLES) at the University of Exeter (see Institutional Level Environment
 Statement (hereafter ILES) 1.5). We are a UoA of 33.8 FTE located in three buildings on the St
 Luke’s Campus, alongside the College of Medicine and Health (CMH), which provides important
 opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration. We were ranked 3rd among 52 UoAs in REF2014
 for research quality and intensity, and consistently rank among the top five sport science
 departments in the UK (e.g., 2nd in The Times and Sunday Times Good University Guide, and
 3rd in the Complete University Guide in 2020). Our most significant achievements during the
 REF2021 period include:

    Fostering talent and career development. We increased our FTE from 24.3 in 2014 to 33.8
     in 2020 (a 39% increase). We supported staff to achieve 21 promotions over that period,
     including the first two female Professors at SHS. We achieved Athena Swan silver awards in
     2014 and 2017.
    Substantial increase in research funding. We secured total awards of £6.5m over the
     REF2021 period compared to £3.1m in REF2014. Average award value per FTE per annum
     increased by 51% from £18.2k in REF2014 to £27.5k in REF2021. Global industry accounted
     for 34% (£2.2m) of our awards in the REF2021 period.
    Sustainable funder relations. Our growth in research funding is primarily based on
     sustainable relationships developed with UK and global industrial partners and the military,
     resulting in repeat funding from partners such as PepsiCo, the Defence Science and
     Technology Laboratory (Dstl), Quorn, Nike and Cherry Marketing Institute.
    Developing a vibrant impact portfolio. Engaged research has given rise to innovation and
     product development by industrial partners and resulted in the creation of spin-off
     companies/services (Cineon Training, Activity Informatics), evidencing the benefits we bring
     to our funders (see Section 4.2).
    Supporting PhD training and early career researchers (ECR). Our PhD completions
     increased by 47% during the REF2021 period, and in a major step-change from REF2014,
     our ECRs were awarded prestigious Fellowships by the Wellcome Trust, MRC, ESRC and
     the Royal Society of Engineering.
    Growing our global reach and reputation. We ranked 10th in the QS World University
     Subject Rankings 2020. We launched two formalised strategic partnerships with QS World
     top 100 institutions (University of Queensland and The University of British Columbia)
     (Section 4.1.1).

 In this template we describe the environment that has built upon an already strong base from
 REF2014 to increase the scale, quality and profile of our research, and we lay out our future plans
 for addressing global challenges in health, sport, and other high-performance environments.


 1.2 Context and structure

 SHS’s mission is to deliver world leading sport and health sciences research and teaching,
 underpinned by robust scientific methodologies, state-of-the-art facilities and strategic
 partnerships, ultimately driving policy change and improved health, performance and wellbeing for
 all societal groups. Since REF2014, new staff appointments in biomechanics, motor control
 psychology, and physiology and nutrition, enabled disaggregation of the former ‘Bioenergetics and
 Human Performance’ research group and the formation of two new groups of Integrative
 Physiology (IP) and Human Movement Science (HMS). Our research activity is thus now

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 focused in three cognate groups which conduct impactful and interdisciplinary research along the
 continuum from clinical groups to elite performance (Figure 1). The IP group seeks to improve
 understanding of basic physiology and metabolism that underpins human performance in health
 and disease. The HMS group seeks to improve understanding of factors influencing human
 movement, focusing on both psychological and biomechanical determinants and interventions.
 The Health Across the Lifespan (HAL) group seeks to enhance our understanding of the
 relationship between physical activity and health across the human lifespan, and includes the
 Children’s Health and Exercise Research Centre (CHERC). Importantly, our groups are coalitions
 of activity and research interest rather than silos with fixed memberships. Collaborations across
 research group boundaries are encouraged and indeed commonplace.




 1.3 Research integrity and open science

 A commitment to research ethics and research integrity, enshrined in the Concordat to
 Support Research Integrity and Researcher Development (ILES 2.9), governs all our research
 activities. New staff undergo mandatory training on ‘Research Integrity’, ‘Data Security’ and ‘Open
 Science’. The SHS Ethics Committee reviews all research conducted at the department, with a
 small proportion of studies requiring approval from the MoD or NHS Ethics Committees. We have
 made a concerted move towards an open science culture and the use of responsible metrics
 (ILES 2.8). Exeter became a signatory of DORA in 2020. Open Science is now a standing item on
 our Research Strategy Group monthly meetings. SHS has appointed staff (Buckingham) and

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 post-graduate research student (PGR; Hassan) as Open Science ‘champions’ who represent the
 UK Reproducibility Network. SHS PGR students initiated an Exeter branch of the RIOT Science
 Club (Reproducible, Interpretable, Open, and Transparent Science) in 2020. Our staff are 100%
 ORCID registered and we received £43.7k of internal open access funding during this REF period.
 Open Research Exeter (ORE) is among the UK’s top 10 repositories for research data and outputs.
 The overall success of our Open Access policies is evidenced by the >16-fold increase in the
 annual number of ORE downloads of SHS outputs: from 2,700 in 2014 to 45,200 in 2020, totalling
 170,700 downloads during the REF period.


 1.4 Research and impact strategy 2014-2020

 In REF2014, we ranked 3rd for GPA*intensity but 7th for research power, a consequence of our
 smaller size compared to the institutions ranked above us. The strategy we articulated in REF2014
 was to increase research power and complementary expertise within research groups (Figure 1),
 and to make our research more sustainable by supporting the next generation of researchers.

 1.4.1. Sustainability of our research

 We met our REF2014 aim of enhancing sustainability and increasing research power via the
 following mechanisms:
 1. Attracted (and developed) staff with the potential to be internationally leading researchers
      in areas that support our core research interests (see Section 2).
 2. Attracted and supported the best PhD students and Research Fellows as future research
      leaders and the engine room of research activity. This has resulted in a 70% increase in PGR
      enrolments (to 102 in 2019/20), and an 80% increase in the number of post-doctoral Fellows
      (24 appointments during REF period) including the award of 4 prestigious Fellowships (see
      Sections 2.4 and 3.1.4).
 3. Created strategic interdisciplinary collaborations with other departments within the
      university to drive 4* publications. 42 % of our REF outputs are with co-authors from outside
      our unit of assessment, and 14% of outputs are interdisciplinary (i.e., research that would not
      be possible by SHS researchers alone).
 4. Developed and consolidated international collaborations with world-leading
      universities in order to enhance our international profile and drive 4* research outputs (see
      Section 4.1). The success of these strategic activities is evidenced by us submitting 54% of
      outputs with international partners and climbing from 25th to 10th in the QS Top University
      Guide over the last three years.
 5. Enhanced our research environment with over £2m of internal investment into new facilities
      to facilitate research likely to result in the most original, significant, and methodologically
      rigorous outputs (see Section 3.2).

 1.4.2 Increased research Income

 Our goal was to double our research income and we exceeded this, securing total awards of £6.5m
 over the current REF period compared to £3.1m in REF2014 (see Section 3.1 for highlights).
 Critically, from a sustainability perspective, this increase in awards was not just driven by a few
 senior academics – in the last 24 months, 89% of our REF-eligible staff had an active award and
 every eligible staff member submitted at least one application. Our annual research income rose
 by 127% from 2013/14 to reach £1.0m p.a. in 2018/19. Despite Covid-19 disruption we achieved
 total awards of £1.1m and £25k per FTE research income in 2019/20 (cf. £13k/FTE in 2013/14)
 highlighting a healthy funding portfolio for the coming years.

 Our key strategy for achieving this goal was to support staff in submitting more and larger grant
 applications. We sought to maintain a balanced portfolio of funding sources and to build
 sustainable relationships with funders (e.g., Dstl, Nike, PepsiCo, Quorn; see Section 3 for specific
 activities). We focused on areas that matched our research expertise and the strategic priorities


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the external funding environment (e.g., UK Government Industrial Strategy): (1) Food, Nutrition
 and Health, (2) Human Health Across the Lifespan, and (3) Defence and Security.

 1.4.3. Impact generation

 Our stated aim was to sustain a rich, agile and responsive culture in which our academic
 researchers actively seek opportunities to engage with non-academic users and beneficiaries,
 delivering impact in society, sporting organisations and business. In this REF period, all research
 groups have carried out ‘engaged research’ (see Section 3 for engaged research funding and
 Section 4 for end-user engagement).

 The key strategic initiatives launched to drive and support our impact agenda were:
 1. The appointment of a Director of Impact (Stephens, 2016) to lead a culture that ensures that
    impact is embedded within all our research activity;
 2. The appointment of a dedicated Impact and Partnership Development Officer for SHS (since
    2014) to support our impact work and facilitate access to university-wide training opportunities.

 Highlights of impact and engaged research successes include:
 1. The development of five fully-fledged impact case studies (ICS) over the REF period which
    evidences the depth of our research impact on policy, clinical practice and training, and human
    performance (see Section 4.2). Following a rigorous review process in accordance with the
    university’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity (EDI) principles, our most mature ICS on
    ‘Quiet eye’ virtual reality training to enhance performance in stressful environments, the
    ‘Breaking 2’ marathon project, and dietary nitrate as an ergogenic aid were chosen as our
    three representative REF2021 ICS (as required for 33.8 FTE).
 2. The creation of a start-up company (Cineon Training, 2017) to deliver Virtual Reality training
    in safety-critical industries in partnership with the HMS group. Employing four full-time staff
    and up to 20 freelancers, Cineon Training has already secured 15 training contracts worth
    £150k. The HAL group launched a spin-out service (Activity Informatics, 2019) with the
    company Activinsights that specialises in physical activity data for clinical trials (income to date
    £122k).


 1.5 Future research and impact strategy to 2027

 We have been successful in creating a world-leading research environment and in providing the
 resources required for staff to reach their potential. We are responding to emerging challenges by
 continuing to focus on our distinctive areas of strength, namely, people-focused culture,
 interdisciplinarity and industry partnerships, that will deliver real-world impact and maintain our
 position at the forefront of sport, performance, and health sciences research. Our aims have been
 developed in accordance with the University of Exeter’s Research and Impact Strategy 2020-25
 (ILES 2.1-2.9). Our overarching aim is to ensure that our globally-connected research
 environment is one in which staff and researchers of all backgrounds and at all career
 stages can flourish. We will take advantage of the momentum created over this REF period to
 consolidate and increase our research power, income generation, and impact.

 1. Fostering an equitable and supportive research environment. Our aim is to maintain an
    inclusive ethos in which the contributions of all researchers at different career stages, and in
    different subject areas are valued and celebrated. EDI (see Section 2.3) in research
    environments demands ongoing processes of action and reflection. Our commitment to
    building on good practice is evidenced by Athena Swan Silver awards (2014 and 2017).
    Prioritising the wellbeing of the SHS research community has been a strength of the
    department and remains key to ensuring the vitality of our research environment.

 2. Research power. To implement the university’s research and impact strategy (ILES 2.2-2.4)
    at SHS, we aim to expand on our expertise in nutrition and healthy ageing as these: (1)
    match UKRI strategic funding priorities for Global and Industrial Strategy Challenges; (2)

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    expand areas of research strength that support our vision for a ‘Health Campus’ alongside
    CMH; (3) drive forward interdisciplinary (e.g., CMH, Biosciences, Living Systems Institute
    (LSI), Translational Research Exchange @Exeter (TREE)) and international collaborations
    (e.g., QUEX Institute); and (4) support new education developments in nutrition and dietetics,
    physiotherapy, and sport and exercise medicine.

 3. Research Income. We will focus on: (1) global industrial investment in Nutrition research for
    health and sport performance, (2) UKRI, NIHR and charitable peer-reviewed funding for
    Healthy Ageing research, and (3) funding for defence, security, and space flight research. We
    aim to grow a balanced portfolio of research funding from different sources, with emphasis on
    industry collaborations with high research impact potential, taking advantage of
    interdisciplinary partners at Exeter (CMH, College of Engineering, Mathematics and Physical
    Sciences (CEMPS), LSI, and the Institute for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence (IDSAI)),
    as well as our growing global network of partner institutions (see Section 4.1). These strategies
    will facilitate successful larger value grant applications and awards.

 4. Impact. SHS has a strong track record of impactful research in high performance sport,
    nutrition, and human health. Our strategy is to support continuous development of nascent
    relationships from engaged research into real-world impact. Examples of impact development
    currently in mid-early stages with potential to form mature ICS for the next REF assessment
    include: Plant-based, environmentally friendly sources of dietary protein to maintain healthy
    muscle mass (Wall, IP group); Military footwear development with the Royal Marines and injury
    prevention with Exeter Chiefs Rugby (Dixon, Rice, HMS group); and the ‘Little Hearts’ project
    on exercise prescription for children with congenital heart disease (Barker, C. Williams, HAL
    group) (Figure 1).


 2. People

 A key element of our success since REF2014 has been a focus on developing our people to
 maintain a vibrant research culture for individual and collective benefit. SHS has developed a very
 strong identity and sense of belonging – evidenced by our university-leading scores in the 2016
 and 2018 Employee Engagement Surveys – and our long history of collegiate culture has been
 critical to our sustainability. In recognition of exceptional contributions to the university recognised
 by colleagues, SHS staff were rewarded with 9 ‘Above & Beyond’ Gold and Silver awards during
 the REF period. All our research groups are internationally recognised as centres of excellence
 and all have contributed to the research successes of the unit: from funding, to outputs, to the
 development of impact case studies.


 2.1 Staffing strategy

 Our people and staffing strategies are consistent with the university’s Researcher Development
 Concordat (ILES 3.8) and are informed by a clear ambition and goal: that SHS at Exeter will be
 recognised by all relevant research communities, in the UK and globally, as a vibrant and
 supportive environment in which to build successful research careers. This involves maintaining a
 research environment that talented academic researchers from all backgrounds are eager to join;
 and one in which all researchers can flourish, reach their potential, and in turn help to nurture the
 development of others. This section will outline our staff-related strategies, policies and
 achievements in this REF period.

 2.1.1 Growth in staff numbers

 A key success for us in this REF period was the investment in new staff, enabling a 39% increase
 in REF-eligible staff to support research power and the sustainability of our research culture. Our
 primary recruitment strategy was to attract staff with exceptional research potential to
 complement and expand our expertise, and then support their development as world-class

                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers. Across the REF period, we appointed 16 REF-eligible staff: 1 Associate Professor
 (Stephens – IP), 4 Senior Lecturers (Buckingham, Byrne, Farris, Young – HMS) and 11
 Lecturers (Bond, Gracia, Revuelta Iniesta, Price, Vlachopoulos – HAL; Etheridge, Wall,
 Torquati, Wylie – IP; Rice, G. Williams – HMS). Despite the retirement of 1 Professor and 2
 others moving institutions, and only appointing 4 staff at SL level and above, we moved from a
 ‘bottom heavy’ staffing structure in REF2014 to a more balanced structure capable of
 delivering our strategic aims during the REF2021 period (Table 1). This shift in staffing structure
 through a process of ‘developing our own’ stems from an energetic, collegiate culture promoted
 within SHS, where senior academics act as role models and staff provide mentorship to colleagues
 at earlier career stages. There has been a notable increase in the proportion of REF-eligible staff
 identifying as female from 21% in REF2014 to 38% in REF2021 (steady from 2016/17 to 2019/20),
 while our proportion of female research-only staff has been consistently around 50% throughout
 the current REF period.



 Table 1: Census date profile of REF-eligible staff full-time equivalents for REF2021
 compared to REF2014.
 Grade                    REF2014 FTE (female/male)           REF2021 FTE (female/male)
 Professor                5.3 (0/5.3)                         6 (2/4)
 Associate Professor      4 (1/3)                             5.8 (0.8/5)
 Senior Lecturer          4.6 (1.6/3)                         12 (4/8)
 Lecturer                 9 (2/7)                             6 (4/2)
 Research only            1.4 (0.4/1)                         4 (2/2)
 Total FTE                24.3 (5/19.3)                       33.8 (12.8/21)



 2.2 Staff development

 2.2.1 Early career researchers (ECRs): Lecturers and Research Fellows

 As we started the REF period with a high proportion of new staff at Lecturer-level (89% of whom
 were commencing their first permanent academic appointment), our primary focus was on
 supporting this cohort of new researchers and helping them to establish independent research
 careers. New academic staff members have a reduced teaching and administration load in their
 first two years, allowing them to concentrate on getting their research underway. New Lecturers
 are supported through the university’s Professional Development Programme, which sets
 specified goals for research, teaching and wider academic contributions. New Lecturers agree
 targets with the Head of Department (HoD) within 4 weeks of appointment, and these are reviewed
 annually to ensure that staff pass probation or are promoted as soon as the criteria are met. Of
 the 11 promotions from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer in SHS over the REF period, 9 occurred before
 the stipulated 5-year progression period, and 4 Associate Research Fellows were promoted to
 Research Fellows following performance review during fixed term contracts.

 The increase in research income has resulted in a substantial increase in our number of research-
 only staff, increasing from 4 at the end of the last REF period to 9 on the REF2021 census date
 (N.B. 4 out of 9 – Dirks, Fulford, Harris, O’Leary – were Cat-A and included in REF2021
 submission). Research Fellows have equal access to discipline-level funds to support their
 independent research and they are represented on key discipline-level committees. Research
 Fellows receive confidential mentoring by a senior colleague (‘Academic Lead’) who is not a
 member of their own research group; peer support through our Early Career Researcher Network;
 opportunities to gain teaching experience and to supervise post-graduate students; personal
 development and training plans; and guidance on grant proposal development from experienced
 colleagues and our Research Development Manager. They are also provided with defined criteria
 for progression to permanent positions, and where possible, proleptic appointments (e.g., Dirks).
 We have had considerable success in ‘growing our own’ through the positive impact of our

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 nurturing culture, with 7 former Research Fellows or PhD students gaining lectureships in SHS
 since 2013 (3 female).

 2.2.2. Mid-career and senior researchers

 While most of our efforts in this REF period were in supporting ECRs through the early years of
 their careers, Academic Leads and senior management also provided significant support to more
 established researchers. We had a 100% success rate in promotion boards to AP (n=6) and
 Professor (n=4). Characteristic of the vitality of the SHS culture, senior academics have
 volunteered for university leadership positions (e.g., Jones – Assistant Deputy Vice-Chancellor
 for Business and Innovation, 2019-current; CLES Associate Dean for Research and Impact, 2015-
 2018; and Bowtell – CLES Associate Dean for Global, 2020-current), and a succession pipeline
 has meant that other staff have been keen to step up and grasp the opportunity to provide strategic
 direction for the department (e.g., Bowtell HoD 2015-20; Wilson DoR 2018-20, HoD 2020-
 current; Vanhatalo DoR 2020-). Our staff have benefitted from leadership training for senior
 management (e.g., HoD Engagement Events), as well as the college-funded ‘Aurora’ Advance
 HE's Leadership Development Programme for Women (Jackman, Rice).

 2.2.3 Career development policies and support

 Our approach to support career development for our researchers involves a diverse mix of
 opportunities and mechanisms, tailored to career stage, and was developed in line with the
 university’s Researcher Development Concordat commitment to supporting research careers at
 all levels (ILES 2.9). The introduction in 2016 of the university-wide ‘Exeter Academic’ system for
 career development has transformed the probation procedures, led to revised criteria for
 promotion to better capture achievements in impact and engaged research, and ensured that
 academic staff do not suffer detriment to career development or promotion due to Covid-19 (ILES
 3.3).

 Each staff member’s progress and plans for research, impact, teaching, and internationalisation
 are reviewed annually through the university’s Performance and Development Review scheme
 by their Academic Lead (a mentor from a different research theme). All staff are supported to
 apply for relevant promotion by their Academic Lead when promotion criteria are met (i.e. we
 have no quotas and no minimum time periods). Discussions are then held with the HoD,
 followed by the staff member preparing draft paperwork for feedback from HoD and the College
 Pro-Vice-Chancellor. This system has enabled senior staff to engage in robust succession
 planning with respect to key research-related roles.


 2.3 Equality, diversity and inclusivity (EDI)

 Our EDI training compliance has been 100% since 2014. All staff involved in REF selection
 panels for outputs and ICS received REF-specific training in avoiding Unconscious Bias, and our
 output submissions were adjusted following EDI evaluation to ensure equity.

 We are one of only four UK sport science departments to hold the Athena Swan Silver
 accreditation (2014 and 2017). A core element of our EDI strategy in 2014 was recognition that
 researchers identifying as female were progressively under-represented in more senior staff
 cohorts. We promote gender parity throughout the research pipeline and continue to make strong
 progress in this respect (Table 1). Since 2014, 2 women have been promoted from L to SL (36%
 of promotions), 2 to AP (33% of promotions), and 2 to Prof (50% of promotions).

 The SHS Athena Swan working group formed during the REF2014 period, led by Bowtell, was
 renamed in 2016 as the SHS EDI Committee which is responsible for the implementation of the
 university’s EDI Vision 2025 (ILES 3.14-3.15) through workshops and training opportunities. We
 nurture a positive culture and awareness of EDI issues through the following activities:


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Staff wellbeing is supported through Occupational Health Service, the provision of a 24/7
   counselling service for telephone and face-to-face counselling. SHS initiatives to support a
   positive work environment include weekly coffee mornings which were continued digitally
   during the Covid-19 pandemic, and annual staff away days focused on team building.
  In recognition of SHS EDI initiatives, Dixon was appointed to a College-level EDI role as the
   CLES Inclusivity Representative (2016). As part of this role she drives initiatives to promote
   LGBT+ inclusivity across SHS and the university (ILES 3.15).
  We are working towards Race Equality Charter accreditation in 2021 (ILES 3.15), with a
   growing SHS EDI focus on the representation and inclusion of Black and Minority Ethnic
   (BAME) researchers in our community.
  We use the university’s SWARM workload allocation tool to ensure transparency and
   fairness in workload allocation. SHS applies the university’s flexible working policy that
   enables staff to effectively organise their time. Our staff benefit from teaching restriction
   requests and flexi-working to manage caring responsibilities, as well as fractional contracts and
   a Career Break Scheme.
  A focus on ECR support (Section 2.2.1) and fixed-term/part-time research-only staff through
   focused mentoring by senior academics for progression to personal fellowships.
  SHS provides a supportive environment for those returning to work after absences, including
   adjustments to working patterns. Twelve academic staff have benefitted during this REF period
   from the university’s sector-leading parental leave which is provided regardless of length of
   service with the university (ILES 3.16).
  Recruitment panels for staff and research students have a gender balance and a member
   tasked specifically with ensuring EDI issues are considered in shortlisting and selection,
   including the use of gender-neutral language. Staff also receive training in avoiding
   Unconscious Bias, and this training is compulsory for all senior management positions.

 2.4 Research students

 The training of exceptional PGR students has been central to SHS’s research strategy across this
 REF cycle. The importance of PGRs to our research generation is evidenced by the fact that 34%
 of our REF2021 outputs were co-authored by PGRs and that former PGRs have held post-
 doctoral (n=12) and/or lecturer (n=10) positions in SHS during this REF period. Our diverse PGR
 cohort originates from 16 different countries, and 39% of our PGR enrolments (from 42% of
 applications) during the REF2021 period were female.

 2.4.1 Growth in research student numbers

 There has been a strategic move away from the department-funded Graduate Teaching Assistant
 model, towards competitive UKRI and industry funded PhD studentships, and Doctoral Training
 Partnerships (DTPs with ESRC, EPSRC, BBSRC and MRC; ILES 1.8 and 3.8). This is evidenced
 by a thirteen-fold increase in the number of external partners funding PhD research from
 REF2014 to REF2021. A major advantage of our new PGR strategy has been that it has enabled
 us to initialise collaborative and interdisciplinary research partnerships. Over this REF cycle,
 44% of our PGRs have had external funding (whether from UKRI, industry, charity, or international
 governments) and 50% had supervisors from outside the department. We have been able to
 increase both the quality (competitive calls) and quantity (Table 2) of our PGR students, which is
 important as we seek to deliver on our strategic aim of developing future research leaders in sport
 and health sciences. Our PhD completions increased by 47%, from 35.6 during the REF2014
 period to 52.4 during REF2021.

 Table 2: PGR enrolments and PhD completions assigned by supervisory rating. All
 completions are PhD-by-research. We do not provide professional doctorates.
 Year              13/14        14/15    15/16    16/17   17/18    18/19    19/20    Total
 PGR    Enrolments 60           62       59       71      75       93       102      522
 (HESA)
 PhD Completions   8.1          13.8     4.0      6.8     5.5      8.3      5.9      52.4

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.4.2 PGR progression and support

 PGR students are selected through a competitive process, involving a project proposal and
 interview. Students are initially enrolled as MPhil students and pass an upgrade process (including
 a viva voce) within 12 months of enrolment to progress to PhD registration. All students have at
 least two internal supervisors, who complete mandatory PGR Supervision training and continued
 professional development provided by the Doctoral College. Supervision is monitored via an online
 ‘MyPGR’ system. Progress is also reviewed annually by SHS’s Director of Post Graduate
 Research (Barker), where issues raised confidentially by students or supervisors are addressed.

 The university’s Doctoral College oversees quality assurance and discipline-level reviews,
 informed by the annual Postgraduate Research Engagement Survey (PRES). All PGR students
 complete a training needs analysis on an annual basis with their supervisory teams. Bespoke
 skills training takes place within research groups, and students may attend taught MSc modules.
 The Doctoral College ran 759 Researcher Development Program sessions (ILES 3.9-3.13) during
 the REF2021 period and 83 SHS students attended 170 sessions, averaging 2 sessions each.
 During the Covid-19 pandemic, Barker organised PGR support through ‘PG tips’ virtual sessions;
 thesis submissions and viva examinations were rapidly transformed into digital format; and
 students were given the option to delay scheduled examinations and apply for extensions to period
 of study.

 Students without a research training support grant from their funder receive a support grant
 from the College. Part of this fund is devolved to PGR student representatives to be used to
 support training and social events. All MPhil/PhD students have a desk and computer in a shared
 office. All students receive pastoral tutoring (Hillsdon) independent of the supervisory team, and
 peer-mentoring from other PGRs. We have created scholarships for female Home UG students to
 progress to PGR positions, paid maternity leave is available for all funded PGRs, and candidates
 can register for part-time attendance to support flexible working.

 PGR students within the unit report high levels of satisfaction: overall satisfaction on the PRES is
 89% (sector average = 81%), and this is particularly strong in terms of their 'Research skills'
 (94.4%) and 'Professional development' (83.3%). PGR students participate in the life of the
 department through representation at the SHS Research Strategy and EDI Groups and the
 College staff-student liaison committee. PGRs play an active role in social events and
 departmental research talks. They organise the annual SHS PGR conference, and frequently win
 awards in leading national and international conferences (see Section 4.1.1).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The growth experienced in SHS over this REF period was underpinned by significant increases in
 income generation and investment in infrastructure.

 3.1 Major research income

 During the REF period, the department was awarded over £6.5m in competitive grant funding from
 a broad range of sources (Figure 2). This includes over £3m from UK and international industrial
 partners; £1.4m from UK-based charities; £1.2m from the UK government; £777k from UKRI; and
 £135k from various EU sources. These successes were borne out of a strategy that sought to
 target three primary sources of income that matched our research expertise and staff research
 goals to our funders’ priority areas. Our most notable funders by award value are highlighted below




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.1.1. Food, nutrition and health

 Our reputation as a world-leading centre for research into nutrition, health and human performance
 is evidenced by the significant funding invested by large international corporations in research
 designed to test the efficacy of their nutritional products. Major successes for the Integrative
 Physiology group include repeat funding from: (1) PepsiCo; first to Jones, Vanhatalo and Wylie
 (£881k 2014-18) and then to Bowtell, O’Leary, and Jackman (£130k, 2019-21) to test the




 efficacy of new sports supplements; (2) BeachBody (£485k, 2016) to Stephens to explore
 nutritional strategies that improve exercise performance and recovery; (3) Cherry Marketing
 Institute, Zumo Cacao and Pukka Herbs (£335k, since 2014) to Bowtell, Jackman and O’Leary
 to explore the health and performance benefits of natural nutraceuticals; and (4) Quorn (£392k
 since 2014) to Wall to evaluate the efficacy of mycoprotein as an alternative protein source to
 support muscle metabolism.

 3.1.2. Healthy ageing

 A key element of our healthy ageing research has been the study of muscle maintenance, which
 complements the Food, Nutrition and Health funding stream. Our early career staff have secured
 prestigious fellowships to investigate mechanisms underlying muscle disuse atrophy: A Sir Henry
 Wellcome Postdoctoral Fellowship awarded to Dirks (£250k, 2018-22), and an MRC Skills
 Development Fellowship to Deane (a non-Cat-A Research Fellow) (£333k, 2019-22).

 A BBSRC Industrial Partnership Award with DuPont Nutrition & Health (£571k, 2017-21) to Jones
 and Vanhatalo has supported cross-discipline research with CMH and Biosciences to study the
 influence of host-microbiome interactions with diet and cardiovascular health in older age.
 Etheridge has received funding from BBSRC (£192k, 2016), the US Army Research Office (£50k,
 2019) and the United Mitochondrial Disease Foundation (£143k, 2019) to explore a range of
 genetic and pharmaceutical interventions utilising the C. elegans worm as a model of human
 ageing, disease and muscle health. Human clinical trials by Etheridge on muscle maintenance
 across the lifespan have been supported by the Dunhill Medical Trust (£63k, 2016) and the
 Wellcome Trust institutional strategic funds (£20k, 2016, 2019).

 The other key element of our human health funding strategy has focused on the measurement
 and maintenance of functional physical activity. Hillsdon is a collaborator in MRC-funded research
 into identifying physical activity patterns important for patient outcomes after knee replacement
 surgery (£43k, 2019), as well as research into the genetic bases of sleep patterns (£32k, 2016).

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Hillsdon is also part of an NIHR-funded multicentre collaboration investigating a home-based
 rehabilitation intervention in patients with heart failure and their caregivers. A recent Fellowship
 award from the ESRC (Ellmers, a non-Cat A Research Fellow; £105k; 2020) to the HMS group
 seeks to better understand how anxiety might influence falls in older adults.

 Within the CHERC group, Williams and Barker’s funding (£620k, since 2014) from the Cystic
 Fibrosis Trust, Heart Research UK, Sport England and Vertex Pharmaceuticals has enabled the
 creation of a strategic centre comprising an international, multidisciplinary team of academics to
 conduct research to help healthcare professionals better prescribe physical activity for young
 people with cystic fibrosis. This group have also recently partnered with Canon Medical Systems
 (£178k, 2019) to investigate cardiac function, health and fitness in children with congenital heart
 disease. Vlachopoulos is part of a new EU European Research Council Horizon2020 multicentre
 trial 'Science Engagement to Empower Disadvantaged Adolescents; SEEDS' to engage
 adolescents from deprived neighbourhoods in designing lifestyle interventions to improve health
 (£181k, 2020).

 3.1.3. Defence and security

 Within the HMS group, repeat funding from Dstl (£703k, since 2014) for Vine and Wilson has
 supported a range of projects designed to explore forms of cognitive training for military users
 performing in stressful environments (including feed-forward eye movement training, working
 memory training, and virtual reality applications), and for Farris (£48k) to explore the potential
 benefits of exoskeletons for defence applications. A Royal Academy of Engineering Fellowship
 awarded to Harris (£192k, 2018-2020), has supported the development of virtual reality training
 for threat detection for the intelligence community and Metropolitan Police and contributed to ICS
 development (Section 4).

 3.1.4. Support mechanisms for research funding

 As summarised in Section 1, these successes were founded on strategic plans to enable us to
 target higher value, longer term grants. Specific strategies designed to provide more support
 across the entire ‘lifespan’ of the income generation process have been important in this regard:

 1.   We have a Research Development Manager embedded within the department to help identify
      strategically important funding opportunities and to support staff in funding bid development.

 2.   We received particular support from the university’s Innovation, Impact, and Business (IIB)
      team (ILES 4.8), as we have both a ‘Health, physical activity and nutrition’-facing and a
      Defence-facing business partner to help identify and develop opportunities; plan and
      coordinate our engagement with industrial partners; and support applications to potential
      funding sources. We have built strong relationships with a number of organisations (e.g.,
      Memoranda of Understanding with Dstl and other defence contractors) which has meant that
      we have been able to influence their funding strategy and increase our chances of securing
      repeat funding.

 3.   We have been successful in securing funding from the College Strategic Research
      Development fund to pump-prime and support strategic research developments beyond the
      scope of the SHS research budget (£132k over the REF period). For example, £21k to
      Vanhatalo supported the purchase of a nitric oxide analyser that facilitated pilot testing to
      support the subsequent successful BBSRC-IPA application.

 4.   To improve the quality of grant applications and to respond to UKRI demand management,
      we have a rigorous internal review process for grant applications. Following informal rapid
      peer feedback on viability and ways to develop ideas from within their research groups,
      potential applicants submit a draft application to an internal review panel for feedback and
      revision before the submission is approved. Examples of previous successful applications are
      made available where possible.

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 5.   We target prestigious post-doctoral Fellowships as a source of esteem and a high value
      source of funding. We currently have four Fellowships in the department (having not had any
      previously): Deane (MRC Skills Development Fellowship; 2019-22); Dirks (Sir Henry
      Wellcome Postdoctoral Fellowship; 2018-22), Harris (Royal Academy of Engineering
      Fellowship; 2018-20); and Ellmers (ESRC Fellowship; 2020-21). In each case considerable
      support was provided from within and outside the department, including proposal support and
      interview practice. For example, with Harris, the College provided additional funding to
      extend a previous funded fellowship from Dstl by 6 months, in which time the independent
      fellowship application was written.

 As a department in a research-intensive university we benefit from access to ring-fenced
 fellowship funds (e.g., MRC skill development training, ESRC Impact Acceleration Accounts);
 grant support, from workshops and sandpits to post-award administration; IIB support on impact
 activity, developing resources, business and commercialisation schemes; and time allocated on
 the workload model to conduct income-generating research activities. Central support staff provide
 tailored support for SHS staff for identification of funding opportunities and development of
 applications. All new appointments are given a start-up fund (£20-£40k) in order to kick-start their
 research at Exeter.


 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 SHS activity occurs primarily in three buildings on the St Luke’s Campus – Richards Building,
 Baring Court and South Cloisters. Applied and population research occurs in the field (e.g., using
 accelerometers, HAL group; or Virtual Reality equipment, HMS group). Our bespoke research
 laboratories are supported by seven technicians. As of REF2014 we had six exercise physiology
 laboratories, a blood analysis laboratory, a body composition laboratory, a vascular physiology
 laboratory, a dynamometry laboratory, and a gait laboratory.

 Sustained SHS grant capture during the REF2021 period has been rewarded by university
 investment of over £2m to enhance facilities and research capability. Major investments
 include:

 1. Significant wet laboratory developments at Baring Court, match-funded by the College and
    industry partners (e.g., £220k for the unique combination of an environmental chamber to
    house an Agilent Seahorse Xfe24 cellular energetics analyser and cell culture facilities in
    2014).
 2. £620k of capital funds from the university to increase our Integrative Physiology capabilities
    at Richards and Baring Court to support research linked to Healthy Ageing themed calls (e.g.,
    new exercise physiology, bed rest, neuromuscular function, and biochemistry laboratories, and
    a facility for Etheridge’s C. elegans work co-funded by UK Space Agency and BBSRC).
 3. £950k in 2018 to build a new, state-of-the art suite of laboratories in South Cloisters to support
    research into nutritional interventions to benefit health and performance (including further
    exercise physiology and bed rest laboratories, a gym to deliver bespoke training interventions,
    analytical labs, and a research kitchen for food preparation).
 4. An investment of £330k from the Internal Equipment Fund (ILES 4.20) in 2019 to support the
    creation of two laboratories to support grant applications for the HMS group: a new gait lab
    including an advanced instrumented treadmill and motion capture facilities to support clinical
    research in rehabilitation and prevention of falls; a skill acquisition laboratory; and a virtual
    reality laboratory to support a number of projects funded by Innovate UK and in association
    with our consultancy partner, Cineon Training.

 SHS also benefits from access to several university services and core facilities that are integral to
 our interdisciplinary research themes:



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1. A new 3T MRI/MRS and PET-CT scanners suite at the Mireille Gillings Neuroimaging Centre,
    created with a £10m philanthropic investment (ILES 4.13), that supports research into muscle
    bioenergetics and oxygenation (IP), and brain perfusion and function (IP, HMS).
 2. Exeter NIHR Clinical Research Facility (CRF) and Clinical Trials Unit (CTU) provide support
    for clinical trials from bid development, to facilities and research staff (£27.5m investment into
    Research, Innovation, Learning and Development ‘RILD’ Building; ILES 4.17), participant
    recruitment (e.g., Exeter 10,000 and PROTECT cohorts of research volunteers; ILES 2.7) and
    trial management (e.g., Dirks’s Wellcome Fellowship, and BBSRC-IPA clinical trial by Jones
    and Vanhatalo).
 3. Exeter Sequencing Unit on Streatham campus (with PacBio and Illumina NovaSeq 6000 DNA
    Sequencing System) and a new Digital Research Storage Management system for high and
    medium performance computing (ISCA and ISAMBARD), support SHS human microbiome and
    human genome research and ‘big data’ storage (ILES 4.20).
 4. The new VSimulators building (a £4.6m EPSRC-funded facility; ILES 4.19), housed at Exeter
    Science Park, incorporates a six degree of freedom state-of-the-art motion platform (4m x 4m),
    a fully instrumented floor, multi-user virtual reality capability, and full body motion capture.
    Funding has recently been secured by Dixon (£50k, UKRI) to explore lower limb loading in
    elderly sportspeople, and Young & Wilson (Parkinson’s UK, £177k) to investigate ‘freezing’ in
    Parkinson’s disease in this unique facility.
 5. The installation of field-testing facilities (including portable force platforms) at both the
    Commando Training Centre in Lympstone and at the Exeter Chiefs training ground facilitate
    impact activity by the HMS group in assessing lower limb injury risk in marine recruits and elite
    rugby players.


 3.3 In-kind contributions

 Finally, some of the research carried out over the REF period would not have been possible
 without significant in-kind contributions from funders. The UK Space Agency have estimated that
 the in-kind contribution to Etheridge’s work on the International Space Station as approximately
 £4.2m. Intuitive Surgical provided a £1.5m Da Vinci surgical robot to the department to support
 two sequential research grants on training perceptual skills (one to Vine and one to Buckingham).
 This was subsequently housed at the Royal Devon and Exeter NHS Foundation Hospital
 (RD&E) hospital, improving their training facilities and helping to leverage further clinical Research
 Fellow funding to support these research programmes.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations

 4.1.1 International research collaborations

 SHS has a global reputation for collaborative, multidisciplinary, impactful research in human health
 and sport science. In 2019/20, 70% of our research publications had international co-authors, and
 unit staff were involved in 65 international collaborations (1.9 per FTE) with 45 different institutions:
 30% of these collaborations were with North American, 17% EU, 13% Australian, and 5% with
 Asian partners. QS World top 100 universities (2021) among SHS’s international partners include
 Harvard University, University of Oxford, Nanyang University of Technology, University of Hong
 Kong, University of Toronto, UCSD, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong University,
 UBC, UQ, Technical University of Munich, University of Copenhagen, University of Glasgow,
 University of Illinois, and KU Leuven.

 As part of a major University of Exeter global initiative, SHS has spearheaded two strategic
 partnerships with sport and health science departments in the world’s top 100 institutions:



                                                                                                  Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1. University of Queensland (UQ, 3rd for sports related subjects in QS rankings 2020): The QUEX
    Institute, a formal research partnership between University of Exeter and University of
    Queensland, was launched in 2016. We have been successful in securing 10 joint PhD
    positions from the QUEX Institute since its inception that align with ‘Physical Activity and
    Nutrition’, one of the 3 QUEX research themes. SHS-UQ partnerships have already resulted
    in 8 joint research outputs and QUEX partners hold an annual QUEX conference to promote
    PhD and ECR research and provide networking opportunities.
 2. University of British Columbia (UBC, 2nd in QS rankings 2020): SHS staff visited UBC in 2018
    and 2019, with several mutually complementary collaborations identified among IP, HAL and
    MHS research groups and UBC colleagues. We are currently formalising a ‘virtual institute’
    with UBC Okanagan (2020) to leverage trans-Atlantic funding opportunities and create a joint
    PhD programme.

 In addition, staff are involved in several international research partnerships, the most
 established of which include:

 1. Etheridge and Deane are members of the Worms in Space: The Molecular Muscle
    Experiment, supported by a total of £2.3m of grant funding, which aims to understand the
    causes of neuromuscular decline in space with international partners from Greece, Japan,
    South Korea and the USA. The potential impact of this work for maintaining functional capacity
    in older age is considerable and anticipated to be a major contributor to SHS research impact
    in the next REF period.
 2. C. Williams leads the Physical activity, exercise, sport and recreation promotion for
    adolescents with cystic fibrosis (CF) consortium with the Cystic Fibrosis Trust and co-leads
    from UCL, La Trobe University (CAN), and Swansea University. The project brings together
    exercise specialists, psychologists, physiotherapists, engineers, clinicians, parents and
    adolescents to prescribe physical activity for young people with CF, and aims to establish the
    world’s leading advisory group on physical activity promotion in CF.
 3. Pulsford is a member of the ProPASS consortium, an ambitious international project with
    collaborators from 17 institutions across 8 countries, which is working to harmonise physical
    activity demographic, environmental and health data from large cohort studies from around the
    world to impact on national and international physical activity guidelines and policy.
 4. BBSRC awarded Jones, Vanhatalo and Wylie a US Partnering Award (2019) to develop a
    skill transfer platform and a sustainable collaboration between SHS and the US National
    Institutes of Health (NIH) with Prof Schechter (Chief of the NIH Molecular Medicine Branch
    NIDDK, Bethesda MD, US). In 2019, Wylie spent two months at the NIH facility to aid the
    transfer of key skills between laboratories, and the NIH team visited SHS for a partnership
    launch symposium.

 Support for developing international research collaborations is provided by two SHS
 Directors of Internationalisation (Farris and Buckingham) who manage College-level funding to
 support the development of international relationships. The SHS drive and vision for global
 research is exemplified by the appointment of Bowtell as CLES Associate Dean for Global,
 following her work as SHS HoD in developing the UQ and UBC partnerships. Over the REF period
 SHS staff have been awarded £20.5k in funding via College Outward Mobility Academic
 Fellowships (OMAFs) to visit our partner institutions and develop research- and teaching-related
 activities. SHS researchers have also benefitted from £9.5k of College Europe Network Fund
 (previously EU Facilitation Fund) pump-priming for collaborations with leading European
 institutions (e.g., VU Brussels, 2017; University of Copenhagen, 2020).

 4.1.2 Local research collaborations

 As a department of 33.8 FTE within a University of more than 1,200 REF-eligible academic staff,
 SHS has judiciously added to its research power and capabilities via interdisciplinary collaboration
 during this REF period. These collaborations include joint PhD supervision and grant awards.
 CMH and the RD&E hospital are active research partners in clinical trials (HAL and IP groups);
 projects on mobility, muscle strength, fall risk and prevention (HMS); and oxygen delivery and

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 nitric oxide homeostasis in conditions such as COPD, diabetes and anemia (IP). The CHERC
 group has had a long-standing collaboration (15 years) with the RD&E children's ward and its
 Cystic Fibrosis Centre. The IP group work with Biosciences, LSI and TREE on projects involving
 metabolomics, microbiology and bioinformatics, especially concerning host-microbiome
 interactions and the human genome and transcriptomics. SHS biomechanists interact with
 colleagues with complementary engineering expertise within CEMPS.

 SHS has sought strategic regional collaboration through the GW4 Alliance, a partnership
 between four research-intensive ‘Great West’ universities (Exeter, Bath, Bristol, and Cardiff; ILES
 1.8). For example, Pulsford’s GW4 project ‘Moving Through Motherhood’ develops resources to
 support physical activity in expectant and new mothers in the community. Vine and Wilson
 received GW4 funding to explore the impact of occupational stress in high pressure environments
 which subsequently informed the Devon and Cornwall Police 2021 Health and Wellbeing Strategy.
 Vanhatalo and Jones collaborate with Cardiff University School of Dentistry on dietary
 manipulation of oral biofilms with joint funding from the BBSRC. Beyond GW4, Vine has partnered
 with academics in Falmouth University for a South West ‘immersive business’ project as part of
 £2.05m grant from the European Regional Development Fund (Jan 2020), which has led to the
 creation of an immersive technology facility in Falmouth, which plans to engage 500 businesses
 in Cornwall over the life of the project.


 4.2 Impact and engaged research

 A key strength of our research strategy is that we have focused on partnering with industry and
 charities to co-create research programmes that can impact on society, sporting organisations and
 business (see Section 3 for examples). We have enhanced the support for impact and engaged
 research during the assessment period. The SHS Director of Impact coordinates termly
 departmental impact meetings with presentations from staff on their impact activities so that best
 practice and potential pitfalls can be shared. Staff also have access to university-wide workshops
 and training opportunities, support from Impact and Partnership Development Officers, as well as
 funding (e.g., via ESRC Impact Acceleration Awards, with £12k awarded to SHS in this
 assessment period). We have held stakeholder events to showcase our impactful research to
 colleagues in CMH, LSI and the RD&E hospital. All staff are involved in the development of an
 ICS, based on how their engaged research might be utilised by their private and public sector
 partners over the next REF period.

 Our drive towards increasing impact generation and engaging non-academic stakeholders
 in 2014-2020 has been highly effective, resulting in a wide range of benefits to industry,
 professional bodies and sporting communities in the UK and globally. Our key non-academic
 partners and beneficiaries, and some examples of our impact, are highlighted below.

 4.2.1. Sport and health nutrition industry

 Partners: BeachBody, Beet It Sport and James White Drinks, Cherry Marketing Institute, DuPont,
 PepsiCo, Pukka Herbs and Quorn.
  Impact highlight: The ergogenic effects of dietary nitrate in endurance (REF2014 ICS) and
     now also sprint and high-intensity intermittent sports (REF2021 ICS) discovered by Jones,
     Vanhatalo and Wylie has propelled nitrate to be recognised as one of the few evidence-
     based performance-enhancing nutritional supplements.
  Impact development: The sustainability of impactful nutrition research at SHS is exemplified
     by continuous development of new ICS beyond 2021, e.g., on the efficacy of mycoprotein as
     an alternative plant-based and environmentally-friendly protein source to support muscle
     metabolism and maintenance of muscle mass by Wall.




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2.2. Local and national government bodies

 Partners: Active Devon Partnership, Devon and Cornwall Police, Institute of Naval Medicine,
 Plymouth NHS Trust, RD&E NHS Trust, The Royal Marines and Lympstone Commando Training
 Centre, and Sport England.
  Impact highlight: Dixon, Stiles and Rice’s research with the Royal Marines has resulted in
     changes in standard issue footwear and the introduction of biomechanical screening to
     reduce injuries, with an estimated £5m of savings to the Ministry of Defence annually.
  Impact development: The CHERC team have worked with a network of UK’s cardiac centres
     since 2012 to embed resources on physical activity and exercise recommendations (the
     Physical Activity Toolkit) for clinicians, patients with congenital heart disease and their
     families, thus improving knowledge and providing confidence in physical activity participation.

 4.2.3. Footwear and sports apparel industry

 Partners: Asics Oceania, Brooks, Cosyfeet, New Balance, and Nike.
  Impact highlight: Jones acted as chief external scientific advisor to Nike’s ‘Breaking 2’ project,
     supplying some of the scientific research and insight which ultimately underpinned the
     achievement of the first sub 2-hour marathon by Eliud Kipchoge in 2019 (REF2021 ICS).
  Impact development: The SHS biomechanics team (Dixon, Farris, Rice) are active in several
     projects directly informing footwear design in terms of comfort and safety (Asics, Cosyfeet,
     New Balance), and the minimising of tibial stress (Brooks), and Jones and Vanhatalo have
     worked with Nike to explore the influence of new generation footwear on running economy.

 4.2.4. Technology

 Partners: Activeinsights, Cineon Training, Factory 42, Hikma Pharmaceuticals, Natural History
 Museum, and Sellafield Ltd.
  Impact highlight: Eye-tracking research by Vine and Wilson resulted in the development of
     quiet eye training resources for performance under pressure and the creation of start-up
     company, Cineon Training (REF2021 ICS). The company has now developed virtual training
     tools for a variety of safety-critical industries across the world (military, nuclear, oil,
     pharmaceuticals) and is involved in other virtual experience projects (e.g., ‘Audiences of the
     Future’ with Factory 42).
  Impact development: During the Covid-19 pandemic, Cineon Training (with Vine & Wilson)
     delivered virtual training materials to frontline NHS staff on personal protective equipment use
     (accessed by 500 staff in April 2020 alone). A Virtual Reality training tool for patients who are
     anxious about MRI scanning was also developed for the Plymouth Hospitals NHS Trust
     (2020), and is currently being marketed to other NHS trusts, and via a private health company
     (In Health Group).

 4.2.5. Sports community

 Partners: Locally: Exeter Chiefs Rugby Club, Exeter City Football Club; Nationally: British Cycling,
 British Gymnastics, England Athletics, the Football Association, GB Pentathlon, Lawn Tennis
 Association, Manchester United FC (MUFC), Welsh Rugby Union; Globally: Australian Institute of
 Sport, Canadian Sport Institute, International Olympic Committee, NN Running Team, UEFA.
  Impact highlight: Research led by Dixon at the Exeter Chiefs Rugby Club has led to important
       advances in lower limb injury prediction and prevention. Two match-funded PhD studentships
       and a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (2018) with the Chiefs has established on-going
       systematic injury monitoring at the club.
  Impact development: There are numerous examples of SHS research impact on professional
       and international sport teams and athletes, some of which feature in our ICS for REF2021.
       The CHERC group has a long-standing collaboration with MUFC youth academy and a new
       venture from 2020 funded by England Athletics ‘Youth Talent Program’ to support athlete
       development, which are anticipated to generate significant impact during the next REF period.


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2.6. Charities, societies and agencies

 Partners: Cancer Research UK, Cystic Fibrosis Trust, Diabetes UK, Dunhill Medical Trust, Exeter
 Leukaemia Fund, International Space Station, Natural History and Science Museum, Northcott
 Devon Medical Foundation, Royal Osteoporosis Society, The Waterloo Foundation, UK Space
 Agency.
  Impact highlight: Development of physical activity and exercise guidelines for children and
     young people with cystic fibrosis (Barker, C Williams).
  Impact development: Etheridge’s research that aims to prevent muscle loss in space through
     discovery of new genetic and transcriptomic biomarkers and development of novel
     interventions involves spaceflight of tiny c. Elegans worms to the International Space Station.
     The ‘Worms in Space’ project is generating considerable public engagement and informing
     new experiments selected for upcoming space missions.


 4.3 Key contributions to the public sector and society by SHS researchers during the
 assessment period include:

 1.   Hillsdon and Pulsford were members of the UK Chief Medical Officers’ Physical Activity
      Expert Group (2018). Pulsford was a co-author on the final government report which forms
      the basis of the current national physical activity and public health strategy.
 2.   Pulsford was a member of the Expert Advisory Group for Public Health England’s ‘Moving
      Medicine initiative’ (2019), and was also part of a rapid review team convened by the UK
      Chief Medical Officers to review public facing public health information regarding physical
      activity during Covid-19 lockdown periods.
 3.   Hillsdon has been recently appointed to the Versus Arthritis physical activity expert group to
      help develop a new campaign to promote an active lifestyle in people with arthritis.
 4.   C. Williams was a member of the UK Chief Medical Officer Expert Group in 2018 to revise
      physical activity guidelines for young people (5-18 years old). He was also invited to provide
      expert opinion on EU Reviews of Scientific Evidence and Policies on Nutrition and Physical
      Activity in 2017 on behalf of the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and
      Health (ICF) and European Centre for Social Welfare Policy and Research.
 5.   Training resources developed by Vine and Wilson have been embedded within national
      guidelines for elite military forces and urology surgeons. Their partnership in developing
      virtual reality training solutions with Dstl was outlined as a case study in the government’s UK
      Research & Development Roadmap (July 2020).


 4.4 Contributions to the discipline

 SHS staff have contributed significantly to the wider development of the sport, exercise and health
 sciences both nationally and internationally. Our academics have given more than 250 keynotes
 and invited lectures on six continents during the REF period, and organised or chaired 21
 symposia, conferences and workshops.

 4.4.1 Awards, honours and Fellowships

 During the assessment period researchers within SHS won 24 awards and honours. The majority
 of these (18) were PhD and early career prizes. Our PhD students won the BASES Prof Tom
 Reilly Doctoral Dissertation of the Year three times (Bond 2015, Tomlinson 2019, Morgan
 2020), and the high calibre of Exeter’s nutrition research has been recognised by two ECSS
 Gatorade Sport Science Institute Sport Nutrition Young Investigator Awards (McDonagh
 2015, Montayne 2019). Other highlights include two ECSS Young Investigator Awards (Dirks,
 Vlachopoulos), and a Bone Research Society New Investigator Award and Neil Mackenzie Public
 Engagement Award (Vlachopoulos). Our senior academics have been awarded Fellowships of
 the Physiological Society (Jones, Stephens) and ACSM (Vanhatalo). Jones was awarded the
 ACSM Citation Award in 2020 in recognition of his outstanding contributions to sport medicine and

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the exercise sciences. He is the 13th most cited author of all-time within sport science/physiology
 (Mendeley).

 4.4.2 Professional societies and qualifications

 In addition to eight Fellowships (3 ACSM, 2 BASES, 1 ECSS, 2 Phys Soc) our staff are
 professional members of 15 societies and professional bodies. Byrne is a HCPC Registered
 Physiotherapist of the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy; Wilson is a HCPC Registered Sport
 and Exercise Psychologist, and along with Harris, Vine and Young, also a Chartered
 Psychologist with the British Psychological Society; and Torquati and Revuelta Iniesta are
 Registered Nutritionists (Association for Nutrition, UK) and Revuelta Iniesta is a Registered
 Dietician (Health and Care Professional Council, UK).

 4.4.3 Editorial work

 SHS members have had significant editorial roles at leading journals including: Editor-in-Chief of
 the ECSS society journal, the European Journal of Sport Science (Jones). Staff have also held
 Associate Editorships in 21 journals (e.g., British Journal of Sports Medicine; European Journal
 of Applied Physiology; Exercise and Sport Sciences Reviews; Journal of Sport and Exercise
 Psychology; Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise; Psychology of Sport and Exercise; Sport,
 Exercise and Performance Psychology), and served on the editorial boards of 17 other
 international journals. Wilson was guest editor for two volumes of Progress in Brain Research
 (2017).

 4.4.4 Advisory boards and review panels

 SHS researchers benefit society and industry through membership of several expert panels, e.g.,
 the Scientific Advisory Boards of; AMPHuman (Jones); the Gatorade Sports Science Institute
 Expert Panel (Jones and Bowtell); Nike Inc. (Jones); Pediatric Work Physiology Scientific Board
 (C. Williams); the Royal Osteoporosis Society Expert Group (Vlachopoulos); the UK Space
 Agency ‘Space Environments Advisory Committee and the European Space Agency (Etheridge).
 Staff have also served on research review panels, including the Croatian government Review
 Panel of national Kinesiology PhD programmes (Bowtell, Co-Chair), the Medicine, Health
 Sciences and Biology grants panel for the Research Council of Norway (Jones), and the ESRC
 Peer Review College (Wilson). Jones was a REF panel member in 2014 and is the deputy chair
 for UoA24 in REF2021.


 Summary: SHS is a powerhouse of research intensity with global impact. Our growth in
 research power stems from agile and responsive industry relations and long-term
 investment in our people. Our future success will be built on a diverse funding portfolio
 and multidisciplinary engaged research, with impact generation intrinsically embedded in
 our culture.




                                                                                            Page 18
