Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Portsmouth (UoP)

 Unit of Assessment: 17 Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


Our Portsmouth UoA17 submission comprises 98 staff (93.5 FTE) from Portsmouth Business
School (PBS), more than double the number of staff we submitted in REF2014 (47, 41.4 FTE). We
have matched this with substantial growth in income generation (up 127%), postgraduate research
student numbers (up 79%), and the volume of research produced through international
collaborations (up 45%). These increases reflect our commitment to expand the breadth and depth
of research across the Faculty of Business and Law (BaL), where PBS is located, through a series
of strategic development plans (Section 1.II). Critically, this growth has been fully inclusive, as
demonstrated by our Athena Swan Bronze award in April 2020.


  I.   Research Structure and Context


The Associate Dean of Research (ADR Thorpe, in post since 2012) provides research leadership
within UoA17, working in close collaboration with the Dean (Pescetto, in post since 2011). He is
supported by six Research Leads who offer operational leadership and strategic input across six
cognate research areas:

      Accounting (REF2021 = 10 staff, REF2014 = 5 staff): research spans the full range of the
       discipline. Notable areas of research include (i) quality and quantity of corporate narrative
       disclosure, (ii) corporate disclosure and its economic consequences, (iii) fraud in the food
       and drink industry, and (iv) management information for decision-making. We also have
       pockets of specialism in accounting education, accounting history, forensic accounting, big
       data use and artificial intelligence (AI) in accounting.
      Business and Management (REF2021 = 31 staff, REF2014 = 16 staff): research expertise
       is primarily within (i) innovation management (focused on the food sector), (ii) small
       business (policy) and entrepreneurship (behaviour), (iii) (environmental) sustainability and
       business, and (iv) (disaster) risk and (port) security management. The linking of innovation
       and entrepreneurship in policy and behavioural aspects is a developing area of strength, as
       are overlaps between innovation (particularly in supply chains) and environmental
       sustainability.
      Economics (REF2021 = 18 staff, REF2014 = 12 staff): research particularly focuses on (i)
       resource economics and environmental policy (examining how economics influences the
       preservation and sustainability of natural resources such as aquatic ecosystems), (ii)
       behavioural and experimental economics (examining how psychological, emotional and
       social factors affect economic decision-making), (iii) efficiency and productivity (identifying
       and measuring inefficiency in specific areas such as banking and energy), and (iv)
       monetary policy (exploring how central banks maintain low and stable inflation).
      Finance (REF2021 = 10 staff, REF2014 = 6 staff): research covers five broad areas,
       including (i) financial markets (relationships and practices within foreign exchange markets,
       money markets, derivatives markets, trading and asset pricing), (ii) corporate finance
       (including credit ratings, and mergers & acquisitions), (iii) banking and financial services
       (modelling and managing bank risk, cultural determinants of risk-taking, financing of SMEs,

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       peer-to-peer lending, financial regulation and competition), (iv) macro-finance (financial
       stability, credit risk, transmission mechanism), and (v) behavioural finance (financial
       anomalies and the behaviour of executives).
      Marketing (REF2021 = 10 staff, REF2014 = 2 staff): research strengths span key
       contemporary topics in consumer behaviour and marketing management, including (i)
       advertising and branding (particularly around the areas of diversity and gender in
       advertising), (ii) pricing, (iii) services marketing (particularly technology-enabled service
       experiences, including robotics and AI), and (iv) public policy issues in marketing, with
       notable specialisms in policy and ethical issues around consumer privacy, AI and social
       media misinformation.
      Organisation Studies and Human Resource Management (REF2021 = 19, REF2014 =
       6): research covers four principal areas: (i) employee relations (with an express focus on
       trade unionism, collective action and labour governance), (ii) corporate social responsibility
       and business ethics (particularly ethical leadership and cross-cultural management), (iii)
       human resource management (focusing on the impact of human resource practices and
       training and career development), and (iv) equalities and identity (with a specialisation in
       gender equality and identity within an organisational context).

UoA17 also hosts two University Research Centres (NB: Staff are attached to one cognate
area but can also be members of one or more University Research Centres):

The Blue Governance Centre (BGC) hosts 71 University of Portsmouth (UoP) researchers, 14
submitted to UoA17. The BGC’s research brief covers aquatic resources (primarily fisheries) and
their governance, as well as maritime logistics and security, management of related coastal
environment processes, and peoples’ and marine ecology.

The Centre for Operational Research and Logistics (CORL) consists of 23 researchers, 12 of
whom are submitted in UoA17. CORL provides insights into how optimisation models can improve
rail, road and maritime transportation activities, and how Operational Research (OR) analytics can
contribute to advances in healthcare, risk and security, and renewable energy and sustainability.

BaL research has benefitted significantly from the University’s 2014 decision to devolve all
REF2014 QR funding to the faculties which generated it (Institutional Level Environment
Template paragraph 12/63 – denoted ILETp12/63 from hereafter). Our successful REF2014
performance enabled us to invest over £700,000 annually in an extensive programme of
researcher support (see Section 2: Staffing Strategy and Staff Development for details) to
complement central provision of Research Development (RDF) and Themes Research and
Innovation (TRIF) funding. We deliver an annual QR-spend report to the Faculty Research and
Innovation Committee (FRIC) and the Faculty Executive Committee (FEC), who use this
information to fine-tune researcher support in the following academic year. The 2011 Faculty
decision to centralise administrative assistance for research into a nine-strong Business Services
and Research Office (BSRO) has facilitated and strengthened this support. The BSRO works
closely with the ADR, Research Leads, and the central Research and Innovation Services (RIS)
team to provide a strong enabling environment for all our research and innovation activities.




                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 II.   Research Objectives: Past and Present


A number of explicit research objectives were highlighted in the Unit’s REF2014
environment template:

   A. Creating a cross-disciplinary Operational Research network (CORL) across the
      University: SUCCESSFUL. We established CORL in conjunction with the Faculty of
      Technology in 2014 (ILETp6), creating an Action Plan supported by targeted investment
      from the two Faculties. Successful achievements reported in the first five-year activity
      review (2014-2018) included hosting the OR58 Conference in 2017, publishing 100 articles
      of CABS 3* quality (exceeding our target of 60), generating £3 million income (exceeding
      our target of £1.65 million) from 30 projects, and gaining 28 affiliated doctoral students
      (exceeding our target of 16). UoA17 researchers contributed 51% of outputs, 34% of
      income and 64% of doctoral students, respectively. Moving forward, the second five-year
      plan (2019-2023) aims to generate £1 million research income annually and publish over 46
      outputs of internationally excellent stature. A strategic partnership through the Department
      for Transport-funded Solent Future Transport Zone (ILETp14) is likely to provide one of the
      three projected Impact Case Studies (ICS) for the next REF submission.
   B. Establishing a Centre for Crowdsourcing/funding Research by 2020: MODIFIED. Our
      decision to consolidate our growing finance expertise saw us appoint three new Professors
      of Finance (Hussainey, Lui and Wood) during the census period. This, in turn, led us to
      broaden the proposed centre’s remit, expanding our focus from crowdsourcing/funding to
      accommodate more strands of financial research. COVID-19 has pushed back the date for
      establishing the centre into 2021 (see current objectives below, ILETp8).
   C. Increasing the number of Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs): SUCCESSFUL. We
      highlighted the expanded quality and quantity of our doctoral cohort in our REF2014
      submission, and identified the development of the Professional Doctorate in Business
      Administration (DBA) programme as a strategic priority. Alongside our domestic DBA
      relaunch, our collaborative DBA with Reutlingen University in 2014/5 increased our DBA
      cohort from 7 to 63 during the census period. This was matched by a sharp rise in PGR
      numbers from 119 in AY2012/13 to 163 in AY2020/21 (see Section 2.II), a 79% growth over
      the preceding REF period (double the UoP growth rate, ILETp21).
   D. Developing our Early Career Researchers (ECRs) and staff with research potential:
      ON TARGET. ECRs are automatically enrolled into our ECR-development group and
      assigned an experienced mentor. The mentor works with the ECR to identify training needs
      and, where needs cannot be met internally, funding is provided to cover external training
      costs. For research-inactive staff with ‘research potential’, we complemented our advanced
      MSc Research Methods training programme, introduced in 2013, with the Compilation
      Thesis pathway in 2016 (see Section 2.I.iii) and the Nobody Left Behind strategy in 2017.
   E. Improving the physical research environment: SUCCESSFUL. Additional space
      released to the Faculty following an internal infrastructure review (autumn 2014) allowed
      the consolidation of all researcher support services in one physical location. As the steep
      rise in PBS undergraduate and postgraduate numbers has generated new physical space
      pressures, the University authorised the construction of a new eleven-storey PBS building
      (estimated to cost £100+ million), scheduled for completion in 2024 (ILETp65).

We nested these objectives within the 2015-2020 University Strategy, which specified three central
KPIs:

                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


      To increase the number of staff submitted to REF2021 by 20%
      To raise research and innovation income by 25%
      To increase the numbers of PGR/DBA students by 40%.

All three targets were comfortably exceeded in UoA17. We increased the number of staff
submitted to REF2021 to 98 (up 106%), raised research and innovation income by 127%
(peaking at £810,453 in AY2019/20), and increased PGR/DBA numbers from 126 to 226 (up
79%).

We also embedded and reinforced these higher-level institutional targets at the faculty level (2015-
2020 BaL Implementation Plan) and in five intermediate strategic development plans:

      Research in Portsmouth Business School: Building to 2020 (approved January 2015)
       built on our successful REF2014 performance by setting ambitious REF2021 submission
       targets. We aimed to increase the number of submitted staff to 64 (up 33%) and double
       those with four internationally excellent outputs (to 24). To achieve this, we recruited new
       Professors to remedy the research-leadership deficits identified in accounting, human
       resource management, marketing, small business and entrepreneurship, and sustainability.
       We also strengthened the researcher-support framework by introducing Writer Retreats and
       an annual Research Project Fund (offering up to £5,000 per project on a competitive basis).

      Building to 2020: Internationalisation with Impact (approved in July 2015) directed
       resources and support to research areas with the potential to deliver outstanding impact by
       2020/21 (including financial market regulation, drones, and consumer returns), and
       harmonised Faculty provision with central-university support for impact development. We
       encouraged staff to develop international collaboration networks by introducing the Brunel
       Fellowship and International Exchange Schemes (see Section 4.1). In REF2014, 37% of
       PBS outputs were produced in conjunction with one or more international co-authors. This
       increased to 54% (up 45%) in our REF2021 submission.

      The Nobody Left Behind Strategy (approved in February 2017) gave research-inactive
       academic staff the opportunity to become active researchers. Each Research Lead drew up
       localised research-development strategies to cultivate a research-inclusive environment.
       Our Research Project Fund supported collaborative research projects between established
       researchers and aspiring researchers, resulting in eleven former research-inactive staff
       becoming active researchers.

      Our Faculty Research and Innovation (R&I) Strategy 2020-2025 (approved summer
       2019) outlined six key PBS objectives:

   1. To create a Portsmouth Finance Research Centre to further synthesize and develop our
      growing expertise in finance.
   2. To establish an experimental economics laboratory to coordinate research in broader
      behavioural fields while allowing students to actively engage in our research as participants
      and assistants.
   3. To forge stronger links with the Chartered Association of Business Schools (CABS)
      and the European Foundation for Management Development (EFMD) in order to play a

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       more influential role in promoting and enhancing management research-and-development
       excellence in the UK, Europe and beyond.
    4. To continue growing our PGR cohort, developing mechanisms to further incorporate
       them effectively into PBS’s current research initiatives.
    5. To achieve Athena Swan Silver accreditation by 2025 to affirm our unfailing commitment
       to promoting equality and good practice in the wider academic community.
    6. To establish a Business Resilience and Growth group, combining expertise from across
       the University to help drive economic development across our local community. The Group
       has played a central role in underpinning our initiatives to help the city and the county
       recover from the economic and social consequences of COVID-19 (see Section 4.III).

       Crossing the Desert: R&I in the times of COVID (approved summer 2020). As part of our
        longer-term commitment to research growth, the Faculty agreed not to reduce research
        Workload Allowances (WLA) or researcher support programmes in AY2020/21 in response
        to COVID-19. Instead, we have planned a full review of Faculty R&I activity and support for
        the summer of 2021, once the longer-term effects of COVID on the sector are apparent.


 III.   Enabling and Facilitating Impact


We established our impact strategy in the run-up to REF2014, focusing initially on developing and
supporting research areas where we have a historical track record of delivering high-quality impact.
After appointing Battisti as Faculty Impact Champion in September 2016, we refined our strategy to
comprise three components:

       Informing and raising awareness of the importance of impact: Our Faculty hosts an
        annual R&I Conference where impact workshops feature prominently. To highlight our
        exemplary impact activities, we award an impact prize to showcase exceptional effort in
        engaging with stakeholders and/or disseminating research beyond traditional academic
        channels. Our Research Leads have all received training to understand, identify and
        facilitate impact development. Such training has proved crucial in enabling the early
        recognition and nurture of potential Case Studies for REF2021 and beyond.

       Building capacity to develop and deliver impact: Once Research Leads have identified
        impact potential, the Faculty Impact Champion meets the staff member concerned to
        develop a project-specific strategy for identifying potential impact strands and effective
        impact pathways and to establish the support required to maximise impact. This includes
        access to online tools to develop effective impact pathways and track impact, and tips on
        engaging more effectively with stakeholders. Our four-person Faculty impact team then
        provides ongoing support, supplemented as required by the central University impact team.
        We provide financial support through the University and Faculty Impact Acceleration Funds.
        Staff producing REF2021 ICS benefitted from a 100-hour WLA since AY2018/19.

       Sustaining impact in pivotal areas: PBS’s impact agenda is underpinned by our
        acknowledged strengths in finance and financial markets, staff professional development,
        and local-community engagement - areas which formed the core of our highly successful
        REF2014 impact submission (three of our five REF2014 ICS were rated 4*, two were rated
        3*). Staff researching in these areas were encouraged to access researcher support


                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       mechanisms (International Exchange scheme – case of Afonso, Lee, and Stenfors;
       Research Project Fund – case of Anderson,V., Cox,A., and Stenfors) to develop new
       impactful research. The core of our REF2021 submission is again drawn from activities
       directed to (i) enhance financial markets (Stenfors and Afonso), (ii) improve
       professional practice (Anderson,V. and Lee), and (iii) increase public good and service
       provision (Cox,A). These are complemented by the work of Jack (reducing cost of returns
       in reverse supply chains) and Failler (developing a sustainable blue economy, ILETp13),
       which reflect our growing interest in, and contribution to, sustainable business practices at a
       national level and beyond.


IV.    Approach to Supporting Interdisciplinary Research


The interdisciplinary philosophy underpinning our research approach is evident in the large number
of outputs flagged as interdisciplinary in our REF2021 submission (76 outputs; 33%).

We embed interdisciplinarity in our research in three ways. First, our Research Leads
actively encourage colleagues to develop and engage in collaborative research projects
with other Portsmouth academics via the University’s five interdisciplinary research
themes. For instance, Jack (accounting) leads the Food Cultures in Transition Research Group,
bringing together 30+ researchers across five faculties, along with representatives from catering
services, local government and civil society groups under the Sustainability and Environment
theme. Trott (innovation management), given his expertise in packaging, is part of the Revolution
Plastic management team charged with building on the success of the ‘plastic-eating’ enzyme
developed by McGeehan (structural biologist, UoA3). Anderson, M (organisational behaviour) and
Bradley (gender studies, UoA25) have collaborated under the Democratic Citizenship theme to
evaluate the effectiveness of DFID’s investment in the Global Fund to End Modern Slavery. Our
Faculty research-funding mechanisms support the Research Leads’ endeavour by ‘nudging’
colleagues towards interdisciplinary themed research. The main researcher support mechanism,
the annual Research Project Fund (RPF), for example, asks applicants to directly state in their
applications (where relevant) which University theme their research speaks to. Since establishing
the themes in 2016/17, we have awarded 73 RPFs to UoA17 researchers, of which 64 (88%) link
directly to theme priorities.

Second, we explicitly promote interdisciplinarity through our two Research Centres. CORL
unites academics specialising in Operational Research from PBS and the School of Mathematics
(UoA10), and has proven a springboard for a number of major interdisciplinary projects. For
example, Ishizaka, Greco and Chakar work with 16 European partners across eight disciplinary
boundaries in the CLIC project, identifying and testing innovative economic models for the adaptive
re-use of cultural heritage for delivering sustainable growth in Europe. The Blue Governance
Centre (BGC) also links UoA17 economists and corporate governance academics with UoA7
marine science and oceanography researchers. Most recently, our successful May 2020 NERC
submission, ‘Understanding the Impact of Marine Plastic Pollution on Marine Ecosystems in South-
East Asia’, united the expertise of Failler (fisheries economics), Phang (aquatic ecologist, UoA14),
and Ford and Cragg (marine zoology/aquatic biology, UoA7) with seven partners (lawyers, marine
biologists, bio-engineering and conservation experts) drawn from Indonesia, the Philippines,
Singapore and Vietnam.



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Third, the ADR uses the annual one-to-one meeting held with each individual staff member
to explore the possibility of facilitating new interdisciplinary collaborations. Past success in
this regard includes the linking of Collins (economist) with Cox,C (lawyer, UoA18) and Pamment
(criminologist, UoA20) to research more effective regulation of the antique ivory trade. Another
collaboration stimulated in this manner resulted in a joint publication between Cox,A (economist),
Craig (accountant, Durham), Tourish (leadership, Sussex) and Thorpe (psychologist, Essex) on
retractions and falsification in the economics and psychology domains. These meetings also
connected Ghaffari (Marketing) with Waller and Kaminski (psychologists, UoA4) in investigating
how a better understanding of mammalian facial expressions could be utilised within corporate
marketing campaigns.


 V.    Progression towards an Open Research Environment


In line with the University’s Open Access (OA) policy, we adopted a three-point plan to ensure all
outputs published since 1st January 2016 are OA compliant. First, we produced a one-page guide
to the OA process that the University subsequently adopted as best practice. Second, we stressed
the importance of the timely deposit of all published outputs to staff and reinforced this message in
the annual one-to-one research meetings between the ADR and individual staff members. Third,
the task of recording all PBS publications on the University repository (Pure) was placed in the
hands of two specialist support staff. As a result, all 231 UoA17 outputs submitted for REF2021
and 98.8% of the 785 PBS outputs published since January 2016 are OA-compliant (significantly
above the UoP average of 88% - ILETp24).

In July 2019, the University Data Manager examined all UoP published outputs to assess whether
the underlying research data’s sharing and management were ‘effective’ according to current OA
guidelines. Of PBS outputs published since November 2018, only 38% of those with data were OA
compliant, equating to a ‘weak’ performance classification. In response, the ADR and two
Research Leads (Wohlschlegel and Warren) produced comprehensive guidance to ensure OA-
compliant quantitative and qualitative data collection, storage and access. The University
subsequently adopted these guidelines as best practice. Compliance has dramatically increased
since and one year on, 59% of PBS outputs containing data were compliant.


VI.    Research Integrity


Whether internally-funded or externally-funded, all research is reviewed by our Faculty Ethics
Committee (FEthC) to ensure compliance with all relevant ethical, legal and professional
frameworks, obligations and standards. We apply a rigorous review process in line with the
University’s commitments under the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, the UKRIO Code of
Practice for Research, and DORA (ILETp22/3). Our Ethics Chair (Scott) regularly informs staff and
PGRs of their responsibilities and updates them on ethics policies and processes.

A total of 372 ethical reviews of PBS research were undertaken during the census period. Of
those, 44 received immediate approval, 280 were approved after implementing FEthC
recommendations, 4 were rejected, and 44 were either withdrawn by the applicant or referred to
other reviewing bodies. Two allegations of PGR research misconduct were reported over the
census period, but neither proceeded to a full formal misconduct hearing.


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People
PBS has seen substantial growth in student numbers over the census period (PG +52%, UG
+14%), paralleled by an increase in academic staff from 153.2 FTE (151.7 lecturers, 1.5 Teaching
Fellows [TFs]) to 214.7 FTE (160.8 lecturers, 53.4 TFs).

We have significantly increased the number of staff submitted from 47 (31% of lecturing staff) in
REF2014 to 98 (60.3%) in REF 2021. While partly driven by changes in REF2021 submission
rules, this increase is primarily attributable to three factors. First, greater recruitment of new
lecturing staff from an academic, as opposed to practitioner, backgrounds (See section I.ii below).
Faculty policy since 2018 is to recruit practitioners to TF rather than lecturing positions. Second,
we have established a strong and well-funded researcher-support programme to convert research-
inactive staff into active researchers (Section I.iii). Third, our conducive research environment,
which rewards research performance within a framework of collegiate endeavour, enables us to
retain out best researchers (ie: just 8% of the 231 UoA17 outputs submitted were produced by staff
who left our employ during the census period).


  I.   Staffing Strategy and Staff Development


  i.   Staff Development Strategy for Staff pursuing a Career in Research

We have nested our staff development strategy within the framework of the University’s
People Strategy 2016-2020, the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers, and central HR policies that detail probation, annual Performance and Development
Reviews (PDRs) and other support processes (ILETp41). We go beyond the institutional
strategy by asking all research-active staff to complete an annual Research Plan and Progress
Form (RPPF), encouraging them to identify their individual research aspirations for the forthcoming
year regarding publications, grant submissions and conference attendance. This RPPF forms the
basis for an autumn meeting with the ADR and the respective Research Lead to discuss how the
Faculty might best help realise their aspirations. This includes advising on which Faculty
researcher support mechanisms could help our researchers achieve their stated research
aspirations, potential collaborators from other disciplinary backgrounds (from within and without the
University) whose involvement could strengthen the academic and societal impact of the proposed
research, and which journals would be receptive to publishing the anticipated outputs. Once
meeting outcomes are summarised and approved by attendees, they are shared with the
respective Line Manager to inform subsequent PDR meetings.

Mentoring is a crucial element of our staff development strategy. Our research mentoring
policy has been in place since 2012, detailing both mentor and mentee’s obligations. The latest
version is hosted on the Support for Researchers Intranet site and complements our newly
introduced UoP policy (ILETp37). Meetings take place on a termly basis, though usually more
frequently. Mentors are either drawn internally from the ranks of Research Excellent staff (those
with a 40% research WLA), or externally for specific/niche areas. Mentees are researchers who
are either a research start-up (10% WLA), research active (20% WLA) or an ECR (30% WLA). The
respective Research Lead liaises with the researcher to identify an appropriate mentor. The
arrangement is reviewed and modified as necessary during the autumn meeting with the ADR and
Research Lead. The autumn meeting and the PDR process also encourage female researchers to


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
take advantage of the career development opportunities offered by the Aurora
(development/fulfilment of leadership potential) and the Springboard (personal work and
development) programmes. Seven and 21 BaL women, respectively, completed the programmes
during the census period (ILETp35).

The explicit training needs of staff are identified through the autumn meetings and PDR
process, and met in three ways. First, RIS provided an extensive menu of 238 workshops over
the census period (ILETp33), PBS staff logging 599 attendances at these training sessions.
Second, staff development funding is available for all research-active staff to attend specialist
external courses. For example, Cox,A. attended a ‘Practical General Equilibrium Modelling with
GAMS’ course at Czech University of Life Sciences, Prague, and Middleton attended a ‘Summer
School in Experimental Design and Analysis’ at the University of Calabria, Italy. Third, we
scheduled in-house training courses on bid writing (2016, 2019), Nvivo (2018) and STATA (2018,
2019), where demand was particularly strong. We also used QR resources to fund an ongoing
series of advanced state-of-the-art staff workshops in structural estimation (given by Nesheim of
IFS/UCL- London), structural equation modelling (Hair, South Alabama), complexity modelling
(Roos, Bochum), experimental finance (Fullbrunn, Radboud), and experimetrics (Moffat, UEA), all
held at the University.

  ii.   BaL Staffing and Recruitment Policy

A two-pronged staff recruitment strategy dominated over the census period. First, a
strategy of strengthening research leadership. This saw the appointment of ten new Professors
over the REF2021 period (Battisti, Ekinci, Hussainey, Hunt, Johnston, Lui, Pickernell, Vasquez-
Brust, Warren, Wood, 6 male,4 female) to fill the five leadership deficits identified in 2015 (see
Section 1.II), and to replace the five who either retired (2) or moved to take up roles elsewhere (3).
We further strengthened our research leadership by elevating six staff (Anderson,V., Failler,
Ishizaka, Nunan, Viglia, and Xu) to the Professoriate and ten to Readerships in the period. As a
consequence, four of the five 0.2 Professorial appointments made in the REF2014 period – noted
in the REF2014 B&M Assessment feedback as ‘a challenge for sustainability’ – were not renewed
when their terms ended. Only Greco, who is currently publishing with three CORL researchers,
participating in the EU CLIC project, and supervising one PGR student, remains a member of staff.
Our recruitment strategy’s effectiveness is evidenced by the increased volume of high-quality
research at all levels: our staff published 325 outputs (46 per year) in CABS-ranked 3* and 4*
journals in the REF2021 census period – more than tripling the 93 comparative outputs in
REF2014 (16 per annum).

Second, and as noted previously, we now recruit staff from practitioner backgrounds into
TF positions. Since 2018, we base all new lectureship appointments on a candidate’s research
publications and teaching ability, a strategy that has seen the proportion of lecturing-contract staff
from an academic (as opposed to practitioner) background increase from 93 (53.8%) to 122.6
(76.2%) in the census period. As a consequence, a high proportion (81%) of those recruited on
lecturing contracts since 2014 have significant research responsibilities and are included in our
REF2021 submission.

We embed succession planning at the highest level. We ensure ADR succession planning
by offering aspirant staff (three to date) the opportunity to complete both the EFMD and
CABS research leadership programmes. Our Faculty also strongly encourages staff to further

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
their leadership expertise by offering colleagues extended leave in order to take up academic
leadership positions elsewhere. Successful examples include Ishizaka (department head at
NEOMA Business School, France – ongoing), Chatzantoniou (Visiting Professor, Vienna University
of Economics and Business, Austria), Cox,J (Canada Research Chair in Digital Disruption at
Athabasca University, Canada – returned 2021), and Ghulam (Dean of PG Studies at Al Yamamah
University, Saudi Arabia – returned 2020). We believe such opportunities prepare and equip staff
to assume key research leadership roles on their return. Our Faculty mentoring scheme and RIS
development training programme also provide early leadership training for ECRs and those new to
research (see Section I.iii. below), facilitating intermediate-level succession planning (e.g.
Research Lead, Research Degree Coordinator and Ethics leadership roles).

 iii.   Research Support for Staff at the Beginning of their Research Careers

Our Faculty offers tailored research support to three specific PBS staff groups commencing
their research careers: post-doctoral researchers and research staff on fixed term contracts, staff
newly appointed to their first academic post (ECRs), and research-inactive staff interested in
pursuing a research career. First, up to six Research Fellows are appointed using QR funding on
three-year contracts to research areas identified as of being of strategic interest to the Faculty.
Their numbers are complemented by research staff employed on externally-funded projects,
although the total cohort of fixed-term researchers never numbered more than ten at any point
during the census period. Mentored by a Research Lead (or PI for those employed on specific
projects), they undertake bi-annual meetings with the ADR to review their progress and training
needs and are members of the BaL Research Staff Forum. An elected Forum Chair also sits on the
Faculty R&I Committee (FRIC). They are entitled to the same benefits and support as our
researchers on permanent contracts, which includes conference entitlement and access to the
Foundation in Research Funds, the Research Project Fund, and Writer Retreats (ILETp42).

Second, we provide early career researchers (ECRs) newly appointed to their first academic
post with an experienced academic mentor, a research WLA of 30-40%, and membership of an
ECR Support Group that meets regularly. The Chair of the Support Group sits on the FRIC, and
group members are entitled to the same levels of researcher support as their more established
peers. ECRs comprised 27% (13 staff members) of our submission in REF2014, compared to
22.4% (22 staff) of our REF2021 submission.

Lastly, we support research-inactive staff newly interested in pursuing a research career
(‘Research Start-Ups’) in three main ways (ILETp29). First, we established an MSc in Research
Methods to provide the necessary research techniques and training. We discontinued the
programme in 2020 once it met its objectives, having benefited 25 staff (19 women and 6 men).
Second, we introduced a compilation thesis in 2016, allowing candidates to complete a doctoral
programme by publishing outputs in peer-reviewed outlets during the registration period (rather
than submitting a conventional thesis). This option proved highly attractive to staff wishing to
‘publish as they go’ - and gain a doctorate in the process. A total of 13 staff members (11 women,
2 men) enrolled, and the first two graduated in AY2019/20. Third, we award staff pursuing the start-
up route a research WLA (10%), which rises as their research activity grows, and researcher
support (e.g. conference funding and RPF funding, etc.) commensurate with their publication
record. Currently, 17 staff (9 men and 8 women) hold a Research Start-Up allowance.




                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 iv.   Sabbatical Leave

Introduced in 2009, our BAL research-leave scheme provided the blueprint for introducing a
revised UoP-wide scheme in 2016 (ILETp36). PBS staff who have completed three years of
service are entitled to apply for up to two terms of sabbatical leave to undertake a pre-defined
project (e.g. complete a monograph or undertake an international secondment). Our Faculty panel
reviews the applications and awards leave based on the quality of the application and how well it
maps to the strategy of the Faculty and the UoP themes. A total of 24 awards (10 women and 14
men) were made during the census period, resulting in ten grant applications and 66 submissions
to journals of international standard or better.

 v.    Procedures to Encourage Interaction between Academia and Business

We promote academic engagement with industry in three ways: through our Entrepreneurs in
Residence Programme, business secondments, and Business Consultancy Programme. We
established our Entrepreneurs in Residence programme in 2015, engaging 14 experienced
entrepreneurs and senior-level business executives to provide ongoing expert mentoring for
University start-ups, for individuals or groups who are planning, developing, networking and
marketing their business, and for academic researchers. Successful business secondments
include Anderson, M, who worked with the Ellen MacArthur Foundation on developing and
promoting the concept of the circular economy in 2019. Lastly, we promote student-industry
engagement through our Business Consultancy Programme. Since 2015/16 we have assigned
1,389 PBS students to work on 276 real-life business problems (as identified by the partnering
business) under academic supervision. This programme proved to be the springboard for our
successful £537K ‘Creative Students, Creating Business’ bid to the Office for Students and
Research England in 2019 to explore the real impact of student involvement in knowledge
exchange by placing 600 students in 200 partner organisations.

 vi.   Research and Impact: Recognition and Reward

Our principal local mechanism for recognising and rewarding research staff is the
allocation of research workload hours based on published outputs (ILETp53). Workload
allocations (WLA) are granted based upon the quality of a staff member’s outputs in the preceding
five calendar years. Research WLAs range from 10-40%, with ECRs receiving an automatic 30%.
The policy is DORA compliant, and shared in full with staff via the Support for Researchers Intranet
site. Each January, the Faculty WLA Panel determines the research WLA for each staff member
for the following academic year and communicates this to the staff member. In January 2020, the
Panel proposed WLA for 149 PBS staff; of these, only five were contested, and all were
satisfactorily resolved within seven days. Surveys show the policy has strong internal support,
providing clear, concise and timely guidance on how WLAs are determined and enabling staff to
plan their output publishing strategy over a five year period.

Staff can supplement their research WLA by undertaking externally-funded research. The
WLA ‘supplement’ is determined by the time needed to deliver the project and the extent to which
the project covers full economic cost. A paper, ‘Getting the Incentives Right’, housed on the
Intranet, informs staff of the rewards for undertaking such activities. Staff submitting successful
external bids are further rewarded via the Research Incentive Scheme, which offers 3% of the bid



                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
value (up to a maximum of £1,500). Additional recognition and support is provided to enable staff
to optimise the impact resulting from their research (see Section 1.III).


 II.    Research Students


Postgraduate Research students (PGRs) and their welfare are an essential component of our
UoA17 research strategy. All PGRs belong to one of our cognate research areas and are
encouraged to participate in the regular seminar series as both audience and presenters. In
addition, PGRs play an active role in organising the Annual PGR Student Conference (2020 is its
14th year) and help run the major national and international conferences regularly held at
Portsmouth. We also strongly encourage them to participate in the University’s five thematic areas.

  i.    Recruitment of Research Students

We significantly increased the number of PGR students in the census period, from 119 to 163. This
was accompanied by an even steeper rise in the number of DBA students (from 7 to 63), primarily
attributable to our decision to establish an internationally-facing DBA with Reutlingen University,
Germany, although these are excluded from REF2021 considerations on residence grounds. Our
total research student cohort grew from 126 to 226 during the census period.

PBS recruits PGR students through two additional routes. First, we offer 3-4 fully-funded Faculty
bursaries per annum to promote research in disciplinary areas where we have historically found it
challenging to recruit academic staff. Afonso, Ford, Meech, and Simms all joined our academic
staff in the census period after completing their PGR studies with us, exemplifying this scheme’s
success. Since 2016, we have also offered fully-funded annual PGR scholarships (in collaboration
with Scholars at Risk and Amnesty International) to scholars ‘facing grave threats’ so they might
‘have the freedom to think, question, and share ideas’. The first of these scholars graduated in July
2020.

Our reputation for producing high quality PGR graduates has ensured we receive both a
high level of applications (516 in AY2019/20), and are able to apply stringent quality criteria
in offering places (only 8.9% of AY2019/20 applications were accepted). All applications are
scrutinised carefully by at least two staff members and, where originality and capability are
identified, staff then work with the prospective student to produce a strong working proposal. Most
PGRs follow the conventional thesis pathway, but the compilation thesis route (see Section
2.I.iii above) developed for academic staff is open to all students.

  ii.   PGR Progress: Monitoring and Support

Faculty support for PGRs starts on their first day at Portsmouth. Our specially tailored Induction
Programme supports the student and their supervisory team in jointly developing the student’s
research programme. This programme is fine-tuned through regular subsequent meetings.
Progress is reviewed formally on an annual basis, including a Major Review after 12 months (24
months for part-time PGRs).

Improved recruitment and progress have translated into increasing completions: almost a third
more students graduated during the current census period (92 PGR and 6 home DBA students,


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
averaging 14 per annum) than the previous one (60 students, averaging 12 per annum - see Table
1).

Table 1: PGR Completions (by year)
 Academic
             2013/14 2014/15 2015/16            2016/17    2017/18    2018/19    2019/20     Total
 Year
 PhD            8       14         11             15          19         9          16         92
 DBA            1        2          -              1           1         1           -          6

We determine training/support needs as part of our established skills analysis planning
process. We initially source training from the Graduate School Development Programme (GSDP,
established in 2011 by Anderson,V.), which now provides over 190 workshop-events annually on
more than 70 topics (ILETp38). A total of 207 UoA17 PGRs made 3,142 bookings across 135
separate GSDP events during the census period. We offer access to more specialist disciplinary
training through the Faculty PGR training fund (ten applications funded in the census period), and
specialist in-house training courses for PBS staff (see Section 2.I.i). We also offer funds for PGRs
to attend national and international conferences to improve their presentation skills and take
advantage of networking opportunities (30 PBS students did so in the census period). In April
2017, Chatzantoniou organised the annual Money, Macro and Finance Research Group and the
Bank of England PhD workshop. This enabled our close-to-completion PGR economists to pitch
their research to peers and leading researchers in the financial field.

The quality of our PGR student experience is evidenced in the Postgraduate Research
Experience Survey (PRES), completed by 107 universities in 2019. (Like many others, UoP did
not participate in the 2020 survey due to the COVID-19 crisis). Our supervision quality was ranked
extremely highly (in the top quartile across all HEIs and 3% above the sectoral average), with 93%
of students indicating they received precisely the support they required from their supervisory
team. Similar satisfaction levels were recorded for progress and assessment (top quartile, 7%
above average), with 92% of students confident they would complete their doctoral studies within
the timeframe permitted (top quartile, +5%) [ILETp40].

 iii.   Skills Development and Future Career Enhancement.

Our GSDP training programmes emphasize the importance of acquiring core pedagogic
skills, recognising that many of our PGR alumni progress into lecturing posts in the UK and
beyond. Our PGRs are actively encouraged to complete the UoP Graduate Students Professional
Development accreditation (56 did so in the census period), a six-month programme tailored to the
student’s individual pedagogic needs, before being given the opportunity to deliver seminars and/or
lectures. This provides a pathway for our PGRs to become HEA Associate Fellows, and helps
explain the high PGR levels of satisfaction as regards the support and guidance we offer (top
quartile of the ‘teaching skills’ section of PRES2019, 6% above average for the sector). Conscious
that academic employers often require output publication as a pre-requisite now, we also strongly
encourage PGRs to publish during their doctoral journey. Our doctoral students published 78
papers in national and international peer-reviewed journals in the census period.

Our career-enhancing activities extend beyond the academic domain, giving all students
access to a £3,000 placement fund to facilitate the take-up of external employment
opportunities. Recent beneficiaries have worked with Experian DataLabs in London (UK), the

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Data Analytics for Finance and Macro Research Centre at King’s College London (UK), the
International Criminal Court in The Hague (Netherlands), and the Pontifical Catholic University of
Valparaíso (Chile). Our PGR graduates are highly sought after by academic institutions, corporates
and governments alike. Many of those who graduated in the REF2021 census period now hold
high-ranking managerial positions, including Regional CEO (1st Abu Dhabi Bank), Performance
Director (Hertfordshire Constabulary), Global Director of Sales Effectiveness (Linde Group) and
Director of Manufacturing and Quality (Bosch), as well as Technical Advisors to the government of
Ghana and numerous freelance consultants. Other PGR alumni hold lecturing posts globally,
including in the UK, Greece, Iraq and Saudi Arabia, while Cinar, Papadimitri, Tasios, and Zras
have remained with us at Portsmouth.


 III.   Equality and Diversity


Our commitment to equality is highlighted by our successful Athena Swan Bronze (ASB)
submission (ILETp44). It is further exemplified by our approach to REF2021, where
Johnston (female) leads Portsmouth’s largest UoA submission, supported by Battisti (female;
Impact) and Thorpe (male; Environment), and three of the seven UoA17 ICS submitted are led by
women. UoA17 staff are also developing our Race Equality Charter action plans and participate
actively in the Stonewall Diversity Champions programme (ILETp43/5).

Equality Impact Assessments (EIA) showed no significant difference between the numbers of
female academic staff included in our UoA17 submission (40 staff, 41% of submissions) and in
PBS (165, 44%). This is a marked improvement from REF2014, which included only eight female
staff (20% of submissions). Similar findings were true for ethnicity, self-declared disability, age, and
contract type.

Our ten-strong, gender-balanced REF2021 Committee reviewed and approved all 231 outputs
submitted to UoA17 per our Code of Practice (ILETp50). Of the 231 outputs, 39% were attributed
to a female author. There were no significant differences between the proportions of BAME staff
(25%) or those with self-declared disabilities (4%) submitted and the proportion of outputs
attributable to such staff (21% and 3% respectively). The number of outputs included from both
part-time (9%) and fixed-term contract (7%) staff was slightly higher than the number of staff
submitted from these employment categories (9% and 2% respectively) [ILETp51/2].

Our Faculty commitment to gender equality and diversity goes beyond this REF2021
submission and is embedded in how we recruit, support, include and reward staff. ASB data
shows how closely the PBS staff balance is approaching gender parity (44% women and 56%
men). The data also shows improved female representation in senior roles (grades 9 and 10), a
key reason why the mean gender pay gap (GPG) for UoA17 eligible staff is just 3% (89p per hour)
– significantly better than the mean academic GPG of 11.2% reported by Advance HE (2020,
p.200) [ILETp49]. Our research leadership roles are open to all staff, and our two major Faculty
research-related committees (Research and Innovation, and Research Degrees) are gender-
balanced. Our ASB submission highlighted the gender-balanced nature of take-up of
study/sabbatical leave (Section 2.I.iv), Research Project Funding awards (55% awarded to
women), and conference funding (205 conferences funded, 46% of the beneficiaries being
women). In addition, all UoA17 staff completed the three Portsmouth training programmes on
equality and inclusion (ILETp30).


                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The University’s decision in early 2019 to reduce employment precarity by offering part-time
staff permanent employment benefitted all 16 part-time staff associated with PBS. They have
now taken up permanent roles on our Teaching Fellow career pathway. In the case of fixed-term
staff, the 14 PBS Research Fellows (six men and eight women) who completed their contracts
during the census period were carefully nurtured (see Section 2.III). All 14 went on to take up
academic employment either at Portsmouth (Huang and Oh) or elsewhere. In early 2018, the
Faculty also housed a CARA Scholar at Risk. He was subsequently appointed to a permanent
lectureship in Accounting in summer 2019.

Our WLA model explicitly recognises and supports colleagues who “experience changes in
their individual circumstances that significantly constrain their ability to produce research
outputs”. Two UoA17 researchers benefitted from a recalculation of their research WLA on these
grounds during the REF2021 period. Our recognition of the adverse consequences of extended
periods of parental, care or health-related absence on employees’ research careers led us to
introduce a Restart Policy in early 2018, which was especially commended in our ASB
accreditation. All staff returning to research after extended periods of leave (6+ months) receive an
additional 10% research WLA for 12 months and a Professor’s support in co-producing a paper on
a jointly-determined topic.

Additional support for those with caring responsibilities offered under the BaL Conference
and Caring Policy (Summer 2018) were factored into the November 2019 University Travel and
Expenses Policy, which offers a contribution of up to £300 p.a. to cover caring costs for conference
attendees. Staff surveys also demonstrate our inclusiveness, with the most recent reporting that
‘BaL is a good place to work’ (80% of men and women agreed). Staff also recognised that action is
still required to secure gender/transgender equality, with 97% agreeing. Our Faculty has also been
highly receptive to flexible and remote-working requests, granting more than 90% [ILETp46].

Structural challenges remain. The number of women applying for promotion to Reader and
Professor is still lower than the number of men. This is due to their historically disproportionate
recruitment from practitioner backgrounds where they were not researching (24.5 of the 38.2 FTE
former practitioners now in lecturing posts on the staff census date), and to shorter time spent
working in academia (104 months for male UoA17 staff compared to 75 months for female UoA17
staff). Of the nine PBS staff promoted between 2013 and 2019 (four to Professor and five to
Reader), only one of the latter was a woman. We introduced the MSc in Research Methods,
compilation thesis (see Section 2.I.iii) and targeted research-mentoring support to address this
imbalance, helping turn the situation around. Of the ten successful applications for promotion in
AY2019/20, four were made by women – including one to Professor. To complement the UoP-wide
promotions programme (ILETp54), we introduced a bespoke local development programme in the
spring of 2020 to increase gender parity in promotion. Delivered by five female Professors, we
designed the programme to especially improve the Professorial and Readership promotion
prospects of female staff, offering detailed guidance on publishing, grant capture, impact delivery
and research-network development.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

  I.   Research Funding and Strategies for Generating Research Income


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Generating external research income streams is integral to our strategy to maintain a
sustainable research environment conducive to producing world-leading research and
impact. While we aim to produce a steady stream of funded projects from diversified sources, we
prefer larger projects offering greater economies of scale (and scope) and better spin-off research
opportunities. This causes some variation in income from year to year (i.e. AY2016/17, see Figure
1 below).

Our strategy for generating external research income during the census period comprised
four elements. First, a significant proportion of UoA17 staff are (or were) ECRs at some
point during the REF2021 period (41%). These staff are encouraged and supported in
applying for small external funding streams, given the difficulties of attracting large grants at
this early career stage. Successes include Tax Avoidance by UK Multinationals from the British
Academy (£3,060, Aboud), and Experience of Miscarriage at Work from Leverhulme (Foroughi,
£9,890). Second, we improved our bid success rates. Of the 85 bids we submitted in
AY2013/14, only 28% were successful – implying a significant diversion of resources into areas
where we had little chance of success. We thus introduced a policy to direct and support selected
colleagues in areas with a good chance of success, discouraging time/effort investment in
unpromising bid applications. Bid-success rates have since climbed to more than 40% per annum,
substantially increasing revenue (ILETp60). Third, we focused our large grant capture activities
on exploiting our historical strengths in the KTP and EU arenas (ILETp18/61). A total of 11
KTPs were awarded to UoA17 staff during the census period (up from three in REF2014), worth
£2,439,865 (of which £1,537,793 was from Innovate UK). All completed KTPs received an
outstanding grading from Innovate UK, and one with Entec International was nominated for three
KTP National awards. Xu and Brabazon worked with Entec to uncover and exploit hidden value
within an integrated procurement process along complex global supply-chains, enabling the
company to attract over US$55 million of new business as it expanded its markets from North
Africa to Australia, India, New Zealand and South-East Asia. Early horizon-scanning enabled other
researchers (Cox A., Dann, Drakeford, Failler, Ishizaka, and Pickernell) to assemble strong EU
consortia in advance of calls being issued. This preparedness saw a sharp increase in the number
(up from 11 to 18) and a fourteen-fold increase (£12,392,906, up from £849,867 in REF2014) in
the total value of EU-funded projects awarded to UoA17 staff in the current census period. The
most recent consortium success (MaCoBios) in March 2020, led by Failler, had a total contract
value of £5,817,215 (£902,803 to Portsmouth).

As Figure 1 shows, our strategy has paid high dividends, with income peaking at £810,453 in
2019/20. Our total REF4b recorded income was £3,394,710 in the REF2021 period, with an annual
average 127% higher than in the preceding REF2014 period (£484,959 compared to £213,384).




                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Figure 1: UOA17 Research Income

                                                        REF 2021
                              Research Income       3YearRollingavg     REF2021avg       REF2014avg
                          900,000.00
                          800,000.00
                          700,000.00
 Research income (in £)




                          600,000.00
                          500,000.00
                          400,000.00
                          300,000.00
                          200,000.00
                          100,000.00
                                0.00
                                       2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20


NB: The annual average in the REF2014 period is adjusted to remove the contribution of the
Institute of Industrial Research, which is now returned to UoA12.


 II.                      Organisational Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact


The University’s 2013 acquisition of Pure has proved invaluable in allowing us to manage the
output selection process for the University’s largest UoA REF submission to date (ILETp24). Pure
has also enabled us to monitor performance more effectively against strategic objectives.
Research Leads use data from Pure, and other sources, to produce Annual Research and
Innovation Reports. These reports highlight successes in five key areas: (i) the quality and quantity
of outputs produced, (ii) the number, value and success rates of external funding bids, (iii) activities
to promote external collaborations and grow impact, (iv) PGR admissions, completions and
satisfaction levels, and (v) the research culture and environment (including the local strategy to
‘grow’ the number of active researchers). They also identify local areas of concern and propose
strategies for redressing them.

Our dramatic growth in research income in recent years has also prompted us to ramp up
targeted investment to strengthen research in areas where we have a comparative advantage
(Section 4.I). Our initial focus was on supporting CORL during its first five years (ILETp6). With
CORL achieving self-sufficiency, we have turned our attention to nurturing our newly-created Blue
Governance Centre (ILETp7). The University has demonstrated its commitment to this centre’s
success by investing a further £132,000 of GCRF monies to consolidate our global impact on the
blue governance agenda (ILETp10). Our next goal is to establish Portsmouth as a hub of finance
research. To this end, we have recruited a new Professor of Finance (Liu) whose explicit task is to
create an internationally-recognised finance research centre, and continue the tradition for
impactful finance research started by Afonso and Stenfors.


                                                                                                  Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 III.   Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact


The University’s operational research-support infrastructure (ILETp56) is supplemented at
the local level by the BSRO. UoA17 researchers signal their intention to develop new research
projects by entering details into an electronic system devised in-house in 2013 and subsequently
rolled out to the whole University. This triggers a meeting with the BSRO project management
team, who advise on bid costing and set up a peer-review process. Seven University
Grants/Development Officers provide ongoing central support to draft and review bids. Once
finalised, bids are rigorously reviewed at the central (UKRI bids) and/or faculty (all other bids) level,
screening out any bids deemed to have a minimal chance of success (8 bids out of 80 did not
proceed in AY2019/2020).

We support, nurture and develop impact (strategy is outlined in Section 1.III) by our
dedicated four-strong academic team comprising Battisti and Wohlschlegel (appointed
AY2018/19) to help finalise REF 2021 submissions, and McBride and Foroughi, who are
responsible for developing a longer-term impact culture. They are supported in this endeavour by
Research Leads and specialist RIS impact support staff.

We underpin our research with two types of scholarly infrastructure: physical and
electronic. The University Library houses more than 10,000 physical texts relating to business and
management, with many available electronically. Approximately £320,000 is spent annually on
books and serial acquisition/renewal. Our electronic resources have increased markedly in the
census period: UoA17 researchers now have access to over 20 specialist research databases and
journal collections, including Passport, Mintel, IBISWorld, WARC, Scopus, Business Source
Complete, Market Intelligence, S&P Capital IQ and Eikon. UoA17 researchers also have full
access to more than 5,000 B&M ejournals – including over 1,300 CABS-ranked journals – and are
supported by two dedicated library staff offering specialist support in business-research areas.
Pure also houses PBS’s ‘scholarly memory’: our researchers deposited 2,279 outputs during the
census period (17.6% of total deposits in the period), outputs which were downloaded 321,011
times in the period (18.4% of total downloads). An intellectual infrastructure complements the
scholarly infrastructure, offering a robust programme of staff development training (see Section
2.I.i.) and wide-ranging internal seminar programmes (see Section 4.I.) to provide a facilitative
environment in which our researchers can excel.


IV.     Equality and Diversity Issues: Access to Support


An EIA on all new researcher support mechanisms is completed by either the University
E&D team and/or Johnston, a Professor with extensive research expertise in gender
equality. Where they identify potential bias, they advise on how to amend the policy before its
adoption. This was the case with our Restart Policy (see Section 2.III). Originally covering
maternity leave, it was extended to include all staff who experienced significant changes in their
personal circumstances that had disrupted their ability to complete research. We took the same
approach in reviewing access to, and use of, the other scholarly and operational infrastructure
outlined above. In addition, the ADR regularly monitors bidding activity to ensure all UoA17 staff
receive full access to, and support from, BSRO and the Faculty when seeking external research
funding.



                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 V.    The Nature, Quality, Provision and Operation of Specialist Research Infrastructure,
       and its Relation to Impact Activities


We have made our principal investment in specialist research infrastructures in the finance
area. We strengthened our 2010 investment in a suite of real-time Bloomberg trading terminals by
adding a second suite of terminals in 2014. UoA17 staff and PGRs also have access to specialist
data packages including Boardex (covering 1.8 million organisations and 1.3 million Directors and
their networks), Revinitiv/Datastream (covering 60 financial markets and providing data on 175
countries), Statista, Ideal Ratings and Audit Analytics. In addition, our Faculty assigns part of its
QR funding to provide specialist software to staff researching particular domains. Recently funded
requests from UoA17 researchers include Vantagepoint (a text-mining application for scientific,
technical, market and patent information), EDitor from the European DataWarehouse (access to
25,000 daily loan-level data by asset class) and IdealRatings (details of 40,000 companies
worldwide who issue Sukuk securities). Stenfors’ work on fixed-income and foreign exchange over-
the-counter markets, which informs his ICS, was completed using the high-frequency EBS Data
Mine Life Cycle Data for All Pairs. In total, 151 outputs (65% of submissions) in UoA17 benefitted
from our range of twenty-nine different software packages, the most popular being Stata (30%) and
Nvivo (15%).


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  I.   Supporting Research Collaborations with Other Academics


Our academic research collaborations are the cornerstone of our ambition to produce intellectually
rigorous, research-based, practical solutions across the business and management domain. Our
July 2015 Building to 2020: Internationalisation with Impact strategy introduced an International
Exchange Scheme (IES), enabling our researchers to travel overseas to work with outstanding
scholars for up to six months. To date, the IES has funded visits for 26 UoA17 academics (10
women and 16 men) to Australia, Canada, the Netherlands, Tunisia, Germany, Spain, Hong Kong,
the US, the Philippines and Italy, leading to the submission of 27 articles of internationally excellent
standard or above. In addition, our Brunel Fellowship Scheme fully funds month-long visits of top
and emerging scholars to Portsmouth to work with our colleagues on pre-agreed projects. We have
awarded 23 Fellowships so far (five still pending due to the COVID crisis) to academics from the
US, India, Colombia, Germany, Italy, Egypt, Spain, South Africa, Switzerland, Australia and
Portugal, resulting in 26 outputs. Our Visiting Scholar Scheme also allows international post-
doctoral researchers to spend extended periods at Portsmouth. A total of 32 researchers from the
US, China, Italy, Australia, Brazil, and Finland availed themselves of this opportunity in the census
period, resulting in 39 publications. Combined with the emphasis embedded in our WLA policy for
scholars to seek out top-quality international collaborations, these schemes have increased the
number of UoA17 outputs produced in collaboration with one or more international co-authors from
37% in REF2014 to 54% in REF2021.

Our Faculty Research Project Fund (RPF) provides additional support to our international
schemes. We awarded a total of £500,088 to 128 projects led by UoA17 researchers during the
census period. Of these, 69 were directed by women and 59 by men. Projects involved 54 external
collaborators (24 national and 30 international) and delivered 225 submissions. Of these, 170 were
to journals of internationally-excellent quality or better and 65 were external funding bids. One


                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
tangible example of this saw Battisti and Williamson (University of Waikato, New Zealand) awarded
an RPF of £4,310 in May 2019 to pursue their research into the dynamics of national sentiment in
entrepreneurship. The partnership subsequently capitalised on this seed funding by capturing one
of the two 2019 inaugural BAM/ANZAM Collaborative Grants.

We have also promoted national and international collaborations through our staff seminar series,
held across the six cognate research areas. We held 119 seminars in AY2019/2020, attracting 64
visiting academics (29 international) and sparking 25 collaborations. One of the most successful
collaborations to date saw Stenfors working with Susai (Nagasaki University, Japan) after Susai’s
March 2015 seminar. This collaboration has currently produced two 3* CABS journal outputs, one
2* CABS journal article, and a book chapter covering foreign exchange markets. The UoP themes
also play an essential enabling role in developing international interdisciplinary research
collaborations (see Section 1.IV). The most recent example is INdiGO (Innovative Fishing Gear
for Oceans). Supported by the Sustainability and Environment theme, INdiGO is a 2020 project
with Drakeford providing economic input for an eleven-partner €4.2 million EU-funded study to
develop a fully biodegradable fishing net with a controlled lifespan.


 II.   Interaction and Engagement with Key Research Users, Beneficiaries and Audiences
       to Develop Impact


Portsmouth has historically been strong in marine research. The formal launch of the Blue
Governance Centre (ILETp6) in February 2020 attracted high-level representatives from key
marine research and policy-implementing organisations including the FAO, UNESCO, the
Commonwealth Secretariat, the World Oceans Council, the UN Economic Commission for Africa
(UNECA), and the Indian Ocean Commission (IOC). Collaborative agreements with UNECA, IOC
and the Ocean University of China were swiftly signed, reflecting BGC centrality in advising on
global marine governance issues linked to the UN Sustainable Development Goal 14 (Life under
Water). BGC members in UoA17 currently lead or participate in 11 international marine-
based projects, involving 111 collaborators and local stakeholders from 39 countries. These
include projects to: develop enhanced stock assessment techniques with a view to ensuring the
sustainability of European fisheries (Pandora); ensure the sustainability and profitability of EU
fisheries outside European waters (Farfish); evaluate the contribution fisheries make to sustainable
development, food security and poverty reduction in West Africa (GREPPAO); and facilitate the
way we map and assess ecosystem services across the globe (MAES). Drakeford and Failler are
also UK Hub members for the 2014-2020 Atlantic Action Plan, designed to revitalise the marine
and maritime economies of France, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and the UK. In this role, they advise
on employing EU and national or regional financial instruments in promoting smart, sustainable
and inclusive growth across the marine domain.

In 2018, we secured a crucial partnership with LendwithCare (LwC, part of Care
International), which underwrote a researcher’s appointment in microfinance impact
evaluation. This partnership has produced two critical impacts at the user level. First, Portsmouth
researchers (Afonso, Luhan) produced a detailed impact analysis of three LwC partner
organisations’ lending programmes - Akhuwat (Pakistan), with 813,525 borrowers, FACES
(Ecuador), with 19,947 borrowers, and Thrive (Zimbabwe), with 3,384 borrowers. The analysis
enabled each to fine-tune their interventions to deliver an enhanced client service. Second, other
Portsmouth academics (Chakhar, Cox.J, Ishizaka and Thorpe) proposed options to enable LwC to
grow their crowdfunder investor base (currently 61,029). This synergistic relationship with research

                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
users enabled us to become the first UK host of the biennial European Microfinance Platform
(EMFP) Conference. It also led to the publication of a co-edited volume with EMFP (Emerging
Challenges and Innovations in Microfinance and Financial Inclusion, Palgrave, 2019).

Our European-level interaction is further demonstrated by the PERCEIVE project (Cox.A,
Leonard, EU2017-19), which aimed to understand the channels through which European policies
contribute to differing European identification levels across profoundly different regions. The project
developed a six-point plan and pursued discussions with EU strategists responsible for delivering
EU cohesion policy on practical ways to address current shortcomings. The team subsequently
applied the resulting simulation tool to assess local-level policy effectiveness to economic impact
analyses in Hampshire.

Closer to home, Labib and Hadleigh-Dunn acted as expert international evaluators of Simex,
the UK’s largest annual international disaster response exercise with 62 agencies, 835 role
players and 3,023 participants. The Simex exercise establishes a learning environment for players
to test disaster-event response plans, policies and procedures. Labib and Hadleigh-Dunn’s roles
were to highlight best practice, identify areas for development, and showcase key performance
examples across various command levels and all involved agencies. UoA17 staff are also involved
in the ERDF EMphasis3 and the UK Space Agency Space2Accelerate programmes in an advisory
capacity. In the former, which provides grants to regional inventors seeking to reduce carbon
emissions, UoA17 researchers offer an innovation audit and ongoing advice on how to bring the
product to market. In the latter, our staff work actively with SMEs to develop products as varied as
hospitality hardware and engineering consultancy services. These specialist offerings complement
the broader support we have traditionally offered to the general public and the business
community, e.g. one-stop business clinics offering professional advice to small businesses, Tax
Tuesdays helping start-ups ensure they are fully tax compliant, and legal clinics providing pro bono
legal advice to all.


 III.   Wider Contributions to the Economy and Society


PBS is particularly committed to addressing the current gender imbalance in the
entrepreneurial arena. Research suggests that achieving gender parity could add up to £250
billion per annum to the UK economy (HM Treasury, 2019). In conjunction with NatWest and the
Solent LEP, we established the Female Entrepreneur Network (FEN) in 2015 to grow female
entrepreneurial activity across the region. In 2018, two UoA17 researchers (Dann and Pickernell)
joined a collaboration of nine partners in a three-year EU-funded ERDF €2.6 million project
designed to ‘Accelerate Women’s Enterprise’. The Portsmouth team are tasked with identifying and
evaluating the barriers women experience in starting and growing their enterprises, developing
practice and policy recommendations, helping recruit and train a target of 700 female
entrepreneurs and 160 female mentors, and creating 134 new female-led businesses.

These activities are enshrined in our successful Small Business Charter re-accreditation
(ILETp17), which underlined the importance of network facilitation and communication in
stimulating business growth in the region and beyond. We ran major annual networking events pre-
COVID-19 (‘Winning in the Solent Region’ in Southampton, and ‘One Big Network Event’ in
Portsmouth), enhanced by Venturefest South – an annual Festival of Innovation that attracts over
1,100 attendees and 3.4 million hits on its 2019 website. In 2019, we also launched our annual


                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Business Talk magazine, with UK-wide distribution through two national newspapers, inspiring UoP
to launch its own counterpart magazine, Solve, in 2020 (ILETp27). This distinctive profile and
presence has enabled us to develop a close, symbiotic relationship with the business community,
which is strengthened by our Entrepreneurs in Residence programme and our growing success in
KTPs (see Sections 2.I.v and 3.I).

This synergetic relationship has provided a springboard for us to lead locally on
combatting the adverse effects of COVID-19 on the business community. In the immediate
aftermath of the March 2020 lockdown, our Entrepreneurs in Residence, Advisory Board and
BSRO provided weekly webinars providing insight into key COVID-relevant issues such as supply
chain management and trust. Using our significant networks and expertise, we brought together
key local stakeholders to launch a regional business survey. Our aim was to evaluate the business
community’s ongoing needs to provide an evidence base for future policy recommendations (our
‘Bouncing Forward’ report, published in October 2020). We are now developing collaborative
programmes to deliver targeted interventions that address specific local needs in AY2020/21.
These programmes augment our collaboration with CABS to develop the fully-funded £20 million
Small Business Leadership Programme 2020 to address resilience and productivity challenges for
senior SME leaders across the business community.


IV.    Engaging with diverse communities and the public through research


Our UoA17 researchers have engaged with a wide variety of interventions and partners to
improve the world in which we live. We supported the University’s decision to seek accreditation
as a University of Sanctuary by offering a fully-funded annual doctoral bursary to a candidate
recommended by Scholars at Risk. Anderson, M leads on a project with colleagues from the
Cultural and Creative Industries Faculty, the World Fair Trade Organisation (WFTO), Action Aid
and Fashion Revolution to develop practical recommendations promoting increased social
inclusion that directly benefit 10,000 garment workers in Bangladesh. These recommendations will
inform 405 WFTO member organisations across 76 countries on the most effective ways to
incorporate social inclusion initiatives within wider circular economy supply chains. This builds on
Anderson’s expertise in applied monitoring and evaluation work, including an ongoing review of
DFID’s Global Fund to End Modern Slavery.

In another example, Warren works with 30 female music producers and other key music industry
gatekeepers (agents, promoters, record label owners) to explore why digital technologies have not
dissolved the gender divide. Her research aims to redress the persistently low female
participation levels in technology-driven cultural production. She shared her findings at the
Amsterdam Dance Event and the Brighton Music Conference (the major European and UK
industry trade fairs), leading to an invitation to co-Chair the Association for Electronic Music's
Diversity and Inclusion group. As part of our contribution to reducing society’s use of plastic,
Vasquez-Brust leads the Portsmouth team in a four-country (Belgium, France, Holland and UK) EU
Interreg 2018-2022 Plasticity consortium. The consortium aims to develop technical strategies for
logistics and plastics reprocessing, and promote behavioural change by stimulating the recycling of
currently untapped plastic waste streams. Their objective is to increase recycling rates from 20-
30% to 50% across 1.5 million inhabitants in four conurbations.




                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 V.    Contribution to Sustainability of the Discipline


In March 2014, the British Academy of Management (BAM) contacted PBS with an urgent
requirement for a venue for their Annual Conference after their planned hosts cancelled. After Tait
took charge, the 2015 BAM Conference became the largest BAM conference held to date, with 882
registrations, and attracted strong praise. As the BAM manager reflected, ‘The conference went
really smoothly and it is all down to the Portsmouth team’s support…First time in Portsmouth for
BAM and it was such a great success’. Our achievement prompted recognition of Portsmouth’s
substantial geographical advantages for conference provision, including easy access from London,
a stunning historical location and strong administrative local support (BSRO), all factors enabling
us to provide a high-quality event at an acceptable price. Recognising the importance of annual
conferences as key network facilitation events within our Faculty, we elected to grow
conference provision to help sustain multiple disciplinary communities.

We have since hosted the Annual Conferences of the Operational Research Society (OR58, 2016),
the European Microfinance Platform (5th, 2017), the British Universities Industrial Relations
Association (BUIRA 2017), and Advances in Hospitality and Tourism Marketing and Management
(9th, 2019). Plans were already at an advanced stage to host the international Multi-Criteria
Decision Making Society (26th, 2021) and the Accounting History International Conference (11th,
2021) before COVID-19 intervened. We have also hosted the Portsmouth-Fordham Conference on
Banking and Finance (2017, due to return in 2021), the Fair Trade International Symposium
(2018), the Normandy-75 Conference (75th anniversary of D-Day, 2019), and the GCRF UK-
Russian Network on Sustainability and Corporate Accounting (2019). In addition, we have
welcomed a myriad of smaller workshop events, including the 22nd Organisational Storytelling
Seminar (2017) and the 14th Annual Ethnography Symposium (2019). In each instance, UoA17
researchers played an active academic role as hosts and session chairs in the associated scientific
organising committees, increasing their exposure to wider academic networks.

Recent work on our successful Athena Swan application also highlighted the scarcity of
female students or academics in the economics field. In response, Alberti successfully applied
for a Royal Economic Society Discover Economics grant (2020) to expand the pipeline of women
entering the profession at the UG level and introduce prospective female entrants to high-profile
female role models. The project also fosters camaraderie among female students through network
events and specialist seminars, facilitating and encouraging their continuation in the discipline.

Our UoA17 researchers have also contributed to disciplinary sustainability at the
professional level. Hadleigh-Dunn helped the Institute of Risk Management, the leading UK body
for organisational risk management, re-design their International Diploma in Enterprise Risk
Management – their pivotal qualification completed annually by c.900-1,000 graduates. Similarly,
Anderson,V led the British Standards Institute team to produce the first UK principles-based
People Management Standard (BS76000). This set out principles and requirements for
organisations valuing their human capital and wishing to demonstrate principled and sustainable
people-practices to their stakeholders. Our researchers also promptly respond to national and
international priorities. Most recently, Hatcher was called upon to present evidence to the House of
Lords EU Energy and Environment Sub-Committee (February 2020) on how the Brexit deal might
impact the UK fishing industry. The following month we established a COVID-19 Restart
Programme to help businesses survive and prosper in the post-COVID environment (see Section
4.3).

                                                                                           Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


VI.    Indicators of Wider Influence and Research-Base Contributions


During the census period, our UoA17 researchers have acted as editors of The Energy
Journal (Hunt), Human Resource Development Quarterly (Anderson,V), International Journal of
Market Research (Nunan), and the Open Artificial Intelligence Journal (Ishizaka). In addition, we
have contributed deputy/associate editors to Human Resource Development Quarterly
(Anderson,V), Psychology and Marketing, Annals of Tourism Research (Viglia), International
Journal of Entrepreneurial Behaviour and Research and Small Enterprise Research (Battisti),
Organization (Warren), Accounting History (McBride), Journal of Multi-Criteria Decision Analysis
(Greco), the British Accounting Review and the International Review of Financial Analysis (Liu),
Journal of Financial Reporting and Accounting (Hussainey), Journal of Forensic Accounting
Research (Jack) and the International Journal of Market Research (Ekinci). Our staff also serve
on the editorial boards of 40 peer-reviewed journals, including Accounting Forum, the British
Journal of Management, the European Journal of Operational Research, the International Small
Business Journal, the Journal of Business Research, and the Public Administration Review.

The most noteworthy accolade bestowed on UoA17 researchers during the census period
was the American Society of Public Administration’s Julia H. Henderson Prize 2018,
awarded to Johnston for outstanding international contribution within the discipline – the first-ever
UK winner in the 30 years since the award began. In addition, Howe-Walsh won the Emerald Best
International Symposium Award at the American Academy of Management (2014), Sit won Best
Paper at the Colloquium on European Research in Retailing (2015), Failler won the Japanese
International Fisheries Research Society Yamamoto Prize (2016), and our Marketing staff won
Best Paper prizes at the British Academy of Marketing (2018, Ekinci) and Italian Marketing Society
(Acuti, 2019) conferences. Further Best Paper conference/journal prizes were achieved by Battisti
(2), Chatzantoniou, Murzacheva, Pickernell (2), Trott, Williams and Viglia (2). Our staff also hold
several important leadership posts on international committees. For example, Failler was the
coordinating lead author on the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and
Ecosystem Services Africa Assessment (2015-18), and Howe-Walsh was elected onto the
International Leadership Association’s Women and Leadership Executive Committee (2018). In
addition, Vasquez-Brust is the UK coordinator for the global Greening of Industry Network,
Anderson, V is the Convenor of the International Standardization Organization (ISO) Working
Group 10 (Learning & Development), and Anderson, M was a member of the EU/ITC Evaluation
Committee for the EU Cities for Fair and Ethical Trade Award (2018). Furthermore, Battisti was
invited in 2018 by the European Commission (DG Research and Innovation) to join a group of
selected experts to develop a revised, more impact-focused approach and criteria framework for
evaluating European partnerships’ effectiveness.

Nationally, Jack was President of the British Accounting and Finance Association (2015-20) and is
presently a member of the REF2021 UoA17 panel. Battisti sits on the CABS Research Committee,
while Van Laar was a founding member and chair of the UKCGE Network of Deans and Directors
of Graduate Schools (2015) and joined the Executive Committee of the UKCGE (UK Council for
Graduate Education) in 2019. Johnston was Executive Board member for the European Group for
Public Administration (2012-2019) and the International Research Society for Public Management
(2014-2018), and is currently Co-Chair of the Special Interest Group on Public Sector Human
Resource Management (2018- ). Williams is an Executive Board Member of the British Universities


                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Industrial Relations Association (2017- ), while Scott applies his Faculty Ethics experience in his
role as Welsh lead on the Disability Research for Independent Living and Learning Ethics
Committee.

Warren currently holds a Leverhulme Fellowship (‘In the Key of She’, 2019-21), while McBride
received a 2019 Economic History Fellowship to support her work on historical accounting
practices in the Royal Navy. Our UoA17 researchers have also held or hold visiting
fellowships at many worldwide universities, including Bologna, Bonn, Delft, Florianopolis,
Innsbruck, Massey, Padova, Paris-Dauphine, Perugia, Sannio, Sao Paolo, Torino, Trento and
Turku.

Our UoA17 researchers also delivered a total of 83 invited keynote addresses during the
census period. These spanned the American Society for Public Administration (Johnston, Denver
2018), the World Fair Trade Summit (Peru 2019) and the Fair Trade Nation keynote to the Scottish
Parliament (Anderson, M. 2015), the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (Stenfors, 2018 and
2020), the Canadian Academic Accounting Association (Jack, 2018), Thought Leadership (Viglia,
Ohio 2018), Arctic Circle Search and Rescue (Labib, Reykjavik, 2019), the Gulf Advisory Council
on Education (Howe-Walsh, Dubai 2018), the Royal Statistical Society (Nunan, 2016), and the
Leadership Foundation (McCalman, UK 2016). Failler was particularly active, being called upon to
deliver addresses to Ministerial conferences of the African Union (Ethiopia, 2019), Bangladesh
(2019), the Indian Ocean Commission (Mauritius 2019), the 52nd Economic Commission for Africa
(Morocco, 2019) and the European Union (Nairobi, 2018) on the blue economy and the need for
improved governance of the oceans.

Lastly, our UoA17 researchers sat on the BBSRC GCRF Committee (Xu), the UKRI Future
Leaders Fellowship programme (Ekinci) and the ESRC Commissioning Panel for the
Climate Change Network call (Vasquez-Brust). In addition, Trott assisted on BAM grant
evaluation panels and Nunan on Carnegie Trust panels and Van Laar was appointed to the 2019
ESRC Strategic Review of the Social Science PhD panel, while Warren acted as an ESRC
seminar series assessor in 2014/5. UoA17 researchers have also refereed research proposals
for all UK Research Councils during the census period, with the exception of STFC.
Moreover, our staff reviewed research grant applications to the British Academy, Leverhulme,
Newton, US Department of Energy, the EU Horizon 2020 programme, and funding solicitations
made to the national scientific academies of Belgium, Finland, Holland, Israel, Italy, Romania,
Switzerland, and the USA. All our research-active staff are involved in reviewing for academic
publications. A summer 2020 survey disclosed that UoA17 researchers had completed a total of
466 journal reviews in AY2019/20 alone, with 53 staff regularly reviewing for journals of CABS 3*
ratings or higher.




                                                                                             Page 25
