Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Warwick

 Unit of Assessment: D26 Modern Languages & Linguistics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit Structure and Context

 The School of Modern Languages and Cultures (SMLC) is a cohesive interdisciplinary network of
 44 researchers whose work embraces the broad range of Modern Languages research and spans
 the globe from Europe to the Americas, Africa, Asia and Oceania. The SMLC was founded in 2014
 out of separate language departments loosely linked since 2012 within a Sub-Faculty. An
 overriding strategic aim across the period, building on that articulated for REF 2014 (section b,
 paragraph 2 of the 2014 statement), has been the creation of an internally diverse but coherent
 and mutually enriching research unit. Research is now organized and supported via a flexible
 matrix in which four established academic sections – French, German, Italian and Hispanic
 Studies – represent the ‘columns’. These contribute to group strengths across the matrix’s ‘rows’
 in the following domains: engagement with literary, philosophical, cinematic and visual works and
 performances, their historical and cultural contextualization, and related bodies of scholarship and
 criticism; interfaces between politics and culture; sociolinguistics; Medieval and Renaissance
 studies; critical and postcolonial theory; memory studies; world literature; translation, and the study
 of transcultural and translingual exchanges. This structure allows us to establish coherent cultural
 conversations across different periods, media, and methodologies. It also supports a rich
 community of postgraduate and postdoctoral researchers: in the census period we hosted 33
 postdoctoral fellows (recruited through externally funded postdoctoral schemes and major
 collective research projects) and 54 PhD students successfully completed their degrees (weighted
 figure 51.25). The primary institutional context for our research is a highly active university Arts
 Faculty, across which the SMLC has developed multiple connections and which provides a strong
 platform to support sustained engagement with external research partners and beneficiaries.

 Strategic Aims and Oversight

 Our fundamental research aims have been to: (1) reinvigorate the umbrella discipline of Modern
 Languages, and its diverse linguistic and cultural components, by exploring its conceptual,
 linguistic, geographical, cultural, temporal and medial boundaries, as well as refining and
 sustaining its mature traditions of research; (2) enrich cultural life and engage external
 stakeholders and the public via research, embedding impact at the core of our research
 environment.

 In realising these aims, and in alignment with university strategy (REF5a-2.1-2.3), our priority
 objectives have been to: (a) integrate and consolidate the School structure so as to facilitate
 research collaboration and respond to a changing external research environment; (b) recruit and
 develop outstanding staff, ECRs and postgraduate researchers, particularly in the areas of
 Hispanic, Chinese, translation studies and film (see especially section 2); (c) maintain and
 enhance collaborative research communities and networks across the wider university and
 beyond Warwick in order to broaden the interdisciplinary reach and relevance of our research; (d)
 increase the volume of external funding and awards (see section 3); (e) facilitate the contribution
 by researchers to the sustainability of Modern Languages fields (see section 4). (f) promote
 external engagement and impact under the university’s vision of ‘excellence with purpose’ (see
 this section and section 4).

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Objective a corresponds to the principal forward-looking strategic direction articulated for REF
 2014 (section b, paragraph 2 of the 2014 statement). The rest of this document shows how we
 have built upon and extended that as we moved from a Sub-Faculty to a School. We have given
 greater emphasis to our public engagement and impact work compared to their place in the 2014
 research strategy. Our other objectives carry forward those articulated already in the 2014
 statement (with increased numbers of PGRs and PDFs, increased external funding, and the
 further development of collaborative networks and contributions to discipline sustainability as
 detailed across the present statement). As regards the more detailed plans described across pp.
 3-5 of the REF 2014 Environment Statement, covering individual projects across thematic clusters,
 these have nearly all been carried through and integrated into this cycle’s submission, though the
 precise nature of the outputs has on occasion been modified, and the thematic clusters have been
 inflected in terms of the matrix structure of the new School (most notably through a new explicit
 emphasis on themes of translation and translingual exchange).

 Realization of our research strategy is underpinned by a School-wide Director of Research and
 Impact, supported by DoRs in individual languages, who together form the School’s Research
 Committee, attended as appropriate by the Head of School and R&IS Impact Manager. In addition
 to the research seminar provision outlined below, periodic sessions on research planning and
 funding are arranged. An annual research awayday offers the possibility to discuss individual
 research plans, cross-School research clusters, impact work, and procedural issues (with the
 collaboration of Library and Faculty support staff). Research forms a core part of staff review and
 mentoring processes (see section 2).

 A Vital and Sustainable Research Milieu

 As regards priority objectives a, b and c, strategic developments over the review period have
 benefitted from our matrix structure. On the one hand, we have strengthened and further expanded
 Hispanic Studies (from 3 to 7 researchers), and recently introduced research capacity in Chinese
 Studies with the recruitment of Liu. On the other hand, we have consolidated certain cross-School
 clusters of expertise, notably translation research, envisaged as a transnational practice that is
 global in scope and now includes 5 languages at PGT level and above; international cinema and
 visual studies; cultures of migration and exchange (notably through Hodkinson’s, Astbury’s and
 Viala’s impact work); and a body of collaborative inquiry into the future challenges for Modern
 Languages approached through a transnational lens (led notably by Burns).

 Our matrix structure guides the organization of research seminars and groupings across the
 School and its linkage with wider university networks. The SMLC runs regular School-wide
 research seminars. These were initially devised as a series of lunchtime talks, but were relaunched
 from 2019 as a high-profile lecture series based on papers by prominent external speakers
 engaging the interests of researchers across and beyond the School. The French, German,
 Hispanic and Italian sections each run their own seminar series, with the aim of consolidating
 sectional identities and allowing for the in-depth exploration of their languages and cultures. These
 series combine presentations by external and SMLC speakers, including early career and PhD
 researchers. They are complemented by specifically focused sectional events such as the Dante
 Reading Group (organised by Camilletti), the Adorno Reading Group (Schmitz) or workshops
 targeting topical issues (French presidential elections, the gilets jaunes movement, the impact of
 the fall of the Berlin Wall).



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 SMLC researchers come together transversally across their respective sections through
 interdisciplinary research seminars hosted by a range of Centres or groupings across the Faculty
 of Arts. These include the Memory Studies Group, which runs an annual lecture and a PG
 workshop (Astbury, Achinger, Hodkinson, Stone, Menezes); STUDIO, the seminar series of the
 Centre for the Study of the Renaissance (Campbell, De Smet, Rabone, Lines, Vanhaelen); the
 seminar series of the Centre for Research in Philosophy, Literature and the Arts (Achinger,
 Campbell, Davis, Fraiture, Hand, Hewlett, Hopkinson, Le Goff, Schmitz); Medievalists at Warwick
 (Campbell, Lines, Milonia); cross-Faculty Translation and Transcultural Studies research events
 (Amos, Campbell, Milani, Liu, Shortt); the seminar series of the Centre for Caribbean Studies
 (Fraiture, Panichelli, Viala); the Warwick History of Violence Network (Hewlett, Le Goff, Stone,
 Wardhaugh); the Environmental Humanities Network (Coletta, Hand, Menezes, Shortt, Viala).

 Such transversal clusters link SMLC researchers with the broader university research
 environment, and the School’s flexible open structure allowed them to play key leadership roles
 within that context. De Smet and Lines assumed directorship (2014-18 and 2018 - present) for the
 Centre for the Study of the Renaissance (over 30 staff members from different departments).
 Ahearne was seconded as Director of the Centre for Cultural and Media Policy Studies between
 2014-2017 (a research centre with over 100 MA and PhD students). Davis was co-director of the
 Centre for Research in Philosophy, Literature and the Arts between 2017 and 2019 and Viala is
 Director of the Yesu Persaud Centre for Caribbean Studies. Panichelli is Head of the University’s
 School for Cross-Faculty Studies and leads the cross-faculty Latin America at Warwick Network.
 Menezes was co-lead between 2015 and 2019 of the ‘Connecting Cultures’ funding programme,
 one of the university’s ‘Global Research Priorities’ (REF5a-2.9.1).

 As regards objective d, the quality and topicality of our research was recognised by the receipt of
 £4.48 million external funding over the review period, which represented a 66% increase on the
 £2.7 million received during the previous cycle (see section 3 for details). Our contribution to the
 sustainable research base for Modern Languages (objective e) involved a wide range of
 leadership, editorial and advisory roles for subject bodies and publications (section 4).

 Impact Strategy

 We have aimed to embed impact ever more firmly at the heart of our research culture by
 supporting all researchers, irrespective of specialism or career stage, in engaging with relevant
 beneficiaries (objective f). Building on our REF2014 impact environment context, efforts focused
 on developing strategies to engage non-academic audiences and identify institutional partners.
 Our three overriding objectives have been: to use our research to change public understanding;
 to create new spaces for intercultural dialogue; to influence public policy at national or local levels.
 We sought out a range of external collaborators, including libraries, museums, galleries, heritage
 organisations, schools and public media, and deployed a variety of methods, notably lectures,
 consultancy, exhibitions and installations, public discussions, interviews.

 Our case studies acted as pathmakers and models within our overall impact strategy. Astbury’s
 work on 19thC performance with Portchester Castle changed public understanding of the venue
 and provided a model inspiring policy change at English Heritage. Hodkinson’s and Viala’s work
 presenting their historical research through exhibitions and public discussions, and engaging with
 contemporary artistic practice, changed public understandings of fraught current issues in
 intercultural relations and created new spaces for dialogue between cultures. In Hodkinson’s case,
 this concerns the relations between Muslim and multi-faith or secular communities; in Viala’s, it
 concerns black communities and the historical legacies of slavery. Lines and Muratori used

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 innovative exhibitions across three countries to change public understandings of the importance
 of multilingualism in the historical development of philosophy.

 We facilitated a range of other impact work alongside these flagship projects, embedding a
 multifaceted and dynamic impact culture within the School. Camilletti’s explorations of
 performance brought Gothic storytelling to public audiences. Hooper’s collaboration with the
 Museum of Liverpool on the Hispanic Liverpool Project drew attention to a neglected but
 historically deep-rooted cultural community. Menezes’s expansion of our impact work into social
 and political memory through her AHRC-funded collaboration with the Chilean Museum of Memory
 and Human Rights will likewise enhance the visibility of exile experiences abroad in the context of
 dictatorship. Burns was a major collaborator in the large AHRC project, ‘Transnationalizing
 Modern Languages’. The project as a whole influenced the national policy agenda for languages
 teaching, while Burns’ work strand augmented public understanding of the translinguistic practices
 of Italian communities within the UK. Many other researchers have begun to integrate such
 engagement with public beneficiaries systematically into their research programmes, contributing
 to the three elements of our impact strategy cited above (see detailed reference in section 4).

 Carrying Forward Strategic Aims

 We will carry forward the strategic aims and priority objectives from the current cycle, with new
 emphasis being given to the further integration and consolidation of the now five-language School
 structure within the wider University framework, and the enrichment of our impact and engagement
 portfolios.

 The SMLC will develop further its interlinking with the research agenda of the Arts Faculty as a
 whole, enabling the SMLC to broaden its own thematic scope while demonstrating the value of
 transnational languages-based approaches to wider research programmes. It is well set to
 contribute decisively to the new strategic research themes of the Faculty as collectively articulated
 in 2019: Visual, Material and Performance Cultures and Practices (notably Astbury, Camilletti,
 Dessy, Harrod, Morrey, Wardhaugh, Whittaker); Literature, Language and Translation (Amos,
 Burns, Campbell, Camilletti, Castro, De Smet, Herrmann, Lines, Liu, Milani, Rabone, Schmitz,
 Shortt, Vanhaelen); Ethics, Politics and Social Justice (Ahearne, Davis, Hewlett, Le Goff,
 Menezes, Panichelli, Stone); Cultural Industries and Cultural Value (Ahearne, Harrod); Medical
 Humanities (Wilson, Davis, Panichelli); Global and Transnational Histories and Cultures (Ahearne,
 Burns, De Smet, Fraiture, Herrmann, Hodkinson, Hooper, Lines, Menezes, Viala); Environments
 (Coletta, Hand, Menezes, Shortt, Viala); Criticism, Theory and Aesthetics (Achinger, Campbell,
 Fraiture, Hand, Stone). Research carried out in the SMLC will also continue to reach beyond the
 Arts Faculty, particularly where it explores interfaces between politics and culture (Achinger,
 Ahearne, Coletta, Hewlett, Le Goff, Menezes, Palmowski, Panichelli).

 In extending our impact work, our priorities will mesh with those of the University (REF5a-2.6).
 Warwick’s revised 2018 promotions benchmarks recognize public engagement and impact across
 career stages. These benchmarks will be coordinated with formal review processes and informal
 peer advice and mentoring. We will build on success in obtaining funding from Warwick’s internal
 support sources for impact work, including the Warwick Impact/HEIF Fund, Public Engagement
 Fund, HRF Impact Fund, Ventures Fund and the Impact Leave fund (for details of awards in
 present cycle, see section 3). We anticipate that our relocation from 2021 in new premises directly
 opposite a renovated University Arts Centre will facilitate engagement with non-academic
 audiences (REF5a-4.3.3).


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The early stages of the Covid-19 crisis (up to July 2020) led to deliberation on the medium-term
 sustainability of plans for external collaboration and exchange. As elsewhere, many events were
 cancelled or postponed. Some senior colleagues took on early responsibility for shifting major
 symposia and impact work online (Davis, Herrmann, Fraiture, Hodkinson). Other colleagues
 (Harrod, Castro) postponed workshops for later dates online. As the logistical and financial
 constraints of the crisis became clearer, SMLC attention turned to what medium and long-term
 opportunities our growing experience in live online collaboration may nonetheless present. We will
 explore in particular the possibilities for attracting speakers, audiences and non-academic
 beneficiaries to research events whose physical location or cost was previously prohibitive.

 Open Research Environment and Research Integrity

 A dedicated team at the Library offer support and training on all aspects of Open Access, from
 finding Open Access materials to publishing work openly. All author-versions of journal articles
 are placed in the Warwick Open Access institutional repository (WRAP), which represents an
 integral part of the University’s drive to open up access to its research (REF5a-2.10). Research
 projects with substantial public engagement or impact dimensions are publicised on webpages
 or social media (e.g. Astbury, Burns, Camilletti, Harrod, Hodkinson, Hooper, Lines, Menezes,
 Viala). Research Integrity training is readily available for all those involved in delivering,
 supervising or supporting research through the University’s Organisational Development unit
 (now using notably the Epigeum training tool – REF5a-2.11). Research integrity issues are
 discussed with sectional DoRs and the Faculty R&I support team, and the latter regularly give
 specialised ethics advice for specific projects (REF5a-1.7).




 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 The SMLC places the recruitment and development of outstanding staff, ECRs and postgraduate
 researchers at the heart of its mission (priority objective b above). It aims to promote inclusivity,
 equality and diversity within its staffing strategies as in the substance of its research.

 The SMLC is a highly diverse unit, with researchers of 10 nationalities bringing different cultural
 and linguistic perspectives to bear, and a female-male gender balance close to parity across all
 levels of indefinite contract (see ‘equality and diversity’ subsection below). There is a well-
 maintained structure of support for core research staff at all career stages (embedding the
 university’s endorsement of the UK Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 – REF5a-3.3). New academic staff members are assigned a senior mentor to guide them in their
 career development and integration into Warwick’s research networks, and are given additional
 support by sectional DoRs and the Faculty Research Development Manager. The Head of School
 also meets annually with all probationary staff to offer career and research advice. Mid-career
 colleagues receive mentoring and workshop support in balancing career demands. Research is a
 core area in appraisals carried out through annual Personal Development Reviews. All
 researchers have regular discussion with sectional DoRs. The annual research awayday provides
 a comprehensive framework in which to share and develop plans. Research activities and grant


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 management receive secretarial support from the SMLC office and the Faculty Research and
 Impact Services team in the Humanities Building. The School gains feedback from university staff
 surveys such as PULSE and responds to each iteration of the survey via an action plan.

 Since 2014, SMLC core staff recruitment strategy has focused primarily on the first two priority
 objectives outlined in section 1. As regards objective b, we have aimed to recruit outstanding staff
 across the career spectrum and with a diverse range of profiles. We recruited 11 Assistant
 Professors (2 since promoted to Associate Professor), 1 Associate Professor, and 2 Professors in
 the census period to date (5 different nationalities, and with female-male gender proportions
 respectively of 6:5, 0:1, 2:0). 10 out of the 12 appointments of current category A eligible staff that
 took place during the period have been on indefinite contracts (not counting ECRs on postdoctoral
 awards as detailed below). These appointments have enabled us to achieve a good balance of
 early, mid-career and senior research colleagues (at census date 8 assistant professors; 8
 associate professors; 6 readers; 15 full professors), with senior colleagues well placed to advise
 younger colleagues as they move into positions of research leadership and influence within and
 beyond the university (see section 4 for examples).

 As regards objective a, our new appointments have worked to integrate and consolidate the
 School structure. This has been attained by achieving critical mass in newer strategic areas
 (Hispanic Studies, Translation Studies, Film and Visual Studies), introducing a new language-
 culture within the School (Chinese), and maintaining sustainability and innovation in established
 areas of strength across the sections. Hispanic Studies, founded in 2012, has seen the
 appointments of Rabone and Whittaker in 2017, and later Castro and Coletta, bringing the staff
 quota to 7 core researchers. We have made a new strategic investment in Chinese literature and
 culture with the appointment of Liu. Translation Studies was comprehensively refounded with a
 strong transcultural focus through the arrival of Milani and Shortt in 2015, Amos in 2017, and the
 appointments of Liu and Castro in 2019. Our range in this area has thereby expanded through
 enhanced expertise in sociolinguistics, cultural exchange, and translation in print cultures. Film
 and Visual Studies also grew, with the 2014 addition of Harrod to complement Morrey’s French
 expertise, and Whittaker to extend our coverage to Hispanic film. Dessy deepened nineteenth-
 century capacity and extended our film work into visual studies more broadly. Rabone has added
 a Spanish strand to our established multilingual Renaissance expertise. Herrmann’s professorial
 appointment in 2018 has sharpened our focus on transnationalism and contemporary world
 literature. We extended our capacity in political thought and culture through the appointment of Le
 Goff in 2017. These appointments have carried forward the intent originally articulated in REF
 2014, before the foundation of the School itself, to ‘allow local diversities […] to flourish while
 providing the benefits of strategic integration and coordination’ (p.1).

 Our targeted efforts to recruit postdoctoral ECRs (objective b; cf also REF5a-3.1), underpinned by
 the guidance of the SMLC Research Committee, have been part of a strategic focus on
 sustainability, drawing on external funding sources to renew our research base and support the
 future of our disciplines. The SMLC hosted 33 postdoctoral fellows during the cycle (28 new
 awards, 5 overlapping from the previous cycle).19 of the new awards came through funding
 schemes for individual postdoctoral fellows attracted by a chosen mentor and environment: 6
 Leverhulme Early Career Fellows (Celati, Hartley, Pavlova, O’Donoghue, Oliver, Peters); 4 Marie
 Curie fellows (Martínez-Radio, Aloisi, Horstkotte, Cotugno, plus Perazzolo to start January 2021);
 2 BA postdoctoral fellows (Bazzoni and Janicka); 1 Newton International Fellowship (Lindner); 3
 fellows on the Warwick Interdisciplinary Research Leadership Programme supported by the EU
 under the Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions COFUND scheme (Hristova, Milonia, Wiese); 2 on
 MHRA Research Scholarships (Karcher, Rayfield, Paoli). 9 were integrated into larger AHRC and

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ERC funded research programmes, notably those directed by Lines, Astbury, Hooper and Burns.
 This combination of recruitment channels made a major contribution to the School’s intellectual
 culture: it consolidated strengths in Renaissance and early modern culture (Pegoretti, Puliafito,
 Lizzul, Muratori, Rayfield, Cotugno, Pavlova, Celati), Napoleonic performance (Hambridge,
 Tisdall, de Santis, Burdett, Perazzolo), and transnational or comparative approaches to modern
 languages study (Aloisi, Pretelli, Brinkmann, Wells, Santello, Lindner, Janicka, Peters, Hartley).
 At the same time, the SMLC nurtured a diversity of postdoctoral research work, including work
 from the medieval to the modern period in French (Barbieri, Milonia, Martínez-Radio),
 contemporary German culture and politics (Horstkotte, Karcher, Oliver), modern Italy (Wehling-
 Giorgi, Paoli, Bazzoni, Pretelli) and modern Hispanic studies (Hristova, O’Donoghue). All
 Postdoctoral ECFs are supported through regular contact with research mentors and consultation
 with SMLC and sectional DoRs. At university level, they have access to the resources,
 interdisciplinary networks and training programmes of the Institute for Advanced Study, dedicated
 expressly to nurturing Warwick’s postdoctoral community (REF5a-2.9.2). They are given office
 space within the Humanities Building, and are integrated into sectional, SMLC and cross-
 departmental research seminars, where they are also encouraged to present. They participate in
 research awaydays, are encouraged to develop their teaching portfolio, and are given
 opportunities to gain experience in organising events. Like other staff, they are supported by the
 Faculty’s Research and Impact Services Team.

 All post-probationary researchers benefit from research leave (1 term in every 7) in addition to
 externally funded leave (probationary staff have reduced teaching and administrative workloads).
 Applications are reviewed by an SMLC committee which ensures alignment with SMLC strategy.
 Supplementary leave arrangements are available for those returning from long-term parental leave
 (see below). Those engaged in impact case studies benefit from teaching remission and
 administrative support.

 Colleagues are further supported in achieving impact through mentorship and personal
 development review, discussion with School and sectional DoRs, advice and training from the
 Faculty’s Research and Impact team, and through dedicated internal funding channels (for details
 see section 3). Impact, outreach and public engagement are now core categories within the
 University’s promotion processes (REF5a-2.6), and these pathways to recognition have been
 embedded with the SMLC’s mentoring and appraisal procedures (during the review cycle, there
 were four promotions based substantially on impact work).

 Research Students

 The SMLC has a strong culture of attracting and nurturing PGR students (objective b), which is
 managed overall by a single Director of Graduate Studies, assisted by DGS representation in
 individual sections. From 2018-19, we were part of the successful AHRC Midlands4Cities
 consortium, where our contribution builds on the Faculty’s pre-existing Centre for Arts Doctoral
 Research Excellence (CADRE) (REF5a-3.9.3). Scholarship funding comes from the university
 Chancellor’s International and EU Scholarships schemes (11 awards held in the census period),
 CADRE and Wolfson schemes (14 in the census period), the AHRC-funded Midlands4Cities
 (M4C) Doctoral Training Partnership (1 since 2019), and the SMLC’s annual award of up to 3 PhD
 scholarships. SMLC researchers adopted positions of institutional leadership for PGR matters,
 notably as University Director of Graduate Studies (Palmowski, 2013-16) and Director of CADRE
 (Burns, 2018-present).



                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The SMLC’s community of PGR students in the census period averaged 34 students, with a total
 of 15 past and present students co-supervised with other departments (including notably 4 co-
 supervisions with other departments out of the 8 completed or ongoing PhDs supervised by SMLC
 colleagues through the Centre for the Study of the Renaissance). 54 PhDs were awarded in total
 (weighted figure taking account of co-supervisions 51.25). In addition to their supervisions
 (typically once a month for f/t students), all PGR students have regular meetings with the section
 DGS and Personal Tutor; they also undergo a yearly progress review with two academics other
 than the supervisor. They have a £150 annual research allowance and can apply for additional
 funding from the Humanities Research Fund. M4C students have access to a Research
 Development Fund (supporting primary research activities), an Engagement Fund (for
 professional development activity) and a Cohort Development Fund (supporting groups of M4C
 students to design training, development and research activities). SMLC students have very
 successfully applied to the Humanities Research Centre’s annual Doctoral Fellowship competition,
 resulting in 8 one-day interdisciplinary, student-organised workshops enhancing established
 SMLC research strengths (topics have included ‘Translating Philosophy and Theory’; ‘1968 Fifty
 Years Later’; ‘Rewriting the Body in Medieval Literature, Art and Culture’; ‘Redefining
 Postcolonialism from Peripheral Experiences’; ‘The Short Story Cycle’; ‘Print Culture and the
 Construction of Collective Identity, 1440-1660’; ‘Italy Made in England’; ‘Printing Text and Images
 in Italy, 1570 to 1800’).

 SMLC PGRs have dedicated working space above the Transnational Resources Centre in the
 Humanities Building. They also have access to CADRE-managed rooms on central campus, the
 Wolfson Research Exchange (University Library) and Postgraduate Hub (Senate House). PGRs
 engage with M4C training opportunities (delivered in part by the R&I Services Team), the
 university’s Master’s Skills Programme and the Doctoral College’s Researcher Development
 Programme, the CADRE portfolio of skills training and the IT platform SkillsForge. Further training
 in academic writing and other PGR-level study skills is available from the Learning and
 Development Centre and the Research Student Skills Programme, while the HRC and Centre for
 the Study of the Renaissance offer specialist transatlantic research travel and exchange
 opportunities (the Newberry Library and Johns Hopkins University), international summer schools
 and skills development courses (e.g. in collaboration with the Warburg Institute). Sessions and
 mentoring on teaching are offered by the SMLC, which also supports a yearly Postgraduate
 Symposium, organized by our PGRs in collaboration with the School DGS. This offers students
 the opportunity to gain experience in presenting their work and responding to audience questions.
 In 2019-20 Warwick’s SMLC joined the European doctoral programme ‘PhD-Net Literary and
 Cultural Studies’ of the Justus-Liebig Universität Gießen, with the Catholic University of Lisbon,
 the universities of Bergamo, Stockholm and Graz and the Finnish Graduate School in Helsinki.
 This was partially funded by the German Academic Exchange Service, and gives selected PGRs
 access to a network of jointly organised symposia, conferences, masterclasses, retreats and
 summer schools (the May 2020 symposium, scheduled to take place at Warwick, was hosted
 online).

 Equality and Diversity

 The SMLC promotes equality, diversity, dignity and inclusion through engagement with the
 university’s Equality Objectives (REF5a-3.4-5). Among colleagues on indefinite contracts, our
 gender balance is close to 50:50, with 19 female and 16 male staff. Within our postdoctoral
 research community, which currently stands at 9, the ratio is 8 women to 1 man. At professorial
 level on indefinite contracts, the ratio is 6 women to 8 men.


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We support the University’s core objective to tackle inequality in research careers with: training
 via project PIs, DoR mentoring, and access to the University’s Organisational Development unit
 support for research active staff (encompassing topics such as publication, leadership, impact,
 time management and research integrity training). We attend to sustainability though monitoring
 career progression for all researchers; personal development reviews including sections on
 research goals and support requirements; and through attention to appointments across the
 career spectrum (see above). The HoS and sectional Heads support colleagues in preparing
 promotion applications, while the university runs open workshops on promotion processes. All
 researchers are protected by the university’s policies regarding protected characteristics, and they
 may take advantage of the university’s arrangements for flexible working (3 researchers have
 moved on to part-time contracts during the period, with a further case approved in July 2020). 3
 SMLC researchers have benefitted from the university’s Academic Returners Fellowship scheme,
 which offers a dedicated period of research leave following long-term parental leave (REF5a-3.4).
 Colleagues can apply for career breaks of up to 2 years to accommodate family or other personal
 circumstances (3 further colleagues have benefitted from this). T-focussed colleagues are
 supported in sustaining research engagement, and can use the promotions process to move to a
 T&R strand (e.g. Coletta and Milani; see REF5a-3.3).

 The REF submission was developed in line with the University Code of Practice to ensure
 transparency, consistency, fairness, inclusion and accountability (REF5a-3.5, 3.7). The output
 portfolio was constructed through deliberation within the SMLC Research Committee and with the
 University’s REF-SSG committee (both had gender parity). All outputs by eligible staff were
 considered equally, with internal and external readers selected on the basis of expertise and
 overall gender parity. The HoS and DoR undertook training in REF-related equality and diversity
 issues. The submission as a whole was subject at each significant stage to equality impact
 assessment by the REF-SSG committee.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Funding strategy and links to quality research outputs and impact

 We have focused on a broad spectrum of grant capture as befits the diversity of our research
 portfolio. Early-career colleagues have been encouraged to build funding profiles that will enhance
 their research production. More senior researchers are supported in developing ambitious projects
 that build on their established profiles and lead to new high-quality work. Most projects are
 designed to include significant impact or engagement dimensions. The SMLC obtained 41
 successful awards during the cycle from a range of funders (the ERC, EU Marie Curie scheme,
 AHRC, BA, Leverhulme Trust, Wellcome Trust, Royal Society, MHRA, and the Staatliche
 Kunstsammlungen Dresden). Total research income received across the cycle amounted to £4.48
 million. This was a clear 66% increase compared to the previous REF cycle, when total research
 income amounted to £2.7m.

 Research and impact in the Arts Faculty is supported by a dedicated Research & Impact Services
 team, co-located in the Humanities building, which offers training, workshops and individual advice
 on grant applications and oversees administration for funded projects (REF5a-1.7). The team has
 significant expertise in EU funding, provides access to a large database of successful applications,
 and directs staff members to internal funds and training for evidencing impact. SMLC participation
 in termly meetings of the Arts Faculty Research and Impact Committee provides opportunities for
 the exchange of research news. Funding plans form a regular component of SMLC Research


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Committee meetings, annual personal development reviews, awaydays and meetings between
 colleagues and sectional directors of research.

 Established researchers have pursued a number of major externally funded research projects.
 These demonstrate the efficacy of our strategic commitment to building strengths in literary,
 philosophical and performance history; critical and postcolonial theory; and the study of
 transcultural and translingual exchanges. These projects built on and issued in high quality
 research outputs and impact work submitted as part of our REF 2021 submission. Astbury
 received primary and follow-on funding from the AHRC between 2013 and 2017 (£540K) to pursue
 a multifaceted programme of work on French Theatre of the Napoleonic Era, with a subsequent
 Marie Curie fellowship and English Heritage funding for impact work. Lines has built on a platform
 established by his earlier work as PI on the AHRC-funded project ‘Vernacular Aristotelianism in
 Renaissance Italy’ (2010-2014, £500K). During the current cycle, he has managed the Warwick
 component (£588K) of an ERC Starting Grant on ‘Aristotle in the Italian Vernacular: Rethinking
 Renaissance and Early Modern Intellectual History’ (2014-2019), in partnership with Ca’ Foscari
 in Venice, and overseen as PI a Leverhulme International Network based in the Centre for the
 Study of the Renaissance on Renaissance Conflict and Rivalries (2012-2015). Hooper was PI for
 a major AHRC Research Grant on ‘Imperial Entanglements: Transoceanic Basque Networks in
 British and Spanish Colonialism and their Legacy’ (2016-19, £401K) and was awarded in 2019 a
 3-year Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship on ‘Hispanic London: Culture, Commerce and
 Community in the 19th-Century City’ (£173K). Fraiture was awarded in 2019 a Senior Research
 Fellowship (£125K) to contribute to a £2M ERC Consolidator Grant (2020-2025) on ‘Philosophy
 and Genres: Creating a Textual Basis for African Philosophy’, in collaboration with colleagues from
 SOAS, Charles University (Prague), and the Institut National des Langues et Civilisations
 Orientales (Paris). Davis led in collaboration with Hector Kollias from KCL an AHRC Major
 Research Grant on ‘Queer Theory in France’ (2012-2015). Burns was CI on two large collaborative
 AHRC grants on transnationalising modern languages, focusing on ‘Mobility, Identity and
 Translation in Modern Italian Cultures’ (2014-2016, Warwick component £645K, a ‘beacon’
 project) and then on ‘Global Challenges’ relating to this theme (2016-2017, Warwick component
 £8K).

 Other major projects by established researchers are in earlier stages of development. Menezes
 has attracted networking grants to develop research and impact work on Chilean exiles (AHRC
 2016-19, £42K; British Council and Museo de la Memoria y los Derechos Humanos, 2016, £5K)
 and on a Virtual Museum of the Spanish Civil War (Canadian Social Sciences and Humanities
 Research Council Connection Grant with Professors Cazorla-Sánchez and Shubert, 2015-16,
 $10,000CAD and $33,000 CAD in 2020-2021). Schmitz was awarded a Leverhulme grant (£55K)
 in May 2020 for his project on ‘Resonances: Love and Intimacy in Contemporary German
 Language Literature’. Other major pipeline projects by established staff that are likely to issue
 soon in major grant applications include Campbell (gender and sexuality in medieval French
 bestiaries); Morrey (toxic masculinity in contemporary French literature); Davis (contemporary
 technologies of care and control).

 Staff at earlier career stages are encouraged to develop funding pipelines to build platforms and
 networks for research projects. Wilson received a British Academy Rising Star Engagement Award
 (£10K, 2015-17) for work on ‘Addiction and Culture since 1800’, supplemented by an award from
 the AHRC 10th Anniversary Cultural Engagement Fund (‘Psychoactivity and the Law’, 2016, £25K).
 This work led to a Leverhulme Research Fellowship in 2018-19 (£35K) and a Cornell University
 Press contract for a monograph on morphine in French culture. Harrod secured a British Academy
 Rising Star Engagement Award for work on romance and bonding in contemporary culture (£8K,

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2018-2019), and built on this to secure a larger AHRC Networking Grant for work on the ‘post-
 national popular’ in mainstream French films and television series (2019-2021, £36K Warwick
 component). Vanhaelen received a Leverhulme Research Fellowship in 2017 for a project on Plato
 and his followers in sixteenth-century Italy (£31K split SMLC/Classics). Castro is pursuing a project
 on stateless cultures in transition, focussed on the case of 21st century Basque, Galician and
 Catalan literatures in the UK, and funded by a BA Small Research Grant (2018-2020, £9.3K; 2K
 Warwick component).

 Staff obtained external funding to enhance research with an impact dimension (in addition to the
 work by Astbury and Lines above). Viala secured a BA Small Research Grant to investigate
 reparations of slavery in the French Caribbean (2015-16, £7K). Hodkinson secured co-funding
 from Arts Council England for artists working on his ‘Reimagining Islam’ project (2016-19, £20K).
 Camilletti obtained a BA Small Research Grant for research into fantasmagoria, transnational
 Gothic and ‘Occulture’ (2018-19, £7K), and completed a project on Roman modernities (AHRC
 Networking Grant, 2012-15, £39K).

 As detailed in section 2, the SMLC has successfully targetted substantial funding for hosting
 postdoctoral fellows, through both established schemes for individual researchers (£1,840K in
 total), and integration as research assistants into major funded projects.

 Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact

 In addition to external funding, staff can draw on several internal funding streams and a personal
 allowance of £500. These streams provide initial and supplementary support for projects, augment
 their impact capacity, and respond to short-term opportunities. The University’s Research
 Development Fund provides pump-priming for innovative strategic research initiatives (notably
 Lines, ‘Conflict and Resolution in a Divided Europe’, £17K, 2016; Panichelli, ‘Aid as Empowerment
 in South-South Co-operation’, £21K, 2018). The Faculty’s Humanities Research Fund provides
 numerous small amounts for conference and research travel, but also on occasion more
 substantial funding for specific projects (£83K over the cycle, including £26K of impact funding).
 The Global Research Priorities programme provides funding for appropriately focussed projects.
 The SMLC has benefitted especially from its ‘Connecting Cultures’ strand, co-led by Menezes
 (funding totalling 73K across the cycle for some 50 projects – examples ‘The Linguistic Landscape
 of Polynesia’ and ‘Live Digital Arts and Community Connection at a Time of Social Distancing’).
 Colleagues have benefitted from the Warwick Impact Fund (165K – beneficiaries Astbury,
 Hodkinson, Viala), Public Engagement Fund (4K – Menezes, Camilletti, Castro, Panichelli) and
 Warwick Ventures Fund (Hodkinson, £5K). Finally, international collaboration is facilitated through
 an International Partnerships Fund (De Smet and Lines, Johns Hopkins University, £10K;
 Menezes for work with peace practitioners in Bogotá and Medellín, £9K). Such collaboration is
 also promoted through Institute for Advanced Studies schemes for inviting international colleagues
 to Warwick as well as more general research support (see examples of IAS funding below).

 Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure

 At present the SMLC is housed in the Humanities Building, which also houses the SMLC’s
 Transnational Resources Centre, with an extensive multilingual DVD collection (over 4000 items)
 and viewing facilities. This is supported by a dedicated technician, and is an invaluable research
 facility. In Autumn 2021, the Faculty of Arts will move into a new, purpose-built building. This £59M
 investment will bring the advantage of the School being consolidated on one floor rather than its
 current spread in cellular offices distributed across three floors. It will also provide an enhanced

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 working environment for postdoctoral and PhD researchers, who will benefit from SMLC
 collaborative study spaces as well as Faculty PGR provision. The new building gives directly on
 to a renovated and expanded University Arts Centre, due to open in 2021 with state-of-the-art
 facilities for screen projection, theatre, music, dance and public events. The concomitant opening
 of these two architectural developments, given the multiple public-facing venues offered by the
 Arts Centre, will facilitate the integration of SMLC public impact and engagement activities
 (REF5a-4.2, 4.3.3).

 The University Library continues to grow its collection of books, journals and electronic resources
 (2013-2020 spend of £610K for SMLC, plus access to a wide range of cross-disciplinary
 packages). There are subject librarians for each language, who advise on acquisitions, databases
 and searches. Electronic resources are increasingly comprehensive, from historical sources such
 as Early European Books to contemporary multilingual media databases such as Europresse and
 Nexis, and academic portals such as CAIRN and Torrossa (providing substantial access to French
 and Italian academic journals). Its Special Collections contain over 16,000 rare and early
 publications in English, French, German, Italian and Latin. The library holds the unique Marandet
 collection of over 2,000 eighteenth- and nineteenth-century French plays, extensively digitised
 with a £69k JISC grant (2008). It has an unusually wide-ranging collection of postwar German
 literature and contains the outstanding Harmssen collection, a visual archive of material from the
 Weimar and Nazi periods that also comprises 700 rare monographs and reference works.
 Holdings in Hispanic Studies have been enhanced by generous donations from Canning House.
 Holdings in Italian Studies are similarly strong, partly through acquisitions in early years of the
 libraries of eminent scholars.

 The Modern Records Centre, the largest academic archive in the UK, attached to the library, has
 played a key role in facilitating research and impact projects. The MRC’s digitisation of the
 Marandet collection has been a decisive feature in the development of Astbury’s research on
 Napoleonic theatre. Menezes received £3K in 2019 from the Institute of Advanced Study to
 produce a digitised portfolio of material relating to Chilean Solidarity held in the MRC for an online
 public engagement resource and exhibition (the MRC contains significant material relating to the
 Spanish Civil and Chilean solidarity campaigns). The MRC hosted Camilletti’s exhibition on
 ‘Vampires over Italy’ (2018) as part of his BA-funded project ‘Fantasmagoria and the Others’.
 Wardhaugh organised in February 2020 a student-curated public exhibition at the MRC on
 ‘Occupied France: Collaboration, Resistance, Remembrance’, combining texts from the MRC and
 items from private collections. The MRC has helped Astbury, Camilletti and Wardhaugh to make
 original documentation available for student research projects.

 The Institute for Advanced Study represents a pillar of the University’s promotion of
 interdisciplinary research and attraction of eminent international scholars (REF5a-2.9.2). In
 addition to its extensive work nurturing the postdoctoral community at Warwick (see section 2), it
 provides pre-viva bridging funding for doctoral students. It has won EU funding for a postdoctoral
 Warwick Interdisciplinary Research Leadership scheme (SMLC awardees Hristova, Milonia,
 Wiese). It offers pump-priming support for preliminary research and impact work (16K awarded,
 beneficiaries Camilletti, Wilson, Menezes, Stone, Fraiture, Wiese). Colleagues across the SMLC,
 from early career to established scholars, likewise made intensive use of the opportunity to bring
 a wide range of scholars from abroad to Warwick under the IAS international visiting fellow and
 residential fellowships schemes (13K awarded). These fellowships enhanced the vitality and
 diversity of the research environment, and allowed the SMLC to raise its profile in the areas of
 translation studies, postcolonial studies and film cultures. Shortt and Milani brought the writer
 Dubravka Ugrešić in 2018 (for a programme of events on writing, identity, publishing and

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 translation). Campbell brought Prof. Srinka Stahuljak to Warwick in 2019 (translation in the Middle
 Ages and beyond). Hooper brought Dr Lisa Surwillo from Stanford University in 2014 (transatlantic
 Hispanophone connections within the nineteenth-century Spanish empire). Fraiture brought Prof
 Grant Farred from Cornell University in 2016 and Prof Maëline Le Lay from Sciences Po Bordeaux
 in 2017 (postcolonial and African thought). Fraiture was also awarded pump-priming support of
 £4K by the IAS to run an international networking workshop on ‘Central Africa and Belgium: Empire
 and Postcolonial Resonances’ in May 2020 (postponed and held online in September). Panichelli
 brought Dr Theobald Theodory from Mzumbe University in 2019 (South-South Cooperation within
 the Tanzania healthcare sector). Burns invited the film-maker Alina Marazzi for a fellowship in
 2014. Harrod brought Dr. Charlie Michael from Emory University in 2018 (French film). Rabone
 was granted funding to bring Prof Laura Bass from Brown in July 2020 (urban life, identity and
 literary prestige in early modern Spain; postponed). In a similar vein to these IAS-funded projects,
 the HRF awarded £1500 to Herrmann and Schmitz for a programme with the German social
 theorist Prof Hartmut Rosa on ‘Resonance: Social Theory and the Good Life’ in February 2020,
 and funding to Liu and Milani to bring Prof Jonathan Stalling from Oklahoma for a programme on
 translation and Chinese literature in June 2020 (postponed).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Approach to collaboration

 Modern Languages research is inherently interdisciplinary, since it brings together literary,
 linguistic, historical, philosophical, cultural, political, and visual studies in a way not matched by
 most other departments. It is also by its substantive focus inherently open to cultures and
 discourses beyond its national institutional setting. The SMLC at Warwick aims to champion both
 these features of Modern Languages research in the                range and forms of its collaborations,
 networks and partnerships, both within and beyond academia. It therefore provides leadership for
 and has deep ties to several of Warwick’s interdisciplinary programmes, centres, and seminar
 series (see section 1). It also pursues a wide range of funded and more informal external
 collaborations, for which those internal interdisciplinary programmes and ventures often provide
 platforms.

 Successful research collaborations

 Colleagues in the SMLC led on major institutional partnerships. Lines and De Smet developed a
 partnership between the Centre for the Study of the Renaissance and the Singleton Centre, Johns
 Hopkins University, including PhD student exchanges, and were strongly involved in the extensive
 Chicago-based Newberry Library Consortium of universities, with opportunities for early career
 researcher visits. Lines represented the CSR on the steering group for the Monash-led Prato
 Consortium for Medieval and Renaissance Studies. The CSR (particularly Lines and de Smet) has
 been the sole British partner in the project Renaissances. Mots et usages d’une catégorie
 historiographique led by the Université Paris Nanterre and Université Paris 8. Herrmann
 established the SMLC’s membership of the European PhDNet ‘Literary and Cultural Studies’, a
 three-year doctoral programme with six European universities (see section 2). Hand was
 institutional lead in the creation of the EUTOPIA alliance of universities (Gothenburg, Vrije
 Universiteit Brussel, Paris Seine, Pompeu Fabra, Ljubljana and Warwick). Warwick was the
 alliance’s instigator, and one of only 3 UK universities to be involved in the 17 university alliances
 chosen by the EU (REF5a-2.12.1). The alliance received EU awards of €5 million (2019) and €2
 million (July 2020). As it developed, SMLC colleagues (Hand, De Smet, Astbury, Ahearne) began


                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaboration with Paris Seine (a workshop with over 50 researchers from both universities was
 held in Warwick in 2019.). Palmowski contributed to founding the Guild of European Research-
 Intensive Universities in 2016 (comprising nineteen leading universities in fourteen countries), and
 was seconded from 2018 as the Guild’s Secretary-General. Under Palmowski’s leadership, the
 Guild was one of the premier university networks to engage with Erasmus Plus, with its most
 consistent call being for the strengthening of foreign languages in universities as part of student
 mobility.

 Colleagues participate in many formal and informal research networks spanning the geographical
 and cultural range of the School’s sections. A key indicator of the success of such collaboration
 was its consistent strategic integration into externally funded research projects – notably those
 already detailed in the paragraphs on grant income in section 3, both substantial (Lines, Fraiture,
 Burns, Davis) and exploratory (Menezes, Harrod, Camilletti).

 The organisation of academic conferences has been a prime channel for extended collaboration
 across institutions and countries. The School was successful in obtaining competitive funding for
 many of these, in the context of both major grants and emergent projects. We focused particularly
 on themes of translation and transnational studies, in keeping with our strategic priority to expand
 these research strengths. Lines co-organised conferences on ‘Medieval and Renaissance
 Vernacular Philosophy’ (Warwick, November 2013), on translating philosophy in the fifteenth and
 sixteenth centuries (Warwick, May 2017), ‘I confini dell’aristotelismo volgare tra medioevo e
 rinascimento’ (Venice, 2019), and on ‘Writing Bilingually in Early Modern Europe’ (Warburg
 Institute, 2019). Burns co-organised conferences on ‘Transnational Italies’ at the British School of
 Rome (2018) and on ‘Transnational Modern Languages’ at the Italian Cultural Institute in London
 (2016). Castro co-organised a conference on translating women in the English-language book
 industry (Institute of Modern Languages Research, 2019, funded by Cassal Trust and Open World
 Research Initiative), and also a BA/Leverhulme-funded workshop on ‘Stateless Cultures in
 Translation’ (originally June 2020, now 2021). Campbell organised an Erasmus-funded workshop
 on ‘Approaches to Translation’ (Warwick, 2015). Other thematic strands that attracted external
 conference funding included film and visual studies, memory studies, and medical humanities.
 Harrod organised two conferences on ‘Imagining “We” in the Age of “I”’ in 2018 and 2019 as part
 of her BA Rising Star programme, and co-organised a (postponed) study day on ‘Global
 Gallicisms’ at KCL for March 2020 as part of an AHRC Network on ‘Producing the Post-National
 Popular’. Whittaker co-organised in 2018 a symposium on Iberian sound cultures at the Institute
 of Modern Languages Research (supported by the Open World Research Initiative). Menezes
 organised in 2018 an AHRC-funded conference on Chilean exiles and the World University
 Service at the Museum of Memory and Human Rights, Santiago. Wilson organised
 interdisciplinary workshops at Warwick on ‘Addiction and Culture since 1800’ (2015) and
 ‘Prohibition: Humanities Perspectives’ (2016). Internal funding has also been available for
 exploratory collaboration with external partners. In addition to the IAS fellowship programmes of
 events detailed in section 3, Campbell organised an internally funded conference in 2015 on
 reassessing medieval courtliness (with support from the Society of French Studies), and Davis
 organised a conference in Venice in 2017 on ‘Freedom and the Subject of Theory’. Davis, Hewlett
 and Ahearne obtained seed funding in 2019 for a research collaboration with the School of
 Languages at Monash University entitled ‘The Ends of Autonomy: the Past, Present and Future
 of Freedom’, involving three-day exploratory workshops shifted to virtual platforms in July and
 December 2020.

 Interaction with research beneficiaries, contributions to wider society and public engagement


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Interaction with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences has been embedded in research
 projects across the School, with flagship impact projects operating as pathmakers. As stated in
 section 1, our three overriding objectives for impact have been to change public understandings,
 to create new spaces for intercultural dialogue, and to influence public policy. We achieved these
 objectives by combining three methodological strands: a) bringing research to new publics
 through emphasis on performance; b) work with transnationally framed cultural communities to
 create new spaces for dialogue and visibility; and c) expert contribution to arts and heritage
 organisations to enrich their provision for the public. In our impact case studies, these three
 methodological strands have been represented by: Astbury’s work on historical theatrical
 performance with Portchester Castle and English Heritage (primarily strand a); Hodkinson’s work
 on re-imaginging Islam, with its national and international touring exhibition and Two Chairs
 programme across multiple venues, notably Coventry, Birmingham, Woking and Stockholm, his
 work with community-based artists and repurposing of established exhibition sites, and his
 development of the ‘Congregate’ livestream programme with Birmingham-based Soul City Arts
 during the 2020 lockdown period (primarily strand b); the work of Viala using Caribbean art
 heritage with black communities through exhibitions at the Belgrade Theatre, Coventry and
 University of Warwick Arts Centre, collaboration at a local school with a high proportion of BAME
 pupils and with ACE Dance School, Birmingham and Untold Dance School, Amsterdam (primarily
 strand b); the exhibition and outreach work of Lines and his team on philosophy across languages
 in Renaissance Europe with the Biblioteca Nazionale Marciana, the Dresden State Art Collections
 and Coventry Cathedral (primarily strand c). These researchers shared their experiences with
 colleagues, notably at annual awaydays. Astbury and Hodkinson became impact advisors beyond
 the institution, with Astbury addressing a postgraduate professional development audience in
 Nottingham (2017), and Hodkinson speaking at Hull, Nottingham, the Association of German
 Studies, and also at UCD in Ireland and Monash in Australia; Hodkinson published an article about
 impact for a special edition of German Life and Letters (2018). Astbury is co-lead on a new cross-
 faculty undergraduate module on public engagement to start in 2020, and sits on the University’s
 Research Impact Advisory Group (REF5a-2.6).

 Other work in the SMLC building on established research strengths engaged in a range of ways
 with beneficiaries beyond academia. Astbury extended her work on Napoleonic culture beyond
 the Portchester Castle/English Heritage project, presenting talks and performances with partners
 such as the British Museum, the Cheltenham Music Festival, the Warwick Town History Festival,
 the Oxford Lieder Festival, and the Georgian Theatre Royal, Richmond. Building on Astbury’s
 work on historical performance, Camilletti has promoted a new approach to Gothic fiction. He has
 pioneered a unique collaboration with Italian-based historical magician and writer, Mariano
 Tomatis, and has organised events combining book launches, magic and ghost-story laboratories,
 film screenings, performances and exhibitions across multiple locations (London, Oxford,
 Birmingham, Warwick, the British Library, Rome, Ancona, Bologna, Macerata, Milan, the Villa
 Diodati, Malta).

 Other researchers extended Hodkinson’s and Viala’s approaches to working with transnationally
 framed local cultural communities. Burns’ funded work on transnationalizing modern languages
 involved twelve public workshops at Sandwell Arts Centre and the Ikon Gallery in Birmingham on
 ‘Writing Across Languages and Cultures’, and a further workshop at the Ikon Gallery within the
 national ‘Being Human’ festival. She co-organized the exhibition ‘Beyond Borders. Transnational
 Italy’ at the British School at Rome (2016); Italian Cultural Institute, London, (2016-17); Calandra
 Institute, New York (2017); CoAsIt Association, Melbourne (2017); Italian Embassy, Addis Ababa
 (2017). Burns also designed a creative writing workshop for adults in Namibia (delivered in March
 2017 by the Birmingham-based Somali diasporic writer Shirin Ramzanali Fazel, who also worked

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with Burns on the Birmingham workshops). Menezes used AHRC network funding to develop work
 on Chilean refugee diasporas and the World University Service. This involved an exhibition at the
 Warwick Modern Records Centre; public seminars at the Santiago Museum of Memory and
 Human Rights (2016 and 2018); public poetry and music performance evenings at the University
 of Warwick Arts Centre (2017 and 2018); a feature on the BBC One Show (2018). She was also
 awarded £5000 by the IAS for 2020/21 to develop public engagement work with the Association
 of Former Prisoners of Chacabuco (postponed). Panichelli created an archive for life stories of
 Cuban healthcare professionals and conducted annual lectures at the University of Birmingham
 for medical students embarking on internships abroad. Hooper coordinated the Hispanic Liverpool
 Project, working with a group of around 100 Hispanic Liverpool research users and collating the
 online Hispanic Liverpool Community Collection, designed to showcase memories of Liverpool’s
 forgotten Hispanic communities. Hand served as expert consultant in 2014 for the Football
 Association in tribunals judging anti-semitic semiotics across different national settings. He was
 retained as expert in the establishment of regulatory definitions, and five other preliminary
 investigations.

 Several researchers extended the work of Lines and his team in collaborating on the basis of
 established expertise with arts and heritage organisations (in addition to the work with museums
 and galleries indicated just above). Campbell contributed work on medieval bestiaries to an
 exhibition catalogue at the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles (‘The Bestiary Reimagined’,
 Book of Beasts: The Bestiary in the Medieval World, ed. Morrison, 2019), where she gave a talk
 at a public symposium. She also provided a contribution on de Thaon’s bestiary to the AHRC
 Translating Cultures Online Exhibition (2019). Fraiture contributed a chapter on African art to the
 catalogue of a high-profile exhibition held at the National Gallery of Denmark and the Centre
 Pompidou in Paris (Sonia Ferlov Mancoba: Mask and Face, Copenhagen: Statens Museum For
 Kunst, 2019). Menezes worked with the Centre for Historical Memory, Salamanca, Spain through
 a Canadian Research Council connection grant for a Virtual Museum of the Spanish Civil War.
 Castro organised a (postponed) public engagement forum for independent publishers in June
 2020 on ‘British Publishers and the Translation of Basque, Catalan and Galician literatures.’
 Achinger and Whittaker gave public talks at the Deutsches Historisches Museum (on antisemitism
 and the films of Querejeta). Achinger gave a public talk on antisemitism at an event in Wittenberg
 organised by the German Evangelical Church, and took part in a public round-table discussion on
 German representations of work at the Literaturhaus Berlin. Harrod gave 3 public talks and 1 panel
 appearance at the British Film Institute, a talk at the MIT museum, and a five-week adult education
 course on the New Wave at Boston’s Coolidge Theatre, together with talks at the Warwick Arts
 Centre and Stoke Screens Film Club. As academic director of Warwick in Venice (2015-2018), De
 Smet coordinated a roster of events, often in collaboration with local partners such as Ca’Foscari
 university (e.g. Art Night), the Fondazione Cini, Venice International University, Venice in Peril and
 others. Dessy participated in public roundtables at the Mead Gallery, University of Warwick and
 delivered a talk on the Nabis at the Barber Institute of Fine Arts (Birmingham).

 Colleagues disseminated insights from their work in public media, particularly at moments of
 topical relevance. Hand’s intervention on anti-semitic symbols in British football was the object of
 national and international coverage. Hand joined the editorial board of The Conversation in 2018,
 where Astbury, Harrod and Panichelli published pieces (some of Harrod’s articles featured
 subsequently in national media). Davis conducted public media work on the policing of the gilets
 jaunes protests in 2018-19 (France 24, China Global TV, Russia TV, CNBC Arabiya). Astbury
 contributed to BBC programmes (In Our Time features on Germaine de Staël and Marie-
 Antoinette, World Service discussion of Napoleon). SMLC researchers conducted public
 engagement through schools outreach work, giving pupils access to research material beyond the

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 curriculum. Astbury worked with pupils from year 6 (stop-motion video competitions marking the
 Fall of the Bastille and the 100 days) to year 13 (A-level study days and summer schools). She
 published the fruits of her experience in a chapter on Teaching Representations of the French
 Revolution (MLA, 2019) and a Modern History Review article for A-level students. Campbell
 delivered sessions on medieval culture and translation for Y10-Y13 pupils at schools and at
 Warwick (including a Sutton Trust summer school). Harrod delivered an Outreach event at
 Warwick in March 2020 on Les Intouchables. Wardhaugh organised a workshop for secondary
 school children on satirical depictions of Marianne in the Third Republic. Burns gave several talks
 in schools on Italian literature, cinema and migration, and guest lectures for a 6th-form European
 Day of Languages in 2017 and a national teachers development day in London in 2018.

 Contributions to the sustainability of the research base and indicators of influence

 SMLC researchers made manifold contributions to the sustainability of the Modern Languages
 research base and its ties with the research base of other disciplines. Burns was joint Senior Editor
 of Italian Studies (2011-2016, with Gilson who was then at Warwick). Dessy is co-chief editor of
 sociology of literature journal COnTEXTES. Whittaker was Assistant Editor of the Bulletin of
 Hispanic Studies, 2011-2017, and Reviews Editor of Studies in Spanish and Latin American
 Cinemas. Harrod became Co-Chief General Editor of French Screen Studies in 2020. De Smet
 was editor-in-chief of the Renaissance Studies of America Texts & Studies series, 2015-2018, and
 remains on the editorial board. Herrmann co-edits the book series Edition Gegenwart – Beiträge
 zur neuesten deutschsprachigen Literatur und Kultur, OKAPI Berlin. Wardhaugh was reviews
 editor for Contemporary European History and Society News Editor and then Associate Editor for
 French History.

 SMLC researchers sat during the current cycle on the editorial or advisory boards of many
 sectionally focused modern languages journals: Modern and Contemporary France (Davis);
 French Forum (Fraiture); Galicia 21: Journal of Contemporary Galician Studies and Romance
 Quarterly (Castro); Journal of Spanish Cultural Studies and Modern Languages Open (Hooper),
 International Journal of Iberian Studies (Menezes); Italian Studies and Italian Culture and
 Quaderni d’italianistica (Camilletti); Studi Francesi (Astbury). The SMLC has a strong presence
 among the editorial teams of early-period journals: Exemplaria: A Journal of Theory in Medieval
 and Renaissance Studies (Campbell); Chartae neolatinae, Lias, Humanistica Lovaniensia (De
 Smet); Renaissance Studies (De Smet and Vanhaelen); Renaissance Quarterly, Documenta,
 Annali di storia delle università italiane, Mediaevalia et Humanistica: Studies in Medieval and
 Renaissance Culture (Lines). It has an equally strong presence in comparatively focused or cross-
 disciplinary journals: International Journal of Cultural Policy (Ahearne); Comparative Literature &
 World Literature (Liu); Textyles (Dessy); Études Littéraires Africaines (Fraiture); Sophia, Carnets
 Leiris and Monash Romance Studies (Hand); Film-Philosophy (Morrey); Critical Historical Studies
 (Achinger); La Colmena and European Journal of Sustainable Development Research
 (Panichelli); Alternautas - (Re)Searching Development (Coletta). The researchers of the SMLC
 carried out reviews during the current cycle for some 102 journals, of which around 57% were for
 Modern Languages journals and 43% for those of other disciplines.

 SMLC researchers sat on the boards for book series covering a range of individual language and
 cross-linguistic domains : Critical Editions of French Texts, Liverpool Online Series (Astbury);
 Francophone Postcolonial Studies, LUP (Fraiture); Stockholm German and Dutch Studies
 (Herrmann); Cadernos CIPPCE sobre Emerxencia Cultural, Universidade de Santiago de
 Compostela, La Cuestión Palpitante: Los siglos XVIII y XIX en España, Iberoamericana-Vervuert
 Verlag and Migrations & Identities, LUP (Hooper); Foro Hispánico, Brill/Leiden (Menezes);

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Transnational Modern Languages, LUP (Burns); Explorations in Medieval Culture, Brill and Bodies
 in the City, 1100-1800, Routledge (Campbell); Moving Image, Legenda (Whittaker); Studies on
 the Faculty of Arts: History and Influence, Brepols; Cursor Mundi Monograph Series, UCLA Center
 for Medieval and Renaissance Studies, Brepols; and Italianistica-Nuova serie, Edizioni Ca’ Foscari
 (Lines).

 SMLC staff made significant national and international contributions to their disciplines. In the
 census period, 12 served as assessors for International Research Councils and equivalent
 committees (Australia, Austria, Belgium, Croatia, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Lithuania, Poland,
 European Union), 7 as AHRC Peer Review College members. Staff acted as assessors for 11
 professorial posts at other HEIs, as external examiners for 60 PhD submissions (30 abroad), and
 as examiners for 3 habilitations in European universities. In addition to a very wide range of
 standard conference contributions, workshops and panel participations, staff have given some 25
 keynotes, 72 invited lectures or plenaries, and 63 guest research seminar presentations (84
 altogether of these events took place abroad).

 SMLC researchers served in prestigious positions such as President of the International
 Association for Neo-Latin Studies (De Smet) and discipline representative for the Renaissance
 Society of America (De Smet, Lines); Chair of the UK Society for Caribbean Studies (Viala);
 President, Founding Executive Committee of the MLA Galician Studies Forum (Hooper); Vice-
 President of Women in Spanish, Portuguese and Latin American Studies (Menezes). Herrmann
 is Chair of the permanent Tenure Board, Humboldt University of Berlin. Hand was appointed Vice-
 Chair of the Marie Skłodowska-Curie Individual Fellowships competition in June 2020. Colleagues
 sat on executive committees for subject associations: Society for French Studies (Davis,
 Campbell); Association pour l’Étude des Littératures Africaines and Society for Francophone
 Postcolonial Studies (Fraiture); Society for French History (Wardhaugh); Association of Hispanists
 of Great Britain and Ireland (Hooper); Society for Italian Studies (Burns). They sat on standing
 scientific and programming committees for field-leading international conferences: the
 International Conference for Cultural Policy Research (Ahearne) and the Leeds International
 Medieval Congress (Campbell). Two staff members are Fellows of the British Academy (Hill, de
 Smet – the latter elected to Council in July 2020); three are Alexander von Humboldt fellows
 (Herrmann, Lines, Palmowski); two are fellows of the Academia Europaea (De Smet, Hand); one
 is a committee member and trustee of the MHRA (Astbury). Others have been elected
 corresponding fellows of learned academies: the Académie Royale des Sciences d’Outre-Mer,
 Belgium (Fraiture); Real Academia Galega (Hooper); Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti
 (Lines).

 SMLC researchers held visiting fellowships at universities abroad (Astbury, University of Milan;
 Campbell, Fordham University Center for Medieval Studies; Harrod, Visiting Scholar in
 Comparative Media Studies and Writing, Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Panichelli,
 Centre for Latin American Studies, University of Miami; Lines, Istituto di Studi Avanzati, University
 of Bologna; Hodkinson, German Studies at Monash). Early-career researchers were recognised
 by academic prize committees for books published in 2015 (Dessy, Prix du musée d’Orsay) and
 2017 (Harrod, British Academy of Film, Television and Screen Studies Best Edited Collection Prize
 2019; Harrod’s 2014 monograph was shortlisted by the same organisation for its Best Monograph
 award). Stone’s monograph was short-listed for the Canadian Waterloo Centre for German
 Studies Prize for first-time authors. Two researchers won British Academy Rising Star
 Engagement awards (Harrod, Wilson).



                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our collaborative arrangements for PGR training, detailed earlier in this section and in section 2,
 received significant national and international recognition. These include our participation in the
 AHRC Midlands4Cities Doctoral Training Programme; the SMLC’s membership since 2019 of
 the German Academic Exchange Service part-funded European doctoral programme PhD-Net
 ‘Literary and Cultural Studies’; the development from 2020 of co-tutelle arrangements between
 the Centre for the Study of the Renaissance and the University of Amsterdam, the Centre
 d’Études Supérieures de la Renaissance (Tours), and the Institute for the History of the
 Reformation (Geneva); the successful €5M EU award for the EUTOPIA Alliance between
 Warwick and five European universities (led by Hand).




                                                                                             Page 19
