Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Institution: University of South Wales

Unit of assessment: Social Work and Social Policy

1. UNIT CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE, RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY

    A. The institutional context and structure of the Unit as related to its primary
       strategic aim and key research and impact achievements

The institutional context and the primary strategic aim
The Social Work and Social Policy Unit of Assessment (UoA 20) represents Humanities
and Social Sciences research, combining 24 (20.3 FTE) staff from both the Faculty of
Business and Society (FBS), and the Faculty of Life Sciences and Education (FLSE). Unit
staff engage in cutting edge empirical and theoretical research across a wide range of
subject areas, developing innovative methodologies, with a focus on interdisciplinary
research. The primary strategic aim of the UoA, consistent with the University of South
Wales’ (USW) Research Strategy 2018-2028, is to apply its research to ‘real world’ issues.
This involves sustaining and enhancing meaningful impact for the societies and groups of
people studied, and for various relevant stakeholders, such as governments,
policymakers, public service authorities, service-users and other citizens.

The structure of the Unit of Assessment and its achievements in implementing its
primary strategic aim
The UoA comprises three Research Centres:

Centre for Criminology
Within the UoA, the Centre for Criminology was the first Research Centre to be
established (2001), encouraging and supporting high impact research and publishing
activity. During this REF cycle, Centre staff have engaged in research at local, national
and international levels. They have won research funds from prestigious national sources,
including the ESRC, British Academy, Leverhulme Trust, Big Lottery, Ministry of Justice
and Home Office. Funding for research in Wales has been secured from inter alia the
Welsh Government, Aneurin Bevan University Health Board, Gwent Police and a number
of third sector organisations.

The Centre contains five research groups, covering a wide range of the staff’s core
research interests: specifically, violence/homicide (Brookman), major crime
investigation/cold case reviews (Brookman, Allsop), substance abuse (Holloway, May),
prisons and resettlement (Maguire), probation service including youth justice (Williams,
Deering, Evans). Other interests include comparative criminal justice (Wardak), animal
abuse and environmental crime (Maher, Pierpoint), vulnerabilities (Pierpoint) and the
penal third sector (Williams, Maguire). Consistent with the primary strategic aim above,
most research has been empirically based, aiming to influence policy and practice, and
contributing to theory, knowledge and ideas.

The Centre maintains close links with external agencies locally and nationally, aided in
Wales by the work of the Welsh Centre for Crime and Social Justice, set-up in 2011 by
Maguire and Williams to facilitate research collaboration between criminologists in Welsh
universities and forge closer links with policy and practice. Chaired by Williams, it runs a
well-attended annual Criminology Conference for academics and practitioners. Finally,
several Centre staff are members of external advisory or decision-making bodies,
including the Correctional Services Accreditation and Advice Panel, and the Home Office
Advisory Panel on Serious Violence Policy, and/or have given evidence to government
inquiries, including Select Committees on knife crime and animal trafficking.


                                             1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Centre for Social Policy
Established in 2008, the Centre for Social Policy also facilitates impactful research. This
includes studies on: migration (Thompson); The Well-Being of Future Generations
(Wales) Act and the implications for health and social care (Law); comparative public and
social policy, and multi-level perspectives on governance (Sarter); environmental politics
(Jones and Proedrou); global social and public policy, and international development
(Kamruzzaman); policies affecting young people in countries covered by the Council of
Europe (Williamson); marriage and family law (Gaffney-Rees); understandings of social
justice, equality, and well-being in policy and welfare/health practice (Smith). Since its
inception, the Centre has variously engaged in policy and practice analysis, and
proactively connected with the policymaking, professional, and service-user communities.
It has provided new empirical evidence, and has developed policy and welfare practice
theory, and innovative and impactful policy and practice solutions to various social
issues/problems. Members of the Centre have also been successful in securing external
grants from prestigious sources, including the British Academy, the Economic and Social
Research Council, and the Welsh Government.

Moreover, members have occupied leading advisory roles in developing policy and
practice, nationally and internationally. For example, via the Council of Europe,
Williamson has coordinated reviews of national youth policy for twenty-one of its member
states from 1997-2016. Smith was Chair of the Newport City Council Fairness
Commission 2012-2018, and Saltus is a member of the Welsh Government Sub
Committee examining the impact of COVID-19 on BAME populations.

 Centre members have also made significant contributions to highly impactful cross-
 institutional research bodies, occupying executive and other leadership roles. Smith, for
 example, is a member of the Management Executive of the Primary and Emergency Care
 Research (PRIME) Wales Network (funded by Health and Care Research Wales), and is a
 member of the steering group for the Wales School for Social Prescribing Research
 (WSSPR), (funded by Health and Care Research Wales). He is also a Co-Director of the
 ESRC-funded Wales Institute of Social and Economic Research, Data and Methods
 (WISERD).

International Centre for Policing and Security
In REF 2014, policing research was included in this UoA. However, in recognition of its
growing international links, an International Centre for Policing and Security was
established in 2014 under the leadership of Rogers. The Centre was strengthened by
Kaunert, joining USW in 2017 as Professor of Policing and Security, and it now has two
main work programmes relating to policing (led by Rogers) and security (led by Kaunert).
The Centre produces world-leading inter-disciplinary research grounded in the ‘real-world’
of policing and security, impacting service delivery, policy and education.

In 2018, Kaunert was awarded a prestigious Jean Monnet Chair in Policing and Counter
Terrorism in Europe, undertaking a work programme focussing on the evolution of EU
counter terrorism policy, EU internal security, and the impact of technological
developments. He is also Co-Director of the European International Studies Association
(EISA) and was an invited Expert for the European Parliament. In 2018, he was joined by
de Deus Pereira (an Early Career Researcher) who secured a Marie Curie Fellowship,
exploring the security industry’s role in European migration. Policing research (Rogers)
includes focussing on models of policing, the impact of IT, vulnerable groups, and police
education. Rogers has advised police forces in the UK and internationally (Australia,
Germany and Abu Dhabi).




                                             2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    B. Strategic development since 2014 supporting the primary strategic aim and
       evidence of its implementation.

The UoA’s REF 2014 environment statement noted that the (then) two centres –
Criminology and Social Policy – were at differing stages of maturity and required a more
detailed strategy to focus research development over the coming years.

This strategy needed to support the primary strategic aim of the Unit as detailed in 1 (A)
and the wider USW Research Strategy. Hence it facilitated the continued development of
high quality, impactful research with a focus on ‘real world’ issues. Consistent with these
aims, the UoA’s more detailed strategy developed during this REF cycle, containing four
elements. To build and maintain:

        (i)     A healthy balance of staff recruitment including Early Career Researchers
                (ECRs) and senior researchers appointed to lead research in key subject
                and impact areas related to this Unit.
        (ii)    Inclusive Research and Scholarly Activity networks integrated into, and
                operating within academic faculties, and across relevant research centres,
                and other research groupings.
        (iii)   Sustainable institutional financial support and prestige recognition for staff
                engaged in high quality impactful research.
        (iv)    Institutional and faculty structures, supporting the increased recruitment,
                supervision, and successful completion of Postgraduate Research (PGR)
                studies.

 Evidence for implementing the above and the progress made from 2014:
 Regarding (i): The current UoA submission includes 20.3 FTE staff with significant
 responsibility for research (SRR) (compared with 14.4 FTE submitted in 2014), and three
 Research Centres (compared with two in 2014), demonstrating increased critical mass,
 and the further development of a sustainable research culture. These outcomes have
 been achieved via the following more specific strategies.

The Unit used QR funding from REF 2014 to appoint six post-doctoral research fellows on
fixed-term contracts, three of whom moved into full-time, permanent lecturing posts in the
UoA, whilst also retaining a focus on research (Kamruzzaman, Proedrou, and
Sarter). An ECR (de Deus Pereira) was also appointed via EU funding (Marie Curie
Fellowship). Moreover, strategic senior appointments (Kaunert and Williams) have
further strengthened the Unit’s research leadership. There is now a healthy balance
between ECRs and more experienced staff, supporting the future sustainability of
impactful research.

Regarding (ii): Fourteen staff within the UoA were previously members of the USW
Crime, Justice and Society Research Institute. However, in 2018, USW moved away from
the institutional wide Research Institute structure and established Heads of Research
within each faculty. The aim being to support greater integration of Research and
Scholarly Activity into the management and development of staff workloads, Research
Centres, and other relevant research groupings across USW. This change in strategy has
enabled a more consistently inclusive approach to developing research across the
university, with the three Research Centres from this unit being supported within this new
structure.

For example, in both faculties related to this UoA (FBS and FLSE) thematic research and
scholarly activity groupings have been established, with all academic staff becoming
members of a group. These groups (6 in FLSE and 14 in FBS) provide a focus for
disseminating research activity, and the support and mentorship for staff looking to

                                               3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


enhance their research and scholarly work. Each group is led by senior researchers, and
in relation to this UoA, includes Sociology, Social Policy and Public Services (Smith),
Criminology (Brookman), Law (Gaffney-Rhys), and Policing and Security (Rogers and
Kaunert).

Regarding (iii): Researchers from the UoA have been consistently recognised by the
institution as having made significant contributions to high quality impactful research. For
example, in the competitive USW Annual Impact Awards, which celebrates impactful
research across the institution, Maguire, in 2018, received the best future impact award
for his work developing innovative policies and practices with prisoners and their families,
in the UK and elsewhere. From within the Social Policy Research Centre in 2019, the
student best impact award was won by one of its PhD students, for her work promoting
ethno-cultural empathy and racial tolerance in Welsh secondary schools.

At a Faculty (FBS) level, the Dean’s Research Funding Scheme invited ECRs to bid for
research funding. Subsequently, in 2018, Sarter secured £6,788, for her project
‘Implementing Equality Sensitive Public Procurement: A Focus on Knowledge-building
Activities’, and Kamruzzaman received £6,469 to pursue a pilot study on National
Development Experts in Ghana and Bangladesh.

Regarding (iv): An important element of capacity building is the support provided for PGR
students. This includes maintaining and developing institutional and faculty structures for
increased recruitment, supervision, and the successful completion of PGR studies. The
institutional strategy during this assessment period, included creating the USW Graduate
School (see REF5A), providing a central focus for co-ordinating postgraduate studies.
While individual students remain attached to the faculty where their Director of Studies is
located, this central resource supports staff and students to manage the ‘student journey’
from application to graduation. The processes associated with this journey are also now
coordinated via the PhD Manager system implemented in 2018, providing a single source
of information to assist with monitoring progress.

 Each of the Research Centres identified (in Part A above) have PGRs who contribute to
 the centres’ research cultures. Moreover, various activities promote the visibility of
 research, supporting its development across the faculties and the wider university,
 including this Unit’s PGR community. For example, the ‘Research work-in-progress’
 seminar series (internally known as Wednesday@1) within the Faculty of Business and
 Society (FBS) encourages discussion on research activities. It also promotes closer
 engagement among staff and potential collaborators, partners or funders, and raises the
 external profile of the UoA. Wednesday@1 also offers a friendly and constructive platform
 for PhD and other PGR students to present their research and work-in-progress.

Developing a high-quality, ‘outward-looking’ research culture for impact
Supporting all four elements of the research strategy listed above, a further aim is to
enhance the outward profile of the Research Centres to promote research activities, and
benefit from enhanced external/international status, thereby attracting research funding
from diverse and prestigious sources. Relatedly, significant progress has been made
during this assessment period in strengthening external links with various non-academic
organisations, making the Unit’s research more impactful, both nationally and globally,
consistent with the primary strategic aim outlined in 1 (A). For example, funded research
has been undertaken for Welsh Government (Holloway and Saltus), the UK Government
(Brookman and Williams), the EU (Kaunert and de Deus Pereira), and UK and other
international police services (Rogers and Pierpoint). International links regarding police
research has also taken place in Australia (Rogers), criminology research in Afghanistan
(Wardak), and public policy research in Bangladesh (Kamruzzaman).


                                              4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The primary strategic aim in 1. (A) above of producing research that impacts on
communities and wider society is supported by these external links. Working in close
collaboration with these organisations, provides a sustainable pathway to impact as the
Unit’s research has ‘real world’ relevance and is used to inform policy and practice
developments. Emphasising research impact is reflected in the impact case studies (ICSs)
for this submission: ‘Influencing and advising national and international policy and practice
in the investigation and prevention of homicide’ (Brookman); ‘Reducing harm and saving
lives in situations of substance misuse’ (Holloway); and ‘A hybrid model of justice system
in Afghanistan: promoting inclusive and restorative justice’ (Wardak). However, there are
other examples of research impact, which include: providing predictive analysis and future
demands on police resources in the Gold Coast, Australia (Rogers); providing a research
report on prisoners’ family contacts influencing the recommendations of the Farmer
Review (House of Lords) (Maguire); chairing the Newport City Council’s Fairness
Commission with its main aim to critically scrutinise local government policy and practices
(Smith); and membership of the Youth Justice Practice Development Panel working with
policymakers and practitioners to design and test a new system of working with young
prolific offenders, based on her research (Williams).

Other institutional support mechanisms to support research
UoA staff are required to deposit copies of publications and other outputs within the USW
PURE system, supporting open access and increasing the visibility and potential impact of
their research.

Finally, the research undertaken within this UoA is often complex and raises significant
ethical challenges and risks. Supported by the institution’s central team based in
Research Innovation Services (see REF5A) and the University Ethics Subgroup, the
Faculty Ethics Committees provide oversight of ethical and risk-related issues, advice and
ethical approval, for proposed projects and during their lifetimes. Each committee has a
designated Chair with a time allowance to undertake this role, with training provided for
Chairs and committee members. As Chair of the FBS Ethics Committee, Williamson is
also a member of the University Ethics Subgroup and other Unit staff are members of their
Faculty Ethics Committees (Williams, Saltus, Kaunert). All Unit staff have also
undertaken training in information management and GDPR requirements to ensure the
appropriate governance of research projects.

    C. Future planning and strategic direction

Ahead of the next REF assessment period, the UoA is experiencing institutional change,
given a recent faculty restructure (August 2020) within USW. Staff at the Centre for
Social Policy have moved from the former Faculty of Business and Society (FBS) to the
Faculty of Creative Industries (FCI). Whereas members of the Centre for Criminology
have joined the Faculty of Life Sciences and Education (FLSE). These developments
afford opportunities for greater synergy and collaborative working between, for example,
the Centre for Criminology and the International Centre for Policing and Security as
these are now both located within FLSE and within one School (Health, Sport and
Professional Practice).

Other synergies are anticipated in FCI, as the Centre for Social Policy is now located in
the South Wales Business School. For example, Sarter and Law, are linking social policy
research focused on public service procurement, with Business School researchers,
focussing on public sector organisational management behaviour. As previously stated,
the strategic development of the Unit is highly consistent with the USW Research Strategy
2018-2028 (see REF5A), again reflecting the Unit’s primary strategic aim outlined in 1. (A)
above. The future strategic direction also reflects a further commitment to collaborative
interdisciplinary inquiry, where the positive impacts of the Unit’s research is significantly

                                              5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


felt in the lives of the local, national and international communities and businesses it
serves. The future strategic direction will also be informed by the ‘USW 2030 Vision’ (see
REF5A) with its focus on:

    •   Internationally excellent research.
    •   Impact from research and innovation.
    •   Knowledge and skills exchange.

Specifically, a key institutional mechanism for advancing this agenda is the creation within
USW of four ‘Accelerated Development Areas’ (ADAs), one focused on ‘Crime, Security
and Justice’, and another on ‘Health and Well-Being’, with both these ADAs being
especially relevant to the UoA. As a result, it is fully anticipated that this Unit will play a
leading role in taking this agenda forward. In addition, the University’s strategy in creating
these ADAs is, in part, to encourage and facilitate impactful high quality research both
within and between faculties. This is consistent with what is now widely recognised across
the HE sector and global policy communities, that complex social issues need this kind of
broadly collaborative and interdisciplinary work to positively impact on policy and practice
development.

 That the UoA is now more evenly located across two faculties is highly conducive to the
 above strategy, working alongside and supporting USW’s wider strategic aim to generate
 and engage in impactful research. For example, both of the above ADAs will provide a
 clear strategic focus for further developing a range of inter-disciplinary and collaborative
 research across the institution directly relevant to this UoA, and will encourage new and
 innovative links with various organisations at national, UK, and international levels. These
 include public and third sector organisations, policymaking communities, and professional
 bodies relevant to this UoA – for example, in health settings, social work, youth work,
 policing, prisons and the probation service. Through such engagement and collaboration,
 it is anticipated that the vitality of the research undertaken within the Research Centres
 will be enhanced, and the sustainability of key programmes of research will be
 strengthened, facilitating even clearer pathways to impact.

 Specific aims and strategic direction for the future
 To provide the above direction over the next REF assessment period the Unit aims:

    •   To consolidate and expand national and international links, in developing applied
        programmes of interdisciplinary research that are internationally excellent and
        world leading.
    •   To further grow research capacity through recruiting PGR students, the recruitment
        and support of ECRs, and other academic staff to develop their research activities,
        research leadership skills, and promotion to leadership positions.
    •   To increase grant funding from quality sources to ensure sustainability and the
        development of research programmes.
    •   To ensure that impact activities are considered at the planning stage of all
        research projects, that innovative approaches are widely disseminated, and that all
        impact achieved is systematically recorded.
    •   To expand knowledge exchange activities internally, for example, through the
        integration of research findings into existing courses and into new course
        development, and externally, through increasingly working in partnership with
        outside organisations.




                                               6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Specific activities to support the achievement of these objectives
The foundations for achieving these aims are already laid and include:

    •   Building on the recent success of securing research income from various sources,
        this momentum is being extended to develop further collaborations across and
        between disciplines and institutions. For example, in 2019, Smith was appointed
        as a Co-Director of the ESRC-funded Wales Institute of Societal and Economic
        Research Data and Methods (WISERD). In 2019, WISERD was awarded £6.4
        million as one of four large social science research centres in the UK funded by the
        ESRC. It partners with HE institutions across Wales, including USW, supporting
        funding bids and the future development of research capacity and impact,
        including research which is highly relevant to this UoA.
    •   The International Centre for Policing and Security has various national and
        international partners and in September 2020 secured funding to lead the
        Excellence Network on EU Counter Terrorism (EUCTER), comprising fourteen
        international partners. In September 2020, the Centre was also designated as a
        Jean Monnet Centre of Excellence for Research by the European Commission.
        This prestigious award, along with the extension of international networks,
        provides an excellent base for developing a future programme of collaborative and
        impactful research. The Centre has also secured EU funding for a further two
        Marie Curie Fellowships, recruiting ECRs in September 2020.
    •   The Criminal Investigation Research Network (CIRN), established and led by
        Brookman, brings together leading academics, practitioners and policy-makers
        from around the world with expertise in major crime investigation. CIRN has
        already generated numerous successful international collaborations.
    •   Finally, building on the success of securing prestigious research funding, further
        funding will be sought to support and expand existing programmes of research and
        also to respond to emerging ‘real world’ challenges. This will include seeking
        funding for PGR and post-doctoral fellowships, as well as for ECRs. It is
        anticipated that ECRs will increasingly take on leadership roles through (for
        example) becoming Principal Investigators (PIs) for prestigious funding bids,
        supported by more senior staff.

2. PEOPLE

    A. Flexible working, research allocations, and staff development

In addition to the staff recruitment strategy outlined in 1 (B), the Unit has supported staff
recruitment and retention, partly based on providing opportunities for part-time and flexible
working hours. Furthermore, all staff included in this submission, having Significant
Responsibility for Research (SRR), are allocated at least 20% of their time to research.
Moreover, across USW, all Associate Professors have an automatic time allocation of
20% for research, with Professors having 30%. Some staff in the Unit have also secured a
greater allocation of research time, either through securing funding to ‘buy out’ time, or
through negotiation with their line manager. As also noted in 1 (B), a significantly higher
number of staff are being returned in this assessment compared with 2014, reflecting the
effectiveness of these initiatives.

All staff undergo an annual Development and Performance Review (DPR), where
objectives are set reflecting the strategic goals of the University and Faculty, and the
career development needs of the staff member. Time allocation for research is discussed
and agreed, providing an opportunity to identify and agree training requirements. A six-
monthly interim review is held each year to review progress.



                                              7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Moreover, a range of continuing professional development opportunities are provided
within USW, including those focused on research impact, grant development, writing for
publication, and PGR student supervision. Further external opportunities for professional
development have also been secured by members of this UoA. For example, in 2017,
Pierpoint secured a place on the Welsh Crucible, an award-winning programme of
personal and professional development for future research leaders. In 2019, Saltus and
Proedrou won Welsh Assembly Academic Fellowships which supported their time
working with Assembly Members to undertake research that informs policy development.

Finally, USW provides a framework for internal promotion through the Higher Academic
Awards Framework. During this period of assessment, two members of the UoA have
been promoted to Professor (Wardak and Evans) and one to Associate Professor
(Deering). Workshops are held regularly to support staff in developing their applications
for promotion, and individual mentoring is also provided.

    B. Support, training and development of Postgraduate Research (PGR)
       students

All PGR students are allocated a Director of Studies, and at least one other supervisor,
and are attached to a Research Centre via their Director of Studies. In a number of
instances, additional supervisors may be located from another centre, with a view to
promoting interdisciplinary research, appropriate to the student’s needs, and providing
support from a wide range of disciplines and methodological approaches. In addition, all
staff supervising PGR students are required to undertake relevant training (provided by
USW), updated at regular intervals. Compliance is overseen by the relevant Faculty
Research Degrees Committee which includes representation from this Unit (Gaffney-
Rhys, Williamson, Kamruzzaman, Kaunert). These committees also oversee processes
of PGR recruitment, the identification of supervision teams, and the monitoring of student
progress.

The USW Graduate School provides an annual programme of educational sessions
available to all PGRs. The PGR experience within the UoA’s Research Centres is further
enhanced by opportunities to participate in the activities of the centres, enabling research
students to extend their knowledge and networks. Individual programmes of development
are agreed through discussion between each student and their supervisory team. Where
appropriate, PGRs are also encouraged to access external training opportunities and
attend conferences to enhance their development. A central USW fund is available via the
Graduate School to which PGR students can apply for their support and attendance at
such events.

The Graduate School also provides a physical space for researchers, including seminar
rooms, small meeting rooms, an informal open space, and a quiet space where students
can access computers or use laptops. This environment is a highly valued resource for
students to work and meet and network informally. Students are also allocated desk space
in a shared room located within their faculty, with a view to ensuring they an integral part
of the relevant Research Centres and subject teams, and enabling productive formal and
informal engagements with colleagues.

 Since REF 2014, the UoA has successfully supervised 28 PhD students to completion.
 The table below lists doctoral completions by academic year for Doctoral Degrees and
 Professional Doctorates:




                                             8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



  Date period           Number of Doctoral        Number of Professional          Total
                        Degrees                   Doctorates
  1 August 2013 to      1 doctoral degree         0 professional doctorates       Total 1
  31 July 2014
  1 August 2014 to      2 doctoral degrees        1 professional doctorate        Total 3
  31 July 2015
  1 August 2015 to      4 doctoral degrees        2 professional doctorates       Total 6
  31 July 2016
  1 August 2016 to      1 doctoral degree         1 professional doctorate        Total 2
  31 July 2017
  1 August 2017 to      8 doctoral degrees        0 professional doctorates       Total 8
  31 July 2018
  1 August 2018 to      4 doctoral degrees        0 professional doctorates       Total 4
  31 July 2019
  1 August 2019 to      4 doctoral degrees        0 professional doctorates       Total 4
  31 July 2020
  Total for all years   24 doctoral degree        4 professional doctorates       Total 28

The above shows a marked increase in PGR completions compared with REF 2014 for
this Unit (the latter listing 11 doctoral completions). Capacity for supervision has also
expanded during this assessment period, especially given the key appointments of more
experienced or senior staff. Moreover, ECRs are being supported to occupy the role of
PGR supervisor through partnerships with experienced supervisors. It is therefore
anticipated that the number of students and completions will further increase as the Unit
enters the next REF cycle.

    C. Promoting Equality and Diversity

USW (see REF5A) and the UoA are committed to promoting equality, inclusivity and
diversity. This is evidenced in the achievement of the Athena SWAN Institutional Bronze
Award and the status of Stonewall Champion. Various strategies have been implemented
to ensure that the objectives set out in the USW Equality and Diversity Plan are translated
into practice. For example, all UoA staff are required to undertake mandatory equality and
diversity training. A number of staff (including Saltus) occupy the role of Dignity at Work
Advisors to provide an independent structure and mechanism for staff support in these
matters.

The profile of staff returned within the Unit reflects a range of ages and experience from
ECRs through to more senior colleagues, and also includes colleagues with other
protected characteristics. For example, in relation to gender, while the institutional level
environment statement (see REF5A) anticipates that overall, 39% of staff returned will be
female (an increase from 2014), in this UoA, 46% of those returned are female, and
spanning all stages of career development. Introducing more flexible working patterns for
staff across a range of junior and senior appointments, is seen as the main contributor to
the Unit’s healthy gender balance. In addition, three UoA staff (Saltus, Allsop, and
Holloway) have undertaken the USW Women in Academia development programme.

UoA staff returned have been identified in accordance with the procedures outlined in the
USW REF Code of Practice as those who meet the criteria for SRR, or as independent
researchers. Transparency has been maintained through regular communication to staff
via general USW communications, and individual staff emails. In addition, all staff with
decision-making responsibilities regarding staff inclusion have attended workshops on
equality and recognising unconscious bias.

                                              9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


3. INCOME, INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES

    A. Income generation

UoA members have been successful in generating external income to fund high-quality
research from major bodies, including the ESRC, Leverhulme Trust, British Academy,
Home Office, Ministry of Justice, Welsh Assembly Government, and the Netherlands
Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Most were won in the face of highly competitive tenders, and all
led to highly quality research outputs. For example, Brookman secured £216,531 from
the Leverhulme Trust to investigate homicide investigation, forensic sciences and
technologies. Williams and Maguire were partners on a substantial Leverhulme Trust
funded project led by Keele University (total award approximately £300,000), exploring the
changing role of the third sector in criminal justice. In 2016, Maguire obtained a six month
funding extension from the Big Lottery for his long-running study of prisoners’ families,
implemented from 2012-2017. In 2018, Kamruzzaman won a £300,000 grant from the
British Academy (with Williams and Wardak) to conduct a study on the experiences of
violence and loss of dignity among Rohingya in Bangladesh and Internally Displaced
People in Afghanistan. Williamson was awarded €20,000 to act as rapporteur-general
and academic adviser to the 3rd European Youth Work Convention. Kaunert secured
€50,000 from the EU Jean Monnet Lifelong Learning Programme for a Jean Monnet
Chair, with a programme of work focused on ‘Explaining and Understanding Policing,
Intelligence and Counter-Terrorism in Europe’. Kaunert (with de Deus Pereira) also
secured funding from the European Commission Horizon 2020 Marie Curie Programme,
for an International Fellowship to study ‘Shaping European Migration Policy: the role of the
security industry’. In 2020 Kaunert secured a further €225,000 funding from the same
programme for an International Fellowship to study ‘Uberization of Europol’s cyber-crime
strategy’.

Other prestigious awards include Wardak obtaining a grant of £21,936 from the
Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Affairs to research primary justice in insecure contexts,
using South Sudan and Afghanistan as case studies. Holloway was awarded £138,000
from the Welsh Government for research to evaluate the impact of introducing minimum
price for alcohol in Wales. Holloway also won £58,000 from the National Offender
Management Service (NOMS) Cymru to evaluate the Women’s Pathfinder Diversion
Scheme; and received £20,000 from the USW Humanities and Social Sciences
(HUMSOC) Research Institute, to undertake the Higher Education Alcohol and Drug
Survey (HEADS) in collaboration with Welsh Government. Holloway also received a grant
of £23,632 from the Welsh Government to study ‘Substance Switching and Minimum Unit
Pricing for Alcohol’.

Pierpoint (with Maguire and Williams) secured £79,728 from the Welsh Government to
evaluate homelessness services provided to young people. She also received £35,542
from the St. Giles Trust charity to evaluate the ‘Through the Gates’ Resettlement Service.
Pierpoint (with Williams) received £76,754 for a Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships
(KESS)/Youth Justice Board Cymru PhD studentship to study ‘The rights and voice of
children in pre-court criminal proceedings’. Williams (with Holloway) secured a grant of
£45,000 from the Big Lottery, Gwent Police and Newport Women’s Aid to undertake an
evaluation of the Gwent Domestic Abuse Assertive Outreach Scheme. Maher received a
research grant of £17,000 with Northumbria University to undertake scoping research on
the sourcing of pet dogs from illegal import. May and Brookman (alongside another USW
colleague not submitted to this UoA) won £10,234 from Rhondda Cynon Taff Crime Safety
Partnership to investigate the prevention of offending in the night-time economy by 18- to
25-year-olds. Brookman also secured £6,691 from the Home Office to assess the impact
of forensic science on the investigation and prosecution of homicide cases, from crime
scene to court. Saltus secured £16,000 for a KESS studentship to evaluate peer support

                                             10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


groups delivering interventions, reducing loneliness and improving social connections for
older persons living in retirement housing.

Smith was a Co-Applicant and part of an interdisciplinary, cross-unit and inter-university
collaboration that secured a total grant of £2.7 million from Health and Care Research
Wales in 2015 to develop the Wales Centre for Primary and Emergency Care Research
(PRIME). An extension grant of £1,799,935 was awarded in 2018, and a further
application in 2020 secured an additional total grant of almost £4.9 million, with £221,916
being awarded specifically to USW to establish the Wales School for Social Prescribing
Research (WSSPR). Smith also contributed to a bidding team that won £352,178 for
USW to fund activities in the Wales Institute of Economic & Social Research Data and
Methods (WISERD). Finally, Saltus was part of a research team that secured a grant of
£200,000 from the ESRC for a rapid response UK-wide study entitled ‘Go Home: Mapping
the unfolding controversy of Home Office Immigration Campaigns’.

    B. Infrastructure & Facilities

Infrastructural support in the UoA includes University-wide provision of IT and computing
facilities, library resources and access to online publications, print room printing and
duplication services, plus formalised time allocation for research and scholarship. The
major source of research and income generation support in the University is provided
through Research Innovation Services (RISe) (see REF5A). The UoA staff have drawn
upon this central support to achieve their aims, and while some examples have already
been referred to previously, others are also noteworthy.

 Working specifically with the USW Income Generation Team, this Unit’s researchers
 have secured over £500k of funding from a range of sources as detailed elsewhere.
 Moreover, USW’s Research Infrastructure Team has supported UoA staff with the
 introduction of the PURE system and ensuring Open Access compliance requirements.
 Advice regarding ethical and governance issues has also been accessed by UoA
 members, and the USW Research Impact Team has provided considerable support for
 researchers concerning the identification of pathways to, and documenting evidence of,
 research impact. This is evidenced via the impact case studies submitted for this UoA,
 and in the increased impact activities among Unit staff during the assessment period.

 The Graduate School (see REF5A, and 1. (B) above) provide a named staff member to
 support each faculty in all aspects of the PGR journey, from application and registration,
 through to examination, and ensures that faculties can systematically monitor student
 progress, to achieve timely completions. The Graduate School also acts as a one-stop
 shop for advice and guidance regarding university regulations pertaining to research
 degrees, ensuring that quality processes are adhered to.

 USW also runs doctoral scholarship schemes which provide full fees and maintenance
 costs for PhD students. This Unit has been successful in securing three PhD studentships
 from the Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships (KESS) scheme (Holloway, Williams,
 Pierpoint). In addition, 2 MPhil/ PhD studentships (Williams, Wardak) and 4 PhD
 studentships (Allsop, Saltus, Brookman [x2]) have been secured via the QR funded
 Doctoral Training Academy scheme.

Research staff and PGRs also have access to additional specialist facilities to support
their research in innovative ways. For example, the Hydra Minerva Suite located in FLSE
provides a facility in which scenario-based simulations can be used to explore decision
making and problem solving in the context of (for example) policing. Also, the Crime
Scene House located on Campus provides an environment where crime scenes can be
both simulated and researched.

                                              11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


4. COLLABORATION AND CONTRIBUTION TO THE RESEARCH BASE, ECONOMY
AND SOCIETY

Staff members of this UoA are involved in wide-ranging cross-organisational/institutional
collaborations and partnerships, creating a world-class research environment that also
significantly benefits the economy and society locally, nationally, and internationally.

Collaborative activities, networks and partnerships
Holloway has been working closely with colleagues from Glyndwr University and Figure 8
Consultancy on Welsh Government-funded research into the new minimum price for
alcohol being introduced in Wales. The team has completed a study on the potential
consequences of the new legislation and has won funding to conduct three further projects
investigating the actual consequences. Holloway has also been working with Welsh
Government on a project investigating the misuse of prescription drugs, opioid substitute
treatment, and over-the-counter medications.

Brookman collaborated with a colleague from Arizona State University (USA) to examine
gang homicide in Trinidad and Tobago, in order to inform an inspection of the Trinidad and
Tobago Police Service by Her Majesty’s Inspectorate of Constabulary and Fire and
Rescue Services (HMICFRS).

Sarter received €2,000 to contribute to a collaborative study with the National University
of Ireland, Galway, that compared pension reforms in Germany and Ireland. Sarter also
received €1,940 to contribute to a collaborative study with Bar Ilan University, Tel Aviv
(Israel) that explored support for older workers to extend their working lives through the
development of a gender sensitive framework to analyse services. Proedrou was
selected as an Academy Fellow at the Welsh Government to lead a policy study on the
climate ‘policy gap’ in Wales. Rogers has undertaken research work with the Police
Service on the Gold Coast, Australia.

The range of Visiting Professors and Fellows attached to the Research Centres also
provides further evidence of extensive national and international networks and
collaborations. For example, through such visiting positions located within the
International Centre for Policing and Security, a number of international collaborative
links have been established. These include Visiting Professors from the Centre for
Security Studies at the Metropolitan University of Prague; from Ausberg University
(Germany); from the College of Europe (Bruges and Warsaw); and from the Department
of National Defence Research and Development at the Centre for Security Science,
Canada. The Centre for Criminology has also hosted several visiting Professors and
Fellows, especially in the fields of probation and youth justice. These have included senior
practitioners (e.g. an ex-Chief Probation Officer and former senior detective) as well as
distinguished academics.

Contributions to the research base, economy and society
Williamson, as a member of scientific boards and Horizon 2020 advisory boards, has
been involved in organising the annual European Forum Alpbach Conference held in
Austria, as well as a conference on ‘Social Policy in Islamic societies’ in Iran. Williamson
also collaborates with various other institutional partnerships, such as the EU Horizon
2020 funded project ‘Spaces and styles of participation’ (PARTISPACE) led by Goethe
University, Frankfurt and the ‘Young people in TTTransition: transversality, transition
transformation’ (JetTTT) action research project with the University of Rennes.
Williamson also co-supervises postgraduate students across Europe (France, Germany,
Austria, Malta, Netherlands). He also regularly provides governmental advice on youth
research, policy and practice to various European countries including Ukraine, Estonia,
Romania, Azerbaijan, and Italy.

                                             12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Brookman took part in a Ministerial Roundtable in April 2019 to discuss best practice in
law enforcement as part of the UK Prime Minister’s Serious Youth Violence Summit at 10
Downing Street; provided oral and written evidence to the Youth Select Committee Inquiry
on Knife Crime in July 2019; and written evidence to the House of Lords Science and
Technology Committee’s inquiry into forensic science. These contributions were informed
by findings gathered from her ‘Homicide Investigation & Forensic Science: Tracing
Processes, Analysing Practices’ (HIFS Project) (a four-year ethnographic study funded by
the Leverhulme Trust). The evidence addressed three broad areas covered by the Inquiry:
the forensic science research landscape, the use of forensic science in the Criminal
Justice System, and digital forensics.

Maher provided evidence to the Environment, Food, and Rural Affairs (EFRA) Select
Committee’s via a remote meeting with the Defra Minister, Lord Goldsmith, on the subject
of pet smuggling.

Smith was appointed Chair of Newport City Council’s Fairness Commission from 2012-
2018, with its main aim to improve local government scrutiny of policy, in relation to the
social value of ‘fairness’, and other associated values, notably ‘equality’ and ‘well-being’.

Allsop established an international cold case partnership involving the Police Expert
Network on Missing Persons, Alert Europe and Locate International, the Police Academy
of Lower Saxony, Leeds Beckett, UCLAN and Staffordshire Universities, and Murdoch and
Newcastle Universities in Australia.

Unit staff have also organised and helped to organise important national and international
conferences at USW and elsewhere.

For example, Williamson has been one of the programme organisers for the youth
research strand of the International Sociological Association (ISA) since 1998. He has
also played leading roles in organising international youth research, most recently at the
World Congress of Sociology (Canada 2018) and will continue this role for the World
Forum of Sociology (Porto Alegre, Brazil, 2020).

In 2015, Saltus was involved in organising and co-organising the Black Studies
Association International Conference (Birmingham, 2015) and the ‘Go Home?’ end of
project national conference (Warwick, 2015).

In 2015, Smith was on the Organising Committee for the Wales Institute of Social and
Economic Research and Data (WISERD’s) annual conference, held at The University of
Cardiff, and for the same annual conference in 2018, held at USW; in 2016, he was also
on the Organising Committee for the journal Ethics and Social Welfare conference, held in
London.

 In 2016 and 2017, Kamruzzaman was involved in organising the British Association for
 South Asian Studies (2016, 2017), and the International Political Science Association
 (2016), and for the Development Studies Association (2019, 2020). In 2018, he also
 convened a postgraduate conference on Global Governance and Expertise in
 Policymaking. A number of PGR students from across the world (including Hong Kong,
 China, India, Pakistan and Portugal) participated in the conference, which was funded by
 USW.

 In 2017, Maher organised international conferences on Environmental Crime and
 Technology in Cardiff; In 2018, Environmental Crime and Security in Sarajevo; and in
 2019, on Environmental Crime and Power in Ghent.


                                              13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


In 2018, Sarter received €2,560 to organise a conference entitled ‘Gender equality in
uncertain times’ at USW, as part of the European Sociological Association (ESA) Gender
Relations in the Labour Market and the Welfare State Research Network 14.

In 2019, Holloway organised a conference titled: ‘Street Drugs Wales: Is the dragon still
smoking?’, the third in the Street Drugs series developed by Professor Jo Neill (University
of Manchester). This also involved Holloway collaborating with two major third sector drug
treatment providers (Barod and Kaleidoscope).

In 2019, Brookman convened an international symposium on ‘Homicide Investigation and
Forensic Science’ (HIFS) in Cardiff. This event brought together leading academics,
practitioners and policy makers with expertise in police investigation, forensic science and
digital technologies and followed a four-year collaborative study of the uses of forensic
sciences and technologies in homicide investigation in Britain.

In 2019, Maguire organised a conference bringing together academics, policymakers and
practitioners to discuss issues facing prisoners' families and children. This was held at
USW’s Newport City Campus and Professor Mark Drakeford (First Minister of Wales) was
a guest speaker.

 In 2019, Kaunert was involved in co-organising six research panels for the European
 International Studies Association (EISA) 13th Pan-European Conference on International
 Relations, in Sofia, Bulgaria (2019).

 In 2020, Maguire, Holloway and Williams set up a series of public online seminars on
 ‘Lessons from the Lockdown’, bringing together academics, practitioners and policy-
 makers to discuss current and future impact of the pandemic on criminal justice.

Thompson has also organised a series of high-profile public talks at USW titled ‘Global
Choices’ (https://www.southwales.ac.uk/about/events/global-choices/) by leading activists,
politicians, campaigners and diplomats discussing some of the major cultural, economic
and political public issues of our age. Notable past speakers include former UK Prime
Minister Sir John Major; former GCHQ Director Sir David Omand; former UK Home
Secretary the Rt Hon. Jack Straw; former Head of MI5 Sir Jonathan Evans; former NATO
Secretary General George Robertson; former CEO of HSBC Dyfrig John; and former
Head of MI6 Sir Richard Dearlove. Most speakers also offer a masterclass to PGRs,
discussing their experience and critical insights. Thompson also played a key role in
bringing the British Conference of Undergraduate Research (BCUR) to Wales for the first
time in April 2019 to USW.

Unit staff have also been invited to present their research at prestigious national and
international conferences.

For example, Brookman gave a keynote speech on the facilitation, inhibitors and
measures of success in homicide investigation at the ‘Homicide: Precursors and
Prevention Conference’ hosted by the Violence Research and Prevention Program at
Griffith University and the Australian Institute of Criminology in Brisbane, Australia
(2014).

Rogers gave a speech on the implications of degree education for devolved policing in
Wales at the ‘Future of the legal system in Wales: The market for legal services,
modernisation and potential further devolution’ symposium, hosted by the Policy Forum for
Wales (2016).



                                             14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Smith gave keynote speeches on social prescription and the mental health of people with
physical disability at the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) Festival of Social
Science (2019); on challenges and solutions relating to equality and austerity at the Welsh
Local Government Association and NHS Centre for Equality and Human Rights Joint
Annual Conference (2014); and on the implications of issues relating to the resilience and
well-being of young people for youth and community practice for an international
conference organised by the USW, University of Wales, Trinity St David, and The
Professional Association of Lecturers in Youth and Community Work (2018).

Wardak was an invited speaker in Dubai at the 2019 Hemaya International Forum on drug
trafficking, organized by the Dubai Police and UN Office on Drugs and Crime.

Williamson gave keynote speeches on the principles and practice of sociological and
educational research at the 'Sociological and educational research: principles and
practice', for the Research Seminar ‘Evidence-based approach in Erasmus+:
Methodological aspects’, at Warsaw, Poland (2019); on youth policy in Europe at the
National Youth policy and Youth Work conference held at the University of Iceland,
(2019); and on ‘non-formal’ education and learning at the 1st World Non-Formal Education
Conference held in Rio de Janeiro (2019).

Kamruzzaman gave keynote speeches relating to poverty and Goal 1 of the Sustainable
Development Goals in Bangladesh at the University of Portsmouth (2016) and the
University of Essex (2017); and also in 2014 at the UK House of Lords on people’s
participation in Bangladesh’s democracy; and in 2015 on the journey to success of
Bangladesh and the role of the international community to an event organised by Bath
Royal Literary and Scientific Association.

Members of this UoA are also actively engaged in various editorial responsibilities.
Kaunert has been co-editor (since 2015) of the Book Series ‘European Security and
Justice Critiques’. He is also co-editor of the Journal of Contemporary European Studies.
Rogers has been Editor of the Police Journal: Theory, Practice and Principles (2013-
2017), the Australian and New Zealand Society of Evidence Based Practice Journal
(2015-2019), and the Australasian Journal of Policing (2013-2018). UoA members also sit
on the editorial boards of international journals. For example, Smith is an Editorial Board
Member of the journal Ethics and Social Welfare (since 2013). Kaunert sits on the
Editorial Board of Perspectives on European Politics and Society (since 2013). Brookman
has been an Editorial Board member of the American Journal of Criminal Justice (since
2017), the Journal of Qualitative Criminal Justice & Criminology (2011-2020), and the
International Criminal Justice Review (since 2011). Wardak is on the Editorial Board of
International Criminology.

 UoA members have also served on various important committees in the UK and abroad.
 Saltus is an Advisor for the Welsh Government’s Covid-19 Black, Asian and Minority
 Ethnic (BAME) Socio-economic Sub-Group. She also acts as an Advisor for the Audit of
 Public Monuments ‘Task and Finish Group’ for the Welsh Government. Pierpoint is the
 Co-Chair of the British Society of Criminology Vulnerability Research Network (since
 2019). She is also a Member of the Steering Group of the British Society of Criminology
 Green Criminology Research Network (since 2018), and an Independent Member of the
 South Wales Police Independent Ethics Committee (since 2015). She also served as
 a Member of the Executive Committee (Regional Groups and Specialist Networks Co-
 ordinator) of the British Society of Criminology (2010 to 2020).

Williams advised the UK Minister of Justice regarding the changes to the probation
services in 2017. She also sits on the Ministry of Justice’s Academic Steering Board of
Youth Justice Board, one of only six academics from across the UK to advise the Ministry

                                            15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


on youth justice matters. Williams was also the Academic Lead on the Welsh
Government and Youth Justice Board Cymru ‘Youth Justice Blueprint for Wales’ working
group. She also played a lead role in building a central repository of learning from
Domestic Homicide Reviews and other Homicide Reviews – the first in the UK. This is led
by the Police and Crime Commissioners and Welsh Government, supported by the
Ministry of Justice.

Holloway is a member of the Welsh Government’s National Implementation Board for
Drug Poisoning Prevention, and of the Executive Board of the DIGDDAS (Dyfodol, Iris,
Gwent and Dyfed Drug and Alcohol Service) Consortium. Maguire is a member of the
Correctional Services Accreditation and Advice Panel, which accredits rehabilitative
interventions in prisons and probation across England and Wales. He is also on
the Research Governance Group of the Parole Board of England and Wales, and chairs
the Information and Research Committee, Integrated Offender Management
Cymru. Brookman is an Expert Advisor to the UK Ministry of Justice and part of their
Academic Network (since July 2020), and an invited member of the Home Office Advisory
Panel on Serious Violence Policy, the National CCTV Working Group, and the National
Police Chiefs’ Council Transforming Forensics Programme. She is also Chair of the
Criminal Investigation Research Network (CIRN). Maher was expert advisor to the
UNODC Global Programme for Combating Wildlife and Forest Crime (2019).

Williamson is an International Trustee for the Duke of Edinburgh’s International Award for
Young People. He is also the Organisational Secretary of International Sociological
Association Research Committee 34 (youth research) and sits on the Scientific Advisory
Board of the European Forum Alpbach (Austria), and the Education Board of the Indore
Institute of Law, India. Smith is a member of Management Executive Committee for the
PRIME Wales Research Centre and part of its strategic leadership team (since 2015). He
is a Co-Director (since 2019) for the Wales Institute for Social and Economic Research
and Data (WISERD), and a member of the Steering Group (since 2018) for the Wales
School for Social Prescribing Research (WSSPR). Smith was also commissioned by the
British Academy in 2019 to complete a case study (‘The Childhood Policy Landscape in
Wales’) for its study of Childhood Policy across the UK entitled ‘Reframing Childhood’.

Rogers sits on the Community Consultative Committee for the Independent Police and
Crime Commissioner, South Wales Police. He is an academic advisor for the policing
education of police officers in Cyprus and a member of the Hong Kong Council for
Vocational Qualifications (since 2018). Kaunert is the Director of the European
International Studies Association (EISA) Standing Section on International Migration
(since 2019), his role involving the creation of this new standing section and taking a lead
in its development. He is also Director of the European Union Studies Association
(EUSA), Special Section on the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice (since 2012). In
this role he has led various research initiatives, organised conferences, and has
developed relationships with practitioner communities. Kaunert was also commissioned
by the European Parliament to write two key reports for the Terrorism Committee of the
European Parliament: (1) ‘The preparedness of the civil protection mechanism in the EU
towards a CBRN attacks on EU member states’; (2) ‘The counter-terrorism role of the
EUROPOL’.

UoA members have also externally examined PGR degrees in universities across the UK
and internationally. These include the London School of Economics and Political Science
(Kaunert 2016); University of Swansea (Williamson 2019, Holloway 2015, Williams
2018, 2019), Cardiff University (Williamson 2020, Brookman 2018); Glyndwr
University (Holloway 2018); Bangor University (Kamruzzaman, 2020); University of
Wales Trinity St David (Smith 2015); Dundee University (Kaunert 2015); University of
Nottingham (Kaunert 2014). Internationally, colleagues have also examined PhD theses

                                             16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


at Edith Cowan University, Australia (Holloway 2016); Deakin University, Australia
(Holloway 2015); Universidad de Deusto, Bilbao, Spain (Kaunert 2018); Scuola Normale
Superiore di Pisa (SNS) Florence, Italy, (Kaunert 2017); Central European University,
Budapest (Kaunert 2016), and University of Amsterdam, Netherlands (Kaunert 2015).

UoA staff have also held Visiting Professorships and external consultancy roles for various
international HE institutions. These include: Charles Sturt University, Australia (Rogers);
Institute of Technology Carlow, Republic of Ireland (Smith); University of Malta
(Williamson); University of Cairo, Egypt (Kaunert); Renmin University, China (Kaunert),
and University of Berkley, California (Kaunert).

Other external evidence of esteem
Finally, UoA staff have obtained other significant recognition for their research and other
related activities from a number of highly prestigious external sources. For example,
Williamson received the Youth Work Excellence Award in 2019 from the First Minister of
Wales for Outstanding Contribution to Youth Work. Saltus, in 2019, was awarded a
National Assembly for Wales Fellowship, and was also named as one of the ‘100 Brilliant,
Black and Welsh’ people by Wales Online in its celebration of African Caribbean and
African Welsh people. Holloway won the Partnership Award 2019 from Kaleidoscope, a
third sector substance misuse treatment provider. And Maguire received the British
Society of Criminology's Outstanding Achievement Award in 2020.




                                            17
