Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Newcastle University

 Unit of Assessment: Archaeology (UoA 15)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1a. Unit context and structure

 The Archaeology UoA at Newcastle is part of the School of History, Classics and Archaeology
 (HCA) in the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences. These three disciplines are not often
 found together in UK universities, but the combination benefits Archaeology by providing a rich
 intellectual environment characterised by disciplinary excellence and interdisciplinary exploration.
 The School’s research ranges from material culture to ancient, medieval and modern languages,
 using methodologies from physical sciences to literary criticism; its researchers work on periods
 from early prehistory to the present in societies around the globe from South America to East Asia.

 Research in the School has been organised since 2014 through nine ‘Research Themes’. Each is
 rooted in History, Classics or Archaeology but open to researchers across the School to promote
 interdisciplinarity. Archaeology leads two of the themes, Material Culture and Landscape.
 Research in the UoA ranges from the late Palaeolithic to the present with a geographical focus on
 Britain and northern Europe, the Mediterranean, the Middle East and North America. Whilst the
 UoA’s research is increasingly global in outlook, it retains a strong commitment to archaeology in
 northern England, reflecting Newcastle University’s ethos as a civic university (Institution Level
 Environment Statement (REF5a, 2.1)).

 The UoA has benefitted substantially from new investments in staff, facilities and equipment by
 the School and the University and has more than doubled in size since 2014. Significant
 improvements in staff diversity and gender balance (up from 11% to 43% female FTEs) result from
 a strong commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI; REF5a, 3.4). At the REF2021
 census date the research community included 20 Category A staff, 12 Research Associates (RAs),
 2 Project Managers, 2 Technicians, 41 PhD students and 47 Visiting Fellows. In recent years the
 UoA’s research portfolio has increased even more dramatically than staff numbers: at £3.75m,
 research income is 6 times higher than during the previous REF period, whilst new research
 awards total £7.7m since 2014.

 The Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences has invested more than £750k to support the
 development of research facilities and projects in the UoA since 2014. Key initiatives include the
 UoA’s two hubs for research in Material Culture and Landscape: MATCH: Materiality, Artefacts
 & Technologies in Culture & History (a Faculty Research Group), and the McCord Centre for
 Landscape (a University Research Centre).

 The University’s new research strategy (2018) has further embedded support for interdisciplinary
 research through two key programmes:
   • The UoA has been closely involved in developing Newcastle University Centres of Research
     Excellence (NUCoREs; REF5a 2.2), particularly the Heritage NUCoRE (co-directed from
     MATCH by Duckworth, an ECR, from 2019) and the Landscape NUCoRE (co-directed by
     S.Turner from the McCord Centre, from 2021).
   • The UoA was beneficiary of two of the first Fellows appointed through the prestigious and highly
     competitive Newcastle University Academic Track (NUAcT) postdoctoral fellowship
     programme (Carrer, Rayne). The scheme provides five years’ dedicated research time, a
     linked PhD studentship, training and research expenses; the Fellowships culminate in open-
     ended academic positions (REF5a 3.2.4).
 These University initiatives enable experienced researchers and ECRs to collaborate across the
 Faculties: the UoA’s researchers have recently taken part in interdisciplinary projects including
 Critical Heritages (with Heritage, Media and Politics; funded by EU Horizon 2020, total value
 €2.5m); CHT2 (with Geomatics; JPI-Cultural Heritage, €587k); Biofuels and Respiratory Health
 (with Environmental Engineering and Physical Geography; Wellcome Trust, £45k); Expanded

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Interiors (with Fine Art; AHRC, £280k); Heriland: Cultural Heritage and the Planning of European
 Landscapes (with Planning, Architecture, Landscape Architecture; EU H2020 MSCA ITN, €4m);
 GCRF Water Security and Sustainable Development Hub (with Engineering, Landscape
 Architecture, Education; UKRI, £17m).

 Research integrity is supported by the School Research Committee (including the Ethics Officer)
 and Faculty Research Ethics Committee; professional, legal and ethical standards are reviewed
 for all projects by the University’s Grants and Contracts team. The University Research Data
 Management team supports FAIR data principles and advises on data archiving. The UoA is
 committed to open data, and includes a digital archaeology researcher who assists with data
 archiving (A.Turner). Examples of recently-archived project datasets include AHRC-funded
 Expanded Interiors (using the University’s open repository, data.ncl; REF5a 2.3.3) and Historic
 England’s Wearmouth and Jarrow (with ADS). A UoA Authorship Policy ensures fair credit and
 transparency in determining publication authorship, including with PhD students and technicians.

 1b. Strategic aims in research, 2014-20

 The UoA’s long-term aim is to build a leading international centre for archaeological research by
 creating a diverse community of outstanding researchers who develop cutting-edge theory,
 methods and technologies in its key thematic areas. The Unit’s research structure is designed to
 support innovation at all levels. New investment and research funding has enabled the UoA to
 exceed the aspirations outlined in 2014:

  REF 2014 aspiration         Action taken, 2014-2020            Results by 2020
  Consolidate and develop     University prioritised strategic   Permanent Category A staff
  Category A staff base       investment in the UoA              increased from 8 to 16 FTEs
  Development of              Supported career development       10 Category A staff promotions;
  researchers at all levels   and promotions; sought             funding won for 20 ECR
                              funding for postdoctoral fellows   postdoctoral fellowships
  Foster a diverse research   Promote equal recruitment          Female Category A staff up from
  environment                 practices; encourage               11% (n=1, 2014) to 40% (n=8,
                              international candidates           2020); international from 23%
                                                                 (n=2) to 35% (n=7)
  Focus research in two       Research themes set up in          Major grant awards in
  key research themes:        2014 and since developed as        Landscape and Material Culture
  Landscape; Material         interdisciplinary groups           with direct value over £7.7m
  Culture
  Achieve impact from         Developed projects with            Successes include Hadrian’s
  research through the        partners and external funders;     Wall MOOC, NLHF-funded
  research themes             strategic support for Impact       WallCAP project, Gertrude Bell
                              from University                    Archive exhibitions and
                                                                 UNESCO recognition
  Increase commitment to      Supported interdisciplinary        e.g. completed Maryport Roman
  innovative archaeological   collaborations; investment in      Temples, Apalirou Environs;
  fieldwork                   new lab and survey equipment       launched WallCAP,
                                                                 RomeTransformed, TerraSAgE
  Establish McCord Centre Centre launched 2014 with              New awards >£10m; hosted 35
  for Landscape as          Faculty investment of £100k          postdocs; projects involving 25
  University Research                                            PIs across Newcastle University
  Centre
  Develop research          University and School            Invested >£2.5m in labs and
  facilities and            supported facilities acquisition equipment to support
  infrastructure                                             archaeological science
                      Table 1. REF 2014 aspirations, actions and results.

 In order to address challenges in each research theme more comprehensively, the unit added a
 new goal after REF 2014 – to broaden expertise in archaeological science:

                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Additional goal            Action taken, 2014-2020       Results by 2020
  Develop archaeological     Secured investment in         Archaeological science staff
  science (added 2015)       permanent Category A staff, increased from 1 to 6 FTEs, plus 2
                             related facilities and        technicians; new Earthslides and
                             technicians                   One Planet labs opened 2019
                           Table 2. Additional development goal (2015)

 1c. Archaeology Research Themes, 2014-20

 Within HCA, Landscape and Material Culture are the two major research themes led by
 Archaeology.

 The hub for Landscape research is the McCord Centre for Landscape, a cross-Faculty
 University Research Centre with its main base in the Unit (Director: S.Turner). The McCord Centre
 was established in 2014 to carry out basic and applied research in rural, urban and maritime
 landscapes. The Centre enables collaborations across Newcastle University including landscape
 architecture, planning, geomatics, geography, ecology, engineering and mathematics. Around 25
 PIs currently collaborate on projects valued at over £10m, with more than 100 collaborations in 25
 countries. Among the principal research themes are long-term adaptation to climate change, water
 and soil management, participatory research, and landscape planning. Key areas of
 archaeological expertise in landscape include geoarchaeology, field survey, remote sensing,
 development of dating methods, GIS and landscape characterisation. Research in Europe,
 America, Asia and Africa has been funded by major grants from UKRI (AHRC, NERC, British
 Academy), the European Commission (ERC, MSCA, Societal Challenges), the Wellcome Trust
 and the National Lottery Heritage Fund. The resulting publications present outstanding results in
 fundamental research as well as the development of method and theory. Key examples include
 dating the earliest known human occupation of the Americas (Shillito et al. 2020), survey of St
 John Lateran, the world’s first cathedral (Haynes et al. 2020), recognising the first Alpine cheese
 production (Carrer et al. 2016), and pioneering new dating techniques for landscape archaeology
 (Kinnaird et al. 2017). The McCord Centre has become a notable home for postdoctoral research
 in Archaeology with prestigious fellowships funded by EU Marie Skłodowska-Curie (9 fellows),
 British Academy Newton Advanced Fellowships (2), and AHRC (2); the first two NUAcT Fellows
 were appointed in 2019/20. Across different disciplines there were more than 20 postdoctoral
 fellows and RAs working with the Centre in 2020, and around 35 in all since 2014.

 MATCH (Materiality, Artefacts & Technologies in Culture & History) Faculty Research Group
 (convenors: Dolfini, Elliott (ECR)) was originally established in 2009 as the Cluster for
 Interdisciplinary Artefact Analysis. MATCH provides a focal point for interdisciplinary research in
 material culture (with strong links to the NUCoRE for Heritage), from artefact studies in Arts and
 Heritage to scientific materials analysis, use-wear and experimental archaeology. Key specialisms
 within the UoA include ceramics (Duggan, Gerrard, Jackson), glass (Duckworth), stone and bone
 (Conneller, Tourigny) and microwear analysis (Caricola, Dolfini). Key grants for Material Culture
 research have been awarded by the AHRC, British Academy (including 2 British Academy
 Postdoctoral Fellows), European Commission (with 3 EU Marie Skłodowska-Curie fellows), and
 charities including the Leverhulme Trust and Senhouse Trust. Outstanding publications include
 the discovery of Magdalenian art in the Channel Islands (Bello et al. 2020), the exceptional
 Mesolithic site at Star Carr (Milner et al. 2018), major excavations at the Roman Empire’s
 northernmost cult centre (Haynes and Wilmott 2020) and analysis of ancient technologies across
 the Sahara (Duckworth et al. 2020).

 1d. Future Strategy, 2021-28

 In the next seven years, the McCord Centre and MATCH will continue to provide the foundation
 of the UoA’s research strategy by fostering collaborations, providing training, and leading
 interdisciplinary initiatives including a new Landscape NUCoRE (Table 3).


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   REF 2021 aspirations        Future actions, 2021-2028          Results by 2028
  New research theme:          Build new collaborations and       Sustainable research theme on
  Bodies and Identities        areas of expertise                 bodily identities
  Consolidate and expand       Secure University and external     Continued growth in permanent
  Category A staff base        investment                         Category A staff
  Develop a more diverse       Proactive support for              A stronger, more diverse and
  and inclusive research       promotions and development;        more sustainable research
  environment                  seek diversity of candidates for   community
                               postdoctoral fellowships
  Wider and more               Broaden collaborations; extend     Thriving and diverse
  balanced global research     international staff expertise;     collaborative research in 2 or
  activity                     build capacity of partners         more new regions
                               through mentoring and
                               collaboration
  Further develop              Widen supervisory expertise,       PhD community bigger and
  postgraduate research        skills training, exchanges;        increasingly diverse; PhD
  community                    secure new funding options         research in 2 or more new
                                                                  regions; stronger support for
                                                                  range of career pathways
  Material Culture and         Foster new collaborations and      Stronger interdisciplinary
  Landscape lead growth        leadership of interdisciplinary    partnerships; increase in
  of interdisciplinary         research programmes                research funding; more diverse
  NUCoREs for Heritage                                            research environment
  and Landscape
  Further develop facilities  Secure investment from           World-class facilities for
  for landscape and           University and externally for    science-based archaeology in
  archaeological materials    more advanced microscopy         key research themes
  science                     and analytical equipment e.g.
                              SEM and microCT
  Develop experimental        Build strategic partnerships     Experimental work supporting all
  archaeology capacity        with industry and museums,       research themes
                              invest in facilities
  Increase range and          Ensure realistic pathways        Wider reach and significance,
  quality of impacts          embedded in all project plans    addressing targeted UN SDGs
  through further             with GLAM partners (e.g.
  collaborative research      Great North Museum, National
  and teaching                Glass Centre), UK and
                              international collaborators
                    Table 3. REF 2021 aspirations; planned actions and results.

 The UoA’s aims include launching a new research theme on ‘Bodies and Identities’ (linked to the
 cross-Faculty Medical Humanities Network (committee role: Shillito). The new Archaeology group
 will link archaeological science on human and animal bodies (Shillito, Tourigny) with humanities
 approaches to personhood, kinship, emotion and identity (Conneller, Fowler, Webster), deepening
 Newcastle’s commitment to bioarchaeology and providing a strategic focus for new staff,
 collaborations, PGRs and facilities development.

 Continued investment in archaeological science will support all three future research themes.
 Since the UoA decided to expand its scientific capacity in 2015, the staff base has grown from one
 (Dolfini) to six (adding Shillito (2015), Duckworth (2016), Tourigny (2018), Carrer (2019), Rayne
 (2020)), plus 2 FTE technicians (Van Asperen (2016), Blumberg (2019)). The capacity created
 has enabled the UoA to win major projects such as Rome Transformed (ERC Advanced, including
 geoarchaeology and digital survey), Earliest Human Occupation of North America (NERC,
 including micromorphology and geochemistry) and TerraSAgE (AHRC, with geoarchaeology and
 computer modelling). Future investment will prioritise developing capacity in bioarchaeology and
 palaeoenvironments.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Recent ECR and PGR initiatives have established experimental archaeology as a new
 methodological focus linked to all three research themes. Experimental archaeology began in
 MATCH with use-wear and has expanded since 2017 when PGR students founded the
 Experimental Archaeology Newcastle (EXARN) group (mentored by Duckworth, Dolfini and
 Shillito). The team is now recognised by EXARC, the global network for Archaeological Open-air
 Museums, Experimental Archaeology, Ancient Technology and Interpretation; EXARN is just one
 example of how our PGRs play a central role in developing the research environment.

 The UoA will maintain its strong commitment to archaeological fieldwork. In Britain excavations
 since 2014 include Maryport Roman Temples (Haynes), Lufton Roman Villa (Gerrard), Round
 Mounds, Isle of Man (Fowler) and Derwentcote Steel Furnace (Webster); in Europe, fieldwork
 includes Al Alhambra (Spain; Duckworth); Apalirou Environs Survey (Naxos, Greece;
 S.Turner/Jackson) and Case Bastione (Sicily; Dolfini). Innovation in field methods including novel
 techniques for scientific dating and digital survey is a cornerstone of projects in the Mediterranean
 and northern Europe. Over the next seven years the UoA will broaden its geographical reach,
 building on foundations provided by Shillito’s excavations at Paisley Caves (Oregon, USA) and
 Jackson’s Kilise Tepe project (Turkey). Since 2016 over £500k from Newton, GCRF and other
 international funders has enabled the UoA to initiate collaborations in Brazil, Morocco, Libya,
 Sudan, Turkey, Ukraine, Iraq, India, Sri Lanka and China with a view to designing shared research
 agendas as the basis for future fieldwork. To date this work has supported staff mobility, PGR
 exchanges and ECR training in each of these countries. In future the UoA will create strong and
 balanced partnerships for new fieldwork programmes using archaeology as a vector to address
 UN Sustainable Development Goals linked to culture, heritage and urbanism, climate, water,
 agriculture and sustainable ecosystems. These agendas will guide the appointment of new
 researchers and development of the UoA’s expertise in regions such as Africa, south and east
 Asia, leading to further internationalisation through fieldwork and PGR recruitment. This approach
 is exemplified by NUAcT appointments Rayne (research in northern Africa supporting SDG targets
 6.4-6, 6.b) and Carrer (Mediterranean and western Asia, SDG targets 15.1, 15.4).

 1e. Strategic aims in research impact

 The UoA’s strategy to achieve impact from research has focussed on two key areas:
    • Increasing public understanding of archaeology and heritage through knowledge
       exchange and partnership with cultural institutions and industry
    • Coproducing policies and tools to underpin landscape management and planning

 The UoA’s Impact Case Studies show how impacts have developed in each of these areas through
 the research themes of Landscape and Material Culture. Both the McCord Centre and MATCH
 lead internally- and externally-funded projects designed to create research impact. The UoA
 encourages close links with industry through Visiting Fellowships for professional archaeologists,
 contract research, participation in knowledge transfer activities and training through masterclasses
 and PGR/staff secondments.

 The strategy for research impact is underpinned by investment in partnerships with non-HEI
 bodies including Historic England, English Heritage, the National Trust, and commercial
 organisations, as well as key regional partners like the Vindolanda Trust, Senhouse Museum and
 Tyne and Wear Archives and Museums (TWAM). The UoA nurtures these relationships by co-
 organising policy workshops (e.g. Natural England (2015), European Commission (2016), High
 Speed 2 (2018), Government of Flanders (2019)), providing advisors and trustees, and by
 supporting joint projects including commercial research and collaborative doctoral awards (e.g.
 with Northumberland National Park Authority, Beamish Museum, Historic England). Such links
 ensure ongoing co-design of research, co-production of outputs and the adoption of research
 innovations by the UoA’s partners.

 A key example of an ongoing partnership is the Great North Museum (GNM), the gateway
 museum for Hadrian’s Wall, which is a collaboration between the University, TWAM, the Society

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Antiquaries of Newcastle and the Natural History Society of Northumbria (REF5a 2.4.2). The
 University’s commitment of £1m p/a helps to sustain strong collections-based research by the
 UoA and keep public admission to the GNM free.

 2. People

 2a. Staffing strategy

 Archaeology was the smallest UoA submitted to REF2014 by Newcastle and remains relatively
 small in the context of a Russell Group university. Nevertheless, the UoA’s success since
 REF2014 means its growth was prioritised in successive School Strategic Plans. The UoA is now
 more than twice its size in 2014. Investment recognised the need to broaden the base of
 researchers from different backgrounds, particularly in archaeological science, in order to create
 the strength and diversity required for an outstanding and sustainable research environment.

 The UoA’s recruitment strategy from 2014-2020 was designed to maintain and consolidate core
 strengths in the landscape archaeology and material culture of Britain, Europe and the
 Mediterranean, whilst developing capacity in archaeological science. New permanent
 appointments were consequently made in both environmental and landscape archaeology (Shillito
 (2015), Gleeson (2015-17, now at Queen’s University Belfast), Tourigny (2018), Carrer (2019),
 Rayne (2020)) and artefacts and materials science (Duckworth (2016), Collins (2017), Conneller
 (2018)). The UoA’s current thematic, chronological and geographical expertise is represented in
 Table 4.

                                Themes                                      Periods                                            Regions
   eligible staff
   Category A




                                                                                                                                       E. Mediterr-
                                                                                                            NW Europe
                                             Bodies and
                    Landscape




                                                                                                                          Mediterran
                                                                                                            Britain and
                                                           Prehistoric




                                                                                                                                       anean and
                                                                                                Post-med.
                                                                                                & Modern
                                                                         Classical


                                                                                     Medieval
                                              identities




                                                                                                                           Western




                                                                                                                                                      America
                                  Material
                                  Culture




                                                                                                                                         W.Asia
                                                                                                                            Africa




                                                                                                                                                       North
                                                             Later




                                                                                                                             ean
    Caricola
      Carrer
      Collins
   Conneller
      Dolfini
  Duckworth
     Duggan
  Fairclough
      Fowler
     Gerrard
     Haynes
    Haysom
    Jackson
     Lekakis
      Moore
      Rayne
      Shillito
    Tourigny
    A.Turner
    S.Turner
    Webster
      Wright

                                Table 4. Current staff (Category A) expertise at Newcastle.



                                                                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Whilst Conneller was appointed following a retirement, the others were all appointed to newly-
 created positions in line with the University’s strategy of investment in areas with world-leading
 potential. The appointment of Wright in September 2020 shows this strategy is continuing,
 notwithstanding challenges such as Covid-19 (Figure 1).




           Figure 1. Staff in Archaeology at Newcastle ((F)=female; (M)=male), 2014-20.

 2b. Staff development

 The academic staff profile is balanced across career stages, with two Professors, eight Senior
 Lecturers, one Principal Research Associate, four Lecturers and five Research Fellows. A further
 Lecturer and Senior Lecturer have been appointed jointly with Classics and Ancient History to
 foster interdisciplinary connections. Apart from Moore (appointed to cover Collins’ secondment to
 the NLHF WallCAP project), all Category A staff with ‘Teaching and Research’ responsibilities
 hold open-ended contracts. Temporary Lecturers are routinely appointed to ‘Teaching and
 Research’ contracts to support their career development (e.g. Ashley Coutu, 2017-19 (now
 Oxford); Stephanie Piper, 2018-19 (now York); Sophie Moore, 2019-22). Since 2016 the
 archaeology laboratories have been supported by lab technicians who are themselves
 experienced researchers with technical skills in lab management, artefact conservation
 (Blumberg) and environmental archaeology (particularly palaeobiology) (Van Asperen). They
 contribute to research outputs as co-authors and are trained in new skills through research
 projects (e.g. Blumberg trained in soil micromorphology by Shillito during AHRC TerraSAgE).

 All staff researchers participate fully in the Unit’s research culture, whatever their career stage and
 whether on open-ended or fixed term contracts. All benefit from the same research mentoring and
 have equal access to internal funding schemes, which helps create the freedom and opportunity
 to succeed envisioned in the University’s Vision and Strategy (REF5a, 2). Formal mechanisms for
 staff development include an annual Personal Development Review (PDR) and probationary
 reviews during the first two years of employment. These provide space to identify priorities and
 training needs in relation to individual career goals, including discussion of promotion. Following

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a review of processes during preparation of the School’s successful 2019 Athena Swan Bronze
 submission, PDR reviewers now proactively encourage staff who meet promotion criteria to apply,
 rather than relying on reviewees to put themselves forward. All staff prepare Personal Research
 Plans in consultation with the School Director of Research, including impact and training goals.
 The UoA is committed to the Researcher Development Concordat and Technician Commitment,
 and implements principles including open recruitment practices, flexible working, professional
 development time and relevant training for technicians, researchers and managers. For example,
 the UoA routinely provides bridging funding for fixed-term staff facing gaps between projects, and
 tops up fractional contracts to enable training and project development. This support has
 benefitted 10 individual RAs during the assessment period.

 The UoA’s mentoring system provides a more informal process for peer support, with mentors
 allocated to all new colleagues. Outside formal mentoring, an active culture of support means all
 members of staff provide and receive one-to-one advice on their research and publishing, and the
 UoA operates a supportive system of peer review for funding proposals and papers in progress.

 The University provides training to support impact and research for staff at all levels through its
 extensive Open Learning Programme (with modules in all aspects of leadership, digital, health
 and safety, and EDI), and the NU Academies (supporting skills and engagement with policy
 makers, business and global challenges). For example, Collins and Carrer have developed their
 leadership and project management skills through the 5-month PI Development Programme. Most
 staff have benefitted from research funding workshops and tailored support for UKRI, European
 and International funding from the Faculty’s Research Funding Development team. Induction
 activities attended by all new starters are tailored separately for professors, lecturers and
 researchers. The UoA itself provides training in specialist techniques such as digital survey, GIS,
 databases and archiving, spatial analysis, pXRF and microscopy. RAs are supported to develop
 their personal research alongside their main project duties through allocation of at least 6 hours
 per week in line with UKRI professional development guidelines. The success of all these
 measures is demonstrated by tangible results: the increasing volume of outstanding publications
 produced by researchers at all career stages; the fact that all Category A staff have been PI or CI
 for at least one externally-funded project; and the striking increase in research income.

 All staff have administrative responsibilities; ECRs are mentored through theirs by experienced
 colleagues in preparation for more senior roles and to ensure knowledge of policy and process
 development is widely shared. Consequently, archaeologists have held key management
 positions on the School Executive Board (in addition to the Head of Archaeology), including Head
 of School (2014-19; 2020), Deputy Head of School (2014-20), Director of Research (2013-14),
 and Director of Learning and Teaching (2019-20).

 A burgeoning group of Research Fellows and RAs has developed with the maturing research
 environment, from 5 in 2013 to 20 in 2020 (Figure 2). During the assessment period the UoA has
 attracted 20 Research Fellows holding prestigious fellowships, including grants from EU
 FP7/H2020 (12 Marie Skłodowska-Curie fellows), British Academy (4), national research councils
 (2), and the University’s NUAcT programme (2). Another 20 RAs have fulfilled key roles on projects
 funded by research councils, charities and heritage agencies. Three research-only staff hold open-
 ended contracts (A.Turner, Carrer, Rayne).

 The School’s induction and probation policies support all ECRs (defined as 7 years from PhD or
 5 years from first academic appointment, whichever is most generous) regardless of contract type
 or funding source. For example, ECRs’ annual Research Support Funds are raised from the
 standard staff allowance of £900 to £1400 p/a; their applications to some internal funding
 competitions are treated preferentially, e.g. University Conference Support Fund (which awarded
 £23k to 3 ECRs for 4 conferences at Newcastle including CIFA, 2016; Developing International
 Geoarchaeology, 2017; IALA Landscape Archaeology Conference, 2018; Mapping the Sacred in
 Byzantium, 2019). New ECR lecturers have lower teaching workloads during their probation to
 help minimise the impact of lecturing on their research. Meanwhile research time, mentoring,
 researcher management, impact activities and research administration are factored into workload

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 planning for all academic staff. Colleagues are incentivised to submit grant proposals with 0.1%
 of the value of all applications (successful or not) added to their Research Support Fund. Fostering
 a collegial working environment and a strong sense of community is at the core of our research
 strategy, so colleagues in all roles and at all career stages feel supported to achieve their goals:
 the exceptionally low turn-over rate among Category A staff on open-ended contracts is testament
 to the success of these policies (with nine new appointments and only one resignation since 2013).

 Staff with fixed-term contracts are encouraged to apply for open-ended positions and four have
 recently made this transition (A.Turner, 2016; Collins, 2017; Van Asperen, 2018; Carrer, 2019).
 Fixed-term researchers from Newcastle have also been appointed to academic posts around the
 world, e.g. Cristiano Iaia (Marie Curie Fellow (MCF), 2015-17), now Associate Professor at the
 University of Turin; John Blong (NERC RA, 2016-20), now tenure-track Assistant Professor at
 Washington State University; Elif Koparal (British Academy Newton Advanced Fellow, 2016-19),
 now Associate Professor at Mimar Sinan Fine Arts University, Istanbul; Mihail Mitrea (MCF 2018-
 20), now research scientist at the Romanian Academy. Support for diverse careers has helped
 other researchers secure positions in industry (Oscar Aldred, RA 2012-14, Cambridge
 Archaeological Unit) and government (Sabrina Pietrobono, MCF 2012-14, Ministry of Cultural
 Heritage, Italy).

 All teaching staff take one semester in every seven as sabbatical leave. Staff who complete a term
 of at least three consecutive years in major administrative roles such as Head of School or Head
 of Archaeology follow it with a two-semester sabbatical. Over the assessment period staff in the
 UoA have taken 22 sabbatical semesters. External funding has supported further research leave,
 e.g. Duckworth’s British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship and Conneller’s British Academy Mid-
 Career Fellowship.

 2c. Research students

 Sixty-six PhD students studied in the UoA during the review period, with 18 PhD degrees awarded.
 The key source of support for PhD researchers was the AHRC Northern Bridge Doctoral Training
 Partnership (NBDTP), which includes seven universities in NE England and Northern Ireland
 working with a range of partner organisations. The UoA’s applicants to NBDTP have consistently
 been amongst the most successful in the consortium with 19 awards. In all, 66% of Archaeology
 PhD students registered at Newcastle have won competitive scholarships from sources including
 AHRC, NERC, European Commission, Commonwealth Commission and charities.

 Many PhDs are interdisciplinary, jointly supervised across subjects in the School, across Faculties,
 and with external partners. For example, the development of archaeological science has enabled
 access to new funding sources such as NERC IAPETUS 2, a multidisciplinary DTP for natural
 environment, including a PhD on climate change and Hadrian’s Wall jointly supervised with the
 Newcastle Earth Observation Laboratory and English Heritage. There has been significant growth
 in co-supervisions with partner institutions in the UK, Europe and the USA (up from 2 (10%) in
 2013/14 to 13 (30%) in 2019/20) and marked diversification amongst students (e.g. international
 students up from 6 (30%) to 24 (62%)). Over the review period PhD supervisions (all categories)
 in the UoA grew from 20 to 41 (Figure 2).

 PGR students are key members of the UoA’s research community and its research themes.
 Involvement in research activities provides training opportunities which can contribute up to 70
 hours of their required annual research training requirement. PGRs have consequently taken
 central roles in organising international conferences (e.g. DIG2017 and LAC2018, where PhD
 students were on the steering committees) and fieldwork (e.g. the Apalirou Environs Project,
 where PhD students led ceramic analysis and building survey). PGRs are also encouraged to
 develop initiatives with financial support from the University. Examples include EXARN, which
 hosted the first Annual Experimental Archaeology Student Symposium at Newcastle; a PhD-
 student led 3D survey of Sant’Apollinare in Classe (Italy, a UNESCO World Heritage Site) with
 funding and technical support from the McCord Centre; and the School’s interdisciplinary
 Postgraduate Forum seminar series.

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                                                                           Figure 2.
                                                                                     Newcastle PhD
                                                                                      researchers in
                                                                                 Archaeology during
                                                                                each academic year
                                                                                    from 2013-14 to
                                                                                           2019-20.




 The School is committed to providing an accessible environment with a range of support for all
 PGR students. Applications are made in writing through an online portal; if applicants indicate
 needs relating to a protected characteristic, the Graduate School can arrange discussions with
 Student Wellbeing and/or a visit to discuss support. Each PGR application is reviewed by the
 Graduate School, School PGR Director, Archaeology PGR coordinator, and at least two potential
 supervisors.

 PhD researchers are required to have at least one formal meeting with their supervisor each
 month, which is recorded in the online ‘e-portfolio’ system. Students use this system to keep
 minutes of meetings, record training activities and assist with goal-setting. PhDs have the
 opportunity to teach after completing the Newcastle Teaching Award; many lead seminar groups
 and provide at least one lecture for modules related to their research. Faculty and School PGR
 programmes provide over 700 hours of flexible training to choose from each year, delivering
 theoretical and practical skills relevant to a wide range of humanities and social science research.
 PhD students working on lab-based projects participate in monthly Lab Committee meetings,
 which provide a semi-formal setting for practising research presentations and soliciting feedback
 on draft papers and grant applications, as well as gaining valuable insight into the management
 of the laboratories. The School’s PG Student Voice Committee provides a forum for PGRs to
 shape the agenda for their facilities and training needs.

 The UoA is committed to supporting a range of career pathways with workshops for stage 3 UGs,
 PGs and postdocs which include regular networking events with local employers and “Want to be
 an archaeology academic?” workshops. Recent PhD graduates now work around the world in
 research or professional practice, including postdoctoral fellowships at the universities of
 Göttingen (2018), Princeton (2018), Leicester (2014), Newcastle (2018); lectureships at KCL
 (2016), Leicester (2016), Newcastle (2019), Peradeniya (2015); and professional roles at
 Archaeological Research Services Ltd (2014); English Heritage (2017); Hameln Museum (2018);
 Wood plc (2020) and the UK Civil Service (2018).



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2d. Equality and Diversity

 The UoA recognised that gender balance was poor at the REF2014 census (1f, 9m). Over the
 current assessment period this has improved significantly (8f, 12m). The UoA will continue to work
 actively to improve gender and other aspects of diversity as part of our staffing strategy, ensuring
 that there is a gender balance (and career stage balance) on shortlisting and interview panels for
 all posts. All job specifications now use inclusive language and all panel members have
 undertaken unconscious bias and active bystander training.

 While 33% of Category A eligible staff originate outside the UK (Canada, Greece, Ireland, Italy,
 USA) and 68% of Research Fellows and RAs have international backgrounds (mainly from Europe
 and the USA), their ethnic backgrounds lack diversity. The EDI Committee – which includes PGR
 and researcher members – will continue to implement an EDI Action Plan (following 2019
 submission for Athena Swan Bronze) to ensure barriers to career advancement are overcome for
 colleagues and students from all backgrounds. The Action Plan has recognised the need to create
 effective pathways to promotion for staff with protected characteristics (e.g. enhanced mentoring
 for women seeking promotion; creation of pathways into leadership positions to ensure
 proportionate representation).

 The University’s strong commitment to EDI means funding is available for schemes such as
 parental leave cover, with a Returners’ Support Programme to assist staff returning to work
 following caring responsibilities, e.g. to reduce face-to-face workload for nursing mothers returning
 from maternity leave. The School EDI Committee’s initiatives are supported by a University EDI
 fund. The University has robust leadership supporting EDI including a Dean, Faculty Directors and
 Inclusion Advisory/Project Officers, who help ensure EDI matters are prioritised in all the School’s
 work including strategic planning, recruitment, induction and training, and all levels of teaching.

 There is a strong commitment to empowering staff to maintain a proper work-life balance, through
 e.g. flexible retirement policy (no fixed retirement age) and flexible working. The main weekly
 research seminar series (linked to the research themes) is scheduled earlier in the afternoon to
 enable attendance by those with caring responsibilities. The timing and format of weekly team
 meetings is also designed to enable all staff to contribute fully, since many decisions at UoA level
 are made by consensus. The Covid-19 pandemic in 2020 accelerated plans to implement
 videoconferencing for business meetings and research seminars so that all are now digitally
 accessible: this contributes to environmental sustainability and improves accessibility for
 participants with caring responsibilities or other mobility constraints.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3a. Income

 UoA research income has increased during the review period from c. £200k p/a in 2013/14 to c.
 £1m p/a in 2019/20. At £3.75m, the total income is 6 times more than reported in REF2014,
 reflecting effective mentoring and researcher development activities. Meanwhile new research
 awards during the review period totalled c. £7.7m, an increase of around 550% compared to 2008-
 14. This remarkable growth is a result of major investments in the research community, in personal
 and professional development, mentoring at all levels and new research facilities (Figure 3).




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                      Figure 3. Research income: spend and new awards.

 As the UoA has invested in its members’ research careers and developed new fields of expertise
 (including archaeological science and related facilities), staff have won grants from an
 increasingly wide range of funders. During the review period the UoA was awarded £2.1m from
 UK research councils with projects including Earliest Human Occupation of North America
 (NERC, £550k, PI Shillito, 2016) and TerraSage: Terraces as Sustainable Agricultural
 Environments (AHRC, £750k, S.Turner/Shillito, 2019) demonstrating a strong trajectory of
 growth through the review period. The UoA’s members have won funding from a growing range
 of sources including major funders like the European Commission (Rome Transformed, ERC
 Advanced, €2.4m, Haynes; Heriland, MSCA ITN, €875k, S.Turner), Wellcome Trust (Biofuels
 and respiratory health, £43k, Shillito), Leverhulme Trust (Unmasking Masks, £108k, Conneller),
 British Academy (Mesolithic Histories, £100k, Conneller; Tintagel (£173k, Duggan)), and
 National Lottery Heritage Fund (Hadrian’s Wall Community Archaeology Project, £2m,
 S.Turner/Collins) but also awards from industry and smaller UK and international charities
 (Round Mounds: Isle of Man, Manx Heritage, £95k, Fowler; Maryport, Senhouse Trust, £200k,
 Haynes). Such grants help build relationships with the professional sector and consolidate
 regional partnerships; the strategy of diversification is helping to protect the UoA from risks
 associated with challenges like Brexit and Covid-19 by providing new funding sources for
 research.

 3b. Infrastructure

 Research and Impact activities are supported by the School Research Committee, which includes
 subject Heads, research and impact coordinators. Research Committee works with the School
 EDI Committee to implement an action plan to promote EDI. All School decision-making bodies
 have balanced memberships in terms of gender and career stage. Within the UoA, weekly staff
 meetings chaired by the Head of Archaeology facilitate discussion of research strategy, with a
 monthly meeting dedicated exclusively to research matters.

 Three Faculty Impact Officers work with the UoA’s Impact Coordinator to advise on embedding
 impact activities into new projects. The Impact Coordinator (Waite) has dedicated 0.3 FTE to
 enabling impact since 2015, including work with key partners TWAM and the GNM. The

                                                                                         Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University’s media team supports digital communications through training and collaboration with
 researchers at all levels, enabling projects such as the Futurelearn Hadrian’s Wall MOOC which
 has reached >64,000 learners since 2014. With the Faculty Institutes & Partnerships Manager,
 the UoA develops projects with strategic partners including Historic England, TWAM,
 Northumberland National Park Authority and the National Trust (supported by £169k from
 university, HEIF and ESRC impact accelerator funds in the period under review). The resulting
 projects have ranged from educational work using ancient Greek artefacts in Newcastle primary
 schools (2015-19), through creation of digital tools to support collections access and participatory
 planning (2018-20), to landscape management projects with government agencies/NGOs in
 Belgium (2019), Greece (2017-18), Turkey (2016-19) and the UK (2016-17).

 3c. Facilities

 The UoA’s home is in the Armstrong Building, a 19th-century college which was refurbished at a
 cost of £20m between 2013-19. It houses student facilities, offices for teaching staff, computer
 labs equipped with GIS and specialist software, and open-plan offices accommodating all PhD
 researchers. A further research suite in the adjacent Old Library Building provides project teams
 with open-plan office space, meeting rooms and videoconferencing facilities.

 The UoA has made substantial investments in upgrading facilities linked to its research themes of
 Landscape and Material Culture, including resources for remote sensing and survey equipment,
 microscopes and geoarchaeology. The UoA has two archaeological science laboratory suites
 which provide facilities for material culture research (Wolfson Archaeology Laboratory) and
 geoarchaeology (Earthslides Laboratory). The Wolfson Lab houses facilities for experimental
 materials analysis, reference collections for environmental and artefact research, and a dedicated
 research microscope room. Key equipment acquired since 2014 includes a bespoke Leica
 DM2700 MH RL microscope with MC170 HD Camera and SW Kit, designed specifically for use-
 wear analysis of large metal objects; and a bespoke Leica DM1750 M/P for petrographic analysis
 of ceramics, stone and environmental materials. The Earthslides Lab has a full range of equipment
 for producing and analysing large-format thin sections of soils, sediments and ceramics, and a
 clean room for microfossil extraction. A portable XRF Bruker Tracer III-SD analyser enables
 elemental characterisation of soils and artefacts.

 The McCord Centre also maintains facilities for archaeological survey and remote sensing,
 including a full suite of geophysics and terrestrial and airborne laser scanning instruments.
 Meanwhile the UoA is a partner in the University’s new One Planet complex (opened 2019 after
 investment of £2m) which provides fully-equipped teaching and research labs for earth and
 environmental sciences including the SaGE Mass Spectrometry facility for biomarker analysis
 (e.g. Agilent 6890-5975 GC-MS). Archaeologists have access to additional state-of-the-art
 facilities for materials and sediment characterisation through access agreements with Engineering
 and Pharmacy (e.g. Perkin-Elmer spotlight 400 FTIR microscope).

 From 2014, Faculty and School policies have directed all overheads (from Full Economic Cost)
 and other surpluses earned from research and consultancy back to the UoA for investment in staff,
 facilities and projects without top-slicing. Alongside additional investment in the UoA’s facilities by
 the University, this has facilitated the creation of new laboratories and acquisition of equipment
 valued at over £500,000 (Table 5). Investment continued in 2021 with £136,000 for advanced
 micrcoscopes from UKRI World Class Laboratories Fund and £738,000 from AHRC Capability for
 Collections Fund.




                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Laboratory                 Equipment                                            Date Value
  McCord Centre              FARO X330 terrestrial laser scanner                  2014 £60,000
  Wolfson Archaeology        Polarising microscopes                               2015 £24,000
  Lab
  Wolfson Archaeology        High temperature chamber furnace                     2017 £12,000
  Lab
  Wolfson Archaeology        Stereo and metallographic microscopes                2017 £25,000
  Lab
  McCord Centre              Gradiometry and ERT instruments                      2017   £54,300
  McCord Centre              UAVs, RouteScene LidarPod                            2018   £112,000
  Earthslides Lab            Lab refit, Brot micromorphology equipment            2019   £190,000
  Earthslides/Wolfson        Keyence digital & Leica motorised microscopes        2021   £136,000
  Labs
  Earthslides/Wolfson        Bruker SkyScan MicroCT; Artec scanners; Leica 2021 £738,800
  Labs                       DM6M LIBS & fluorescence microscopes

                      Table 5. Facilities for Archaeology acquired since 2014.


 The University’s unique archives and museums include archaeological and ethnographic
 collections from around the world, including British and Mediterranean archaeology used
 extensively in the UoA’s Material Culture research. Alongside research and seminar space, the
 GNM houses a specialist library of 50,000 volumes which integrates the UoA’s Cowen Library and
 the historic collections of the Society of Antiquaries of Newcastle upon Tyne. The UoA also has a
 close relationship with the University Library’s Special Collections department owing to co-curation
 of the Gertrude Bell Archive. Research since 2014 on the Bell collection and newly-acquired
 archives including the Assyrian archive of Victorian polymath Austen Henry Layard (2016) and the
 Shefton Archive (Greek archaeology, 2017) has been supported by the British Academy (£80k,
 2017-18) and private donors (2019). The UoA’s research underpinned inclusion of the Bell Archive
 on the UNESCO International Memory of the World Register (2017), one of only two UK university
 archives recognised in this way.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The interconnected challenges faced by the UoA’s partners inform and inspire much of its
 research, which helps ensure many projects are designed with users and beneficiaries in mind.
 Partnerships with institutions outside higher education include strong relationships in the heritage
 sector (e.g. through MoUs and funded projects with Historic England, the National Trust,
 Northumberland National Park Authority). The University’s partnership with TWAM, epitomised in
 the GNM collaboration, is a key example (see Impact Case Study (ICS) 15-1 Haynes et al.). The
 UoA’s research informs both permanent and temporary exhibitions at the GNM which were visited
 by >400k people each year since 2014, including over 30,000 children annually on organised
 educational visits. Examples include The Extraordinary Gertrude Bell exhibition (2016) which was
 co-curated by Jackson based on his research on the Gertrude Bell Archive, with loans from the
 British Museum, Imperial War Museum and Royal Geographical Society. The exhibition had over
 26,000 visitors at the GNM before permanent installation at Kirkleatham Museum (Teesside). Of
 717 visitors surveyed (June-September 2016), 94% felt the exhibition “increased their
 understanding of the role of archaeologists in the formation of the modern Middle East”.

 The UoA regularly partners with commercial archaeologists (e.g. Archaeological Research
 Services Ltd for HLF-funded Rescued from the Sea (2013-16); The Archaeological Practice Ltd
 with AHRC TerraSAgE (2020-22)). Industry links provide reciprocal benefits through PhD and
 postdoctoral researchers who have completed over 25 secondments with industry partners in the
 UK and Europe, leading to significant and innovative results (e.g. Duggan’s ceramic analysis for
 Cornwall Archaeological Unit/English Heritage for Tintagel Castle, 2017-20). Meanwhile a policy

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of recruiting researchers from the profession has deepened exchange with industry and the public
 sector, e.g. Fairclough in 2013 (following a distinguished career with Historic England), Sophie
 Hueglin in 2014 (previously excavation director for the City of Basel), and Lekakis in 2015 (formerly
 at the Greek Ministry of Culture, and founder of heritage NGO Monumenta). Projects they have
 led such as CHeriScape (funded by JPI-Cultural Heritage) and Co-Creating Heritage (AHRC
 Follow-on Fund for Impact) have contributed to the development of international policy and
 practice (see ICS 15-2 Turner and Fairclough).

 Many Visiting Fellows (VFs) come from industry. They become involved in major projects such as
 RomeTransformed (ERC, VFs David Heslop and Iwan Peverett of New Visions Heritage Ltd) and
 lead international participatory research (e.g. VFs Colm O’Brien and Max Adams’ Inishowen
 Project). This strategy promotes the co-production of research outputs from commercial projects
 (e.g. Gerrard’s three co-authored monographs with Pre-Construct Archaeology Ltd since 2014).
 Of 47 VFs, 33 work in the profession (16 UK, 15 international). VFs’ roles include fostering new
 international research programmes, for example Humphrey Welfare’s leadership of ‘Wall-to-Wall’,
 an initiative funded by the UK and Chinese governments since 2018 to link the Great Wall of China
 with Hadrian’s Wall through researchers at the Chinese Academy of Cultural Heritage, Historic
 England and Newcastle University. Close engagement with government and industry provides
 pathways for research innovations to impact policy and practice (see ICS 15-2 Turner and
 Fairclough); successful examples include collaboration with Historic England for digital survey of
 unique Roman quarry-face inscriptions from Hadrian’s Wall (winner of Current Archaeology’s
 ‘Rescue Project of the Year’, 2020); and Fusion-HS2’s decision to commission innovative
 earthwork dating as part of HS2 Phase 1 (following Kinnaird et al. 2017).

 In recent years the UoA has also significantly deepened its collaborative relationships globally, as
 shown by key outputs, incoming and outgoing research visits, and collaborative projects (Table
 6). For example, PhD students and postdocs have come to Newcastle for short stays (1-12
 months) from Brazil, China, Italy, Spain, Turkey and the USA. Staff from the UoA have contributed
 to building research capacity as Visiting Professors in partner institutions, for example S.Turner
 and Fairclough at UFMG, Belo Horizonte (2018) and S.Turner at Pavia University (2019-21).

                                North   South Western South East
                                                                 Europe                UK
                        Africa America America Asia   Asia Asia                                Total
              Academia 2         21       3     12      5    3     44                  26       116
  Industry / government 3         2       1     2       3    1     27                  30        69
                   Total 5       23       4     14      8    4     71                  56       185

                           Table 6. Research collaborations since 2014
                          (number of institutions in each region/category)

 The UoA has won significant funding for projects focussed on policy development, participatory
 citizen science and co-productive research. Continuing work with partners along Hadrian’s Wall is
 a flagship for this strategy (see ICS 15-1 Haynes et al.). The £2m WallCAP project was designed
 in consultation with regional stakeholders including NLHF, Historic England, English Heritage, the
 National Trust, Northumberland National Park Authority, Northumberland County Council,
 Cumbria County Council and Hadrian’s Wall museums (TWAM, the Vindolanda Trust, and the
 Senhouse Trust). WallCAP will involve c.300 volunteers participating in research and heritage
 protection until 2022, with Collins seconded (0.8 FTE) from 2017 to 2021 to manage the project.

 The UoA is also committed to promoting public engagement with archaeology through new and
 traditional media: the University provides specific training and mentoring through the ‘Open
 Learning’ staff development programme. New digital tools for participatory heritage have been
 pioneered through WallCAP and other projects including Co-creating Heritage (AHRC Follow-on
 for Impact; £80k; S.Turner) and Heritage Hack (AHRC Creative Economy Engagement
 Fellowship; £25k; Lekakis) and deployed with partners including Izmir City Council (Turkey) and
 Monumenta (Greece). Digital media like the Hadrian’s Wall FutureLearn MOOC show how local

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research can have major impacts on national and global audiences, with more than 64,500
 registered learners in 170 countries (see ICS 15-1 Haynes et al.). Duckworth’s 'ArchaeoDuck’
 reaches a younger demographic, with 3,500 Twitter followers, 1,000 on TikTok and >1,500
 subscribers on YouTube; ArchaeoDuck’s video ‘Carbon Dating Explained’ has >24k views. A recent
 experiment by PhD student Victoria Lucas featured on the YouTube channel of ‘Lindybeige’
 (>900k subscribers) gained >1,000 comments and 9,600 individual ‘likes’; in the words of one
 viewer ‘This presentation was so good I want to run away to England to study experimental
 archaeology’. Members of the UoA also engage public audiences regularly through TV and radio.
 Examples include Lekakis’ ‘Hidden Landscapes of Naxos’, an output from AHRC Co-creating
 Heritage which was shown twice on Greek national TV (ERT1&2, April 2019, 170k viewers) and
 Duckworth’s role as co-presenter on ‘The Great British Dig: History in Your Back Garden’
 (Channel 4, April 2020, 500k viewers); the success of both projects led their national broadcasters
 to commission subsequent series. Jackson’s research on the Gertrude Bell Archive not only
 underpinned the documentary film Letters from Baghdad, shown in 120 cinemas in the USA and
 UK, and broadcast nationwide on PBS (USA), ARTE (France and Germany) and BBC4 (UK), but
 also impacted new audiences’ knowledge of Middle Eastern history through pathways including
 online comics hyperlinked to the Gertrude Bell Archive (62,190 page views from 124 countries
 (2015-20); funded by ESRC).

 The UoA will continue its international landscape policy work (outlined in ICS 15-2 Turner and
 Fairclough) through McCord Centre projects including TerraSAgE, Carrer’s Pastoral Landscapes
 and Sustainability (2019-23) and Rayne’s Resilience in a Fragile Environment (2020-24). These
 projects seek to inform sustainable landscape futures through knowledge of past impacts from
 agriculture, pastoralism and water management. They are representative of the UoA’s ambition to
 make archaeology a lever for progress towards UN SDGs, including targets 1.5 Build resilience to
 climate shocks, 2.4 Resilient agriculture, 6.5 Water resources management, 11.4 Protect cultural
 & natural heritage, and 15.1 Conservation & sustainable use of ecosystems.

 UoA staff also contribute through service on assessment panels (e.g. four UKRI peer-review
 college members; reviews for international funders in 15 countries), journals, charities and project
 boards. Haynes is Chair of the Clayton Trust for Roman Antiquities (2018-) and other
 trustee/directorships include Vindolanda Trust, Corbridge Excavation Fund, European Association
 of Archaeologists, Historical Metallurgy Society, Landscape Research Group, CBA North, Royal
 Archaeological Institute and Society of Antiquaries of Newcastle. Staff belong to Editorial Advisory
 Boards of 14 journals, and five edit journals: Shillito (Editor, The Archaeological Journal; Associate
 Editor, Geoarchaeology); Fairclough and S.Turner (Co-Editors, Landscapes); Fowler (Associate
 Editor, Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute); Tourigny (Assistant Editor, Post-Medieval
 Archaeology).

 The UoA’s commitment to robust and balanced partnerships from local to global levels will
 ensure its research is relevant to a growing range of challenges. Strategic development targeted
 on the key themes will enable ongoing investment in world-leading expertise and facilities.
 Continuing strong support from the University means research in Archaeology is set to thrive at
 Newcastle over the coming decade.




                                                                                               Page 16
