Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Bath

 Unit of Assessment: Politics and International Studies (C19)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context
 Across the assessment period, the Politics and International Studies UoA at the University of Bath
 has sought to conduct internationally leading research of global significance and impact. This is
 the first C19 submission from the University of Bath and is the result of a strategy to expand our
 expertise and research base in politics and international relations. We have grown significantly
 since 2014, recruiting over 20 outstanding researchers who have won numerous prestigious prizes
 and fellowships. We have contributed hundreds of outputs to the research base, including multiple
 award-winning books and articles, and we have been awarded £3.5m by external funders to help
 undertake a number of these major projects.


 Our research draws on expertise across international relations, conflict and security, comparative
 politics, gender and politics, political behaviour, and political theory. Research in the UoA spans
 topics from the politics of organised crime through to the gendered nature of political institutions
 via the role of technology in changing patterns of warfare, all approached from a range of
 methodological and theoretical perspectives. We collaborate with research groups across the
 University, and with research centres around the world, on interdisciplinary problems of shared
 interest.


 We prize our ability to reflect ‘real-world’ issues in our research through our engagement with non-
 academic audiences including research users in government, the media, and the charity sector
 on issues ranging from menstrual hygiene in Nepal to the experiences of reservists in the British
 Army. Research in the UoA has also responded to changing global events across the assessment
 period, such as the process of Brexit and the emergence of Donald Trump.


 In this document, we evidence the vitality of our research environment through our active
 research culture and strong strategic support for research and impact development. We show how
 our approach is forward-thinking, ensuring the sustainability of our approach to research and
 impact. Throughout all this, we maintain a strong commitment to an equal, diverse, and inclusive
 research environment, giving all staff the opportunity to flourish, enriching the range of our
 research perspectives, and connecting us with diverse communities.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2. The structure of research across the UoA
 The Politics and International Studies UoA at Bath is situated across the Department of Politics,
 Languages & International Studies (PoLIS) and the Institute for Policy Research (IPR). The vitality
 and sustainability of the UoA’s research and impact is underpinned by an excellent and inclusive
 research environment and infrastructure. The primary research structures within our research
 community are three research clusters and the Institute for Policy Research (IPR) that we
 have developed and cemented as key intellectual anchors for colleagues across the assessment
 period. Each cluster has a membership of around 20 colleagues and pulls together a critical mass
 of disciplinary and interdisciplinary knowledge and skills while providing focus and coherence to
 our major programmes of research.


 The Conflict, Security and International Order (CSIO) cluster focuses on questions of why and
 when conflict arises, how it has changed over time, and how it can be ended. There are two key
 themes to research in this cluster. First, research addresses how defence, conflict, and security
 are impacted by rapid technological development and wider social change. This includes projects
 on the transformation of armed forces, the opportunities and threats associated with emergent
 technologies and cybersecurity, the future of counterterrorism operations, and the process of
 peace negotiation and transitions to post-conflict societies. Second, research on the changing
 nature of international order investigates the role of emerging powers worldwide, with a focus on
 China and Russia, and the transition towards a post-liberal order. This research analyses the
 evolution of the international system and the foreign policy of its key actors, the emergence of
 cyber-diplomacy as an international practice, the evolution of the international economic order and
 its adaptation to technological developments, and the political-economic issues associated with
 the emergence of the BRICS powers.


 A range of externally-funded projects have taken place under the umbrella of the CSIO cluster:

    •   Galbreath served as the Conflict Theme Leadership Fellow (2015-19) for the AHRC-ESRC
        funded Partnership for Conflict, Crime and Security Research, offering strategic guidance
        to calls launched as part of this RCUK priority area and conducting research on the
        motivations of paramilitary actors in Ukraine.
    •   Barrinha is undertaking research on the development of cyber-diplomacy and implications
        of this for international relations, funded by the Leverhulme Trust (2019-21).
    •   Bury holds a UKRI Future Research Leaders Fellowship (initially 2020-24) that will
        facilitate an exploration of the future of cross-national collaborative efforts to share
        intelligence relating to counter-terrorism efforts, part of this project seeing the
        establishment of a Centre of Excellence to build trust among practitioners in the field.




                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   An AHRC-GCRF project (2020-24) investigating the role of social protection in conflict and
        peace-building in the Middle East and North Africa region for which Aslam and Kivimäki
        serve as the international politics leads as part of a larger interdisciplinary team of
        academics across the University of Bath and from other national and international
        collaborators.


 The Gender and Sexuality (GS) cluster examines why women are under-represented in
 democratic institutions, whether women’s rights are under threat in new and unprecedented ways,
 whether public policy works in gendered ways, and what might be done to rectify gender inequality
 in society. Research interrogates the role of gender and issues relating to (in)equality in political
 institutions and social life. This includes projects on gender quotas and women’s participation in
 political life, legal and social issues around women’s reproductive rights, the gendered nature of
 democratic bodies and the feminisation of politics, and the gender pay gap.


 Externally-funded research projects have included:

    •   AHRC-GCRF interdisciplinary collaboration exploring menstrual taboos and menstrual
        hygiene among adolescent girls in Nepal (2018-9), which saw Amery and Thomson work
        with colleagues in the Department of Social Policy Sciences.
    •   Milner has undertaken a number of research projects examining gender equality policy in
        the UK and France, recently culminating in Leverhulme Trust Fellowship studying the
        Women and Work Commission’s activities in the noughties (2020-22).
    •   Allen held an ESRC Future Research Leaders grant (2016-2019) that studied gendered
        patterns of political ambition in the UK, finding that women remain less likely to have
        considered running for political office than men.


 The Nationalism, Populism and Radicalism (NPR) cluster researches the rise of populism in
 western democracies, studying how this relates to everyday practices of nationalism and patterns
 of racism, how the left has responded to this challenge from the right, and how democratic
 institutions might be reformed to be robust to such challenges in future. Research on challenges
 and threats to democratic governance worldwide, rooted in the comparative politics tradition, has
 examined the state of political attitudes and behaviours in advanced democracies and states that
 lie on the border between democracy and authoritarianism. This includes projects on the
 mainstreaming of far-right political ideas, the role of protest movements in political change,
 international trade and other political-economic challenges including Brexit, and the implications
 of widespread climate change for democratic politics.




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 NPR has seen a number of examples of externally-funded research projects undertaken by its
 members:

    •   Hatzisavvidou held a Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowship (2016-19) exploring
        methods of political persuasion in the rhetorical construction of arguments around climate
        change.
    •   With international collaborators, Vráblíková was awarded funding as part of the
        Comparative Interest Group (CIG) Survey to study the role of transactional activism in the
        Czech advocacy sector (2018-20).
    •   Bull won EU Horizon 2020 funding to study the ways in which conflict can be memorialised
        in an agonistic way, combining insights from contemporary political theory with extensive
        cross-national fieldwork (2016-19).


 Research projects have formed across clusters, a recent example the Horizon 2020 MSCA RISE
 DisTerrMem (Disputed Territories and Memory), which has seen a cross-cluster team at the
 University of Bath (led by Whiting) collaborate with international partners across Europe, South
 Asia, and the South Caucasus in an interdisciplinary exploration of how discussions of conflict can
 be disputed by different interest groups in a society. Drawing on the expertise of members of all
 three research clusters, the project has relevance to the Unit’s work on conflict, security, gender,
 and challenges to democracy.


 The Institute for Policy Research (IPR) is a core part of the UoA and embeds dissemination and
 impact activities in our research infrastructure (see Section 3.2). The IPR was a significant
 investment and initiative on the part of the University of Bath during the assessment period. The
 current Director is Nick Pearce (previously director of the IPPR and Head of the 10 Downing Street
 Policy Unit) and since its foundation, the IPR has become a leading international centre for policy
 analysis and critique. Multiple strands of externally-funded research projects have taken place
 within the IPR, often led by Pearce in collaboration with other colleagues in the Unit. Examples
 include extensive research on the topic of Universal Basic Income in the UK and Europe, funded
 by Google Ireland and the Independent Social Research Foundation, direct democracy (in
 partnership with Newham Council, London), and a project on workers’ rights after Brexit
 undertaken by Milner working closely with the Government Equalities Office and the Equality and
 Human Rights Commission.


 1.3 Research strategy
 Politics and international studies research at the University of Bath has, compared to many other
 UK-based Politics and IR departments, a distinct lineage, growing out of a modern languages and
 European Studies department. This lineage has, however, ultimately resulted in an approach to



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the subject that is flexible and open in terms of either substantive focus or methodological
 preference. In particular, the Unit has a natural interdisciplinary identity and embedded interest in
 studying issues from a cross-national perspective and uses this to its advantage within the
 landscape of political studies research.


 Building on this lineage and strong base, our aim is to achieve research excellence and impact,
 extend the international and collaborative reach of our research, and to use our research to
 enhance the experience of our students. In 2015 the Unit committed to a 5-year research strategy
 that aimed to:

    •   increase the research power of the UoA, specifically the proportion of research undertaken
        that can be considered ‘internationally leading’ and of ‘global significance’.
    •   optimise the intellectual, scientific, economic, social and cultural impact of our research
        locally, nationally, and internationally.
    •   become a centre of excellence for the development of postgraduate, postdoctoral, and
        early career researchers.


 1.4 Evidence of Achievement of Strategic Aims since 2014
 Overall, we have succeeded in implementing this research strategy, increasing research
 income since 2014 and achieving broad success in publication, dissemination, and impact:

    •   Over the assessment period, colleagues in the UoA have published over 500 research
        outputs.
    •   The percentage of journal articles we publish with internationally based co-authors has
        risen from 12% between 2011-15 to 23% between 2015-9.
    •   We have increased research grant income, with a total of £3.5m awarded in funding to the
        UoA across the assessment period.


 The UoA has seen investment in new research and teaching roles since 2014 with targeted
 appointments focused primarily on two broad research areas: comparative politics and conflict and
 security (see Section 2.1). As such, our ongoing research strategy already has been informed by
 our staffing strategy, and vice versa. We have made many of these appointments at the ECR level,
 a strategy that will see the research groups within the UoA develop together over time.


 1.5 Impact strategy
 Our strategy is to achieve impact through (i) developing the skills and understanding of our staff
 of what impact is; (ii) supporting staff to incorporate impact into their research plans and allocating
 sufficient time and resource for this; and (iii) developing and sustaining pathways and partnerships
 for the translation of research into policy and/or practice.


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 To deliver this strategy, we have developed a research culture and infrastructure that is supportive
 of impact-related activities. We have a Deputy Director of Research with responsibility for impact
 (currently Hatzisavvidou). Impact and dissemination activities are included in professional
 development criteria and colleagues writing prospective REF Impact Case Studies have time
 allocated in their workload for this purpose, demonstrating the value we place on these activities.
 Mentoring and support relating to impact – especially of ECRs - is offered by the Deputy Director
 of Research (Impact), ensuring that all staff have the opportunity to develop this aspect of their
 research practice. The IPR acts as an amplifier of UoA research, connecting staff with users of
 their research in policymaking circles. Unit-level processes are supplemented by impact,
 knowledge exchange, public relations, media, and commercial partnership support from the
 University (see Section 3.3). The impact case studies in this submission are products of this impact
 strategy, having harnessed support from different actors across the University.


 Colleagues are encouraged to capture and share good impact practice and facilitate the
 development of sustainable relationships with external partners. To ensure that opportunities are
 identified and developed, we gather this information via our University-wide research information
 system, Pure. We seek to identify the potential for impact from research projects at the earliest
 possible stage, to scan the horizon for situations where research results may have greatest effect,
 and to target potential partners in future work. We thus aim to integrate impact into the entire
 research cycle and ensure that lessons learned are captured and brought to bear on future
 practice.


 1.6 Research and impact strategy beyond 2020
 Our strategy is to intensify the successful research culture developed in the 2014-2020 period,
 with a continuing focus on growing research income, publishing world-class research, and using
 our research to improve our local, national, and global community, responding to a rapidly-
 changing political context worldwide. In the next five years, we will:

    •   focus on how best to mobilise the knowledge produced in our areas of research, scaling
        this into bigger externally-funded projects and into partnerships of co-production with
        external stakeholders. We will build on current strengths by further systematising
        processes of grant capture and external engagement.
    •   continue to draw out underlying themes that span our areas of research interest and use
        these as the basis of interdisciplinary research projects. These are the themes of
        technological change, the nature of changing behaviours and attitudes, and the
        breakdown of previous stable social and political settlements.




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Looking further ahead, we are also keen to increase the UoA’s footprint within the research
 architecture of the University of Bath, this in response to the growing emphasis placed on large-
 scale inter- and cross-disciplinary research by the UK Government and associated research
 funding bodies. Becoming an integral part of University-wide structures will better allow
 researchers within the UoA to meaningfully collaborate with colleagues from other disciplines in
 targeted pursuit of these research funding opportunities.


 To give ourselves the best chance of achieving these strategic aims, we are undertaking a series
 of strategic planning activities:

       • ensuring continuity of leadership in key research-related roles. This includes the
          appointment of Deputy Directors of Research who serve as a strong support base and
          offer resilience in research leadership within the UoA.
       • engaging in Faculty-level discussions regarding how interdisciplinary research structures
          (such as thematic leads and research centres) can further embed the UoA in an
          organically interdisciplinary research environment.
       • continuing to identify opportunities relating to the staffing strategy outlined in this
          document, specifically the opportunity of making diverse and strategic new
          appointments.


 These activities will be subject to changes in the external UK HE and research environment.
 Although difficult to predict with certainty, it seems likely that pressure on the availability of
 resources to support research activity is likely to continue across the next decade. As such,
 increasing our ability to adapt and package our research as relevant to a wide range of potential
 governmental and societal issues by focusing on broader themes will make the UoA more robust
 to these changes and our research more sustainable.


 1.7 COVID-19 and our research strategy
 The COVID-19 pandemic has introduced further uncertainty to UK HE and the global research
 landscape in terms of funding availability, University, research funder, and governmental priorities,
 as well as affecting the practical feasibility of undertaking certain forms of research. The University
 of Bath has engaged in a programme of research reopening in line with stringent health and safety
 protocols and government guidelines and, in the short-term, colleagues in the UoA were affected
 in relatively limited ways.


 However, looking ahead, the ability of colleagues to undertake certain forms of research including
 international fieldwork, ethnographic research, and archival visits is likely to be curtailed for some
 time. Ensuring that any research is undertaken safely and responsibly is our primary concern as



                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 we look to restart research activities. Working with Faculty and University research leadership, the
 UoA is examining ways of mitigating the effect of anticipated restrictions on colleagues’ ability to
 engage in research activities and we are also looking to understand how the subsequent impact
 of these on career progression, broadly defined, can be mitigated in an equitable fashion with
 principles of EDI forefront in our mind.


 In a general sense, our research strategy remains unchanged, focused on developing our areas
 of strength, engaging in larger-scale grant capture, and enhancing the interdisciplinary nature of
 our research by identifying cross-cutting themes. This said, it is now inevitable that interest in
 COVID-19 and its impacts on society will underpin all research undertaken within the UoA and
 that presents a fresh opportunity to engage with colleagues working in the health sciences,
 economics, and psychology among others. We are well-placed to meet this challenge proactively
 given the intersecting fashion in which COVID-19 exacerbates and affects existing areas of
 research focus in the UoA. This includes the gendered nature of the impact of lockdown on
 domestic labour and working life, the nature of international competition as it relates to vaccination
 development and implementation, and the impact of economic distress on global order.


 1.8 Approach to Open Access, Open Data, and research integrity
 Within the context of the University’s open access strategy, the UoA has progressed towards an
 open research environment in terms of both Open Access and Open Data.


 Open Access
 The UoA benefits from the University’s Library which hosts a permanent open access team. This
 service supports our researchers by opening up our research outputs as much as possible through
 the research process, from the writing of grant applications through to publishing. Since 2017,
 open access research outputs from the UoA have been downloaded from Pure over 20,000 times,
 a demonstrable equalising of access to our research findings for users who might be otherwise
 unable to find or benefit from them.


 Open Data
 Staff in the UoA regularly make their research data available for other researchers to use through
 both established external data services such as the UK Data Archive or Dataverse or via the
 University. These include a new global dataset on self-determination movements (Germann) and
 data from the largest survey to date of political ambition in Britain (Allen). UoA staff engage with
 a data management service hosted by the University Library that supports them in the planning,
 curation, preservation, and publication of research data and software.




                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research integrity
 Acting responsibly, avoiding harm and ensuring inclusivity are central to our research, in line with
 the Concordat for Research Integrity (2019). University, Faculty and UoA-level structures exist to
 ensure that research at the funding application stage is considered in terms of ethical, legal, and
 governance frameworks. Standards of research quality and integrity are maintained via
 compulsory internal peer-review of grants via a University-wide Peer Review College and annual
 Research Away Days allow all academic and research staff to engage in evaluating and refining
 research strategy as well as sharing good practice.


 Our research regularly involves the participation of human subjects and sometimes addresses
 vulnerable populations or sensitive topics. A Department-level Research Ethics Officer (DREO)
 and Research Ethics Committee provide oversight for the ethical dimensions of research at all
 stages of the research process across the UoA. The DREO is available to all researchers for
 guidance in ensuring that all ethical aspects pertaining to their research are considered and
 appropriately planned for. For research which is ethically complex, advice and approval is provided
 by a Faculty-level Social Science Research Ethics Committee (SSREC).


 1.9 Climate change and sustainability
 The response of universities to the issue of climate change is increasingly urgent and the UoA has
 sought to establish early best practice in this area in terms of both our own research events and
 our research travel. Our practice has developed alongside a series of Faculty- and University-wide
 initiatives that seek to address issues of sustainability across the institution. This includes the
 declaration by the University of Bath in May 2020 of a Climate Emergency and the adoption of 11
 Climate Action Framework Principles that will guide the conduct of University business.


 The UoA hosts a variety of research events throughout the academic year, some regular (such as
 our weekly Research Seminar during semester time) and some one-off events (such as book
 launches). We aim to run these events in a way that reduces their carbon footprint in terms of the
 delivery of food and drink (e.g. by reducing amounts of single-use plastic).


 Academic research is an international endeavour, and this is reflected in the travel undertaken by
 staff in the course of conducting and sharing their research. Until a sector-wide culture shift takes
 place that reduces the necessity of such travel in order to maintain research relevance, we have
 been attempting to encourage staff to reduce the carbon emissions associated with research travel
 in lighter-touch ways. First, we ask all staff to calculate the carbon emissions of research travel at
 the point of applying for internal research support or accessing research grant funds. Second, we
 have encouraged staff to adopt modes of travel with lower carbon emissions even where this is
 more financially costly than a method with higher emissions. This is decided in discussion with the


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Director of Research and subject to limitations depending on available funds and consistent with
 institutional procurement guidelines.


 2. People

 Our principal ambitions are to create world-class research and to produce graduates of the highest
 quality. Doing so necessitates a diversity of talent within the UoA and achieving this drives our
 people strategy. We aim to appoint and retain staff who are producing, or who we expect to
 produce, research of the highest quality in our areas of strategic priority; to encourage employment
 applications from members of groups traditionally under-represented in the discipline; to allow staff
 to contribute to an inclusive and active shared research environment that they find professionally
 and personally fulfilling; and to emphasise professional development and renewal throughout
 entire careers, with an understanding that these needs will change over time. We implement this
 strategy in a way that ensures equality, values diversity, and promotes inclusion.


 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Recruiting and Rewarding Excellence in Research
 The UoA has grown significantly since 2014. The Dean of Humanities & Social Sciences, Faculty
 Executive, and University Executive Board have supported our growth in the area of politics and
 international studies, approving in excess of 20 new posts in the assessment period. Recruitment
 focused on strategically growing areas of strength in conflict and security and comparative politics,
 including gender and politics. This has seen the Unit recruit a number of outstanding early-career
 researchers (Amery, Bury, Barrinha, Cacciatori, Copley, Cioroianu, Edwards, Germann,
 Hatzisavvidou, Marco, Thomson, Weeks, Whiting), mid-career researchers (Allen, Goode,
 Horvath, Purdeková, Vráblíková, Wehner, Wong), and senior colleagues (Coffé, Evans,
 Higate, Kivimäki , Pearce), many from competitor institutions, something we see as an indicator
 of our success in establishing and growing a thriving environment in which to undertake research
 in politics and international studies. Two appointments (Cioroianu, Germann) were made through
 the University’s Prize Fellowship Scheme, a major strategic investment in research talent that
 recruited ECRs with the potential to become research leaders in their field. The scheme offered
 two years as a Research Fellow (with extensive support and resources) followed by a transition
 to an open-ended role in the Education and Research job family.


 Our appointment processes place great emphasis on principles of equality and inclusion, with
 shortlisting and interview panels including a diversity of representation from across the UoA, for
 example in terms of gender and, as appropriate, career stage. All panellists must undergo
 recruitment training provided by the University’s Human Resources department that addresses
 the legal framework in which recruitment takes place, but that also educates participants as to



                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 how best uphold the principles of EDI throughout the process. This is supplemented with online
 unconscious bias training available for completion by all staff.


 Although we have witnessed staff turnover owing to our strategic shift away from Area Studies, in
 personnel terms this has been a period of organic change as Area Studies colleagues retire or
 seek opportunities elsewhere better aligned with their research interests. Indeed, retention of new
 appointees has been strong in a time of great flux within the discipline and sector and only 4
 colleagues out of over 20 appointed since the beginning of 2014 have subsequently moved on to
 senior posts elsewhere (1 in the UK and 3 abroad). Internal promotion has also been utilised to
 achieve this retention rate with a number of key personnel being promoted throughout the
 assessment period: Cioroianu and Germann from Research Fellow to Lecturer, Startin,
 Mondon, Moon, Allum, Aslam, Edwards, Whiting, Amery, Barrinha, Bury, and Ferrero from
 Lecturer to Senior Lecturer, Wehner from Senior Lecturer to Reader, and Milner from Reader to
 Professor. Overall, the submission to C19 of Category A staff from the UoA comprises 36
 members of staff (34.9 FTE): 8 Lecturers, 17 Senior Lecturers, 2 Readers, and 9 Professors.


 Providing resources to enable staff to develop their research
 All members of the UoA are automatically provided with a £500 Personal Research Fund. This
 can be supplemented through applications to the General Research Fund, subject to approval by
 the Director of Research. These funds are used by staff to attend conferences, undertake small
 proof-of-concept pilot studies that can scale into larger grant applications, and to obtain research
 assistance. We monitor the awarding of these funds to ensure equality of access is consistent
 across the UoA. Staff are also provided with research time in their workload model, this figure is
 standard for all colleagues, and staff are eligible to apply for competitive sabbatical leave after
 seven semesters. Periods of maternity leave count towards those seven. Staff on leave are
 relieved from all departmental responsibilities. We have had successful applications from multiple
 researchers over the period (including Bull, Lees, Cutts, Garcia). Colleagues have also been
 able to apply for sabbaticals specifically allocated within the Institute for Policy Research (Milner)
 as well as internal secondments that were offered by the University’s Institute for Mathematical
 Innovation (Coffé) (see Section 3.4).


 Committing to whole-career Staff Development
 Career development across the whole career lifecycle is a growing priority for the UoA. The
 Workforce Development team offer a suite of professional development courses to which
 colleagues have free access and the UoA has funded attendance at courses focused on other
 more advanced methodological training provided externally. The University and UoA have
 committed to uphold the principles of the Concordat on Career Development of Research Staff.
 We have a Deputy Director of Research (Staff Development) in post (currently Higate) who


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 provides a strategic approach to research career development for staff at all career stages. All
 staff are assigned a research mentor. Mentors provide informal support, guidance, and advice on
 matters related to career progression, preparing grant applications and publications, supervising
 doctoral students, and research direction.


 Staff Development and Performance Review (SDPR)
 All non-probationary staff complete annual SDPRs, which enable them to receive feedback on
 their performance, discuss and set objectives for the coming year with a senior member of staff
 and support their learning needs and career aspirations. All SDPR reviewers undergo compulsory
 training on how to deliver an effective review to ensure a robust, consistent and inclusive
 performance review system.


 Pathway to HEA Fellowship for Probationary Lecturers
 Early career researchers take part in the University’s Pathway to HEA Fellowship programme.
 This is a work-based curriculum of activities aimed at developing understanding of academic
 practice within the individual, departmental and disciplinary context. Along with units covering
 teaching and supporting learning, the programme covers best practice in doctoral supervision,
 grant development, and research dissemination.


 2.2 Postgraduate Research Students
 The UoA has a vibrant community of postgraduate research students, many studying with funding
 from the ESRC, AHRC, and a range of University schemes (see Table 1). The University is part
 of the South West Doctoral Training Partnership along with the Universities of Bristol, Exeter,
 Plymouth, and the University of the West of England. The UoA has a dedicated SWDTP Pathway
 liaison (currently Aslam). Our membership of the SWDTP facilitates the appointment of
 supervisors from across the partnership as subject expertise requires, a significant advantage for
 students seeking the best and most appropriate supervision possible.

 Table 1 Doctoral degrees awarded for each year in the assessment period

  Degree type        2013/4    2014/5    2015/6    2016/7    2017/8    2018/9   2019/0    Total
  Professional
                     0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0
  doctorate
  PhD                4.50      4.13      4.50      3.63      6.50      4.50     4.73      32.48
  Total              4.50      4.13      4.50      3.63      6.50      4.50     4.73      32.48

 Monitoring and support of doctoral students
 Doctoral students are supported by their supervisory teams, always comprising 2 or more
 individuals, the Director of Postgraduate Research (currently Purdeková), the wider academic
 community of the UoA, and the University’s Doctoral College. In August 2017, the University


                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 created the Doctoral College (DC), which is responsible for the recruitment and administrative
 support to all PGRs across the university. The DC brings together institution-wide support, training,
 development and administration for our diverse doctoral population. The DC supports and
 enriches the experience of our doctoral researchers—from initial enquiry, through recruitment to
 graduation—and plays a key role in developing doctoral policy and strategy.


 The recruitment of doctoral students is coordinated by the DC. Working closely with recruitment
 leads within the UoA, the DC Recruitment team is responsible for ensuring that selection
 processes are fair and transparent. Staff involved in the recruitment of doctoral students complete
 online Unconscious Bias and Diversity in the Workplace training modules.


 All supervisors of doctoral students are required to complete progress reports every six months.
 All students complete a PhD Confirmation review process to determine whether they have reached
 an appropriate level of understanding in their area of research, are able to carry out their research
 at doctoral level, and whether they are capable of successfully completing on time. Appropriate
 support and guidance are offered and students are given the opportunity to request additional
 resources to aid the completion of their research as part of this process.


 The DC works closely with the University's Student Services department who work to ensure that
 students with additional needs are supported. Students with disabilities are encouraged to speak
 to an advisor who can help them to develop a Disability Action Plan. International students are
 able to contact the International Experience Coordinator in Student Services who can offer
 bespoke advice. Sessions in induction are also arranged to introduce international students to life
 in the UK and help them settle in. Student Services also have a dedicated Wellbeing Team to
 support PGRs at the University. All students are able to seek support from the Mental Health
 Team.


 Skill development and careers preparation
 The Doctoral College provides a comprehensive skills and career development programme for
 doctoral students delivered by a range of both internal and external training providers, aligned with
 the Researcher Development Framework.


 Within the UoA, the Director of PGR coordinates a series of sessions that introduce students to
 various elements of academic life, including the job market, publications, and working outside of
 academia. Alongside this, PGR students are invited to attend and participate in the Research
 Seminar Series and Work-in-Progress Workshop (see Section 3.2). PGR students also maintain
 a self-organised postgraduate research group known as IREP (International Relations and
 European Politics) that hosts events and acts as a networking and feedback space. PGR


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students have access to 2 dedicated working areas within the UoA’s buildings complete with
 computing facilities, providing a supportive communal working atmosphere and a sense of
 ownership of physical space within the academic environment. Within the UoA, a PGR
 representative sits on the Research Committee and can feed into discussions regarding research
 across the UoA. PGRs are also integrated into UoA research clusters and participate in cluster
 seminars and activities.


 The UoA holds a competitive funding competition that permits PGR students without research
 studentship funding to apply for monies to attend a single conference per year of study. This is
 highly popular and encourages students to seek to develop their work to a standard appropriate
 for such conferences.


 Finally, PGR students are given opportunities to undertake paid teaching roles, most commonly
 as seminar tutors for first-year undergraduates. UoA-level training in teaching methods is provided
 ahead of this (and training on teaching online during the COVID-19 pandemic, see Section 2.4).
 The value placed on these colleagues by the University is demonstrated by the move in early
 2020 to offer PGR students working as Graduate Teaching Assistants new small fractional
 employment contracts for ongoing work, replacing the use of zero-hours contracts and offering
 greater security.


 2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 As indicated throughout this statement, Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) is key to all activities
 that take place within the UoA. Indeed, we see this as intrinsic to our identity as researchers in a
 discipline that is aware of both the theoretical arguments and empirical evidence on the importance
 of equality and diversity for society as a whole. We can highlight a number of specific auditable
 indicators that reflect our efforts in pursuing our EDI strategy. We were awarded an Athena SWAN
 Bronze Award in 2018 reflecting the strides taken in this area and, following this, an Athena SWAN
 Committee was formed to ensure implementation of initiatives identified in the Bronze Award
 application and our Athena SWAN action plan. 36% of Category A staff in this submission are
 women and over 15 different nationalities are represented. There is, however, more that the UoA
 can and will do as we seek to ensure that our research environment embodies a more diverse
 range of life experiences and seeks to surmount the structural inequalities we see in society.


 As such, our commitment to continual progress on these issues is strong across all aspects of our
 research environment. We have an EDI lead at Professorial level (currently Coffé) who Chairs our
 EDI Committee. The EDI Committee, which has a membership drawn from staff at all career
 stages and from underrepresented groups, is tasked with:



                                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       • Disseminating good practice, university policies and procedures relating to equality and
          diversity.
       • Acting as a point of contact for bringing matters of concern to the attention of the UoA
          leadership.
       • Regularly surveying staff to enhance understanding of staff experiences and monitor
          policy implementation.
       • Encouraging an awareness of, and a commitment to address, structural inequalities in
          research and research careers.


 Policies and monitoring
 The University has adopted policies on Trans equality, Dignity and Respect, recruitment and
 selection, a flexible working hours scheme, parental rights, occupational stress management and
 childcare. These are widely advertised on staff-facing websites and are regularly reviewed. The
 University’s Dignity and Respect policies apply to all staff, students and third parties. Mandatory
 online training on workplace diversity and unconscious bias is required for all line managers and
 encouraged for all other staff. Support is offered to specific groups of colleagues in various ways,
 including through the LGBT staff network, the Disabled Staff Support group, the Carers Support
 group, and the Race Equality group. The University-wide Equality and Diversity Network is joint-
 Chaired by UoA staff member Mondon. The University also launched a network of Staff Wellbeing
 Champions in 2019 to support further initiatives and signpost resources. Within the UoA, EDI is
 also a standing agenda item in general staff and executive committee meetings, embedding an
 inclusive culture within UoA business.


 An inclusive workplace
 Support for staff with protected characteristics, whose needs can be diverse, is provided on a
 case-by-case basis with guidance from the University’s Occupational Health team. This support
 includes workplace assessments, training for staff working with others who require more support
 (e.g., neuro-atypical staff and students), training for staff with a disability where indicated by an
 Access to Work assessment, and reasonable adjustments developed on the basis of Access to
 Work assessments and on a case-by-case basis through discussion between the staff member,
 UoA leadership, and the Occupational Health team.


 Diverse leadership
 Annually, the University funds 15 competitively allocated places on the Aurora Leadership
 Programme. The UoA has had 2 female members of staff complete this programme, Amery and
 Hatzisavvidou. Garcia has also completed the University’s Academic Leaders Programme that
 develops the management and leadership skills of colleagues likely to undertake roles of this kind.



                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Transition Back into Work
 The UoA supports requests from staff to adjust their working hours after a period of leave for caring
 or health reasons to ensure a smooth and gradual transition back to work. We also ensure that
 the duties of colleagues taking parental leave are fully covered by temporary staff in their absence.
 As an institution, we are family friendly and the UoA has been fully supportive of temporary and
 permanent flexible working requests. During leave staff can also use up to 10 paid “Keeping in
 Touch” days; this helps maintain links to their work, colleagues and job-specific activities.


 Construction of the Unit’s REF Submission
 Consistent with the University of Bath’s ‘Research Excellence Framework 2021 Code of Practice’,
 the procedures used in preparing this UoA C19 submission were consistent, transparent,
 accountable, and conducted in an inclusive manner and in accordance with EDI policies and the
 Principles of Research Assessment and Management adopted by Bath in 2017. The UoA and
 Impact lead both attended in-person sessions delivered by the University’s Equality and Diversity
 team that addressed EDI issues in the context of the development of REF submissions.


 Working remotely and flexibly
 Colleagues are able to request equipment and support to facilitate working remotely, away from
 the University. Remote working was successfully implemented for all colleagues during the
 COVID-19 pandemic (including moving all Committees, Research Seminars, and informal UoA
 social activities online – see Section 2.4). The University has a Flexible Working and Leave policy
 that allows staff to apply to work in a number of different ways that may better suit their working
 patterns, caring responsibilities, or life circumstances.


 2.4 People during the COVID-19 Pandemic
 The University has re-organised the campus space and regulated its use so as to ensure individual
 safety. More than this, the pandemic has also evoked a strong sense of collective solidarity across
 our academic community. The UoA leadership has offered staff and PGRs different options for
 flexible and/or remote working in line with institutional and government guidelines. Since largely
 moving to remote working, we have conducted UoA business online, including job interviews,
 research seminars, and staff meetings. Additionally, online social events for staff and PGRs have
 been organised, including a regular book club, a coffee morning, and a quiz. PGR students have
 been offered the opportunity to attend regular “Town Hall” meetings where they can share their
 experience of researching during the pandemic and raise issues with the Director of PGR. The
 UoA leadership is alert to the EDI implications of the working arrangements adopted throughout
 the pandemic and is keen to maintain an open and transparent dialogue with colleagues about
 addressing the differential impacts of these in the short- and longer-term.


                                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The UoA has a clear decision-making structure in place for research-related issues that facilitates
 vitality, provides sustainability, and ensures equality, diversity, and inclusion. This is led by a
 Director of Research (currently Allen) who chairs a Research Committee that makes decisions on
 funding and the research direction of the UoA in more general terms. This Committee comprises
 the Director of Research, two Deputy Directors of Research with responsibility for Impact and Staff
 Development, the Director of Postgraduate Research, the convenor of the Research Seminar
 Series, and a postgraduate representative (this rotates on a two-year basis). Currently, the
 Research Committee membership reflects all levels of seniority across the UoA. These
 arrangements are supplemented by Faculty and University leadership structures, working under
 the Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research).


 3.1 Research funding and strategies for generating research income
 Since 2014, the UoA has sought to increase research grant income obtained from external sources
 in order to better resource increasingly ambitious research projects, acting proactively and
 systematically to achieve this. For example, all grant proposals are internally peer reviewed either
 in the UoA or wider Faculty. We have met our broad objective to increase grant income across the
 Unit and have won funding from Research Councils, UK charities, EU Commission, and other
 sources totalling £3.5m awarded to the UoA across the assessment period. When the
 collaborative nature of many of these awards is taken into account, the total amount awarded to
 the University of Bath from grants involving colleagues from the UoA is £6m.


 Strategically, we are increasingly ambitious in terms of the scale and breadth of our applications,
 with interdisciplinary awards from schemes such as GCRF increasingly common (see Section
 1.2). We have sought greater diversity in our sources of income given the challenges of the
 funding environment, looking internationally and beyond traditional funders, something that
 secures resilience and sustainability for our research. At the same time, we are attempting to
 increase our agility in an effort to be better-placed to respond to rapid-response interdisciplinary
 funding calls, linking in to wider Faculty-level strategies also targeted at increasing our ability to
 thrive in a changing research funding landscape.


 3.2 UoA infrastructure supporting Research and Impact
 We support colleagues in their activities at each stage of the research lifecycle and we address
 equality, diversity and inclusion throughout. For example, ECRs are carefully mentored in
 developing grant applications and the Director of Research will specifically highlight funding
 opportunities for part-time staff and staff returning after career breaks.




                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have successfully established a collegial and supportive research culture and infrastructure
 that underpins colleagues’ work throughout the research lifecycle. Our three vibrant and active
 research clusters (Section 1.2) foster knowledge exchange and the encountering of new topics
 and approaches, facilitating the generation of new research ideas. Each research cluster has a
 Cluster Head responsible for strategically shaping the UoA’s research agenda in their area of
 expertise, organising events, and managing the cluster’s budget. The importance of this role is
 reflected in the hours allocated to it in the academic workload model.


 These are supplemented by a well-attended weekly UoA seminar series hosting a mix of internal
 and external speakers where early drafts of new work are discussed in a supportive environment.
 These are convened by an ECR (currently Copley), providing influence and ownership of the
 intellectual direction of the UoA. As part of our Athena SWAN action plan, we collect and monitor
 data on the demographic profiles of our speakers, seeking to ensure a diverse range of invitees.
 The UoA additionally hosts work-in-progress (WIP) workshops where a small number of
 colleagues (including PGRs) give and receive intensive feedback on one another’s work prior to
 submission to academic journals, sharing advice on how best to frame and present their findings.


 Research support is also available for research-related costs, including those incurred via
 dissemination activities of various kinds, in line with our Impact Strategy (see Section 2.1). As part
 of the UoA, IPR boosts the potential impact of our research in multiple ways, extending our reach
 into government and policy networks through a series of purposeful initiatives including:

    •   The IPR Policy Fellowship Programme, which brings senior decision-makers from
        government, industry and the third sector, to the University for one-to-one meetings with
        academics in the UoA on multiple occasions each year (the programme has operated
        online throughout the COVID-19 pandemic).
    •   The IPR blog offers expert analysis, debate and comment on recent policy developments.
        During the assessment period, 106 IPR policy blogs have been authored by staff in the
        UoA with a total of over 36,000 views.


 Staff in the UoA are housed across 2 buildings on campus giving colleagues a sense of shared
 identity and valuable opportunities for impromptu networking and discussion in normal, non-
 pandemic, times. All members of the UoA have access to an office, computing facilities, and
 software appropriate to their research interests.


 3.3 University infrastructure supporting Research and Impact
 Staff directly benefit from the dedicated support of the University’s central Research and
 Innovation Services (RIS). RIS operates both pre- and post-award services, including advice on



                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 grant preparation and submission procedures, project costing and financial management.
 Research Development Managers, assigned to work with specific Faculties, provide tailored and
 intensive support for staff assembling applications. Industry Partnership Managers facilitate new
 relationships with industry and interdisciplinary research collaborators. The RIS Impact Team
 support staff with the integration of impact into grant applications, the identification of pathways to
 impact, and offer opportunities to apply for funding to accelerate impact. RIS also provides
 research development training and helps researchers identify sources of research funding through
 Research Professional and updates are communicated to staff regularly through email bulletins.


 The Public Engagement Unit supports researchers with community-based participatory
 research, interdisciplinary arts programmes and focused work with community groups. The Media
 Centre supports researchers in engaging with the local, national and international media, helping
 the UoA to achieve a significant media profile (see Section 4.3).


 3.4 Infrastructure supporting interdisciplinary research
 The research clusters within the UoA (see Section 2.1) encourage interdisciplinarity by their
 nature, with membership not limited to those within the UoA. This is reciprocal and UoA staff are
 also members of research groups in other parts of the University (e.g. Amery, Purdeková,
 Thomas and Thomson members of the Centre for Development Studies in the Department of
 Social Policy Sciences). The Faculty and University host interdisciplinary “sandpits” targeted at
 specific research issues, recently including a COVID-19 “Call to Arms” and a workshop with local
 stakeholders addressing the challenge of climate change in Bath.


 UoA staff participate in interdisciplinary doctoral training and supervision, principally through two
 externally-funded CDTs: the UKRI CDT in Accountable, Responsible and Transparent AI
 (Coffé, Cioroianu and Pearce supervisors) and the EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in
 Cyber Security in collaboration with Bristol (Barrinha and Galbreath in supervisory college).


 The University is home to six research Institutes and colleagues in the UoA work particularly
 closely with the Institute for Policy Research (see Section 1.2), which is part of the UoA and the
 Institute for Mathematical Innovation (IMI). IMI has allowed researchers from the UoA to access
 interdisciplinary knowledge from across the University that is rooted in mathematics. During the
 assessment period, Coffé held an IMI internal secondment that saw her work with IMI to use
 advanced methods to model legislative careers using novel data from New Zealand and Weeks
 worked with a student through the IMI Undergraduate Research Experience scheme to analyse
 corporate gender quotas policies in multiple European countries.




                                                                                                Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
 Fundamental to our research strategy is collaboration with colleagues, partners and research
 users external to the University. Through collaboration, we become aware of new research
 challenges and we extend our research capabilities. These collaborations, both national and
 international, are core elements of large research grants. For example:

    •   For the Horizon 2020-funded UNREST project (2016-19), Bull collaborated with partner
        universities in Germany, Denmark, and Spain as well as museums in Germany and
        Northern Ireland and a theatre company in Spain.
    •   The Horizon 2020-funded DisTerrMem project (2018-22) sees Whiting lead a team of
        academics from Bath and universities and other partners in Poland, Armenia, and
        Pakistan.


 The UoA proactively pursues opportunities arising from the University’s membership of the GW4
 Alliance with Bristol, Exeter, and Cardiff. This is a cross-institution research initiative that
 addresses pressing local, national, and global challenges. GW4 runs schemes that encourage
 research collaboration across the member institutions that staff in the UoA have won funding from:
 the Initiator scheme aimed at catalysing cross-institution working (Galbreath, Cutts, Goodbody,
 Parish) and the Accelerator scheme that aims to ‘level up’ nascent collaborations (Moon, Milner,
 Garcia). Hatzisavvidou has recently been selected to organize an ECR symposium across GW4
 on Climate Change. The University, Faculty, and UoA also hold strategic international partnerships
 with Vesalius College, memoranda of understanding with the University of São Paulo (Brazil),
 Stellenbosch University (South Africa), Zhejiang University and Tsinghua University (China),
 Yonsei University (South Korea), and Ohio State (USA). Colleagues from the UoA have taken
 advantage of multiple opportunities to visit these institutions and benefit from the research
 expertise they hold.


 The UoA takes part in the University-sponsored Global Chair scheme, which funds outstanding
 international researchers to spend time at Bath, participating in the research life of the Unit. During
 the assessment period, we have hosted two Global Chairs - Professor Chung-in Moon from Yonsei
 University and Professor Jacqui True from Monash University (the latter postponed owing to the
 COVID-19 pandemic). Additionally, we have hosted Professor Rodney Smith from the University
 of Sydney and the Professor Timothy Mitchell from Columbia University, both of whom spent time
 interacting with UoA colleagues of all career stages. Colleagues have also made successful
 applications to schemes offered by Bath’s International Relations Office. These have seen
 funding allocated for the development of collaborative partnerships to Hatzisavvidou (Stockholm),
 Coffé (California, Berkeley), Cacciatori (Ghent), and Garcia (Australian National University).


                                                                                                Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2 Engagement with research users, beneficiaries or audiences in co-production
 We engage with a wide variety of public, voluntary and private sector partners, in knowledge
 exchange and various forms of ‘co-production’. These have enriched our research environment
 and they shape our research priorities. These users are located at local, regional and national
 levels, and in a wide range of countries; they include government decision-makers, professional
 bodies, NGOs, pressure groups and consultancies. Key examples include:
    •   Bury’s UKRI Future Research Leaders Fellowship includes a collaboration with the think-
        tank, GlobSec, aimed at co-producing a transatlantic centre of excellence in intelligence
        sharing.
    •   Galbreath was invited in 2016 to join the Ministry of Defence’s Force Exploration Cadre
        and the Joint Services Command Staff College Advisory Panel.
    •   Milner was in 2018 invited by the Cabinet Office to join a team of academic experts
        advising on the government’s review of Shared Parental Leave.
    •   Mondon engaged extensively with news journalists at Al-Jazeera across the assessment
        period, shaping their coverage of issues relating to Islamophobia as well as contributing to
        a landmark 2017 Runnymede Trust report on the issue.
    •   Moon, Pearce and Whiting co-produced research with the Scottish Labour Party between
        2016 and 2018 focused on understanding their membership and reforming their candidate
        training processes.
    •   Pearce was appointed in 2019 as the Chair of Newham Council’s Democracy and Civic
        Participation Commission and co-authored a final report in 2020.


 Staff also regularly contribute research-based expertise and insight to the legislative process
 across the UK. For example:
    •   Garcia gave oral evidence based on her research on trade agreements to the House of
        Commons International Trade Committee (2019, 2020) and Scottish Affairs Committee
        (2018).
    •   Moon gave oral evidence based on his research on devolution to the House of Lords
        Select Committee on the Constitution (2016).
    •   Pearce gave oral evidence based on his research on Universal Basic Income to the House
        of Commons Work and Pensions Committee (2020) and gave evidence to the House of
        Lords Select Committee on lessons for public services from the COVID-19 pandemic
        (2020).


 4.3 Research engagement with diverse communities and publics
 We engage with diverse communities and publics through our research, reflecting our concern
 with inclusivity. Although there are multiple pathways to such engagement, a clear one is



                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 engagement with the general public through a diverse range of media sources, allowing them to
 access our research in an accessible way. Research from the UoA has a high media profile with
 staff appearing either in print or broadcast media hundreds of times per year over the assessment
 period, contributing to broad public debate and education about important and complex political
 issues. Key examples include:
    •   Staff in the UoA have written in excess of 157 articles for The Conversation that have
        garnered a total of 1,948,714 readers.
    •   Brexit was the focus of significant local, national, and international media engagement from
        staff across the UoA including Garcia, Milner, Pearce, and Startin.
    •   Allen’s research on political ambition was discussed by the BBC Daily Politics, The
        Guardian, The Times, and BBC Radio 4.
    •   Allum collaborated with the BBC on a series of outputs focused on the life and activities
        of UK-based Mafia boss Gennaro Panzuto based on her research, including a web-based
        multimedia project, two documentaries for radio and television, and a live Radio 4 Today
        programme feature.
    •   Evans has discussed his research on violence on Russell Brand’s ‘Under the Skin’ podcast
        on multiple occasions (with total downloads exceeding one million) and has served as a
        regular columnist in The New York Times and the LA Review of Books.
    •   Weeks’ research on ‘ambitious women’ in politics was covered in The New York Times,
        Fortune Magazine and 25 other international media outlets.


 Staff within the UoA have used their research to deliver three Massive Open Online Courses
 (MOOCs) on the online platform Futurelearn. These have brought our research findings to diverse
 audiences worldwide, including practitioners and the general public, in an engaging and
 accessible way:
    •   How We Remember War and Violence: Theory and Practice (over 2100 enrolments
        since 2018).
    •   From State Control to Remote Control: Warfare in the 21st Century (over 9500
        enrolments since 2015).
    •   Next Generation Biosecurity: Responding to 21st Century Biorisks (over 3000
        enrolments since 2019).


 4.4 Sustainability of the discipline
 Journal Editorship
 Many colleagues contribute to the research base by acting in service roles such as editing
 scholarly journals or participating in the running of journals as editorial board members. The UoA




                                                                                            Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 has hosted, and continues to host, editorial operations for a number of major journals in the
 discipline during the assessment period:

    •   We hosted Political Studies Review for 2 years (2017-8 – Cutts and Engeli edited; Allen,
        Amery, Cacciatori, Garcia, Whiting sat on Editorial Board);
    •   Staff editing journals include Higate (Men & Masculinities), Wong (Bandung), Galbreath
        (Defence Studies, European Security, Associate Editor European Journal of
        International Security), Goodbody (Ecozon@), Allum (European Review of Organised
        Crime), Marco (Contenciosa), Goode (Communist and Post-Communist Studies);
    •   Editorial board members include Goode (Nations & Nationalism, Social Science
        Quarterly, Russian Politics), Engeli (Journal of Public Policy, Swiss Political Science
        Review, Journal of Comparative Policy Analysis, Policy & Politics), Wehner (Foreign
        Policy Analysis, Journal of Politics in Latin America), Galbreath (European Security,
        Defence Studies, European Politics and Society).


 Refereeing Academic Publications and Research Proposals
 Throughout the assessment period, colleagues have contributed to the global research community
 of politics and international studies through their service as peer reviewers for hundreds of
 academic journals as well as grant-awarding organisations from around the world.


 Leadership of Learned Societies
 Colleagues have also contributed to the research base by providing leadership in learned societies
 and other scholarly institutions across the assessment period: Startin as Chair of UACES, Garcia
 as Secretary; Wehner as Vice-president of ISA; Allen as a Trustee and Executive Committee
 Member of the PSA; Moon as Chair of the PSA History and Politics Specialist Group; Startin and
 Mondon as Chairs of the PSA French Politics Specialist Group; Mondon as a founding member
 of PSA Race, Migration and Intersectionality Specialist Group; Galbreath as Theme Lead for the
 AHRC Partnership for Conflict, Crime & Security Research (PaCCS) and as a member of the
 ESRC Peer Review College; Goode as a member of the Advisory Board for the Study of
 Nationalities; Thomson co-convenor of PSA Women and Politics Specialist Group; Garcia as
 Chair of IPSA Research Committee 40; Milner as a member of the Steering Committee for the
 Equal Lives Project and Santander’s Business in the Community initiative; Barrinha a founding
 member of the BISA European Security Working Group and of the UACES INTERSECT
 Collaborative Network; Bury the founder of the War Studies Working Group at BISA.


 Conference Organisation
 The UoA has also organised a number of conferences and scholarly events hosted at or around
 the University: we hosted the 48th Annual UACES Conference in 2018; the PSA Populism



                                                                                           Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Specialist Group Workshop 2017; the UACES-sponsored Second INTERSECT Workshop
 ‘Science and Technology Studies and the Study of Europe’ in 2018, in 2019 the Open Society-
 sponsored 2nd TRANSAD Workshop ‘Security, Technology and Warfare’; as well as a series of
 events as part of the AHRC-funded PaCCS, including an innovative film and arts festival that
 took place across Bath over 11 days in April 2018.


 Fellowships and Prizes
 Finally, colleagues have been awarded with various other markers of professional esteem, both
 within the UK and internationally:

    •   Allen AHRC IPS Fellow at Library of Congress, 2017
    •   Allum Visiting Fellow at University of John Cabot, Rome 2016
    •   Allum winner of Outstanding Book Award by the Division of International Criminology of
        the American Society of Criminology, 2017
    •   Barrinha winner of Best Article Prize, Global Affairs, 2019
    •   Garcia Visiting Fellowship Australian National University Centre for European Studies,
        2017
    •   Vráblíková a visiting professor at Columbia University, NYC, 2019
    •   Weeks winner of APSA Franklin L. Burdette/Pi Sigma Alpha Award for Best Paper
        Presented at APSA Annual Meeting 2017, 2018
    •   Weeks winner of APSA Qualitative and Multi-Method (QMMR) section Sage Award for
        Best Paper Presented at APSA Annual Meeting 2017, 2018
    •   Weeks winner of Carrie Chapman Catt Prize for best research in women and politics,
        awarded by Iowa State University, 2018
    •   Whiting’s co-authored book The Democratic Unionist Party: From Protest to Power
        awarded PSAI Brian Farrell Book Prize, Political Book of the Year, 2015 and shortlisted for
        Practical Political Book of the Year, Paddy Power Book Awards, 2015.




                                                                                           Page 24
