Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: The Open University

 Unit of Assessment: B12 Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 a. Context
 The Open University (OU) B12 Engineering unit of assessment (UOA) is returning 24 (23.4 FTE)
 Category A Staff (CAS) to REF2021. The unit currently has 10 Research Associates/Assistants
 (RA), 29 Post-Graduate Research Students (PGRS) and 13 technical support staff working
 alongside the academic staff to deliver its research. The unit has four research themes:
         Materials Engineering (ME, 9 CAS)
         Functional Materials (FM, 7 CAS)
         Energy Engineering (EE, 4 CAS)
         Engineering Design (ED, 4 CAS)
 Unit activities in all themes cover a range of commercial engineering sectors. We aspire to
 achieve science and engineering leadership in wide subject areas: from synthesis of graphene
 quantum dots to structural integrity of nuclear power plants and from water purification to low
 energy construction.
 Unit staff are encouraged to form interdisciplinary collaborations, not just internally, but nationally
 and internationally. Most academics are active in two or more of the themes; most of our
 research projects and outputs are collaborations with external colleagues from a variety of
 sectors, including other HEIs, research institutes and industrial companies.
 Over the current REF period, the aim of B12 unit has focused on the expansion of its scope to
 ensure intellectual breadth and rigour across all our subject areas in order to address
 contemporary and future challenges. In support of this strategy, we have hired 12 new academic
 members of staff at different levels of seniority, from Professor to Lecturer, accounting for 50%
 of the submission and ensuring sustainability of the unit’s research base.
 b. Structure
 Since REF 2014, the OU has undergone a re-structuring exercise, amalgamating two Faculties
 (of Science and of Maths, Computing and Technology) to form the Faculty of Science,
 Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM). STEM has six Schools, and B12 staff are
 located across two Schools: 19 staff are in the School of Engineering & Innovation (E&I) and 5 in
 the School of Life, Health & Chemical Sciences (LHCS). The research of the B12 unit is
 supported by 10 technicians in the School of E&I and 3 in LHCS, with further support provided at
 Faculty level.
 The research laboratories and library are sited at the OU Walton Hall Campus in Milton Keynes
 (MK), which is also home to our PGRS.
 The rich nature of the research environment in which B12 staff work, its breadth and
 interdisciplinary character, is reflected not only by the fact that members from different schools
 work on the same area and return to the same REF UOA, but also that members from the same
 school return to different REF UOAs. For example, academic staff in the School of E&I are
 returned to 6 different REF units (B07, B12, C22, C23, D32 and D33) and those in LHCS are
 submitted to A03, B09 and B12.
 There is considerable collaboration and cross-fertilisation of ideas between these research units
 and engineering which enhances the novelty and impact of the work within B12. An example of
 intra-unit collaboration involves Collinson from the School of LHCS and Forsey from the School
 of E&I who have jointly secured a grant of £71.8k from AHRC to investigate the effects of
 detergent use on the historic interpretation, understanding and conservation of museum textiles,
 in collaboration with the V&A museum.




                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 c. Research strategy
 The research vision of the OU B12 Engineering unit is based on the OU, STEM and Schools’
 vision for research and enterprise and rests on three aspirations to inform, to inspire and to
 influence. Our activities inform curriculum, inspire staff, students and the public and influence
 engineering practitioners.
 Our strategic objectives are set within the Open University’s founding principle of “to be open to
 people, places, methods and ideas”. Research excellence and knowledge exchange are
 fundamental to this principle.
 The strategic objectives are:
    •   To innovate novel science and technology within all engineering disciplines, enabling
        fundamental understanding of engineering problems
    •   To provide sustainable methods and solutions for research, industry and living
        environments
    •   To train a new generation of engineers to address key societal challenges, and
    •   To promote new findings openly via publication, collaboration and knowledge transfer
 The objectives are ambitious, but the unit’s combination of research excellence and open
 knowledge transfer has positioned B12 Engineering at the OU in a place for innovation and
 impact, geared to carry the research strategy forward.
 Our objectives are already showing evidence of success:
    •   To increase FTEs in all themes to a level that generates a stimulating environment for
        the research activity. The research areas have both broadened and deepened in overall
        B12 engineering.
        Engineering Design (ED): This theme was expanded significantly by appointing
        Neighbour, Lockett and Moncaster to complement Taherzadeh. Neighbour was
        previously a chair and the Head of School of Engineering and the Built Environment at
        Birmingham City University. The research expertise in ED has been expanded from the
        design of vibration and acoustics to include the design in additive manufacture,
        sustainability engineering and low/zero carbon buildings.
        Energy Engineering (EE): Psoma and Varagnolo were appointed to reinforce this
        theme. They work alongside Nuttall and Krishnamurthy on innovation management
        and policy applied to energy and power engineering, energy storage using
        supercapacitors, energy harvesting by solar and piezoelectric technologies, optical
        biosensors, organic photovoltaic devices and electrodes. Professor Krishnamurthy was
        promoted to a Chair of Energy Technology in this REF period. The research activities
        have been strengthened to new levels.
        Functional Materials (FM): The theme has been strengthened at all levels by the
        appointments of Bowen, Golrokhi, Goolaup and Power to complement Bruce, Crabb
        and Heeley. The theme continues research activities in nanoparticle catalysis, electronic
        device and energy harvesting polymers and polymetric materials. The new staff
        members add fresh research topics in surface and interface materials, nanoelectronics,
        bacteria and bone growth, and quantum dot fabrication.
        Materials Engineering (ME): During the REF period Forsey, Jazaeri and Qin were
        appointed to work alongside Bouchard, Collinson, Gungor, Hosseinzadeh, Moat and
        Shirzadi in this theme. Professor Qin, formerly at Imperial College London, was
        appointed to a Chair in Advanced Materials Engineering. The theme remains strong in
        structural integrity, residual stress, creep, diffusion bonding, mechanics of materials and
        recycling technologies. New research activities in materials processing using
        electromagnetic field, digital image correlation analysis and materials for energy
        applications have been initiated by the newly appointed academics.


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   To build our capacity in distinctive research through increased and widened public and
        stakeholder engagement with our research.
        During the REF period the members in B12 have carried out 78 research projects funded
        by government agencies, industrial companies and charities. These include 28 projects
        from UK Research and Innovation: 24 from EPSRC and 4 from BBSRC. Other projects
        are from the European Commission, Royal Academy of Engineering, Royal Society,
        Technology Strategy Board, British Council, Innovate UK, Research England,
        Department for Transport, Chartered Institution of Waste Management and industrial
        companies from UK and overseas. The industrial funders include EDF Energy, Rolls
        Royce, Mitsubishi, Shell and 12 other companies.
        The OU B12 members have successfully completed 62 consultancy projects in the REF
        period, using our expertise to help other research and industrial institutes in the UK and
        overseas. Some projects help industrial companies to carry out upscale testing of our
        research results for the application in production lines. Example includes a project to help
        Materials Processing Institute (MPI) to carry out pilot plant trial of our clean-steel green
        processing technology to expel oxide inclusions using electric field, the outcome has
        convinced TATA Steel Europe to set further trial at production line. Most projects are to
        help industrial partners in the decision-making process of their engineering
        manufacturing by, for example, providing information on the distribution and development
        of residual stress in engineering components. These projects were funded by 24
        companies and 4 other universities. The Unit’s top 4 industrial funders in terms of project
        numbers are Rolls Royce plc (11 projects), CETIM (8 projects), AREVA NP (6 projects)
        and TWI Ltd (6 projects).
        B12 members have participated actively in the initiation of strategic research organized
        by leading national and international companies. We are one of six UK universities listed
        as Scientific Network partners by the Materials Ageing Institute (MAI-SN) at EDF in
        France, alongside Imperial College London, Oxford University, University of Bristol,
        University of Manchester and University of Strathclyde, to address the ageing problem in
        nuclear plants. Funding was received from MAI-SN to fund a project for a postdoctoral
        researcher. We are one of ten UK HEIs working with Lucideon to develop the National
        Advanced Sintering Centre to deliver a step change in the UK’s research and
        development capacity for sintering technologies, bringing technologies quickly to market.
    •   To develop our large-scale, external research collaborations and doctoral training
        partnerships.
        We are members of two EPSRC Centres for Doctoral Training (CDT). One is the EPSRC
        CDT in Nuclear Energy: Building UK Civil Nuclear Skills for Global Markets for the period
        between 2014 and 2022. Nuttall is the Co-I of this EPSRC CDT in collaboration with
        Imperial College London and the University of Cambridge. The second is the EPSRC
        CDT in Nuclear Energy Futures for the period between 2019 and 2027. B12 members
        Gungor and Hosseinzadeh are Co-Is in collaboration with Imperial College, Cambridge,
        Bristol and Bangor Universities.
        Members in B12 unit have developed and participated in large research collaborations
        with academia in other UK and EU organizations. Recent EPSRC projects include a
        Bouchard-led £1.15 million project in collaboration with Oxford and Bristol Universities
        and a Moat-led £651k project in collaboration with Manchester University. For the large
        collaborative projects from the European Commission, Qin is a Co-I of a project of over
        €2.28 million (EU RFCS project reference number: 847269) in collaboration with 6 EU
        companies and the University of Warwick. Krishnamurthy is a Co-I of €8.5 million
        project (EU project reference number: 958491) in collaboration with 17 partners from 12
        EU countries that started in November 2020.
        Members in B12 have secured research grants for further international collaborations
        beyond UK and EU. Examples include UK-China collaborative research funded by the
        Royal Society’s Newton Advanced Fellowship scheme (NA150320), UK-India


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        collaborative research funded by EPSRC and UKIERI, and UK-Japan collaboration
        funded by EPSRC.
        92% of our outputs are collaborative with external research organisations. The co-
        authors are from the UK as well as 15 overseas countries in Oceania, Asia, Europe and
        North America.
    •   To ensure the availability of high-quality facilities for the production of excellent research
        outputs.
        B12 members have a tradition, in collaboration with technical staff, to design new
        facilities, apply facilities to new research field and develop software to enable new
        functionalities. We have some unique facilities in the country. Examples include the 3D
        Digital Image Correlation (DIC) creep rigs that allow long term 3D DIC monitoring of
        creep, integrated rigs to allow in-situ observation of reactive fluid under pulsed electric
        field, and atmospheric pressure plasma printing facility.
        The School has invested £1.7 million and the Faculty spent nearly £1 million to support
        research in B12 UOA since 2014. A major portion has been invested to purchase new
        facilities and cover service contracts for major instruments. Our members are
        encouraged to apply for equipment grants. The site runs facilities for chemical
        characterization, material processing, physical characterisation, mechanical tester,
        thermal analysis and electromagnetic analysis.
        B12 members have secured £2.6 million in-kind support via beam-time awards and use
        of other organisations’ research facilities since 2014. Accessing national facilities, such
        as ISIS neutron source and Diamond light source, has contributed to our research. For
        example, a project involves the use of neutron diffraction to determine the strain
        distribution in alloys. Some projects include the allowance to use national
        supercomputers ARCHER and the recently upgraded ARCHER2 such as the UKCOMES
        project funded by EPSRC to use these national supercomputers to simulate engineering
        fluids.
        Our innovative and award-winning openSTEM Labs established during the REF period,
        provide remote access to many research facilities. Researchers are able to operate the
        facilities using a computer or mobile phone in their home. Lockett is the current director
        of openSTEM Labs. During the Covid-19 pandemic, our experimental works, such as
        those using electron scanning microscope, have not been disrupted and proved to be
        routinely accessed for research projects.
    •   To maximise the synergies between research, our curriculum and our teaching.
        During the REF period, the OU B12 members have secured 4 external grants to promote
        research into teaching and curriculum in Engineering. Examples include the
        Transforming Engineering Culture project led by Moncaster and funded by the Royal
        Academy of Engineering and the development of an open access remote photovoltaics
        laboratory led by Krishnamurthy and funded by H2020 European Commission. Many
        B12 members lead one or several internally funded eSTEeM scholarships to contribute
        and maximise the synergies.
 Future Strategy (next 5 years): Having transformed our research from the previous focus on
 metallurgy and chemical engineering in REF2014 to a unit with broad and rigorous activities
 across all our subject areas, our strategic aims for the next 5 years are:
    a) to support the research aspirations in all themes by recruiting, fostering and maintaining
       a sustainable staff-base
    b) to support the development of external collaborations and stakeholder engagement to
       enhance and translate our research
    c) to grow our postgraduate research student community via membership of further CDTs,
       DTPs and Industrial case study studentships
    d) to ensure our instrumentation continues to support our research excellence
    e) to improve the economic and societal impact from our research.

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 d. Impact strategy
 The impact strategies of B12 Engineering are:
    • To identify emerging engineering needs in the UK and around the World
    • To collaborate with stakeholders, scientists and R&Ds to address the challenges, and
    • To promote scientific innovation to society and community

 Our impact is promoted by an open research environment and wider contributions to the
 economy and society.
    •   An open research environment.
        Over the current REF period, B12 members have published 444 journal papers, 12
        books, and 51 book-chapters. All our members are required to upload copies of their
        papers to Open Research Online (ORO) and research students to upload an electronic
        copy of their thesis. Complementary with ORO is the University’s data repository, Open
        Research Data Online (ORDO), enabling researchers to share and publish their data and
        obtain a digital object identifier. B12 members are encouraged to upload all the data in
        relevant to the publication to the site for free access. The audience can access the data
        according to the statement in the publication such as “the datasets generated during
        and/or analysed during the current study are available from the corresponding author on
        reasonable request”. The OU has a dedicated Research Data Management Librarian,
        who advises staff and students. As part of their training, PGRs are expected to complete
        a short module on Research Data Management, part of which involves completion of a
        Data Management Plan.
    •   Wider Contributions to the Economy and Society.
        Our research contributes to the economy and society including the provision of patents,
        establishment of start-up and spin-out companies to provide high-tech services,
        contribution to new standards and new policy, involvement in build-up knowledge transfer
        partnerships (KTP), and engagement with external organizations and industries to
        promote the technological advances. Examples of evidence of success include:
        Patents: Goolaup’s non-volatile logic device obtained US patents (US 9,431,599 B2) in
        2016. Varagnolo’s research on selective deposition of metallic layers was filed for a UK
        patent in 2018 (UK patent application No: 1817037.3).
        Start-up and spin-out: Bouchard founded Stress-Space Ltd which was registered in
        2017 and achieved a turnover of £232k in 2019. Lockett’s work contributed to the basis
        of the software tool now being marketed as WAAMPlanner in Cranfield University’s spin-
        out company WAAM3D.
        Contributions to new standards and new policy: Lockett’s research in design for
        additive manufacturing contributed to the development of an ASTM standard and she
        was a member of the committee that developed the guide and authored parts of it.
        Nuttall contributed to a European Commission funded advisory process constructed to
        support policy for the 7-year Horizon 2020 Euratom Fission Research and Training
        Programme which totalled €877m. His research directly led to the inclusion of social
        science into the research portfolio for the first time. The social science funded via this
        mechanism is valued at approximately €10m. Bouchard is a founder member of the NeT
        (Network on Neutron Techniques Standardization for Structural Integrity) Steering Group.
        He served on the ISO TC135/SC5 working group that successfully adopted Technical
        Specification ISO/TS 21432: Non-destructive testing - Standard test method for
        determining residual stresses by neutron diffraction as a full ISO Standard. He also sits
        on two R6 Procedure Panel sub-groups on Weld Residual Stress Profiles and Weld
        Simulation Benchmarks and Guidelines.
        Contributions to industry: Bruce’s work increased WJ R&D capacity and Cornelius
        developed personal care products for new markets. Nuttall’s research has influenced
        the relatively new emergence of small start-up companies utilising nuclear fusion

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        technology. In 2020, together with his OU PhD student and Japanese colleagues, Nuttall
        edited the book 'Commercialising Fusion Energy' (IOPP) and contributed to several
        chapters. Shirzadi’s research led to a new method for manufacturing a bi-metal adapter
        needed for X-ray sterilisers in cooperation with Atlas Technologies in USA and a new
        method for melt spinning developed for Edmund Bühler GmbH – Hechingen in Germany.
        Three KTP projects have bolstered our partnership with chemical and pharmaceutical
        companies, leading to the development of new products and processes as well as
        gaining reputation in the field. A number of B12 members support the OU’s StressMap
        unit that has delivered £1.5m residual stress measurement services to clients since
        2013.
        Engaged research: Bowen’s research was featured in Nunano (1, 2) Medium, Bou,
        Chemistryworld and ACS. Bruce’s research was cited in WJ industrial magazines.
        Moncaster’s research was acknowledged in the articles published by the Institution of
        Structural Engineers 2020, International Energy Agency 2019, Athena Sustainable
        Materials Institute 2019 White Paper, Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors 2017 and
        the World Green Building Council report at 2019. She was PI on the EPSRC/Innovate
        project which produced the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (2017) Professional
        Statement on whole life carbon assessment for the built environment (1st edition), which
        in turn is summarised by the Royal Institute of British Architects.
    •   Regional and National research priorities
        OU is a Four Nations university, with centres in Belfast, Cardiff and Edinburgh as well as
        in Milton Keynes. We have developed strong links with the different administrations and
        have advised on research priorities and strategies for their achievement. The nature of
        the OU has also facilitated our relations with regional business communities and allowed
        us to build a variety of collaborations. For example, Nuttall spoke at the Scottish
        Parliament on 25 November 2015 on “Nuclear Developments: UK, EU and Globally” and
        published a book chapter relating to energy policy in Scotland entitled “Scotland, Nuclear
        Energy Policy and Independence” in 2017. Psoma has been awarded a Knowledge
        Transfer Voucher in collaboration with the Scotch Whisky Research Institute to develop a
        biosensor for whisky industry.
 Our impact strategic aims for the next 5 years are:
    a) to collaborate with the scientific and industrial community to develop new products, new
       processes, new methods, new standards and new assessment to address the global
       challenges such as carbon neutralization, resource sustainability and energy strategy.
    b) to collaborate with UK stakeholders to contribute to the development of a productive,
       healthy, resilient and connected nation
    c) to work with companies and trade bodies to understand their requirement and
       collaboratively develop the solutions
    d) to promote engineering through an open teaching and research environment to widen
       our contributions to the economy and society
    e) to explore how best to support the development of effective impact
 2. People
 a. Staffing strategy
 The objectives in the REF period have been to expand the scope of research across all our
 subject areas, to foster an exciting research environment and to develop the potential of all our
 staff. We have lost some key research players to other universities, but have been able to recruit
 high quality staff in their place, as described in section 1. The departure of academic staff in
 Materials Engineering and Functional Materials has been more than compensated by the
 recruitment of Bowen, Forsey, Jazaeri, Neighbour, Power, Qin and Varagnolo. The expertise
 of the new staff has not only enhanced the existing research fields but broadened our research
 scope. The other recruitment for the unit corresponds to our change in research strategy and
 establishment of Engineering Design and Energy Engineering. Among the current members


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 returned to REF2021 B12, four are professors, 12 are senior lecturers, seven are lecturers and
 one is staff tutor.
 b. Recruitment and progression
 All academic and research positions are advertised in both the University’s vacancies webpage
 and at least one external site (e.g. https://www.jobs.ac.uk). Both contain a full description of the
 role, benefits, and the application procedure. The Resourcing Hub checks and approves every
 advertisement to ensure fairness and abide by employment regulations. We receive a good
 number of applicants for each academic position. For example, the recently advertised lectureship
 (Ref No. 16702) received 42 applicants.
 Members of the selection panels are required to complete an on-line module “Recruitment,
 Selection and Interviewing at The Open University”. The module explains how to reduce
 Unconscious Bias and embed equality and diversity in the recruitment process, as well as
 covering interviewing skills. The interview process comprises a panel assessment and a
 presentation to researchers and academic staff. Where disabilities are flagged in the application
 form, adjustments for interviews are organised in advance and in confidence through contact
 between the administrative-support team and the candidate. Feedback from both sessions are
 obtained before any offers of appointment are made. The Resourcing Hub checks the
 constitution of selection panels to ensure the requirements for equality, diversity and inclusion
 are met.
 All new members of staff receive an extensive induction and are allocated a probation supervisor
 and a mentor. Once the probation period is concluded, all staff members are assigned an
 appraiser to carry out annual appraisals and a 6-month appraisal review meeting. The appraiser
 is nominated by the Head of School annually but the appraisees have the right to reject the
 nominated one and request an alternative appraiser. The appraisal procedure is called the
 Career Development and Staff Appraisal system (CDSA). The purpose is partly to reflect on past
 performance and partly to look at future performance. During the meeting, objectives are agreed
 and, development and training needs are identified. We have a well-defined reward and
 promotion system to support career progression. A meeting of all School appraisers held after
 CDSA to recommend merit awards and promotions. Recommendations are further considered
 by Faculty and University groups and awards made. Workshops providing advice and guidance
 on how to gain promotion from lecturer to senior lecturer and from senior lecturer to professor
 are held twice a year. During the REF period 1 member of staff (Krishnamurthy) was promoted
 from senior lecturer to professor, 1 (Qin) was appointed as professor from senior lecturer in
 another university, 6 were promoted from lecturer to senior lecturer and 2 were appointed as
 senior lecturer.
 c. Staff development
 The Schools provide funds for consultancy, travel & subsistence, attending conferences,
 purchasing of small equipment and hospitality to support the initiation of research, collaboration
 and impact promotion. The Faculty provides free access to research facilities to academic
 members without secured research grants. All staff undertake mandatory training on Information
 Security Awareness, General Data Protection Regulation, Prevent Counter Terrorism and
 Safeguarding.
 The STEM Research, Enterprise and Scholarship Team is comprised of over 15 staff who
 collectively provide the STEM faculty with the professional services that are needed to deliver to
 the strategic and operational requirements to achieve our research objectives, ensuring
 compliance with faculty and university processes and governance. The team compiles and
 distributes a weekly Funding Newsletter to all academic members to inform them of current
 funding opportunities, provides active support and advice in the development of external bids for
 funding and administration and in the management of awarded externally funded research
 projects. Support is also provided for the administration of PhD studentships; enterprise and
 partnership development; external engagement; and scholarship activity. The Faculty has a
 dedicated Impact Manager, who works with colleagues to develop and strengthen impact



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pathways in the development of a bid and further provides support in the progression,
 communication and implementation of pathways for awarded projects.
 We offer a range of agile working options, including compressed hours, staggered hours, home
 working, part-time working and job sharing. All staff are provided with facilities to work from
 home. The University provides Skype for Business and Microsoft Teams systems to enable staff
 members to access their office telephone and hold meeting remotely. The majority of meeting
 and seminar rooms are set up with equipment to enable remote participants to join in easily.
 Staff are trained to use the equipment and to chair meetings to ensure that remote participants
 are fully included. All School and Faculty meetings and seminars provide an online access as a
 default.
 The University has an active flexible working policy which allows staff to request, for example,
 periods of part-time working on return from illness. In addition to the maternity policy it includes
 provision for Keeping-in-Touch days and an entitlement to focus on research activities
 immediately after return. During the Covid-19 pandemic period, the University had a generous
 contingency leave system in place to ensure that all staff could continue to work around caring
 responsibilities such as childcare.
 d. Support for staff on equality, diversity and inclusivity
 We have a diverse staff and researcher profile in terms of nationality, ethnicity, age and gender.
 The current staff profile of the B12 unit is shown in the figure below, being reasonably balanced.
 All members of staff are required to complete an Equality Essentials course, and the certificate
 needs to be refreshed every 24 months. Nine of our 24 B12 staff are female. The proportion is
 higher than the national average reported by the Women's Engineering Society (12.37%)
 according to the Engineering UK 2018 reports. 33% of B12 members are from other countries,
 showing we are an international research unit.
 The Open University received its Institutional Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2013 and renewed
 in 2016. Both of the Schools in which B12 members are based were awarded Departmental
 Athena SWAN Bronze status in 2016. E&I have recently been awarded Athena SWAN silver
 status. Several female staff have undertaken AdvanceHE’s ‘Aurora’ leadership development
 programme to enable them to fulfil their potential. B12 member, Morris, has been recognised for
 her work in challenging gender stereotypes in engineering with a Top 50 Women in Engineering
 Award (WE50) in 2018. Moncaster gave evidence at the Palace of Westminster to the All-Party
 Parliamentary Group on Excellence in the Built Environment on increasing gender diversity in
 construction in June 2019. Moncaster and Morris jointly edited a special issue of the
 International Journal of Gender, Science and Technology on Gender and Intersectionality in
 Engineering in 2019.




                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 The formation of the OU B12 panel has considered EDI principles in term of gender, ethnicity
 and career experience, as well as research discipline. Three panel members (Heeley, Lockett
 and Moncaster) are female, four panel members, including both the panel chair and impact
 case leader, are BAME. All panel members have completed Equality, Diversity and Unconscious
 Bias training before undertaking any assessment tasks. The selection of B12 returned members
 followed the University Code of Practise and was based purely on the criteria for significant
 responsibility for research and research independence. Each B12 member had equal
 opportunity to provide up to five representative outputs in the REF period. Each output was
 assessed by at least 3 panel members. For the papers ranked to the same score, the balance of
 gender and career stage has been considered alongside research discipline to ensure that our
 output list reflects the depth, breadth and diversity of our submitted researchers.
 e. Early career academics
 Early career academics are given privileged access to school and faculty funded PhD
 studentships. All new members of staff receive an extensive induction and are allocated a
 probation supervisor and a mentor. A comprehensive programme of training opportunities is
 provided, including training for supervising postgraduates and research assistants, writing
 research proposals and developing research impacts. Training is provided online and via
 workshops. Many early career academics are able to secure their research grants within three
 years. For example, Hosseinzadeh received her EPSRC First Grant. Forsey and Jazaeri
 became CO-I of EPSRC and other grants.
 f. Postdoctoral researchers
 B12 members currently supervise 10 postdoctoral researchers (PDRAs). The PDRAs are funded
 by external research grants and employed on fixed-term contracts (FTCs). They all participate in
 the annual CDSA appraisal process in the same way as central academic staff. All training
 events and workshops are open for PDRAs to attend. They are encouraged to develop
 independent research proposals and to bid for eligible funding opportunities. The OU
 Engineering group runs an annual residential school and encourages the PDRAs to apply for
 tutorial positions to develop their teaching skills. Some PDRAs have participated in module
 development and presentation. They are paid at the same rate as associate lecturers (ALs, see
 institutional environment) for this work.



                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our PDRA recruitment process is very competitive. For example, a recent position of Research
 Associate in Materials received 80 applicants. Some PDRAs have received offers of academic
 positions immediately on completion of their fixed term contract. Examples in the current REF
 period include Dr. Xinfang Zhang secured a full professorship at University of Science and
 Technology in Beijing and recently became an Associate Dean. Dr. Yan Zhao accepted an offer
 of full professorship from Beijing Institute of Technology at Chongqing. Dr. Mannan Mehta
 secured an Assistant Professor position in Indian Institute of Technology Delhi. Dr Abdullah
 Mamun was appointed EDF Fellow in Nuclear Structural Integrity at the University of Bristol, and
 two other PDRAs (Forsey and Jazaeri) were offered academic positions at the OU. Some
 PDRAs joined industry and have taken senior research roles. For example, Dr. Binyan joined
 TWI Ltd in Cambridge as a Senior Project Leader.
 g. Postgraduate students
 B12 has studentships from a range of sources, including EPSRC DTC, AHRC CDP, industrial
 CASE, EPSRC, EU, industry, self-funded and those funded by Schools and Faculty for B12
 UOA. B12 currently has 29 registered PhD students: 24 in the School of E&I and 5 in LHCS.
 Nine of them are female. In the current REF period, we have supervised to completion 33 PhD
 students.
 All the studentships are advertised externally for open and fair competition. The supervisory
 team comprises at least two active academic members. Projects with external partners often
 include an external or industrial member. Each student is assigned a third-party monitor for
 independent counsel. B12 research supervisors are required to complete a training program
 named Supervising Doctoral Studies. The programme was designed to help both new and
 experienced research supervisors to develop their ability to effectively mentor doctoral
 candidates. All the students are overseen by a group of 5 Postgraduate Research Tutors who
 ensure compliance with the OU’s Research Degree Regulations.
 The postgraduates start their study journey with a two day induction program. Day one includes
 an introduction to postgraduate research, the core research skills and methods training, library
 services, and the Graduate School Network. Day two includes some student network activities
 and meeting with supervisors and staff members. Further discipline-specific induction on the use
 of various laboratories and facilities, including health and safety practice, are organized annually.
 Each student is provided with a PC, a desk and a telephone. They can apply to access all the
 required laboratories for their research. OU-based training has been offered both face-to-face
 and online since 2017, thereby enabling part-time and disabled students the same access to and
 participation in training as their full-time, on-site colleagues.
 All B12 postgraduates have access to the Graduate School Network, which includes a Training
 Zone. Students are required to complete a Skills Audit and Development Plan, which should be
 maintained throughout the course of their studies. First-year postgraduates are required to write
 a report on their research progress, attend a mini-viva and pass their probation. Students in
 some subject areas, e.g. materials engineering, are encouraged to submit their literature review
 to a scientific journal for publication independently, i.e. without supervisors as co-authors. An
 example is demonstrated in this link. The students are encouraged to present their new findings
 to national and international workshops and conferences. Schools provide funds for travel and
 registration. The awards received by our students include Mamun’s ‘best student author award '
 and Madhavi’s James Watt Medal. Both Schools (E&I and LHCS) support their postgraduate
 students with a successful programme of promoting high quality research, employability and
 enrichment. This includes an Annual Research Day, a Three Minute Thesis presentation event,
 and monthly Research Seminars. The Three Minute Thesis presentations are held as part of
 School’s annual away day. Students are invited to present their research to an audience
 comprised of all academic staff in the School. Students are encouraged to apply for various
 tutorial positions for OU undergraduate modules, which contributes to the development of their
 employability.
 A dedicated hardship fund and other financial and pastoral support are available through the
 Graduate School, and all students are entitled to full sickness, disability and parental leave.


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Additional needs, such as support for disabilities, are fully provided by, and accessed through,
 the Graduate School.
 h. Covid-19 effects and mitigations
 The University responded rapidly to the ongoing and rapidly changing situation during the
 pandemic and has taken a cautious and targeted approach to returning to campus throughout.
 The Faculty Pandemic Recovery Group supported business-critical and time-sensitive field and
 lab work that was possible to achieve within the Government rules and guidelines. When a
 phased return to campus was allowed, the technical support staff have worked hard to mitigate
 the impact of a disabling slow-down in data collection and training. Many of the unit lab facilities
 have been upgraded to allow researchers to access instruments remotely, facilitated by the on-
 campus technicians. Lab-based training has been facilitated as much as possible within the
 bounds of what is practically available and possible.
 Additionally, the Schools allowed researchers to collect materials such as samples, microscopes
 and other equipment from campus to facilitate research progress from home. This is in addition
 to whatever portable IT and office equipment they required to continue their work from home,
 including laptops, extra screens, headsets, desks and office chairs. Those who had caring
 responsibilities took advantage of the OU’s pandemic-related contingency leave on full pay.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 a. Income
 The OU B12 members have secured £3.5 million in research grants from external organizations.
 41% of our funding is from the EPSRC. The 24 EPSRC grants are held by 9 different staff. 26%
 of funding is from other organizations including Innovate UK/TSB, RAEng, Royal Society,
 European Commission, BBSRC, Research England, British Council, RCUK and UKIERI. Other
 grants are from 21 industrial companies and charities. The largest industrial funder is EDF
 (19%). There was a steady decline in external research income from 13/14 to 17/18, reflecting
 both an increasingly competitive landscape for external research funding and the institutional
 impact of the changes to the higher education funding regime in England. However, our
 research income profile has shown signs of a healthy recovery within last two years. Research
 income in 19/20 has doubled from that in 17/18.
 b. Infrastructure
 The STEM Faculty has completed 69 infrastructure projects, spent over £3.8m and refurbished
 4740 m2 of spaces over the REF period. The laboratories budget averages £800k/year and
 covers equipment maintenance, basic consumables, gases, small equipment purchases under
 £50k, and health and safety expenses. In addition, the capital equipment budget, for items
 costing over £50k, was £300k/year. 17 projects are directly related to B12 staff with a cost of
 £914k and refurbishment of 964 m2 of laboratory spaces. The Electron Microscopy Suite has
 been improved to provide better microstructural characterization facilities and technical support.
 Two laboratories were re-purposed and upgraded to accommodate new research and post-
 graduate students intake. Six laboratories were reorganized or upgraded for new machines and
 new functionalities. £535k has been spent on OpenSTEM Labs which were created in 2015
 through a capital investment grant from the then Higher Education Funding Council for England.
 The OpenSTEM Labs challenge the traditional STEM pedagogical model of students and
 teachers being co-located in a lab during ‘office hours’. We connect students to instrumentation,
 data and equipment for practical enquiries over the internet, where time and distance is no
 longer a barrier – any time, any place access. The OpenEngineering Laboratory was launched in
 2017 to provide practical lab-based teaching at a distance encompassing engineering,
 electronics, control, materials, and robotics. In the Covid-19 pandemic, the OpenEngineering
 Laboratory provided remote access to hundreds of experiments.
 c. Facilities
 We have set up several new laboratories during the current REF period. Moncaster and
 Lockett in collaboration with two other members returned to UOA D32, set up the Open Design
 Prototype Laboratory, which provides high powered network PC, LCA software and database.

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Forsey established several unique facilities in Digital Image Correlation (DIC) Laboratory
 including the 3D DIC creep rigs that allow long term 3D DIC monitoring of creep and the vacuum
 retort on the Zwick machine. Qin set up the Electropulsing Laboratory to allow the
 electromagnetic field treatment of solid and liquid materials at various temperature.
 B12 members have free access to Scanning Electron Microscopes (Zeiss Supra 55VP FEG
 SEM, FEI Quanta 200 3D FIB-SEM, Phenom XL Desktop SEM), Transmission Electron
 Microscopes (JEM 2100, JEM 1400, JEM 1010), Electron Probe Micro-analyser (Cameca
 SX100), and the sample preparation and treatment facilities including the workshop. The
 OpenSTEM Lab assets include 7 analytical chemistry tools, 2 state-of-the-art scanning electron
 microscopes, 2 optical microscopes, 1 cloud chamber, 1 flow-chemistry reactor and 2 digital
 particle cameras allowing real-time display of ionizing radiation for remote access. In the current
 REF period, new facilities were purchased. The table below lists some items over £30k
 purchased in the REF period. The total cost is around £1.8m. The University has a parallel
 computing facility with more than 750 CPU's and 2.8TB of RAM that is used exclusively to
 support STEM research.
                          Item                            Price (£)
  Fanuc Robocut                                            120,006
  High Temperature Retort System                            80,019
  Mass spectrometer agilent 8800 icp ms                    180,764
  Laser ablation system excite frame                       100,014
  Portable X-ray residual stress analyser                   47,579
  EDM 1000 Machine                                         184,800
  Connex 3D printer                                         99,888
  Two Benchtop Scanning EM Phenom XL                       186,187
  Flow chemistry Vapour Tec Capour Tec R- Series            75,313
  Agilent 7890B CN16033042                                  60,121
  NMR SYSTEM bruker avhd400                                304,920
  Cellnsight CX5 Plate Reader                               77,116
  Nanoflex zeta charge and size system                      50,000
  Dual Platform Walter+bai Tensile Test Machine             84,000
  X-ray photoemission spectrometer                          72,018
  Elemental Analyser                                        30,000
  Optical tube assembly                                     45,300
                                           Total           £1,798k
 d Consultancies and Professional Services
 B12 members have generated consultancy income of nearly £1m in the current REF period. This
 includes professional services, providing technical guidance and carrying out experimental
 measurements for 24 industrial companies and 4 higher educational institutes via 64
 consultancy projects.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 a. Collaborations
 Collaboration with colleagues and external partners enables acquisition of complementary
 knowledge and skills for specific projects. B12’s research across all themes is collaborative and
 multidisciplinary. This is illustrated in our research outputs: 92% of our REF outputs have at least
 one co-author from external institutes, among which 42% have international collaboration (15
 foreign countries). Substantial collaborative research activities are with the European Union
 (15%), Australia (8%) and USA (8%). Other overseas collaborators are from China, India,
 Singapore and 6 other countries. The 59 returned REF outputs reveal 67 external collaborative
 institutes. The institute with which we have collaborated most is University of Cambridge (15%),
 followed by University of Liverpool (12%) and University of Manchester (10%). Other institutes in
 excess of 5% include London South Bank University, University of Warwick, Australian Science
 and Technology Organization, Cardiff University, Coventry University, Imperial College London,
 SFTC Rutherford Appleton Laboratory and Nanyang Technological University.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research collaboration within the Open University
 B12 members are based at 2 different schools. Each School has staff to returned to different
 REF units. This conveniences research collaboration and promotes intellectual exchange.
 Interdisciplinary research in our organization is supported through two pathways, one driven by
 academics exploring the boundaries of their own discipline, the second through targeted bidding
 to specific funding opportunities. Each School funds studentships annually and requests staff to
 form a collaborative supervision team to compete for the studentships. The Faculty funds one
 B12 studentship annually to allow B12 members across schools to co-supervise the research
 students on a competitive basis. The Open University Pro Vice-Chancellor’s Research and
 Enterprise Office runs two types of calls: 1. Engagement funding to support the development of
 partnerships by bringing consortia members together for networking and bid development
 activity or to support impact acceleration activity that maximises the benefits; 2. Pump priming
 for facilitating internal / external collaboration and to develop interdisciplinary collaborative
 research projects. The faculty has equipment funds for each REF UOA to bid for, managed by
 the Faculty, so that all staff can have access to the facilities. B12 members have built up
 extensive internal collaborations with staff within and across REF units in the same school and
 across schools.
 External Research Collaboration
 OU B12 members were supported to carry out collaborative research with external partners in
 several ways, including providing matched funding for staff, studentships and equipment, and
 keeping staff informed of, and encouraging them to attend, networking opportunities and funding
 workshops. B12 unit has been provided with funds for members to develop external research
 collaborations by organizing networking workshops, covering travel costs to discuss
 collaborative proposals and carry out collaborative research, and publicizing collaborative
 research results. Most of our research projects are in collaboration with other organizations.
 Examples including Bouchard’s EPSRC grant (EP/R026076/1) in collaboration with Oxford and
 Bristol universities. Moat’s EPSRC grants (EP/T016728/1) in collaboration with University of
 Manchester. Nuttall is involved in EPSRC project (EP/P013600/1) with Sheffield, Lancaster,
 Diamond Light Source, Imperial, Leeds, Strathclyde, Queen Mary and Surrey. Qin is involved in
 EPSRC project (EP/R029598/1) in collaboration with UCL, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Daresbury and
 Cranfield.
 Industrial collaboration
 B12 members have established collaborative relationships with many companies in the UK and
 abroad. The OU encourages engaged research, which is a descriptor for the different ways that
 a researcher may interact with stakeholders at all stages of a research project. Engaged
 research focusses on interplay between academic knowledge and forms of knowledge or
 practice held within non-academic communities including industrial partners. B12 members have
 developed scientific partnership in collaboration with 33 companies including Rolls Royce, TWI,
 Unilever, TATA Steel Europe, Airbus, Lucideon, MPI etc. For example, Bouchard is Director of
 EDF Energy’s High Temperature Centre at the OU. We are exploring new opportunities for
 strengthening collaborations, for example Collinson and Forsey are working with the V&A
 Museum which is a non-traditional industry for B12 researchers. The Faculty’s external advisory
 panel contains people from UK and EU industry. 78% of FTSE 100 companies sponsored their
 staff to take an OU course to upgrade their skills in 2017/18.
 Research visitors
 B12 members have hosted visitors from the UK and abroad for research collaboration and
 training purposes. According to our registered records, 19 B12 members from E&I have hosted
 51 visitors with official status of Visiting Prof/Academic status in the recent 3 years. Many of
 them stayed for more than 6 months strengthening our international research collaborations and
 delivering high quality collaborative research outputs.




                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 b. Contribution to the research, community and society
 Advisory Roles
 B12 staff act in advisory roles for society and organizations. Nuttall chaired the Nuclear
 Technology Trajectory Review for the UK Government’s Chief Scientific Adviser, Sir Mark
 Walport, from June to December 2016. Bruce and Collinson are consultants for Epigeum
 online training course for PhD supervisors. Posma is a consultant for Cambridge Display
 Technology Ltd and associate consultant at the Oxford Scientific Consultants Ltd. Moncaster
 has been an Associate of Cambridge Architectural Research since 2012. Heeley has been
 appointed to the ‘XMaS Expert Focus Group’ for the Xmas beamline at the European
 Synchrotron Radiation Facility’ ESRF advising on soft condensed matter user group needs for
 the ESRF upgrade. Qin is on the Royal Society Newton Advanced Fellowships Panel (Physical)
 between 01/2020 and 12/2022. A number of staff are members of the College of the Engineering
 and Physical Sciences Research Council. Neighbour is the long-standing Chair of EDF
 Energy’s Independent Graphite Validation Group which advises the Chief Graphite Engineer on
 the operation of the civil nuclear reactor fleet. Moncaster is leading a team working for a number
 of the National Green Building Councils. Psoma was an invited external reviewer for the national
 research proposals of ANR - The French National Research Agency (France) in the field of
 Biosensors.
 Contribution to Science and Engineering
 B12 members hold 6 Senior Fellowships from the Higher Education Academy and 6 Fellowships
 from the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining, Institute of Physics, Royal Society of Arts
 and Royal Society of Chemistry. Staff membership of other UK professional organizations
 include Institution of Chemical Engineers, Institution of Engineering and Technology, Institution
 of Civil Engineers, Chartered Institution of Wastes Management, Royal Aeronautical Society,
 Royal Microscopical Society and The Women's Engineering Society, and also overseas
 professional institutes including American Society of Mechanical Engineers, American Society
 for Testing and Materials, Canadian Medical and Biological Engineering Society, European
 Society of Biomechanics and European Microscopy Society. Collinson is on the committee of the
 Mid-Anglia Local Section and on the Eastern Region Steering Group of the Royal Society of
 Chemistry. Lockett is an active member of the Structures and Materials Committee of the Royal
 Aeronautical Society. Krishnamurthy is the vice president of Indian chamber of Youth
 Entrepreneurs. Gungor is the chairman of British Society for Strain Measurement.
 Editorial roles of scientific journals include: Collinson served as an Associate Editor for the
 Journal of Chemistry (2012-2017). Neighbour is a Senior Editor of Carbon. Bowen is on the
 editorial board for Heliyon and MDPI Polymers. Psoma is a member of the Editorial Advisory
 Board of the Open Access Books ToolKit organised by DOAB/OAPEN and Springer Nature
 Publishing. Heeley is on the editorial board of The Journal of Engineering. Moat and Qin are
 both on the Editorial Board of Materials Science and Technology. Qin is also on the Editorial
 Board of Scientific Reports and Bulletin of Magnitogorsk State Technical University.
 Our B12 members delivered over 40 plenary and keynote presentations during the REF period.
 Examples include Nuttall’s Clerk-Maxwell Prestige Lecturer at Institution of Engineering and
 Technology in Royal Institution in 2015 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wCviKi5aD-I&t=157s,
 Collinson’s Plenary lecture on recycling post-consumer waste plastics at Sustainable
 Functional Materials 2018, and Psoma’s plenary lecture entitled current research trends and
 applications of biosensors at Bratislava / Slovakia in 2019. 11 staff have organized over 20
 symposiums, workshops and participated in organizing committees in some major international
 scientific events. Qin has been in the Executive Scientific Committee of THERMEC during the
 REF period, an event that attracted over 1000 presentations in 2016, 2018 and 2020.
 B12 members have external visiting positions at national and international universities. Nuttall
 has 3 roles at University of Cambridge and is a fellow of the Payne Institute of Public Policy,
 Colorado School of Mines, USA. Moncaster has been a visiting academic fellow at the
 Department of Engineering at University of Cambridge since 2017 and was an academic
 champion for the Royal Academy of Engineering Visiting Professor in Transforming Engineering

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Culture. Psoma was an invited Visiting Professor at Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
 Lausanne (EPFL), School of Engineering, Institute of MicroEngineering between 2011 and 2016.
 Qin is a guest professor of Chongqing University at China. Neighbour is a visiting professor at
 Birmingham City University.
 Contributions to Society
 Our research strategy enables B12 staff to actively engage with society at all levels, Lockett
 was interviewed for "Coronavirus: Your Stories" on BBC World News (6/8/20). Nuttall discussed
 nuclear energy policy and the gas helium on BBC Radio Five Live "Wake Up To Money"
 (27/5/20). Forsey was academic consultant for “The secret story of stuff: materials in the
 modern age”, OU/BBC4 co-production proposing themes, guiding the narrative, and checking
 the scientific content. The show was a critical success attracting ~0.5M viewers for its original
 broadcast leading to further consultancy on “How to Make”. Similarly, Collinson contributed as
 academic consultant on BBC Radio 4 ‘Inside Science’ (2014-17).
 B12 members (Bruce, Collinson, Forsey, Moncaster, Power) actively contribute to the
 OpenLearn free learning platform, delivered by The OU as part of its Royal Charter commitment
 to support the wellbeing of the community. This work also supports the above collaborations with
 the BBC programmes. Articles also act to inform on current issues and research such as ‘How
 gender equality can fix the construction industry’ (Moncaster). B12 staff also contribute to other
 outreach activities such as ‘The Conversation’ (Bruce, Moncaster, Nuttall) to better engage the
 public. B12 PhD students have presented at MK Soap Box Science for promoting women in
 science and their achievements.
 Awards and Prizes
 The academic leadership of our staff has been recognised through the awards and prizes they
 have won over the REF period. Nuttall delivered Clerk-Maxwell Prestige Lecturer for the
 Institution of Engineering and Technology in 2015. Krishnamurthy was an award winner from
 British Council and Confederation of Indian Industry in 2016 for his novel industrial waste-water
 treatment method. Qin’s PhD student Omoigiade received a Silver Medal award from the MRS
 Fall meeting at Boston, USA in 2016. Qin received IAAM Medal award from the International
 Association of Advanced Materials in 2019 for notable and professional achievements made
 through work done during the ten years preceding from the year of award. Nuttall and his PhD
 student won the 2020 James Watt Medal from Institution of Civil Engineers Publishing for the
 paper entitled “Coal in the twenty-first century: a climate of change and uncertainty".
 Bouchard’s student Mamun received the 2015 'best student author award' in the PhD student
 category of the ASME Pressure Vessels and Piping conference. student Mamun received the
 2015 'best student author award' in the PhD student category of the ASME Pressure Vessels
 and Piping conference.




                                                                                            Page 15
