Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Edinburgh Napier University

 Unit of Assessment:
 Unit of Assessment 27 – English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit Context and Structure
 Research in this unit is conducted within our Centre for Literature and Writing (CLAW), under
 the directorship of Anne Schwan. The Centre was founded in 2007 to support our newly-
 established English programmes and is located within the multidisciplinary School of Arts and
 Creative Industries. The first assessment of a coherent English teaching and research group at
 Napier was in 2014 and our overall performance was very strong, despite being a relatively
 newly-formed entity. Environment was the weakest area of the submission and in the intervening
 years a concerted effort by CLAW staff has resulted in a strong, vibrant and sustainable
 research culture with a growing number of research students, increased staffing and substantial
 research activity, income, impact activities and projects.

 CLAW’s mission is to promote the relevance of literature and culture in the modern world and,
 through partnerships and interdisciplinary enquiry, to harness literature and culture’s contribution
 to some of today’s most pressing social and cultural challenges. We actively help to shape the
 University’s and the School’s emerging strategic theme of culture and communities, as well as
 contributing to the University-wide theme of sustainability from an arts and humanities
 perspective.

 CLAW currently consists of ten lecturers, one Senior Lecturer, one Associate Professor, and two
 Professors, all of whom are deemed Significantly Responsible for Research (SRR). Some
 CLAW staff come from outside of the English and Creative Writing group, and where they are
 SRR they are included due to the focus of their interests, for example: Calum Neill, Associate
 Professor of Psychoanalysis and Cultural Theory, as well as colleagues in creative writing and
 performance studies.

 There are also a number of part-time staff and research assistants on fixed term contracts
 affiliated with the Centre. Every member of the core team in English is research active. All
 CLAW staff then in post were returned to REF 2014, and all current staff are being returned to
 REF 2021. Core English staff research in a range of areas in literary studies, such as; Victorian
 and Edwardian literature and culture, crime and prison writing, modernism, Gothic and Science
 Fiction Studies, Scottish literature, film studies, digital and environmental humanities, gender
 studies, children’s literature, the literature of terror and conflict, and the literature of the First
 World War.

 Growth in staffing since REF 2014 has enabled the emergence of research clusters that will
 allow us to enhance our future research and impact strategy. In addition to consolidating existing
 strengths, increased staffing has allowed us to fulfil our ambition to expand our expertise in
 contemporary literary studies. Our main research clusters include nineteenth-century studies
 (Alder; Dryden; Schwan), modernist studies (Dryden; Frayn; Lyall; Thomson), Scottish
 literature and writing (Campbell; Lyall; Shand), gender studies (Artt; Lam; Schwan),
 environmental humanities (Alder; Campbell), gothic and science fiction (Alder; Artt; Bouet;
 Dryden; Lam), war and terrorism studies (Frayn; Keeble), contemporary literature and film
 (Artt; Bouet; Keeble), performance studies, psychoanalysis and theory (Soto-Morettini; Neill).

 Unit Research and Impact Strategy
 Since we believe that societal challenges are often best addressed through cross-disciplinary
 conversation, interdisciplinary research plays an important role in CLAW’s activities. A number of
 colleagues work at the intersection of literature with performance studies, criminology, film and
 televisual studies, and digital and environmental humanities. The group’s interdisciplinary

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interests are reflected in the outputs, collaborative impact projects with internal and external
 colleagues, and research student supervision. We have co-supervised with colleagues in Film,
 Criminology, the School of Computing and the Business School.

 As part of our five-year strategy going forward, we intend to build on these collaborations with a
 view to future funding bids and other collaborative research and impact opportunities with
 internal and external colleagues.

 The following constitutes the key focus of our research and impact strategy:

        to raise awareness of the positive impact of literature and culture on identity and
         community;
        to enhance understanding of literary, cultural and natural heritage;
        to create platforms for promoting contemporary voices in literature and culture;
        to collaborate with outside agencies to promote literary tourism and
        to enhance access to literacy and creativity for marginalised social groups.

 This strategic focus has informed both of our impact case studies as well as other research and
 impact activities in the unit (see section 4). One of our most prominent public engagement
 activities, Robert Louis Stevenson Day, began as a collaboration between Dryden and the
 Edinburgh, UNESCO City of Literature Trust. It is now a city-wide, and increasingly international
 public celebration involving schools, libraries and other institutions on 13th November each year,
 to promote literature’s relevance in the wider community (Impact Case Study 1).

 To achieve our strategic aims, our impact work comprises engagement and dialogue with a
 range of stakeholders and communities. This has included particularly marginalised groups,
 such as people in prison, to support access to literacy and literature; collaboration with criminal
 justice practitioners for the enhancement of creative opportunities in prisons; and, in the context
 of an AHRC grant for Impact and Engagement (Frayn and Schwan), cultural heritage
 organisations like Stobs Camp Project/Archaeology Scotland to raise public awareness of
 creativity in internment camps (Impact Case Study 2).

 Beyond the work detailed in our impact case studies, members of the group have collaborated
 with a variety of cultural and other public sector organisations, from the National Library of
 Scotland, to bookstores and cinemas, and St. Abbs Marine Station (see section 4). Our work
 thus contributes to the University’s strategic aims to promote socially relevant research and
 practice, and has significantly helped to shape the University’s research and public engagement
 profile in the arts, humanities and creative industries.

 Our aims in REF 2014 were:

        to foster cutting edge literary research that has real value in the wider community
        to foster world-class, international research
        to secure external funding
        to continue to grow the research student population.

 In fulfilment of the first objective:

         all staff have been encouraged to be actively involved in impact and public engagement
          activities, which they have achieved through a variety of formats supported by internal
          and external funding (see sections 3 and 4).
         As section 4 exemplifies, we continue to take this work in new directions, demonstrating
          the vitality and sustainability of the unit beyond our impact case studies.

 We have fostered world-class research through major publications in the current REF cycle
 through:

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        nine monographs
        seven novels
        sixteen edited books, collections and special journal issues
        over twenty articles in peer-reviewed journals, and
        over twenty-five chapters in edited collections.

 Monographs were published by staff at all career stages: Writing Disenchantment: British First
 World War Prose, 1914-30 (Manchester UP, 2014) (Frayn); Convict Voices: Women, Class, and
 Writing about Prison in Nineteenth-Century England (U of New Hampshire P, 2014) (Schwan);
 The 9/11 Novel: Trauma, Politics and Identity (McFarland, 2014) and Narratives of Hurricane
 Katrina in Context (Palgrave, 2019) (both Keeble); Ethics and Psychology: Beyond Codes of
 Practice (Taylor & Francis, 2016) (Neill); Joseph Conrad and H. G. Wells: The Fin de Siècle
 Literary Scene (Palgrave, 2015) (Dryden); and Weird Fiction and Science at the Fin de Siècle
 (Palgrave, 2019) (Alder).

 We have grown the number of external funding bids submitted and increased the number of staff
 engaged in this process through internal mentoring processes. We have secured funding from
 major bodies such as AHRC, the Royal Society of Edinburgh and the Carnegie Trust for the
 Universities of Scotland (see section 3). Finally, we have successfully addressed our goal to
 grow our research student population, partially through strategic investment of internal research
 funds towards fee waivers (see section 2).

 The school and unit are committed to the University’s overarching research strategy as outlined
 in the REF5a. Future school strategies are informed by the institutions five-year focus on staff
 development, increasing innovation, and developing international research partnerships, and
 aim to feed into the broad strategic aims of the University.

 Moving forward, our strategic aims are:

        to continue to produce research outputs of international quality
        to foster collaboration internally and externally, including cross-disciplinary collaboration
        to continue to engage with a variety of stakeholders and communities and thus;
        to increase our impact factors
        to further grow the research student population and;
        to contribute to the wider research community through editorial work, membership of
         societies and other professional activities.

 The UoA received a strong rating in REF 2014 and our activities have grown considerably since
 that time. Since 2014 CLAW has become the major international hub for Robert Louis
 Stevenson activities (Impact Case Study 1), including the establishment of The Ernest Mehew
 Robert Louis Stevenson archive, housed in special accommodation at our Merchiston campus.
 The collection is maintained by CLAW staff; its catalogue is accessed via the RLS website, also
 hosted and maintained by CLAW (www.robert-louis-stevenson.org).

 In the current cycle, CLAW also became the focus of public events to celebrate the 200th
 anniversary of the publication of Frankenstein; an award-winning project concerning literacy and
 prisoners (Impact Case Study 2); activities around the War Poets collection at Craiglockhart
 campus; the new Edition of the Works of Arthur Conan Doyle for Edinburgh University Press
 (including a new website developed and hosted by CLAW: https://edinburgh-conan-doyle.org/);
 and a collaborator, with the University of Edinburgh, on the Lit/Long project that is digitally
 charting Edinburgh as a literary city (see https://litlong.org).




                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing Strategy
 CLAW currently consists of ten lecturers, one Senior Lecturer, one Associate Professor, and two
 Professors, all of whom are deemed Significantly Responsible for Research (SRR). Of these 14
 staff, thirteen are on permanent contracts, and one is on a fixed-term contract.

 A sustainable staffing strategy has been key in the successful delivery of our aims. The success
 of the English REF submission in 2014 allowed us to use REG funding to institute a sabbatical
 scheme, and six sabbaticals (Lyall, Artt, Alder, Schwan, Frayn and Dryden) of 6 months each
 were taken between 2016 and 2018. To maximise effectiveness and ensure that research leave
 boosted potential for high-quality research, staff were required to give a clear proposal detailing
 what they would achieve, including submission of at least one funding bid during the course of
 their sabbatical. From 2019, REG funding is being used to buy staff out of teaching to pursue
 research activities and to pay for writing retreats to complete research publications. Both Artt
 and Thomson were funded for writing retreats to work on book manuscripts in summer 2019.

 Since 2014 the English group has benefitted from investment in staffing. Four new staff have
 been appointed, and in some cases we have increased fractional contracts in order to
 consolidate and substantially expand the team’s expertise. This has been a deliberate staffing
 strategy, driven in equal part by teaching requirements and by our determination to increase and
 further enhance our research reputation. Our staffing policy is thus strategically designed to
 attract staff whose research expertise complements and augments existing strengths.

 The fact that three staff (Campbell, Wasson and Joyce) obtained posts elsewhere, in all three
 cases through direct approaches, indicates the high level of research expertise and external
 recognition that the English area at Edinburgh Napier attracts. We continue to seek opportunities
 to expand the team. Our new Masters in Digital and Public Humanities (2019) created the
 conditions for the further appointments of Campbell and Bouet.

 Staff Development and Research
 Staff development is focused through the sabbatical scheme and through strong support for
 conference attendance to present research papers. International destinations for conferences
 include New York (Schwan), Australia (Frayn), visiting professorships in Moscow and
 Bordeaux, as well as a research visit to the University of Illinois (Dryden), and international
 workshops in Stuttgart (Schwan, Lyall, Dryden, Fraser) and Rome (Dryden).

 All research active CLAW staff receive a research allowance of a least one day per week to
 research during the teaching trimester, and longer periods during the summer trimester. Staff on
 sabbatical leave had six months to develop discrete research projects. All staff have access to a
 regular programme of training and development offered by the University’s Research,
 Innovation, and Enterprise Office. In addition, staff in English have benefitted from external
 training opportunities. For example Frayn was encouraged and selected to participate in AHTV,
 a one-day event open to AHRC grant holders which brought together academics and television
 professionals to foster understanding and relationships between the two.

 Every staff member is assigned a line manager and undergoes the University’s review process,
 including an interim and end-of-year review, to discuss objectives, longer-term career goals and
 identify opportunities for development. New staff members also benefit from a ‘Buddy’ scheme
 which pairs them with a more experienced colleague for informal mentoring.

 All staff are supported in their career development through our ‘My Contribution’ scheme, where
 goals and objectives are set on a yearly basis and reviewed regularly. Early Career Researchers
 are given specific support through our implementation of the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers (see REF5a). In addition, our sabbatical scheme targeted ECRs
 and those in non-promoted positions in the first instance, so that they were the first to benefit in

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 terms of their careers. Staff new to CLAW are mentored by experienced colleagues and
 encouraged to develop their discrete research areas to complement the existing strengths. They
 are also integrated into existing projects wherever appropriate.


 Specific projects allow for targeted staff development. Dryden was General Editor of the
 Wordsworth editions of H. G. Wells (2016-17), recruiting staff from CLAW to edit specific
 volumes (Alder and Frayn). As a member of the Editorial Board for the Edinburgh Edition of
 Arthur Conan Doyle, Dryden also recruited Schwan to edit Doyle’s A Study in Scarlet and The
 Sign of Four (c2021), and Alder to edit Early Supernatural Stories (c 2023).

 Furthermore, staff expertise is independently sought for discrete projects. Dryden and Alder
 were commissioned to write forewords for Flame Tree publications of gothic stories, and Dryden
 has been commissioned as an expert adviser on an academic RLS publication by Layman
 Poupard Publishing, USA. Activities such as these allow staff at the early stage of their careers
 to work with experienced colleagues and gain valuable experience. In addition, these activities
 provide opportunities for postdoctoral researchers and Research Assistants, largely drawn from
 both our current and graduated PhD students.

 Major collaborative funding bids with academic and non-academic partners have created
 opportunities for staff development in grant management and impact, with Schwan leading an
 Edinburgh Napier team (including Frayn) to deliver a series of public performances on
 commemorations of First World War internment. Internal funding schemes have enabled staff to
 recruit undergraduate students as interns (e.g. for Alder and Artt’s ‘Age of Frankenstein’),
 offering staff opportunities to develop research leadership skills as well as nurturing the next
 generation of postgraduates.

 Colleagues in Creative Writing who do not have a doctorate and work in a practice-based
 environment are encouraged to pursue PhD study. Lam is being supported in preparing an
 application for a PhD by Published Works. Bishop is completing his PhD in creative writing at
 the University of Lancaster, and developing his academic outputs with a view towards being
 included in subsequent REFs.

 For the past twelve years CLAW has hosted a monthly seminar series with external speakers.
 Each year one member of staff takes responsibility for organising the series around their discrete
 research interests, and thus all staff have the opportunity to develop professional organisational
 experience. Staff are also encouraged and supported to host conferences at Edinburgh Napier,
 as exemplified by the impressive list of national and international conferences and workshops
 run by CLAW staff over recent years (see section 4). These ongoing activities create
 opportunities for staff members to network with leading national and international scholars in
 literary studies and cognate fields. Speakers have included:

        Professor Fred Botting (English, Kingston University);
        Professor Richard Dyer (Film Studies, King’s College, London);
        Professor Douglas Kerr (English, University of Hong Kong);
        Professor Roger Luckhurst (English, Birkbeck, London);
        Professor Josephine McDonagh (English, University of Chicago);
        Professor Laura Mulvey (Film and Media Studies, Birkbeck, London);
        Professor Diane Negra (Film Studies, University College Dublin);
        Professor Sandeep Parmar (English, University of Liverpool);
        Professor Mike Szalay (English, UC Irvine).

 Staff PhD Examinations
 CLAW staff are regularly asked to examine PhDs at external institutions both within the UK and
 internationally. Since 2015 staff have examined PhDs at:


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       University of Queensland
       University of Southampton
       Kingston University
       Brunel University
       Acharya Nagarjuna University, India
       University of Bordeaux
       University of Western Australia
       Kings College, University of London
       University of Glasgow
       University of Edinburgh
       Newcastle University
       University of Lancaster
       University of Auckland

 Research Students and Early Career Researchers
 Since 2014 CLAW has had five PhD student completions. There are five ongoing PhD students
 and one MRes student. This growing number of research students enables us to ensure that all
 staff gain research supervision experience. It is also evidence of how the research reputation of
 staff in CLAW is attracting students to study with us. While some students have come from
 external institutions, several students are former undergraduates, demonstrating our ability to
 nurture enthusiasm for research in a new generation of scholars through research into teaching
 linkages, encouragement and careful mentorship. Whilst we encourage our brightest
 undergraduates to consider further study, frequently it is the students themselves who seek out
 staff who have inspired them as potential supervisors. We have also begun to attract students
 through the FindaPhD initiative.

 We have rigorous PhD student monitoring and support processes. Students meet with their
 supervisors on a monthly basis at the very least, and in the case of remotely located students,
 video conferencing is in place. It is the expectation that students will produce a substantial piece
 of work, or evidence significant progress for each of their supervision meetings. The University
 has a robust Research Degrees framework that requires progress reviews to occur twice a year.
 An external non-subject specific Independent Panel Chair (IPC) is present at these meetings to
 ensure equality of treatment and fairness in the monitoring process. The students meet privately
 with their IPC to afford them the opportunity to raise any concerns they may have and thus
 impartiality is maintained. Our substantial increase in PhD student numbers since 2014, and our
 low attrition rate (only two students have withdrawn since 2014, due to personal reasons) are
 due in large part to our careful monitoring and personal nurturing of our students.

 As part of their academic experience we fully integrate research students into CLAW and its
 activities:

       they are invited to our regular meetings and research seminars
       where possible research students are given paid teaching and marking duties
       frequently our research students have been operationally involved in conference
        organisation as contacts, guides, technical support and website managers
       the Stuttgart workshop also included two of our PhD students

 As such, our research students benefit from as full a range of academic activities as possible in
 order to equip them as potential future academics in their own right.

 Whilst we try where possible to ensure our students gain paid teaching experience, we are
 highly conscious of the financial burdens of undertaking PhDs. As a result, we currently have six
 postgraduate students whose fees are covered by REG-funded fee waivers. One student’s fees
 are covered by the Research, Innovation, and Enterprise Office through funding won in an
 internal funding competition. One student, (Burke) now graduated, was fully funded through the


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Edinburgh Napier 50th Anniversary Studentship scheme, and another has his fees paid by the
 David Summers Trust. A further student, now graduated, was funded by the Saudi Government.

 Since the last REF, three students have been employed within CLAW as RAs on fixed term
 contracts, affording valuable experience of working with archives. Research students also
 benefit from an annual School research student conference, organised by the students
 themselves, and a regular training and development programme, as well as development
 activities centrally organised by the Research Innovation, and Enterprise Office.

 Edinburgh Napier is a subscribing member of the Scottish Graduate School for Arts &
 Humanities (SGSAH), a partnership of 16 Scottish HEIs, which means all of our research
 students, regardless of funding stream, have access to SGSAH’s innovative training programme.
 This includes an annual Summer School, Knowledge Exchange Hubs, an Internship programme
 and Cohort Development Funding that doctoral students can apply for with peers from other
 HEIs. Burke’s six-month part-time internship at Edinburgh’s Museum of Childhood (2017-8) was
 fully funded by SGSAH, and resulted in curatorial work which fed back into her PhD research.
 Her successful application for Cohort Development Funding (2016) with peers from the
 Postgraduate Gender Research Network of Scotland led to a writing workshop with academic
 mentors, and she was invited back by SGSAH to co-organise and co-facilitate a feminist
 research methods workshop for the Summer School (2017).

 Edinburgh Napier has access to SGSAH’s Applied Research Collaborative Studentship
 competition (ARCS), which is co-funded by HEIs and the Scottish Funding Council. In 2020, the
 School was able to support ARCS applications for the first time, resulting in a successful
 application from English (Thomson, to co-supervise with Edinburgh University and City of
 Literature). In her capacity as the Edinburgh Napier representative on SGSAH’s Executive
 Committee, Schwan mentored colleagues during the application process to maximise chances
 of success. English staff members are proactively supporting applications for other studentship
 schemes, such as the Carnegie Trust’s PhD Scholarships.

 The situation described above marks a substantial increase in completions since 2014, and we
 aim to increase our PhD student numbers year-on-year. This will be facilitated by continuing to
 use REG funds for fee waivers for part-time students and by submitting bids to such studentship
 competitions as are open to us (ARCS and Carnegie). Our MA in Digital and Public Humanities
 will provide an additional pathway to research degrees, allowing us to further enhance our
 research profile and interdisciplinary expertise.

 CLAW members have created opportunities for our own research students or early career
 scholars from elsewhere by employing them as RAs or facilitating other research-related
 opportunities. Research student Milne is a part-time RA for the Stevenson website and the
 Mehew Collection (2016-2020); former research student Simpson was a part-time RA to
 catalogue the Mehew collection (2016), and RA on the Conan Doyle editions (2019-2020); the
 latter role was subsequently taken up by former research student Burke (February 2020
 onwards) after Simpson secured full-time academic employment at the University of Glasgow.

 Mentoring and employment for external early career scholars included employment of
 Wanggren as part-time RA to the Ernest Mehew Collection for one year (2016-17), and the
 mentoring of Silva, a visiting MA student from Brazil funded by the Sao Paulo Research
 Foundation to work for two months with Dryden on Stevenson (2017). Kupfer was a part-time
 RA for the Tagore Project, overseen by now retired colleague Fraser (2013-16). Duncan has
 worked with City of Literature Trust through Thomson’s contact (May-July 2019); MRes student
 McFadden presented at a National Library of Scotland event with Schwan.

 Equality and Diversity
 CLAW has a healthy gender balance a cross the team. From all category A eligible staff 56% are
 Female and 44% Male. Of those staff deemed SRR 64% are female and 36% are male, all of
 whom are entered for REF having been selected using equality and diversity procedures

                                                                                           Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 outlined in Edinburgh Napier’s REF Code of Practice. Reflecting our commitment to gender
 equality, one member of CLAW, Frayn, is the School representative for Athena Swan, and
 disseminates information about equality and diversity to the team.

 In the period, all staff in CLAW were eligible for the sabbatical scheme, and ECRs were
 specifically advantaged, as detailed above. Flexible and/or remote working measures to support
 staff with caring responsibilities or other restrictions to travel to conferences are followed
 according to University guidelines (see REF5a). Staff returning to work from periods of leave are
 offered the opportunity to phase their return to work. Staff with protected characteristics are
 provided with any necessary specialist equipment and space and time flexibility as required.

 The approach of CLAW to staff wellbeing is rigorous. We have an inclusive and supportive
 environment for all staff, students and research assistants.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 All staff are expected to submit research bids for external funding, resulting in a number of
 successful proposals. Approximately 50% of the unit’s submitted staff (including early, mid-
 career and senior staff members) have received external funding, ranging from smaller awards
 to major grants from prestigious funding bodies including AHRC, Carnegie Trust and Royal
 Society of Edinburgh (RSE).

 In addition to a School funding competition for public engagement, the University’s Research,
 Innovation, and Enterprise Office runs an annual research funding competition, providing seed
 funding to develop research projects with a view to larger external funding applications. Internal
 funding enables staff to develop skills in grant writing and management, impact activities and
 supervision of research assistants and student interns. Staff members have repeatedly been
 successful in securing internal funding, including a collaborative project (Alder/Artt, ‘Fates of
 Frankenstein’) and a project that subsequently led to a successful external grant application
 (Frayn, ‘Was there a War Books Boom?’).

 Average annual research income in UoA27 is: 24% BEIS Research Councils, The Royal
 Society, British Academy, 63% UK based charities, 11% UK government, industry and other
 sources, and 2% from tax credits.

 External grant income since 2014 amounts to £199,820 for a variety of projects related to our
 research activity. We have specifically targeted the Royal Society of Edinburgh as a funding
 source suited to our work. As such we have secured substantial funding for a number of projects
 concerned with Scottish literature and culture. These include: Campbell, (2020) ‘World/Water
 Futures; Frayn, (2020): ‘A War Books Boom in Scotland?’; Dryden, (2019): ‘The New Editions
 of Arthur Conan Doyle’; Thomson, (2019): ‘Narratives of Scottish Modernism’, Lyall, (2019):
 ‘Nan Shepherd and the Canon of Scottish and International Modernism’; and Frayn (2017):
 £5000 for Alexandra Peat, RSE Fellowship. We regularly bid to the Carnegie Trust for the
 Universities of Scotland resulting in an incentive grant for Lyall, (2016) for ‘Mystical
 Nationalism: W. B. Yeats, Patrick Pearse and the Revival of Ireland’.

 Schwan has been particularly successful in securing external funding for her work on prisons
 with a conference funding for ‘Crime Fiction(s)’, British Association for Victorian Studies
 (2018), and a substantial share (£36,000) of an AHRC Follow On Grant for Impact and
 Engagement for ‘The German Diaspora during World War I: Remembering Internment Camps in
 Britain and the Commonwealth’ (with Aston University).

 Our work on impact has successfully attracted AHRC funding for Thomson’s (2017-18) ‘Words
 on the Street: Uses of a Digital Literary Cityscape’ project; and Fraser (now retired),(2014-17)
 received £50,000 from the UKEIRI Knowledge Exchange Programme, jointly funded with
 Visva-Bharati University, resulting in 2 co-edited books. Fraser also received £16,000 from a

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University donor to develop a Tagore website, a project that enabled the employment of Kupfer
 as an RA.

 Keeble (2018) was the recipient of a British Association of American Studies US Embassy
 Grant of £750 for the ‘Lit TV’ conference at Edinburgh Napier. Dryden attracted charitable
 funding of £25,000 (2015) from the Ernest Mehew Trust to enable the housing of the Mehew
 archive of Stevenson materials. Dryden has also received philanthropic funding for the RLS
 website.

 All of the above projects are linked to staff research publications either as the foundation for the
 bids in the case of Dryden, Fraser, Lyall and Schwan, or as part of ongoing personal research
 in the case of Alder, Artt, Frayn, Keeble and Thomson. The production of quality research
 publications is the driving factor behind our grant submissions; but we are also extremely active
 in public engagement activities as a means of maximising our impact and realising our
 determination to further the aim of making literature relevant in the modern world. All of the
 funded projects cited here have entailed activities specifically targeted at engaging the public.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 Our PhD students have individual dedicated space in the School’s PhD student room, including
 part-time students. A Scottish Government grant supports each student in their research every
 year. This grant is used largely for conference attendance and field and research trips. As a
 result, our research students have attended a number of international conferences over the
 years and have had the opportunity to visit libraries and archives at national and international
 levels.

 Our research is distinguished by work on archives and special collections. The Ernest Mehew
 Collection of Stevenson materials has been catalogued and bespoke bookcases now house the
 collection in room C83a at Merchiston, specially set aside to contain this collection. This is a
 major collection of Stevenson books and related materials and artefacts which comprises the
 largest collection of Stevensonia in Europe.

 In further developments, we have acquired the Jim Haynes archive of publications and
 significant ephemera related to the development of the annual Edinburgh International Book
 Festival and the Fringe Festival. This is an important archive of cultural and historical
 significance that is currently being catalogued with financial support from the School to employ
 two part time research assistants. We are also in negotiations to acquire the substantive archive
 of books and materials from the eminent publisher John Calder.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations, Pubic Engagement, and Contributions to Society
 Our unit actively pursues collaboration with academic and non-academic partners in Britain and
 abroad. Building on and learning from our success in REF2014, staff have cultivated external
 contacts with organisations at national and international levels. These collaborations are driven
 by our commitment to excellence in research as well as our endeavours to bring our research
 into conversation with public debates, and contribute to understanding of important social and
 cultural issues.

 We select our partners strategically to maximise impact and reach, including practitioners in the
 public sector, cultural and heritage institutions, and the media. We work with both a number of
 long-term partners (e.g. UNESCO City of Literature Trust; Edinburgh International Book Festival;
 Scottish Prison Service) as well as seizing short-term opportunities with major cultural
 organisations for targeted activities as they emerge (e.g. Cameo and Filmhouse cinemas;
 National Library of Scotland; Surgeons’ Hall Museum).

 We have engaged with a diversity of audiences and communities through a range of platforms to
 maximise our reach and impact. This has included a number of media appearances in print, on

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 radio and television. For example; invited contributions on Hugh MacDiarmid on BBC TV (Lyall;
 2014) and the Scotsman (Lyall; 2017); interview for BBC Natural Histories series (Alder; 2015);
 ‘In Our Time’ BBC Radio 4 conversation with Melvyn Bragg on Tagore (Fraser; 2016); Radio 2
 BBC Book Club appearance (Lam; 2016); Stevenson art project documentary by Simon Zabell
 (Dryden; 2016); Ivan Kaizer Stevenson documentary shot in Edinburgh for ARTE, European
 cultural channel (Dryden; 2017); interview on First World War internment camps on BBC Radio
 Scotland’s ‘Good Morning Scotland’ (Schwan; 2018); a brief appearance on All Around Britain
 showcasing the Colinton Tunnel RLS project and a newspaper interview on Stevenson (Dryden
 2020). Staff have also given readings, overseen performances, contributed to The Conversation
 and written public blogs.

 In addition to the activities listed elsewhere, other formats for public engagement have included:
 a series of stand-up comedy performances at The Bright Club in Edinburgh and Dundee (Artt:
 2011-2015); an evening of presentations on Conrad, supported by Zielony Balonic and the
 Consulate General of Poland (Dryden: 2017); a series of public events in the city of Edinburgh
 for the Lit/Long project (Thomson); CLAW funding for the Edinburgh International Book Festival,
 with sponsored sessions featuring well known writers such as Ian Rankin, Maya Jassanoff and
 Jackie Kay (2014 to present); workshops and a panel at Edinburgh International Book Festival
 on creative writing (Shand: 2019), and Book Festival workshops on Conrad and Stevenson
 (Dryden: 2017 and 2018), a Mehew Exhibition (Dryden: 2017), and a Lit/Long exhibition
 (Thomson 2017). RLS Day is an ongoing project initiated by Dryden in collaboration with the
 Edinburgh UNESCO City of Literature Trust in 2011. This is an international project that has
 endorsement and engagement from such high-profile figures as writers Ian Rankin and Louise
 Welsh, composer Howard Blake, and actors Nigel Planer and John Sessions, among others. In
 2020 the event was wholly online and as a result it featured over 50 activities and engagement
 from 48 countries across the world.

 Our creative practitioners have given public readings and interviews, including Fraser’s poetry
 readings in India (2016-7) and Lam’s interviews in the British SciFiNow Magazine (2016) and
 Dutch book portal Hebban (2017). Lam has chaired and participated in numerous panels or
 conversations at book festivals nationally and abroad, and at major bookstores such as
 Waterstone’s and Blackwell’s. Lam and Bishop have helped programme and deliver Cymera,
 Scotland’s new Festival of Science Fiction, Fantasy & Horror Writing (2019-20). Soto-
 Morettini’s play for the Edinburgh Fringe, The Shakespeares: Scenes from a Marriage, was
 subsequently invited to London by the Director of the Historic Rose Theatre (2017), and her
 production of Sob Story for the Edinburgh Fringe was later performed at the Theatre Royal
 Dumfries and the Bradford Playhouse in Yorkshire (2019).

 Thomson’s activities, in collaboration with colleagues at the University of Edinburgh, on digital
 mapping and literary tourism in Edinburgh showcase our long-term, sustained partnership with
 the UNESCO City of Literature Trust. This partnership also includes Dryden’s collaboration with
 the Trust on Robert Louis Stevenson (Impact Case Study 1), sponsorship of the Poetry
 Periscope in 2017 and sponsorship in 2016 and 2017 of the European Literature Night. We
 strategically support this partnership with the Trust with the aim of building on it to maximise the
 social and economic impact of our activities going forward. Thomson’s work is informing the
 Trust’s plans for the physical and digital establishment of a Literature House and Literary
 Quarter in 2022, a project which will include new visibility for Scotland’s women writers in
 Edinburgh’s literary tourism sites. Thomson’s collaborative work engages the wider community
 through public consultations financed by the School’s public engagement fund (Spring 2020),
 demonstrating our involvement in cultural policy and our ambition to impact on the development
 of literary tourism.

 Similarly, Schwan’s long-standing work with the Scottish Prison Service has impacted prison
 education practice, gathering significant momentum during this REF period, leading to new
 collaborations, awards and recognition nationally and at the European level (Impact Case Study
 2). As co-founder and co-convenor of the Scottish Universities-Prisons (UP) Network in 2016,
 Schwan co-hosted its inaugural conference at the community venue Eric Liddell Centre in 2019,

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 which was attended by academics, people with convictions and prison education professionals.
 The event, co-hosted by Edinburgh Napier’s Paul Gray (UoA34), and the then Director of the
 Scottish Centre for Crime and Justice Research, Dr Sarah Armstrong (University of Glasgow), is
 an example of our staff’s approach to innovative collaboration across discipline, theory and
 practice, both within the University and externally. Collaboration in the context of prison
 education practice has also had an international dimension through Schwan’s visits to academic
 partners and penal institutions in the USA (2014-5).

 Interdisciplinary research and collaboration are expressly encouraged and supported by the
 School’s strategic plan, as well as the School’s multidisciplinary environment, which offers
 opportunities for networking across the disciplines, for instance at the annual School Research
 Conference. Our commitment to interdisciplinary working has allowed us to successfully engage
 wide audiences in new and creative ways. An interdisciplinary AHRC grant for impact and
 engagement with Aston University (Language & Translation Studies) involved Edinburgh Napier
 colleagues in Acting, Music and English (including Frayn, Co-I; Schwan, Co-I and Edinburgh
 Napier lead). This resulted in three sold-out public performances (2018) at venues in Edinburgh,
 Glasgow and Hawick (Scottish Borders), with coverage in several newspapers, the BBC website
 and BBC radio, to raise awareness of life and creativity in internment camps in Britain (see
 Impact Case Study 2).

 Another example of the unit’s investment in innovative cross-disciplinary enquiry is Bouet’s
 series of public engagement activities involving science fiction and debates about Scotland’s
 plans for a new Spaceport. Creative writer Lam contributed to this series as well, pairing with a
 scientist for cross-disciplinary conversation. Similarly, Campbell is co-founder of the Blue
 Humanities Network, with her related Royal Society of Edinburgh-funded project ‘World/Water
 Futures’ examining the role of arts and humanities perspectives in generating and supporting
 sustainable, resilient and just marine futures. As part of this project, Campbell co-hosted
 interdisciplinary workshops at St. Abbs Marine Station and the Scottish Fisheries Museum
 (Spring 2020).

 Alder’s work at the intersection of nineteenth-century gothic studies, literature and science has
 tackled similar questions of social and ecological relevance from a historical perspective and
 engaged public audiences through invited talks at the Anstruther Improvements Association’s
 ‘Anster Nichts’ (2015) and the Edinburgh Science Festival (2018).

 Alder and Artt’s ‘Age of Frankenstein’ project (2017-8) is a good example of our objective to
 critically engage audiences through a variety of different formats and collaborative partnerships.
 At a series of events, academic and non-academic audiences were invited to explore the
 legacies of Shelley’s novel, and the ethical questions it raises regarding creative and scientific
 creation. These events included three screenings at Edinburgh’s Cameo Cinema to view and
 discuss unusual filmic adaptations of the Frankenstein myth; an event with public talks and a
 performance on the original context for Frankenstein’s creation at the National Library of
 Scotland; a creative writing workshop and competition hosted in collaboration with the Surgeons’
 Hall Museum in Edinburgh where participants were invited to engage with items from the
 Museum’s collection and the history of medicine; and a conversation with celebrated playwright
 Nick Dear on his adaptation of Frankenstein for the National Theatre, also at Surgeons’ Hall
 Museum and chaired by Soto-Morettini.

 Other staff have collaborated with the National Library of Scotland, initiating and presenting at
 sold-out public events. Lyall organised and chaired an RSE funded event on Nan Shepherd
 (February 2020). Schwan was co-organiser of and speaker at an event considering the cultural
 legacies of the death penalty, with colleague Morrison (Criminology), further exemplifying our
 interdisciplinary approach to research and public engagement (January 2020). Alongside our
 established, embedded impact work with long-term partners, all these activities demonstrate the
 vitality of our research culture and the sustainability of our ability to contribute to the economy
 and society in the future.


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CLAW has also collaborated with and hosted international researchers, including Dr Alexandra
 Peat, an RSE Visiting Fellow from Switzerland working with Frayn (2017), and we hosted a
 visiting MA student (Silva) from Brazil funded by the Sao Paulo Research Foundation to work
 with Dryden on Stevenson (2017).

 CLAW members Dryden, Fraser, Lyall, Schwan and Simpson were invited and sponsored to
 participate in a workshop at the University of Stuttgart (2014). CLAW subsequently hosted a
 further international workshop at Merchiston in 2016. Participants included a number of CLAW
 staff as well as colleagues from across Europe: Professor Richard Ambrosini (Rome), Professor
 Laurence Davies (Glasgow), Dr Stephen Donovan (Uppsala), and Dr Saskia Schabio (Stuttgart).
 This workshop was funded by CLAW and resulted in submission of a major funding bid for
 Horizon2020 focused on transnationalism in literature and culture.

 CLAW has further hosted or co-hosted a wealth of research and public engagement events to
 facilitate scholarly networking and contribute to wider social debates, some of them in
 collaboration with colleagues from other institutions. Research conferences have included the
 interdisciplinary, international conference ‘Orange is the New Black and New Perspectives on
 the Women in Prison Genre’ (Artt/Schwan; 2015), with one speaker on special day-leave from
 prison and prison staff in attendance; the 42nd Annual Conference of the Joseph Conrad Society
 (UK) (Dryden; 2016); the Biennial International Conference on Robert Louis Stevenson ‘Robert
 Louis Stevenson: New Perspectives’ (Dryden; 2017); the Annual Symposium of the Scottish
 Network for Modernist Studies ‘We Moderns: Current Work in Modernist Studies’
 (Frayn/Lyall/Thomson; 2018); the interdisciplinary conference ‘Victorian and Neo-Victorian
 Narratives of Crime and Punishment’ (Schwan with PhD students Burke and Duncan; 2018);
 the two-day symposium on contemporary US television and the ‘literary’ ‘Lit TV 2018’, co-
 organised with a colleague from Durham University and co-sponsored by the US Embassy
 (Keeble; 2018); the interdisciplinary ‘Fates of Frankenstein’ conference (Alder/Artt; 2018); a
 symposium on ‘Children’s Literature and Science’ (Alder; 2019); a series of workshops and a
 symposium on neo-liberalism and American literature (Keeble; 2019). Dryden and Milne work
 closely with the RLS Club to deliver the RLS Creative Writing for Schools Competition, which
 offers a workshop at our Merchiston campus with author Louise Welsh for the best entrants into
 the competition.

 An international Conan Doyle seminar at Senate House, London (2019) featured high profile
 speakers including; Professor Roger Luckhurst (Birkbeck), Professor Stephen Arata (Virginia)
 and Professor Nick Daley (Dublin). A highly successful virtual conference on Conan Doyle,
 facilitated by the RSE funding for the new scholarly edition of the works of Conan Doyle took
 place in August 2020 ,with keynote speakers Owen Dudley Edwards (Edinburgh University) and
 Professor Nick Daley (Dublin University)(Alder/Dryden/Schwan). Aside from invaluable
 networking opportunities for colleagues at all career stages, including postgraduates, such
 events have enriched our research environment and resulted in invitations for scholarly
 publications, for example Artt and Schwan’s special issue on Orange is the New Black for
 Television & New Media.

 Wider Contributions to the Discipline and Research Base
 CLAW staff members actively participate in and take leadership roles in scholarly networks and
 societies. Lyall has been ex officio member and officer of the Council of the Association for
 Scottish Literary Studies for the entire census period; Frayn was Secretary of the Ford Madox
 Ford Society until 2019, and since 2019 has been on the Executive Steering Committee of the
 British Association for Modernist Studies. Keeble is Vice-Chair of the Contemporary Studies
 Network, and Alder is Membership Secretary of the British Society for Literature and Science
 (since 2018), and on the judging panel for the Society’s annual Book Prize (2019-20).

 Bishop serves as a member of the National Association of Writers in Education’s Higher
 Education Committee. Dryden and Schwan are official Associates of the cross-institutional
 Scottish Centre for Victorian and Neo-Victorian Studies (SCVS), and CLAW hosted one of
 SCVS’s inaugural events. Schwan was also a member of the organising committee and plenary

                                                                                         Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 chair for the annual conference of the British Association for Victorian Studies (BAVS), hosted by
 SCVS and the University of Dundee (2019).

 CLAW routinely sponsors external events like the Edinburgh International Book Festival, and
 was a sponsor for the Bedtime Stories exhibition at the Museum of Childhood (2016). REG
 funds from CLAW are made available for all projects, such as Frankenstein, The War Poets, The
 Prisons project, RLS Day, and Lit/Long, where it is clear that impact will be maximised. Staff
 working on RLS in CLAW are collaborating with the Colinton Railway project in the local village
 of Colinton to publicise their artistic graffiti in the old village railway tunnel. The artwork is done
 by local artists and school children based around Stevenson’s poem, ‘From a Railway Carriage’.

 We contribute through journal editorship and peer reviewing. CLAW staff are General Editors of
 Gothic Studies (Alder), The Journal of Stevenson Studies (Dryden) and Scottish Literary
 Review (Lyall), and guest editors for a number of journals. Neill is a series editor for the
 Palgrave Lacan Series. We have peer reviewed for numerous presses and journals, including:
 Manchester University Press, Liverpool University Press, Edinburgh University Press,
 Routledge, Palgrave, Bloomsbury, Studies in the Novel, Genre, European Journal of American
 Studies, English, Studies in Gothic Fiction, Irish Gothic Journal, First World War Studies, Journal
 of War and Culture Studies, Journal of British Studies, Journal of Gender Studies, Feminist
 Media Studies, Modernism/modernity, Comparative Literature, Modern Language Review and
 International Journal of Law, Crime and Justice. We also peer-review for national and
 international funding bodies: AHRC Academic and Knowledge Exchange Peer Review Colleges
 (Schwan, 2017-20); Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland (Lyall since 2019; Schwan
 since 2014); Israel Science Foundation (Schwan, 2019-20).

 Dryden is on the Editorial Board for Victorian Popular Fictions and its series of publications.
 Dryden is also a key member of the Editorial Board for a publication to mark the 100th
 anniversary of the RLS Club. The volume includes contributions from Ian Rankin, Michael
 Morpurgo, Nicola Sturgeon, Nigel Planer and Paul McCartney, as well as Dryden’s own
 contribution.

 Staff have held visiting research fellowships and have been invited to give research talks
 nationally and internationally. For example, Dryden had Visiting Professorships at St. Tikhon’s
 University, Moscow (2017) and the University of Bordeaux Montaigne (2019); Schwan was
 Visiting Research Fellow at the Institute for Advanced Studies in the Humanities (IASH) at the
 University of Edinburgh (2017). Lyall was invited keynote speaker at the University of Jena,
 Germany (2016). Schwan gave invited research talks at Nazareth College and Rochester
 Institute of Technology in the USA (2015), and Thomson at the University of Victoria, Canada
 (2019). Artt gave invited talks at the University of Split, Croatia (2014), the University of
 Amsterdam (2019) and the Royal Society’s AI Narratives workshop (2018).

 Dryden and Schwan are Fellows of the Royal Society of Arts (RSA), and two colleagues were
 selected as Members of the prestigious Royal Society of Edinburgh’s Young Academy of
 Scotland (Schwan until 2019; Alder since 2016) and in that capacity have participated in the
 Young Academy’s interdisciplinary community to address pressing social issues of national and
 international importance.

 Schwan co-organized ‘Arts and Humanities at the Parliament’ (2014) to showcase arts and
 humanities’ contribution to society at an event attended by researchers, practitioners and
 politicians. She was member of the Royal Society of Edinburgh’s Working Group to prepare a
 response to the British Academy’s call for evidence on skills in arts, humanities and social
 sciences (2017), thus contributing to debates about our and other humanities disciplines’
 sustainability.

 Further indicators of influence and recognition include prizes and nominations. Shand’s novel
 Fallow won the Society of Authors’ Betty Trask Prize (2017), awarded to authors under thirty-five


                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for a first novel of ‘outstanding literary merit’. It was also shortlisted for the Saltire Award for Best
 First Novel (2017), and his Crocodile was shortlisted for the Encore Award for Best Second
 Novel (2019).

 Neill works at the intersection between psychoanalysis and culture. He has written articles on
 poets such as Paul Celan, and more generally on the function of poetry as expression. He has
 published a complete guide to the reading of Lacan’s Écrits, as well as articles on, or utilising
 psychoanalysis. Neill also works on psychoanalysis and film, notably Bladerunner 2049.

 Lam’s Pantomime won the 2014 Bisexual Book Award for Speculative Fiction. Thomson was
 part of a team that was Research Category Award runner up for the ‘Palimpsest: Literary
 Edinburgh’ project at the British Library Lab Awards (2015). Schwan’s collaboration with the
 Scottish Prison Service and Fife College won the Herald Higher Education Partnership Award
 (2016).

 We contribute to co-operation and collaborative arrangements for PGR training: Schwan is the
 Edinburgh Napier representative on the Scottish Graduate School for Arts and Humanities
 (SGSAH) Executive Committee and Lyall is a member of the SGSAH Discipline+ Catalyst for
 Literature. Both are thus formally involved in shaping PGR training at the world’s first national
 graduate school in the Arts and Humanities in collaboration with colleagues across Scotland.




                                                                                                  Page 14
