Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Glasgow
 Unit of Assessment: 14, Human Geography
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context and structure

We open by repeating words from our REF2014 submission about “our vision [being] constantly to
surprise the wider (inter)disciplinary community with what our relatively small research cluster can
accomplish at the cutting-edge of contemporary human geography.” These sentiments continue
perfectly to capture what Human Geography at the University of Glasgow (UofG) is all about and
what we wish to contribute. The graph below outlines the unit’s growing research environment from
REF2014 to REF2021.


                          Growth 2014-2021 (in %, with 2014 = 100%)

                            Income/fte                            137
                                                          100

                          Grant Income                                  170
                                                          100

                              PhDs/fte                                          225
                                                          100

                         PhDs Awarded                                                  276
                                                          100

              Headcount Submitted Staff                         123
                                                          100

                                          0   50        100      150      200    250    300

                                              REF2021     REF2014


This submission is one component of a two-part REF return from the School of Geographical and
Earth Sciences (GES), UofG. GES’s research interests straddle UoAs7 and 14. Continuing our
approach in RAE2008 and REF2014, we return our Earth Systems Research Group (ESRG) to UoA7
and our Human Geography Research Group (HGRG) to UoA14. The School is institutionally located
within the College of Science and Engineering (CoSE), but HGRG also possesses interdisciplinary
links with staff/initiatives in the three other UofG Colleges: Arts (CoA); Social Sciences (CoSS); and
Medical, Veterinary and Life Sciences (MVLS).

HGRG undertakes high-quality research, scholarship and publication at the intersections of political,
cultural, health, historical and environmental geographies, with interdisciplinary dimensions,
consistently working between the challenges of advanced theory, the rigours of deep-empirical
encounter and the possibilities for engagement beyond the academy. In particular, we make leading
contributions to geographical work on mental ill-health, cultural practices, political solidarities,
feminist materialisms and more-than-human ontologies. Equality and diversity (E&D) principles and
support for early career staff set the compass for our internal staffing/structures and for what and
how we research, write, teach and outreach.

Research focuses around three intersecting themes (Ts), strategically reworked from REF2014. All
HGRG researchers engage with at least one theme and each involves different combinations of
researchers. Researchers in bold below are the 16 Category A staff reported in REF1; those in italics
are individuals leaving HGRG during the REF assessment period; and those in plain are colleagues
external to HGRG or joining after the REF2021 Census date.

  T1 Spatial politics and practices (SPP): T1 examines space-politics relations and explores the
  practices, processes and contestations shaping them, past and present, in both Global North and
  South. Pioneering contributions by Featherstone, conceptualising ‘spatial politics’, are

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  complemented by work on: labour struggles, racialised internationalisms and subaltern solidarities
  (Featherstone, Kelliher, Sharp); public spaces and ‘the post-political’ (Karaliotas); public
  architecture, ruination and rehabilitation (Arboleda, Olden); migrant and other communities
  pressed by austerity/Brexit (Botterill); ‘the right to the city’ for missing people (Parr); ‘post-
  secularisation’, ‘acid communism’ and new urban activisms (Sutherland); and the ‘quiet politics’
  of ‘being-together’ and ‘emotional citizenry’ (Askins). Further contributions arise as spatial politics
  meets geopolitics, where the more-than-human geographies of earth, bodies and machines
  become centralised: notably in landmark statements about feminist-materialist geopolitics (Dixon)
  and the ‘dronification’ of surveillance and governance (Shaw), linked to claims about the
  progressive ‘enclosures’ of atmospheric and marine ‘commons’ (Cardwell, Shaw). T1 is informed
  by post/decolonial theory, subaltern studies and ‘New Left’ social history (Featherstone,
  Kelliher), Rancière’s radical political theory (Karaliotas), ‘Frankfurt’ critical theory (Philo),
  poststructural feminism (Dixon), poststructural-speculative realism (Shaw), and more.

  T2 Creative geohumanities (CG): T2 examines how worlds, from the personal to the planetary,
  are imagined and represented, fashioning new forms of geographical knowledge through creative
  practice. Inspired by Dixon on arts-science collaborations and Lorimer’s narration of place and
  essaying of science, nature-writing and domesticity (also Naylor), T2 initiates diverse
  geohumanistic interventions. Methodologies employed include site-specific studies, creative
  storying, audio-drifts, film-making, visual arts, object-handling and digital technologies. New
  appointment Callard, previously Director of ‘Hubbub’ at the Wellcome Collection, leads innovative
  re-presentations and exhibitions of interdisciplinary inquiries between neurosciences, social
  sciences and humanities into ‘wandering minds’ and ‘resting states’; McGeachan offers careful
  inspection of Art Extraordinary produced by mentally unwell occupants of asylums/mental
  hospitals/secure units, linking into creative workshops with vulnerable people in the present; Parr
  ‘stories’ how returned missing people have deployed space as cover and resource, alongside
  sensitively recovering the emotional ‘grief’ felt by families of still-missing people; and Arboleda
  and Olden rework the aesthetics of ruination, providing creative interventions that reconvene the
  affective sensibilities of redundant places. Archival inquiry discloses how instruments and
  technologies become embodied within ‘weather worlds’ at sea, up hills, in gardens and across
  imperial networks (Naylor), while interview and participative inquiry discloses fluid topographies
  of ‘the fisherly imagination’ (Cardwell).

  T3 Stressed environments and communities (SEC): T3 examines how environments and
  communities become stressed. ‘Stress’ – a concept central to HGRG interests in mental ill-health
  (Callard, McGeachan, Parr, Philo) – is often discussed in connection with human and ecosystem
  health, referring to mental or physical pressure upon person or environment. It informs our work
  across human and more-than-human communities, encompassing diverse geochemical,
  biological, economic, cultural and emotional effects on communities and their home-places. It
  arises from climate/environmental change, but also from unemployment, austerity, new right
  populisms and other trajectories of demographic, political, economic and technological
  restructuring (Botterill, Callard, Featherstone, Karaliotas, Sharp, Shaw, Sutherland). T3 asks
  about ‘violent conditions’ leading stress to be disproportionality materialised, experienced and
  resisted across multiple life-worlds, such that certain lives in certain times/places become
  demeaned, diminished and devalued (Laurie, Shaw), often with dire consequences for ‘marginal’
  human groupings (Botterill, Parr, Philo). T3 is concerned not only with contemporary threats
  posed to skies and seas (Cardwell, Shaw), infrastructures and architectures (Arboleda,
  Karaliotas), but also with how a distinctively geographical approach to studying such stresses
  can help in fostering new spaces, impacts and modes of being-in-common (Askins, Sutherland)
  that are less stressed, less fractured, more caring.

Governance: HGRG has a democratic organisational structure, with all members able to influence
strategy and practice, although regular ‘business meetings’ are held by the core staff (R&T) and
independent postdoctoral researchers (PDRs) to discuss – and decide upon – high-level issues
regarding research strategy, group finances and relations with other bodies (in GES, CoSE, UofG
and beyond). HGRG’s Convener (currently Naylor) oversees governance of the group and formally
represents HGRG at GES Research Planning and Strategy Committee (RPSC), itself chaired for

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
much of the assessment period by Lorimer. The business of the RPSC addresses overall research
strategy, ‘blue skies’ thinking and routine business (e.g. allocation/monitoring of research leave,
‘seed-corn’ funding, etc.). REF preparation is the responsibility of HGRG REF Research and Impact
Champions (Philo, Parr), with substantial input from other HGRG members. Annual Performance
and Development Reviews (P&DRs) with core staff and PDRs are conducted by the Head of School
(HoS) or his/her delegates, addressing achievements against strategic aims in research performance
(including ‘targets’ from GES/CoSE/UofG strategic plans).

Culture: We foster an inclusive ethos encouraging collaborations between varying cohorts of staff,
leading to shared paper-writing, grant applications, co-supervision, conference organisation and
running of workshops/exhibitions. Intellectual and strategic engagement between all HGRG
members (professors to postgraduates) occurs in fortnightly meetings during semesters, called
TESTING GROUNDS, which include: multi-media introductions to current research by HGRG and
external scholars; round-table discussions of writing plans and grant proposals; sessions on how to
recycle and rethink ‘failures’; workshops based on ‘data’ from ongoing studies; and presentations by
PhD (PGR [research postgraduate]) and MRes (PGT [taught postgraduate]) students. Matters of
research integrity, including ethical research procedure and practice, referencing UofG/funder
protocols, are foregrounded. E&D principles embedded in our reflexive, evolving research culture
have guided the establishment of a new interdisciplinary reading group for indigenous philosophy.

Research strategy

Delivering research strategy, past to present: Our REF2014 headline aim was to be “demonstrating
(inter)disciplinary leadership across all themes, through publication, research activities, sustained
theoretical development, [and] innovating methodologically and presentationally,” thereby securing
the vitality of HGRG’s intellectual, scholarly and ‘applied’ accomplishments. This aim has been
achieved, evidenced in the thematic account of our work given above and elaborated further,
explaining our substantial ‘contribution to the research base’, in Section 4.

One subsidiary aim was to continue a process began in RAE2008 of facilitating collaborations
between different pairs/groupings of HGRG members, notably senior/mid-career staff with early-
career staff thereby enhancing group cohesion, capacity-building and, overall, securing the longer-
term sustainability of HGRG. Again, this aim has been achieved, with collaborations ongoing –
leading to publications, grant activity and impact initiatives – between Featherstone and Karaliotas
(spatial politics of austerity), Featherstone and Kelliher (solidarities between unions, social
movements and the Labour Left), Lorimer and Olden (the arts in healthy place-marking), Parr, Philo
(and now Callard) and McGeachan (rethinking/representing mental ill-health geographies), Sharp
and Laurie (on Global South healthcare), and Shaw and Laurie (on geographies of violence).
Botterill and Cardwell, with advice from senior colleagues, secured ESRC-SGSSS funding for a
collaborative PhD on geographies of fisheries and migrant labour.

A second subsidiary aim was to author more monographs, also achieved, and we are returning four
in REF2: two substantial single-authored monographs on feminist-materialist geopolitics (Dixon) and
the ‘dronification’ of aerial governance-surveillance (Shaw); one experimental investigation of
interdisciplinarity between arts, neurosciences and social sciences (Callard); and one co-authored
inquiry into the multiple geographies of ‘post-secularisation’ (Sutherland). Three books designed for
readerships beyond the academy have also been produced: see below under ‘open access’.

An internal UofG post-REF2014 review generated further strategic aims. We decided to reorganise
our research themes, given changes in staffing, UofG research ‘Beacons’ and wider research funding
scenarios. All HGRG staff participated in this reorientation, reducing our themes from four to three.
We reformulated our previous theme ‘Subaltern Globalisations’ into a tighter focus on spatial politics
(T1), and our previous theme ‘Knowing, Creativity and Experiment’ into a deepened encounter
between human geography and the humanities (T2). Our previous themes ‘Vital Geographies’ and
‘Stressed Environments and Communities’ were combined, keeping the latter nomenclature (T3).
The theme of stress was initially suggested in our REF2008 submission and reflects long-standing
mental ill-health geographies research by McGeachan, Parr, Philo (and now Callard) and

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
PDR/PGR/PGT researchers (http://asylumspaces.wordpress.com). ‘Less-than-human geographies’,
a widely-cited idea from Philo, becomes a frame here for thinking how climate change, neoliberalism
and other pressures circumscribe the places for the living of flourishing, dignified human lives.

Our staffing strategy since REF2014 has centred on staff and PDR appointments fitting with the new
themes through their own research foci, publications and grant activity, as elaborated in Section 2.
Notably, we have foregrounded SEC for appointments (e.g. Callard, Cardwell), alongside
developing it as a ‘bridge’ to ESRG for forging new shared initiatives (e.g. Dixon working with a
remote sensor in Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) projects; Dixon, Naylor and Parr co-
supervising PGRs with ESRG members). Subsidiary aims from our post-REF2014 review called for
growing PGR recruitment and research income generation, and our progress on these counts is
detailed in Sections 2 and 3.

Future research strategy: Our headline research aim remains the same as stated above from
REF2014, “demonstrating (inter)disciplinary leadership across all … themes.” More practically, we
will continue ensuring that this aim – informed by E&D principles (Section 2) – allies with future
appointments. The SEC emphasis will continue in much of our strategising: we are seeking to put
this theme on the wider map of CoSE/UofG, including proposals for coordinating new interdisciplinary
agendas, and – with GES Director of Research and Professor of Earth Sciences, Toney – we are
placing a concern for Anthropocenic stress, including the psychological dimensions of climate
change, at the heart of how UofG will in future respond to ‘climate emergency’ (Section 4). We will
explore possibilities for new and alternative forms of computational human geography with Basiri,
very recent ESRG professorial appointment and UKRI ‘Future Leader’ in geospatial analysis.

Impact strategy

Delivering impact strategy, past to present: Impact – our ‘worldly work’; our academic work in the world
– has long been central to our research ethos. In RAE2008 we spoke of “moving readily from the
conceptual to the substantive to the engaged,” adding that “HGRG is committed to engaging with
end-user communities, broadly conceived.” This ethos was elaborated in our REF2014 submission,
where we explained how, “for us, impact is not something separate from core research, but rather
we endeavour, from the outset …, to undertake studies of relevance and importance to the
communities with and on whose behalf we work.” We devise research so that collaborating partners
and participating subjects – with whom we conceive research questions/methods and who then
explicitly participate in our inquiries – are also configured as non-academic beneficiaries (users) of
outcomes from this research. We treat these partners/subjects/users as co-producers of ‘useful’
knowledge, and we respect and, where possible, enhance their capacity to use our research
creatively, critically and tactically for their own purposes.

We foster enduring relationships with key partners/subjects/users, usually through becoming
immersed within the situations under study, striving to build trust with the actors involved. We
exemplify this approach through our two impact case studies (ICSs) (McGeachan and Parr), both of
which depend upon building trust simultaneously with policy and practice communities (Scottish
government, Police Training College, national Missing Persons charity, Glasgow Life/Museums, local
health/care groups) and ground-level peoples, places and life-worlds (mental healthcare
professionals, police officers, prison service staff, museum/exhibition curators, returned missing
people, families of missing people, people with enduring mental health problems, people in long-term
detention).

Immediately post-REF2014, we formalised our HGRG impact governance, creating an HGRG Impact
Committee (IC), convened by Parr, with a 5-year Impact Action Plan ensuring that HGRG supports
world-leading, research-led impact and knowledge-exchange, permeating all research activities,
events, communications and business meetings. We consciously build on the work of generations of
HGRG academics, producing a ‘geography that matters’ in our ‘worldly work’. All staff contribute to
an overall matrix of impactful endeavour beyond our ICSs (Section 4). We have strengthened HGRG
understanding of the wider (UKRI, REF) impact agenda: IC members meet all staff biannually to
discuss individual impact activity, with follow-up planning where appropriate; while a targeted

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
programme of HGRG events has distributed learning resources and discussed definitions of research
impact, knowledge exchange and public engagement. A ‘peer learning’ conference in December
2016 shared progress/evidence of research impact from staff at different stages along impact
‘pipelines’ from conception to enactment, illustrating impact with a variety of non-academic
constituencies. We have also collaborated in a ‘whole School approach’ through a GES ‘Research
Impact’ event in January 2018 planning how to maximise research impact for REF2021 and visioning
longer-term impact development strategies.

We hold internal debates about balancing our HGRG tradition of engaged, often critical ‘worldly work’
with the need for evidenced impact required by sector audits. Such debate shapes our distinctive
biennial How Critical is Research Impact? national conference for postgraduates (PGR/PGT) and
PDRs, with external speakers complementing inputs from HGRG staff and postgraduates. We have
run three such ‘training conferences’ – with support from the Scottish Graduate School of Social
Sciences (SGSSS) – in December 2015, 2017 and 2019, each time for 30-50 participants from across
the UK, ensuring that HGRG performs a distinctive training-translational role within the orbit of UK
Geography impact activity.

Future impact strategy: Our impact aim going forward will continue the formalisation of impact
governance post-REF2021, while ensuring that spontaneous opportunities arising to be impactful are
not neglected. We will emphasise meaningful co-production, collaborating flexibly with diverse
partners across government, voluntary and arts sectors, local communities and campaigning, activist
and grassroots organisations. We will engage new generations of impactful researchers from
undergraduates to PGR/PGT students to PDRs, using our biennial conferences but also with other
planned initiatives, always treating impact as much more than just an audit flag. We will lobby at
CoSE/UofG levels for strategic investment in ‘nimble’ mechanisms such as teaching relief to realise
fast-moving research-impact opportunities. We will provide effective leadership throughout
CoSE/UofG to ensure that multiple forms of evidenced impact are understood and strategically
supported.

A specific strategy has entailed enrolling regional NGOs to amplify HGRG-NGO research
partnerships across academic-community boundaries. In late-2017 an invitation from the HGRG IC
to Glasgow’s Social Enterprise Network (linking c.40 NGOs) to discuss sharing PGR-led research
resulted in ten organisational responses, three being substantially explored and one securing an
ESRC Collaborative PhD award in September 2019. This is a good practice model for the building of
co-production opportunities for and with the city of Glasgow. A new MSc (‘Earth Futures’),
commencing September 2020, includes internships with local organisations beyond the academy,
suggesting a complementary route for HGRG/GES impact networking.

Interdisciplinarity

HGRG is inherently and strategically interdisciplinary. All staff are involved in collaborative activity
with scholars across a diversity of cognate academic fields, institutionally, nationally and
internationally. Interdisciplinary working with colleagues in ESRG and elsewhere in UofG is ‘second
nature’, fuelled by both our critical-scholarly values and planned engagement with UofG initiatives
(such as the Kelvin-Smith PGR scheme, requiring co-supervision across Schools/Colleges). Recent
strategic appointment Callard is an acknowledged theorist-practitioner of interdisciplinarity, and her
inquiries into the potentials, pitfalls and tactics of interdisciplinarity working will become integral to
HGRG’s future planning.

Examples of our interdisciplinarity pervade Sections 3 and 4 (especially references to contributions
by Dixon and Laurie) and are reflected in: Callard as Interdisciplinary Advisor on REF2021 Main
Panel C; published outputs spanning disciplinary fields (30+% outputs listed in REF2 are from non-
Geography journals/collections); leading interdisciplinary groups, events and symposia (e.g. Parr:
cross-UofG ‘Climate Change and Mental Health’ group; Naylor: SAGES-funded ‘Survey Sciences’
event, 2017; Featherstone and Karaliotas: ‘After Neoliberalism’ event, 2015); invitations/requests
to lead/participate in interdisciplinary research initiatives/networks (e.g. Philo invited to lead
interdisciplinary workshop for the Royal Society of Edinburgh/Taiwanese Ministry of Science and

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Technology on ‘Global Challenges’, 2019); and PGR co-supervision with staff across all four UofG
colleges.

Opening our research environment

We are committed to creating ‘open, accessible geographies’, a key dimension of T2. We make pre-
publication versions of our academic publications publicly accessible through the UofG Library
Enlighten repository, wherein HGRG has a 95+% compliance rate for depositing ‘in scope’ outputs.

We also reach beyond official requirements and make available research materials through easy-to-
access book and/or online mediums: including Askins’s anti-nuclear war ‘spatial fiction’ or ‘miniature
chapbook’ A Nuclear Refrain (https://punctumbooks.com/titles/a-nuclear-refrain-emotion-empire-
and-the-democratic-potential-of-protest/); Featherstone and Kelliher’s edited compendium of
miners’ recollections in London and the 1984-5 Miners’ Strike (https://drive.google.com/file/d/1tYvx
2hgKMeSkiPeYV-psOXmFR4fHc5QOc/view); Parr, Stevenson et al’s ‘stories’ in Geographies of
Missing People (https://geographiesof-missingpeople.org.uk/); Philo and Högström’s ‘living archive’
at GART-PSYSPAC: Psychiatry in Transition (https://gart-psyspac.eu/); and Shaw and Waterstone’s
Wageless Life: A Manifesto for a Future Beyond (https://www.upress.umn.edu/bookdivision/books
/wageless-life [cheap e-book]).

 2. People

Staffing strategy and staff development

[Text below reflects ‘people’ returned on Census date, 2020. Cardwell and Shaw have since
departed: replacements are being recruited, alongside a fixed-term lecturer to cover Kelliher during
his BA Fellowship.]

Core staff: HGRG has a small but dynamic core of 13 R&T staff (Botterill, Callard, Cardwell, Dixon,
Featherstone, Karaliotas, Kelliher, Laurie, McGeachan, Naylor, Parr, Philo, Shaw) alongside 3
PDRs returned as Category A (Arboleda, Olden, Sutherland), reflecting growth since REF2014,
when the corresponding figures were 11 and 2. Supplemented by postgraduates and a mix of retired
staff, honorary fellows and visiting scholars, HGRG has consistently enjoyed a total membership of
c.30-40 people, creating a critical mass not immediately apparent from the size of our REF
submission. Since REF2014 there has been staff turn-over: early in the assessment period, Karaman
left for a senior research position, while more recently Lorimer and Sharp left for Chair positions
elsewhere, and Askins, employed as fixed-term, externally-funded Senior Researcher 2014-2019,
has left academia to pursue participatory practices. These departures, reflecting positive professional
and personal choices, opened new opportunities to reframe/rebalance HGRG with a strategic eye to
both research themes and E&D agendas.

The gender balance has improved since REF2014 with the appointments or re-gradings of Botterill,
Callard, Cardwell, Laurie and McGeachan, meaning that now more than half of our R&T staff are
women (7/13 [53.8%]; cf. equivalent figure 39.3% across UK Geography) as are three-quarters of
our professors (3/4; cf. 20.7% across all SET subjects: comparative statistics from Advance HE:
Equality and Higher Education, Staff Statistical Report 2018). Parr was promoted to Chair in 2015,
having been part-time following maternity leave 2009-2014. HGRG staff ethnic composition remains
exclusively ‘white European’, an issue that we acknowledge and will address strategically going
forward (see below).

To strengthen our sustainability, after REF2014 we set the strategic aim of increasing our R&T staff
headcount by two, achieved in 2018 through Lecturer-level appointments of Botterill (augmenting
T1 and T3 capacities) and Cardwell (T1, T2, T3). Previously, the departure of Karaman allowed the
Lecturer-level appointment of Karaliotas (T1, T3), while the departures of Lorimer and Sharp led in
2020 to Chair appointment of Callard (T2, T3) and Lecturer appointment (initially held concurrently
with BA Fellowship) of Kelliher (T1, T3). On balance, we will have reached our target of 13 R&T staff
(+2 from REF2014). That CoSE has sanctioned both ‘new’ and ‘replacement’ appointments signals

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
internal recognition of, and trust in, HGRG accomplishment and strategic direction. The
demographics of HGRG R&T staff are sustainable, with only Philo retiring before REF2028.
Arboleda, Cardwell, Laurie, Kelliher, Olden and Sutherland are all ECRs (on REF2021 criteria).

Staff career progression is evidenced by promotions of Parr to Chair, Featherstone to Reader and
Shaw to Senior Lecturer, while both Laurie and McGeachan – reflecting their research trajectories
and actively encouraged (and lobbied for) by HGRG – have translated from Teaching-only to
Research-and-Teaching (R&T) Lectureships. McGeachan held a temporary R&T contract for
REF2014, a status then made ‘permanent’ as a further acknowledgement from CoSE of the vitality
of HGRG. That Laurie and McGeachan have progressed from undergraduate to Lectureship status
at UofG demonstrates the enabling ethos of HGRG/GES, for which we were explicitly recognised in
our Athena SWAN Silver Award (see below).

Postdoctoral staff: We are committed to strong mentorship for PDRs who energise HGRG activity and
subsequently comprise the human resources of the wider discipline/academia. PDRs funded from
external sources have long been central to HGRG, with Olden holding an AHRC Collaborative
Fellowship (2019-2022) and Boyle just appointed to an SGSSS-ESRC Postdoctoral Fellowship
(2020-2021). Two other ex-PDRs have successfully translated into lecturing posts: Davis (Sociology,
UofG); Last (Geography, Leicester).

HGRG has benefitted from a close relationship with the Urban Studies Foundation (USF) and its
mission to promote high-quality urban research at UofG and globally. A 5-year USF investment plan
in HGRG was agreed in Winter 2012, prior to and independent of Philo becoming USF Chair
(Section 4), releasing c.£1.0M for (competitive) appointments of both Askins (2014-2019) to Senior
Researcher and ECRs to PDR positions. Since REF2014 we have hosted 6 exceptional USF PDRs
pursuing independent research agendas, collaborating with and mentored by HGRG staff:
Sutherland (2020-2023) has just commenced; Arboleda (2018-2021) is ongoing; Kelliher (2017-
2020) migrated on to a 3-year BA Fellowship with us from 2020 (as well as being appointed to a
Lectureship); Karaliotas (2014-2016) took another Fellowship elsewhere before returning to us as
Lecturer in 2017; McLean (2014-2017) migrated on to a 2-year ESRC ‘New Investigator’ Fellowship
with us (2017-2019); and Lang (2015-2017) took a Lectureship in North America.

Shaw was a USF PDR with us before becoming an ESRC ‘Future Leader’ Fellow, securing a
Lectureship (now Senior Lectureship) with us just before REF2014: his is a further example of
successful, strategically-managed career progression within HGRG/GES. The trajectories of both
Karaliotas and Kelliher from USF Fellow to Lecturer (Karaliotas with a break elsewhere; Kelliher
now in tandem with his BA Fellowship) offer similar evidence of strategically enabling career
progression for high-quality ECRs aligned with thematic priorities.

Staff development: Mechanisms for staff development are substantial at UofG. Standard mechanisms
include: Annual P&DR, combining continuous reporting, monitoring and recalibrating of SMART
objectives with in-depth discussion of ambitions and concerns; and the deployment of research leave,
conference and equipment support, ‘seed-corn’ research priming and facilitation of impact work
(decided by GES RPSC). UofG offers numerous events, workshops and training badged ‘Researcher
Development’ (http://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/research/development), with annual Research
Conferences and the ‘Glasgow Crucible’. Within GES, annual Away Days/Mornings conjoin research
visioning with wider staff development content, while events relevant to career development, with a
specific but not exclusive E&D emphasis, are run under the auspices of E@D (see below).

P&DR includes an explicit advice-and-guidance role, which is of particular value for ECRs (as defined
by REF2021), who also have a dedicated Mentor allocated in consultation with the HoS: a senior
academic staff member familiar with the individual’s academic interests, networks and likely career
paths. ECRs have a probationary period, within which realistic targets are set and progress towards
them managed, and they may be enrolled on the UofG ‘Early Career Development Programme’
(https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/humanresources/all/pay/ecdp/), including training in matters such
as impact and research integrity. New lecturing staff, on reduced teaching loads, take a Postgraduate
Certificate in Academic Practice, while related (voluntary) UofG provisions include ECR networks,

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
conferences, and lunches. CoSE runs UKRI grant-writing workshops, while within GES ECRs have
a general induction by the HoS, followed by meetings with the GES Director of Research and the
relevant Research Group Convener, before scheduling Mentor meetings. HGRG takes seriously its
responsibilities to ECR development, with co-supervision of PGRs, deliberately pairing ECRs with
senior staff, being one vehicle for on-the-job induction into advanced academic engagement. HGRG
TESTING GROUND meetings include presentations and workshops about building research
capacity, relevant to all members but particularly ECRs, variously covering: ‘Internationalising
Research’, ‘Recycling Unsuccessful Grant Applications’, ‘Writing High-Quality 4* Publications’, and
‘Journal Editors meet Article Authors’.

As part of induction and ongoing mentoring, ECRs are encouraged to consider funding schemes for
research networking (e.g. Scottish Crucible), pump-priming new research activity (e.g. Carnegie
Trust; UofG KEF/GCRF [see below]), research internationalisation (e.g. UofG International
Postdoctoral Fellowship [IPDF]; Newton Fund Mobility Grants), and other fellowships/grants with an
ECR ‘Highlight’ notice. Building on an existing track-record of smaller award successes, past HGRG
ECRs McLean and Shaw secured ESRC Fellowships awards and current ECR Kelliher a BA
Fellowship award (see above).

Postgraduates

PGR: Through a proactive strategy of seeking PGR funding, closely ‘reading’ shifts in the
AHRC/ESRC PGR funding landscape and engaging fully with internal UofG schemes, HGRG has
greatly expanded the scale of its PG activity. Over the current assessment period we have graduated
47 PhD students (2 registered part-time), with a further 30 PhD students ongoing. For REF2014 we
reported 17 PhD students graduated, meaning an increase between REF periods of 176%
(headcount) and c.125% (per submitted staff member), the latter despite an increase in submitted
staff (13 to 16). Due to a deliberate strategy of seeking interdisciplinary co-supervision, resulting in
nearly half our PGR FTE being shared with non-HGRG units, our FTE figures are rather lower than
our headcount figures.

Funding sources for our PGRs (over the period and new starts) include 32 ESRC/SGSSS
studentships (including 1 ESRC CASE and 1 ESRC/Scottish Governmental award), 11 AHRC
(including 7 AHRC Collaborative awards [CDAs]), 1 MRC, 2 Leverhulme, 6 USF PGR awards
(another element of USF investment in HGRG: see above), 7 UofG interdisciplinary Kelvin-Smith
PGR awards, 7 College (CoSE) awards, 1 consortium award (SEEDZ: Section 3), 1 Commonwealth
and 3 international government awards. Of the 77 PGRs completed or ongoing, 54 identify as women
and 23 as men, a gender imbalance towards women of which we are aware (addressed in our Athena
SWAN Action Plan: see below).

We played a leading role in the Human Geography Subject Pathway of the post-2010 Scottish
Doctoral Training Centre (DTC) in the Social Sciences, coordinated through the Scottish Graduate
School for Social Sciences (SGSSS), continuing to do so in the enlarged Human Geography, Urban
Studies and Environmental Studies Pathway of the DTC-SGSSS as restructured after ESRC Review
(2015-2016). Dixon was Convenor of this Pathway (2016-2019) and organised the annual
‘Kindrogan’ residential training workshop for senior human geography PGRs; while Philo (2010-
2016) ran the annual UofG-based ‘Getting Started’ event for all Scotland’s new-start PGR human
geographers.

PGT: We run a successful (ESRC-/AHRC-approved/recognised) MRes in Human Geography,
including independent dissertation research. Since inaugurating the MRes in 2002, we have
graduated 140 MRes students (65 during the current assessment period), of which 67 (21 this period)
have progressed into funded PhDs, reflecting the maturation of a strategy outlined in RAE2008 for
creating a high-quality ‘feeder’ stream to PhD programmes at UofG and elsewhere. Substantial GES
investment in part-fees-paid MRes studentships has been more than recouped through PGR fee-
income from MRes students for whom we have successfully secured external PhD funding to stay
with us.


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
All postgraduate students, PGR and PGT, are members of HGRG, their regular attendance at
meetings expected as part of research training. All PGRs have at least two supervisors and present
annually to HGRG as a component of formal monitoring procedures. We have an impressive track
record of PGRs (and even PGTs) presenting and organising sessions at major conferences; our
PGRs have authored/co-authored 50+ articles/chapters while or soon after completing their PhDs;
while others have held office in RGS-IBG Research Groups or run UofG reading groups. PGRs attend
training days and residential workshops through the Subject Pathway/SGSSS, becoming networked
into pan-Scotland PGR cohorts. They are formally members of the GES Graduate School (convened
by Dixon) and they receive training in teamwork, presentation, poster design, publications and career
development through the CoSE Graduate School (and access specialist training provided by other
UofG colleges). Formal annual monitoring of performance for progression purposes is coordinated
at HGRG/GES level and overseen by the CoSE Graduate School, which additionally administers
admissions, financials, examinations, leaves of absence and extensions.

Equality and diversity

HGRG has been proactive in promoting E&D in its own ranks – see commentary above on staff
gender-ratios – and on a wider GES/CoSE/UofG stage. Our research and teaching is fundamentally
energised by principles of social justice and critiquing prejudice against ‘marginalised’ or ‘protected’
identities (in terms of gender, race/ethnicity, class, sexuality, [dis]ability, [ill-]health, etc.). We
constitute HGRG as welcoming to researchers of diverse backgrounds, partly through the substance
of what/how we research. We have fostering strong international relationships (Section 4) with
numerous scholars via formal and funded Visitor status: examples include Dowler (Penn State, USA),
Gibson (UWS, Australia), Gopinath (New Delhi, India), Pratt (UBC, Canada), Simonsen (Roskilde,
Demark) and Subramanian (Calcutta, India). Dowler and Pratt shared with us their feminist and anti-
racist HEI working and management strategies.

Strategy for promoting E&D: GES has developed a robust equality and diversity strategy via
SWAN@GES (now E@D), a dedicated Committee informed by UK-wide Athena SWAN
programmes. Chaired by Parr (2012-2018) and now Botterill, with notable input from other HGRG
members, including PGR/PGTs, HGRG has been pivotal in embedding E&D principles in GES at all
levels and beyond. Parr represented SWAN@GES nationally, delivering a keynote presentation at
an RGS-IBG event in 2016, and was the driving force during 2017 in preparing our GES submission
for an Athena SWAN Silver Award. This application was successful, and our submission was
commended for its national good practice in School-level maternity leave guidance, complementing
but extending UofG Maternity Policy (GES specifically enables staff returning from maternity leave to
apply for research funding from a CoSE ‘returners’ scheme). Teaching replacement has been
negotiated for a staff member taking maternity leave in 2021.

SWAN@GES developed a 4-year Action Plan (2017-2021) covering all aspects of academic life for
undergraduates, PGRs/PGTs, PDRs, R&T and professional staff in GES, creating mechanisms to
intervene when gendered or other identity-centred barriers impede staff/student recruitment or the
pursuit of research and teaching. GES-wide workshops have addressed promotions, P&DR and
career development, drawing input from senior GES staff and UofG HR. Access was negotiated to
Unconscious Bias Training for all GES staff, an action mandated by the HoS as a P&DR requirement.
To identify barriers to research for women, GES research grant application rates/successes by
gender have been monitored since 2017 (Section 3). GES instituted a ‘Women in Geography and
Earth Science Annual Lecture’, a high-profile signal encouraging gender diversity.

HGRG/GES now explicitly support different lifestyle choices, with a senior HGRG colleague working
part-time and other staff adopting flexible working patterns. GES has an engagement strategy with
internal and external audiences in mind, premised on sharing ‘work stories’ and ‘role modelling’ non-
linear academic careers. External HGRG-invited School Research Seminar Speakers (of all
identities) are asked to participate in ‘Coffee and career stories’ events before seminars, deliberately
targeted at PGT/PGR and ECRs. Several HGRG staff have trained in Mental Health First Aid, linking
to HGRG’s research on mental ill-health geographies, allowing us actively to support each other in
fostering mentally-healthy workplace relationships and intervening if colleagues exhibit worrying

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
signs of stress. We launched our first Mental Health Committee during COVID-19, with Parr as Chair.
A School-wide approach to TransAwareness Training has enabled HGRG/GES to become more
welcoming to diverse genders, with both undergraduates and PGTs/PGRs undertaking Trans
research.

Acknowledging HGRG’s ‘white’ staff profile – and that our PGT/PGR ethnic profile is largely but not
entirely ‘white’ – it is especially important to address matters of race on various fronts. HGRG ex-
PDR (Last) has been active in the RGS-IBG Race Equalities Working Group; Featherstone and Last
gave GES presentations in 2017 about race in the curriculum; Featherstone leads a Staff Working
Group on ‘decolonising’ HGRG/GES curricula and wider academic practices; and an HGRG staffing
request for a lectureship in Black geographies has recently been formulated and incorporated in
GES’s Strategic Plan.

Parr instigated the establishment of a UofG CoSE Athena SWAN Chairs’ network, now formally
recognised in UofG. She co-authored a report evidencing and critiquing the management of Athena
SWAN processes across Scottish HEIs, addressing the workload threat to research activity for
Athena SWAN Chairs and others.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income

Since REF2014, through strategic mechanisms detailed in Sections 1 and 2, HGRG has achieved
an uplift in grant-seeking activity and success. HGRG has been involved in securing HESA/REF-
defined external research income to the total value of c.£3.9M, a 70% increase on the equivalent
figure for REF2014 (£2.3M). The average income per headcount has increased by 37% from £178k
to £243k, even with an increased staff return (16 against 13 for REF2014). Strategically, this income
has supported intense research activity mapping directly into the research themes (T1-T3) described
in Section 1, many outputs reported in REF2, and our impactful ‘worldly work’ amplified in Section
4. The distribution of income across HGRG reveals the substantial leadership of women, with c.75%
of UofG share income accruing to women researchers Laurie and Olden (also ECRs) and Dixon,
Parr and Sharp.

HGRG’s income growth has been strategically driven by: the development of T3, addressing the
most pressing of current concerns for planetary wellbeing and offering a platform for much of our
recent grant activity; relatedly, the sustained engagement with UKRI and national research agendas,
particularly around GCRF; and the further embedding of a turn to collaborations with colleagues in
other disciplines and/or beyond UofG. These strategic moves will be continued and enhanced post-
REF2021, building on new aptitudes brought to HGRG by Callard, who is well-versed in grant-
seeking, applying critical-scholarly work in ‘applied’ contexts, and creatively translating between the
natural and life sciences, the social sciences and the arts and humanities.

Highlights include funded, interdisciplinary and ‘applied’ research on health in the Global South,
extending an older HGRG focus on ‘indigenous knowledges’. Sharp (as Co-I) secured funding from
diverse funders (AHRC-MRC, BBSRC with ESRC and others, DfID with UKRI) for three
interdisciplinary projects conducted with UofG scientists studying bacterial and parasitic zoonoses
passing from livestock to humans in regions of Africa, the largest grant being c.£2.26M (c.40%
Sharp) for the SEEDZ project investigating ‘social, economic and environmental drivers of zoonoses
in Tanzania’. This orientation continues with Laurie, who (as Co-I) secured funding from the MRC,
through a pilot and then full grant worth c.£3.1M (c.12% Laurie), for the work of an international
interdisciplinary consortium feeding into the Tanzanian government’s ‘Supporting National Action
Plan for Antimicrobial Resistance’ (SNAP-AMR). She has also been involved (as Co-I) in a project
funded by the National Institute of Health worth c.£2.5M (c.9% to Laurie) designed to build capacity
in Tanzania for meeting the ‘global health challenge’ of arthritis.

Further funded highlights include: the latter part of Parr’s ESRC funding (PI: c.£420k UofG) for
‘Geographies of missing people’ (see Parr ICS); and three years of Naylor’s AHRC funding (Co-I:

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
c.£43k UofG) for ‘Implications of extreme weather events’, now developed into his AHRC funding for
‘Building climate resilience through community, landscapes and cultural heritage’ (Co-I: c.£18.9K
UofG), commencing August 2020. Recent grant successes, providing a platform of funded project-
work for HGRG research strategy post-REF2021 (Section 1), include: Botterill, ESRC funding (PI:
c.£415k UofG) for ‘Post-migration transition and pathways to citizenship for EU youth under Brexit’;
Karaliotas, Danish Independent Research Fund (Co-I: c.£76k UofG) for ‘Geographies of Populism
in Europe’; and Philo, Leverhulme Trust Major Research Fellowship for ‘The Anti-Fascist
Geographical Imagination’ (PI: c.£167k UofG). A significant new initiative, with BA funding (c.£38k
UofG) supplemented by internal UofG awards, is the ‘International Green Academy’
(http://internationalgreenacademy.org/) directed by Shaw and McGeachan (PI/Co-I), which –
collaborating with the University of Arizona and schools in both Glasgow and Arizona – empowers
young people to become ‘confident environmental stewards’.

HGRG members have secured GCRF funding, creating new collaborations with colleagues in both
HGRG and ESRG and with scholars elsewhere: notable are Dixon’s three awards (two SFC-GCRFs,
one ESRC-IAA) for ‘building’ connections, communities and sustainability in Africa, advancing the
Africa interests of Sharp and Laurie, one of which fosters ‘Sustainable Futures Africa’ (SFA) as a
flexible, networked consortium with the chief goal of producing usefully impactful outcomes when
responding to GCRF calls (http://sustainable-futuresafrica.com/). Karaliotas, with Botterill and
Cardwell, has secured GCRF funding for work on urban ecologies in Malawi. These GCRF grants
are deliberately modest given their scoping/priming objectives: larger is Dixon’s co-securing of
Scottish Funding Council (SFC) funding (c.£51k) for inquiry into how remote sensing and community-
behavioural change can combine in aiding mine-risk education in Myanmar.

Callard brings a substantial track record of funded research, notably in the context of her
Directorship of ‘Hubbub’ (2014-2016), the first research group to take occupancy at The Hub,
Wellcome Trust, with its work on the arts-sciences of ‘rest and its opposites’. This grant-seeking
expertise – manifested in a one-year Leverhulme Trust Research Fellowship (2020-2021) on the
2018 strikes in higher education – and in deploying the infrastructure and facilities of the Wellcome
Trust significantly enhances HGRG capacity in researching mental ill-health and labour geographies.
Relatedly, Philo with Högström (established Swedish scholar) as the Research Fellow, secured
funding worth c.£130k from the EU Horizon2020 Marie Sklodowska-Curie Fellowship programme,
for ‘Psychiatric spaces in transition’, deploying grounded ‘spatial stories’ of Gartnavel Royal Hospital,
Glasgow, to address the broader problematic of ‘the future of the asylum’; while McGeachan
secured small BA and Wellcome Trust grants to research the making of art therapy and Art
Extraordinary in mental hospital settings, linking to her deployment of archival sources (e.g.
R.D.Laing’s ‘papers’) as a spur for creative interventions in the present (see McGeachan ICS).

Infrastructure and facilities

The vitality and sustainability of HGRG does not depend greatly on physical infrastructure or facilities:
its core ‘resources’ are those of staff and how we enable them to undertake high-quality research
and impact activities. As such, claims made in Sections 1 and 2, about the ‘soft’ infrastructure of
staffing strategy, development and support, as well as about matters of governance (of both research
and impact) through committees and related mechanisms, should be taken as relevant to the
assessment of Section 3 here. Through the GES Grant Application Support Panel (GASP), HGRG
members gain and contribute expert collegial advice when drafting research grant applications; and
through CoSE all GES academic staff have ready access to high-level administrative support in
matters of research content, structure, finance, staffing, ethics, intellectual property and integrity.

The soft infrastructure also includes research enabling money and mechanisms for acknowledging
outstanding accomplishments. Botterill was awarded a CoSE Early Career grant-writing prize (£10k)
which aided her securing of the ESRC grant mentioned above. HGRG has drawn upon CoSE/UofG
funding sources (the UofG Knowledge Exchange Fund [KEF] and the ESRC Impact Accelerator Fund
[IAF]) to support impact work by specific staff members. Askins, Featherstone (with Kelliher),
Lorimer (with Olden), Philo (with Högström) and Shaw (with McGeachan) have all benefitted from
direct awards; while the UofG Knowledge Exchange and Collaboration Awards 2017 recognised

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Parr’s work as ‘Best Collaboration in Policy and Practice’ following a university-wide competition.

In physical terms, HGRG R&T staff occupy well-appointed single-occupancy offices, together with
fit-for-purpose meeting (seminar and workshop) space, in the East Quadrangle of the Gilbert Scott
Building on the UofG Main Campus. PDRs share sizeable offices, no more than three to a room,
while PGRs have dedicated office space and we even provide PGTs with generous hot-desking
office space. Everyone has access to good, fully networked IT, both desktop PCs and mobile
devices, with relevant applications, and can also draw upon experienced IT technician support and
extensive UofG-level audio-visual support and expertise. Going forward, via Parr’s ‘Climate Change
and Mental Health’ group (Section 1), HGRG will have access to space designated for innovative
work on Climate Change reserved within the state-of-the-art Research Hub being built as part of the
large-scale campus development of UofG Main Campus.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Research base

Intellectual work: We have displayed intellectual leadership contributing to the advance of the
discipline, including through 300+ outputs (200+ journal papers) produced over the assessment
period, but also through, and evidenced by, the following:

   •   Parr was the invited/nominated Chair of the RGS-IBG 2019 Annual Conference (AC2019),
       attended by 2,000+ geographers from across the globe. She set the conference theme,
       ‘Geographies of trouble and hope’, running plenary sessions on ecological, neuroscientific
       and Black geographies in-between ‘trouble and hope’. She led on embedding new E&D
       initiatives into the Conference arrangements. Philo was Chair of AC2012: and only Oxford
       Geography has also furnished two human geographers as Chairs since 2000, testimony to
       the leadership of Glasgow’s HGRG in UK Geography.

   •   Other major academic leadership roles include Callard’s Directorship of ‘Hubbub’ at The
       Hub, Wellcome Trust, and McGeachan’s recent appointment as Chair of the RGS-IBG
       Historical Geography Research Group.

   •   Major editorships during assessment period: Antipode (Featherstone); cultural geographies
       (‘cultural geographies in practice’ section, Lorimer); Emotion, Space & Society (Askins);
       Environment and Planning A (Dixon); GeoHumanities (Dixon [also co-founder of journal]);
       History of the Human Sciences (Callard); Journal of Historical Geography (reviews,
       McGeachan); Progress in Human Geography (Philo); Transactions of the Institute of British
       Geographers (Naylor); and Urban Studies (reviews, managing editor for ‘Debates’ papers,
       handling editor, Karaliotas).

   •   Major book-related editorial responsibilities during the assessment period: Featherstone
       edited RGS-IBG Wiley-Blackwell Geography book series; Naylor edits Routledge Historical
       Geography book series; Lorimer co-edited Geographers Biobibliographical Studies (annual
       book-length periodical).

   •   Other high-profile editorial work: Featherstone’s co-edited book Marxism, Colonialism and
       Cricket (2019) and special issue (SI) on ‘Maritime networks and transational spaces’ (Global
       Networks, 2019); Naylor’s co-edited SI on ‘The nineteenth-century survey sciences’ (Notes
       and Records of the Royal Society, 2018); Philo’s co-edited SI on ‘Histories of asylums,
       insanity and psychiatry in Scotland’ (History of Psychiatry, 2017); McGeachan’s co-edited SI
       on ‘Other psychotherapies’ (Transcultural Psychiatry, 2020); Botterill’s co-edited SI on
       ‘Negotiating Brexit’ (Population, Space & Place, 2019); and Parr and Philo’s co-edited SI on
       ‘Precarious urbanisms’ (Geoforum, 2019). The first five items underscore our interdisciplinary
       engagement.

   •   Major prizes: Parr, ESRC Impact Prize 2015 for ‘Outstanding Impact in Society’ and RGS-

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       IBG Back Award 2018 for ‘Contributions at the Interface of Geographical Research and
       Policy’; Sharp, RGS-IBG Busk Medal 2016 for ‘Innovative Field Research and Empowering
       Others through Fieldwork’; and Shaw, Virginie Mamadouh ‘Outstanding Research Award’ in
       2016 from the AAG Political Geography Speciality Group.

   •   Philo was elected Chair of the USF 2014-2018, overseeing a comprehensive investment
       programme in interdisciplinary urban studies globally (through Fellowships, mobility schemes
       and seminar series) and architecting major transformations in the charity’s governance,
       composition and operations.

Intellectual collaborations: Locally, HGRG has growing research links across GES to ESRG,
particularly via our T3 ‘bridge’: for instance, Dixon’s approach to science-arts collaborations enlists
earth scientists/physical geographers (Barrett, Williams) in GCRF activity. Elsewhere in UofG,
HGRG connects with: MVLS, notably epidemiology and veterinary researchers (Sharp, Laurie) and
health researchers (Parr, Philo); CoSS, notably critical scholars in business and urban studies
(where ex-HGRG member Cumbers is based: Featherstone, Karaliotas); and CoA, notably theatre,
performance and visual arts scholars (Dixon, Lorimer, Naylor, Parr) and also medical humanities
scholars (McGeachan, Parr, Philo: members of the UofG Medical Humanities Research Centre;
project-supervising for Intercalated BSc in Medical Humanities).

More widely, HGRG members have research links, many entailing active leadership, throughout the
UK and globally, reflected in REF2-listed outputs (c.25% co-authored with non-UofG scholars) and
grant activity (Section 3). Botterill assisted in securing an EEGA Workshop Grant for a research
network exploring migration from/to Central/Eastern Europe; Featherstone secured a BA
International Partnership grant to work with Subramanian (Kolkata, India), producing the Global
Networks SI referenced above; Featherstone and Karaliotas assisted in securing an ‘International
Networking Grant’ from Fonds Wetenschapplijk Onderzoek (Netherlands) for a ‘scientific research
community’ promoting solidarity, community and place-making; Naylor is International Collaborator
on a Canadian SSHRC Partnership Development Grant (‘Reparation through university-museum-
indigenous partnerships’) with Nispissing University, Canada. More generally, staff play leading roles
in international research networks and GCRF-driven interdisciplinary initiatives in Africa (Tanzania,
Kenya, Malawi, Botswana), and run existing or developing international-institutional links in Brazil
(UFMG, Belo Horizonte), Sweden (KTH Stockholm, Linkoping), Switzerland (Université de
Neuchâtel) and India (Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi; Centre for Studies in Social Sciences,
Kolkata), among others. Callard will immediately begin extending the interdisciplinary reach of our
collaborations.

Economy and society

Impact work: Our two ICSs (McGeachan, Parr) sit within an overall matrix of ‘worldly work’ to which
all HGRG members contribute and which Callard will be particularly well-positioned to enrich.
Strategic principles driving our impactful activity, alongside indications of how we have developed –
and will further develop – collaborative relationships beyond the academy, have been described in
Section 1.

We stretch our impact across space (seeking national and international reach) while delving deeply
into place (drawing upon and nurturing local practices, resources and sensibilities), alongside
spanning sectorally from the governmental to the activist. Table 1 locates an indicative selection of
our ‘worldly work’ across a scalar-sectoral grid linked to named HGRG staff, giving short titles for
activities mentioned previously and summary descriptions for ones only mentioned here.

Impact collaborations: Non-academic partners strategically engaged for co-supervision on
collaborative AHRC/ESRC projects, past and ongoing, include: The Royal Society and RGS-IBG
(AHRC ‘Science Museums and Archives Consortium’); Historic Environment Scotland (AHRC
‘Scottish Cultural Heritage Consortium’); the Forestry Commission (Scotland), Galloway Forest Dark
Sky Park, and the Scottish Allotments and Gardens Society (all AHRC); and Epilepsy Scotland,
diabetologists from NHSGG&C and a Glasgow medical cosmetics company (all ESRC). Non-

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
academic consortia/networks are also being fostered: Dixon’s SFA network and Laurie’s Tanzania
SNAP-AMR consortium roles (Section 3); Arbodela administers Facebook Group Amigos del Tordo
Verde, dedicated to urban-periphery building styles; and Cardwell participates in an International
Fisheries network of academics and practitioners inaugurated at a Denmark symposium in 2010
(leading to multiple-authored PNAS 2019 output); and Kelliher participated in the Applied History
Network, running free public events in London on racism, housing and education.

                       Table 1: ‘Matrix’ of socio-economic contribution
                   International              National                Local
                   (reaching beyond UK)       (UK/Scotland)           (Glasgow/elsewhere)

  Governmental/    Laurie (SNAP-AMR:         Botterill (UK/Scottish      Featherstone/Kelliher
  policy-facing    Section 3)                Parliaments:                (materials cited in
                                             advice/evidence to          Scottish Government,
                                             Committees on               2020, Independent
                                             citizenship/human           Report on community
                                             rights/youth/Islama-        impacts of policing
                                             phobia);                    miners’ strike, 1984-
                                             Callard (Labour Party       1985)
                                             Shadow Health Team:
                                             Covid-19 long-term
                                             health impacts);
                                             Cardwell (Marine
                                             Scotland: advice on
                                             Scottish fisheries policy
                                             post-Brexit);
                                             Parr (Missing People
                                             ICS)
  Professional/    Laurie (SNAP-AMR,         Parr (Missing People        Philo (Gartnavel:
  NGOs             Arthritis: Section 3);    ICS)                        Section 1)
                   McGeachan/Shaw
                   (‘International Green
                   Academy’: Section 3);
                   Sharp (SEEDZ, etc.:
                   training health care
                   professionals: Section
                   3)




  Media/public     Askins (Nuclear           Lorimer (‘Landscaped
  engagement       Refrain, Section 1);      Estates: Section 3;
                   Shaw (Wageless Life:      scripting BBC Radio 4
                   Section 1)                documentaries; Radio 3
                                             panel discussant on
                                             landscapes);
                                             Naylor (academic
                                             adviser BB2 documenary
                                             series ‘Icons of the
                                             Twentieth Century’)
  Museums/         Naylor (University-       Featherstone/Kelliher       Featherstone
  exhibitions      museums-indigenous        (TUC Library Collections:   (Glasgow
                   partnerships: Section     Section 1)                  Life/Museums: trade
                   4)

                                                                                         Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                 International                National                Local
                 (reaching beyond UK)         (UK/Scotland)           (Glasgow/elsewhere)

                                                                      unions ‘Banner Tales’,
                                                                      community/activism);
                                                                      McGeachan (Art
                                                                      Extraordinary and
                                                                      community
                                                                      engagement ICS)
  Community/     Arboleda (Incompiutio        Askins (Red Cross UK:   Askins (Gorbals
  activism       Sciliano, Italy: artistic-   critical appraisal of   community groups:
                 architectural alternative    internal working        training members to be
                 creativities);               practices)              their ‘own’ researcher-
                 Karaliotas (Social                                   advocates);
                 Solidarity Health                                    McGeachan/Shaw
                 Clinic/self-managed                                  (‘International Green
                 radio service,                                       Academy’: Section 3);
                 Thessaloniki, Greece:                                Olden (Galgael Trust,
                 enhancing grassroots                                 Glasgow: rewilding
                 capacity)                                            riverside industrial
                                                                      landscape)




                                                                                      Page 15
