Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Institution: University of the West of England, Bristol

Unit of assessment: 18 Law

Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context and Structure
This unit is located within the Bristol Law School in the Faculty of Business and Law (FBL).
Research is structured around two groups: (1) the Global Crime, Justice and Security Research
Group (GCJSR Group) and (2) the Environmental Law and Sustainability Research Group
(ELSR Group). All staff with significant responsibility for research are members of one of these
groups. The School offers both academic degrees such as LLB, LLM and PhD and professional
courses such as the GDL, the LPC and the BPTC/BTC.

Unit’s Strategic Aims 2014-2020
Research Vision
UWE’s overall strategy for research is to achieve ‘world-class performance in selected areas of
research that meets the needs of our community, a sustainable economy and society and feeds the
scholarship and enquiry that underpins our learning and teaching’. Bristol Law School responds to,
and enhances, UWE’s strategic vision by promoting innovative and collaborative research activity in
law with a high level of commitment to research with practical relevance to the needs of business,
state and governmental agencies, the charity sector and the wider community.

Research Strategy
The strategy for this REF cycle was to leverage excellent applied legal research to engage with the
regional economy and wider society, underpin teaching and enhance knowledge exchange. Priority
was given to increasing the number of staff engaging in research that asks challenging questions,
that raises a mirror to society with a view to critiquing norms and challenging established thought. In
doing so, researchers are expected to fulfil the requirements of both academic rigour and societal
relevance. Underpinning this, the strategic objectives were to increase research quality, building on
REF 2014, and increase funding to support researchers to undertake projects with relevance and
practical application.

The research strategy was and continues to be implemented through four strands of action:
  - driving excellence with impact: placing emphasis on encouraging and supporting
     interdisciplinary and collaborative research with world-leading academic partners and other
     stakeholders, both in the UK and internationally, to drive up research quality (see Section 4).
     Groups have a leadership role to ensure the production of quality research (see below and
     Section 2) and a portfolio of impact that demonstrates a range of economic, cultural and
     societal benefits.
  - building on talent and opportunity by supporting staff to become research active; mentoring
     and research leadership (see Section 2); aligning PGR students to research groups and
     succession planning (see Section 2).
  - linking learning and research by involving research-active staff in curriculum development and
     teaching and ensuring that all staff use research and scholarly activity time to update subject
     knowledge (see Section 4).
  - capitalising on culture and place by engaging with external stakeholders and students (see
     Section 4); supporting Group leaders as key drivers of the research strategy and maintaining
     high standards of research governance, ethics, integrity and data management (see below).

Research Structure
During the REF period, opportunity was taken to strengthen the research infrastructure within the
school in order to deliver the strategy. In 2014, the Centre for Legal Research (CLR) acted as an

                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

umbrella organisation for five units in: (i) Environmental Law, (ii) Commercial Law, (iii) Criminal
Justice, (iv) Family, Gender and Equality and (v) International Law and Human Rights. The aim of
the CLR was to support these units to become independent research groups. In 2016, the Centre
evolved into the Centre for Applied Legal Research (CALR) to recognise its increasing focus on
scholarly research, impact, consultancy, knowledge exchange and public engagement as applied to
real world problems. Two independent research groups (Global Crime, Justice and Security
Research Group, and Environmental Law and Sustainability Research Group, see below)
subsequently emerged from this structure in 2019 and now operate as independent, self-sustaining
activities spearheading the unit’s research.

Internal Investment
To support this strategy during this REF period investment was focused on support for staff to
deliver high-quality research with clear routes to impact, publication in prestigious journals, and to
support and develop promising early career researchers. This was supplemented by leveraging the
resources of Research, Business and Innovation (RBI), the UWE Graduate School and other
professional services to facilitate collaborations, provide skills development and promote impact
activities.

The Faculty employed a strategic and targeted allocation of research resources, focusing on
research time for those new to academia with developing research profiles, staff delivering high
quality research outputs and activities that supported research with potentially significant impact,
and those wishing to develop new emergent research themes. Workload allocations were based on
performance along with an assessment of planned activities and outputs for the year ahead.
Through this scheme, internal investment targeted:
   (i) strategic research priorities, such as Quenivet’s work on international law and child soldiers,
        Razzaque’s on biodiversity and nature protection, and Blanco’s on corporate responsibility.
   (ii) specific research projects with clear outcomes, such as Young’s work on organized crime in
        Jamaica, Das/Grant on the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals, and
        Blanco on protecting the Commons (especially natural resources).

Monitoring the Achievement of Strategic Priorities
Throughout the REF cycle, implementation of the strategic priorities was assessed and monitored
through:
   1) The quality of publications, assessed on a rolling basis through the internal review of outputs
      accepted for publication. This ensured that staff were provided with useful developmental
      feedback on the quality of their outputs and enabled research leaders to monitor the
      achievement of their research aims. Staff applying for research time are required to provide a
      record of their outputs with internal review rankings alongside future publication plans.
   2) Progress in achieving impact, monitored by a designated Impact Champion in the unit whose
      role, in conjunction with RBI, was to support staff undertaking research with potential impact
      by promoting ways to deliver and enhance it, including identifying those suitable as REF
      impact case studies.

Monitoring was supported by a suite of metrics to assess intellectual contributions including
citations, roles on journal editorial boards, appointments to leadership positions in relevant
professional associations and societies, the number of grants awarded by industry/the professions,
amount of external research income and qualitative examples of impact.

Achievement of Objectives
Evidence for the achievement of objectives is illustrated by:
   1) The quality of publications available for this REF, including monographs (6) and duographs
      (2), (co-)edited collections (8), published by the likes of Cambridge University Press, Hart,
      Routledge, Palgrave, and articles published in peer-reviewed journals such as European
      Journal of International Law, Criminal Law Review, Child and Family Law Quarterly,

                                                                                          Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

      Transnational Environmental Law, Netherlands Quarterly of Human Rights, European
      Business Law Review.
   2) Impact, and external income won to support research with impact. Besides the two case
      studies included in this submission (Pre-Trial Detention (Cape/Smith) and Financial Crime
      (Ryder)), other research has impacted on the work of organisations such as police forces in
      the UK and abroad (e.g. Rumney, Fenton, Young), the Intergovernmental Science-Policy
      Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (Razzaque), and NGOs (Elliott). The
      average income per year increased from £25k in the previous REF cycle to £95k in this REF
      cycle (See Section 3).

Research Ethics and Governance

Research Ethics and Integrity
Research integrity is safeguarded via i) a Faculty Research Ethics Committee (FREC); ii) a
Research Governance Record; and iii) mandatory GDPR training for all staff.

The FREC comprises staff members from the Law School and the Faculty more widely and ensures
research is carried out in line with ethical standards. For example, that research is undertaken with
due regard to the safety of the researchers; that confidentiality of personal data and the anonymity
of subjects is maintained and is GDPR compliant; that the integrity, transparency and
independence of the study is maintained throughout the duration of the study; and that clear lines of
responsibility and accountability are established. FREC reports to the University Research Ethics
Committee whose chair was Devine, a former Law staff member contributing to this submission.

All UWE staff conducting research are required to register their projects on a Research Governance
Record (RGR) introduced in January 2019. This provides a self-assessment check list to ensure
relevant integrity matters are considered and signposts information and guidance relating to key
research governance issues, including data protection, research data management, GDPR and
research ethics. Induction on the RGR was provided when the scheme was introduced, and is
refreshed periodically, most recently at the beginning of 2019/20.

Open Access
UWE is committed to the aims and principles of open research and encourages researchers to
explore the benefits of using open practices in their research. In Law, we support open research
initiatives set out by the University, including promoting the development and implementation of
Open Access Policy and Guidance and ensuring that staff and PGR students engage with the
institutional Research Repository by providing training at School, Faculty and University level, as
well through regularly reminding colleagues to deposit their work on data repositories.

Future Strategic Aims
High quality research with impact remains the focus of our future strategy. To reinforce this,
additional priorities have been introduced for the next period.

Firstly, a new research structure comprised of two research groups (Global Crime, Justice and
Security Research Group, GCJSR, and Environmental Law and Sustainability, ELSR) has been
established to better reflect the research strengths of the School and to support this new, more
focused strategy. In parallel, the School is aligning its research towards the themes (Research
Beacons) outlined in the University’s ‘Transforming Futures Research and Enterprise Strategy
2030’, namely (1) digital futures, (2) health and wellbeing, (3) creative industries and technologies,
and (4) sustainability and climate change resilience (see Institutional Statement).

The GCJSG focuses on aspects of financial crime; criminal justice and procedure; corporate
governance and economic crime; organised crime and financial crime, while the ELSRG’s strengths


                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

are in biodiversity and nature protection law; climate change and security; environment and human
rights; environmental justice and the global south; environmental protection, security and armed
conflict; European environmental law; natural resources and investment; and sustainable
development. In particular, the work of the ELSR Group aligns to the University’s Research Beacon
on ‘sustainability and climate change resilience’, while GCJSG is increasingly aligning its research
to ‘digital futures’ with research on cryptoassets and the use of technology in criminal courts.

Second, more emphasis is placed on interdisciplinarity to increase external research funding and
impact. Each Group includes staff from other disciplines at UWE such as Criminology, History,
Politics & International Relations, Computer Science & Creative Technologies, and Built
Environment. Law staff increasingly engage in either formal or informal research activities with such
colleagues on internal initiatives, including for example Brimblecombe with Allied Health
Professions and Engineering, Design and Mathematics on supportive surveillance. Ryder is
collaborating with staff in Computer Science and Creative Technologies on external funding
applications to Innovate UK in digital technology and counter-terrorism financing. The number of
joint publications is increasing, including Young with staff in History on organised crime, and Smith
and Keppel-Palmer with colleagues in Journalism on court reporting. One output on sexual offences
submitted here is flagged as interdisciplinary Law-Criminology (Rumney).

Third, external engagement with stakeholders is promoted, in particular to identify and tackle
specific social issues. Groups encourage external membership including practitioners such as
barristers (e.g. Moorhouse (ELSR Group)). The ELSR Group is an institutional member of the UK
Environmental Law Association, a network that promotes collaboration between practitioners and
academics. Members of the GCJSR Group are involved in a variety of networks that promote
engagement with stakeholders (see Section 4).

Fourth, internationalisation has become a key element of strategy. This builds on work such as
ELSR’s major consultancy for the United Nations Inter-Governmental Panel on Biodiversity and
Ecosystem Services (Razzaque, 2016-19) and a World Bank funded project on forest climate
mitigation in Nigeria (Razzaque, 2017-18). At the end of July 2020, the GCJSRG was working on
an EU application with a range of European partners.

Finally, as part of the new structure, a School Research Committee has been created to coordinate
the activities and provide financial support to these groups as well as monitor and implement the
new research strategy. The Committee is led by Ryder and comprises the Law Professoriate, the
Head of Department and an Associate Head of Department.

Section 2. People

Staff, Staffing Strategy
Within the REF period, four Professors (Cape, Devine, Jones and Rumney) and three Associate
Professors (Chamber-Jones, Fenton and Turksen) left whilst 19 staff joined the School, including
Brimblecombe, Kivotidis and Smith whose work is included in this submission. Recruitment plans
for the academic year 2020/2021 include Professor and Associate Professor posts.

As part of a long-term research strategy aimed at growing talent in the School, ten ECRs were
appointed during the assessment period (Bourton, Brimblecombe, Hall, Hillman, Johnston,
Kivotidis, Kolaczkowski, Man, Querton and Smith), one having since left (Kivotidis). A range of
activities and schemes are in place to support them (see below). Indicative of the unit’s strategy of
promoting research talent, the School was successful in securing two Wallscourt Fellows as part of
a University initiative to invest in areas of research strength. Brimblecombe was appointed to such
a fellowship in September 2019 and a further one will be recruited in 2020/21. The time of
Wallscourt Fellows is equally divided between research and teaching

                                                                                         Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Staff Development
Performance and Personal Development Plans
The School uses performance and personal development plans (PDR), mentoring and effective
research leadership to ensure staff time for research is planned and prioritised in the context of
overall workloads and time management, including scholarship and internally funded research time.

Staff performance against the research strategy is supported and monitored through the annual
PDR process which includes a focus on research outputs, bidding, projects secured, PGR
supervision, collaboration and, for Associate Professors and Professors, research leadership and
contributions to the discipline. Through their PDR, staff are required to plan and make optimal use
of their five-week scholarly time, which can include research.

Support for Staff at Doctoral Level
To increase the number of staff members qualified at doctorate level and to build research capacity,
a scheme to fund PhDs for staff was introduced in 2017/18. Six staff members are currently
benefitting from this scheme. Staff are given dedicated research time to complete their PhDs,
whether registered at UWE or elsewhere.

Mentoring Schemes
Mentoring schemes operate at various levels. First, at School level, the Research Committee
mentoring scheme supports and advises research-active colleagues at whatever stage in their
careers, though essentially focused on ECRs. For staff undertaking doctoral studies a mentor is
allocated who is different from their supervisor. As of July 2020, eight staff are being mentored by
four Professors or Associate Professors.

Second, at University level a Women in Research Mentoring Scheme (WRMS) aims to promote
and facilitate professional development for women researchers, helping them reach senior research
roles. The scheme provides individual mentoring and sustains a supportive University-wide
interdisciplinary network, alongside training and development activities. Quenivet has been a
mentor for the scheme since 2018 and Devine, Das and Whewell were mentees during the REF
period.

Third, the Vice Chancellor’s Accelerator Programme offers mid-career academics the opportunity to
be part of a cohort mentored by established researchers. Razzaque is a mentor on this
programme.

Support for Early Career Researchers
ECRs are eligible to bid for the Vice-Chancellor’s Early Career Researcher Awards (VCECRs)
worth up to £15k to support projects resulting in published outputs and the submission of bids for
follow-on funding. The award can be used to cover short-term salary costs, replacement teaching,
research assistance, technical support, equipment, consumables or travel and subsistence. During
the current REF cycle, three Law staff were awarded VCECRs. Das and Young worked together on
‘Tracing the Proceeds of Environmental Crime: Case Study of Lower Mekong Sub-Region’ that led
to peer-reviewed output. Hillman won a VCECR to carry out research on ‘Identifying Money
Laundering in the Bitcoin Blockchain’.

Devine provides evidence of the long-term success of ECR grants in promoting staff careers. A
senior lecturer at the time of her VCECR award (in the previous REF cycle) to carry out work on
child protection, Devine was promoted to Professor during this REF cycle and secured external
funding as PI or Co-PI to the value of some £800k from the ESRC and the Nuffield Foundation (see
Section 3).



                                                                                          Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Financial Support
Support to attend conferences or engage with relevant stakeholders is provided by the School via
the Research Committee, including work undertaken to gather evidence for impact case studies.
The University offers financial support (especially seed funding) through schemes such as the
VCECRs and the Vice Chancellor’s Challenge Fund, aimed at promoting cross-faculty
interdisciplinary research. In 2020, Brimblecombe, alongside colleagues in Health and
Engineering, successfully secured £23,400 from the Challenge Fund for a research project entitled
‘Supportive Surveillance? Co-Design of Automated Timely Interventions to Enhance Treatment of
Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder’.


Development and Feedback
The School offers training, workshops and individual feedback to research active staff. For
example, senior staff deliver ‘how to’ sessions to raise awareness and increase knowledge and
understanding across a range of areas, including: research quality, research impact strategies,
bidding, using empirical research methods, using social media to promote research and impact,
embedding policy into research, how to develop and deliver public engagement and knowledge
exchange activity. Since 2015, the School has held 16 ‘how to’ sessions, including seven sessions
on writing quality research outputs.

Further schemes support staff in their career development. This includes a review scheme which
aims to provide advice to colleagues on improving their research outputs in relation to originality,
significance and rigour, prior to submission for publication. Since its introduction in 2016, papers
submitted as part of the scheme were accepted in their target journals and judged to be of higher
standard after review (this is in addition to the internal review of outputs conducted as part of the
monitoring of quality research noted in Section 1). Staff can also present and receive general
feedback on their work at Staff Research Seminars.

The School also offers a mentoring scheme for colleagues in the early stages of bid writing, when
advice on the scope of a research idea and the means of achieving it are essential. This is
supplemented by an expedited peer review scheme that offers quick feedback on draft bids and
identifies any issues for concern prior to either UWE’s peer review scheme and/or bid submission.

Flexible Support for Research Staff
To support a specific study or project, staff can seek additional workload for research or study
leave; the Head of School has a discretionary workload allocation for research purposes. For
example, Smith was granted additional time to carry out empirical research, including court
observations as a means of gathering additional evidence for a case study, as well as generating a
research output.

PGR Students
Over this REF period, 29 PGRs were recruited and 11 completed their studies in Law. Three former
PGRs have secured academic positions: Khan is now Associate Pro Vice-Chancellor at London
Metropolitan University after doing a PhD as a lecturer in the School, Singh works at the University
of Toronto and Johnston is a Senior Lecturer in the Law School.

A strategy is in place to increase the Faculty’s PGR cohort size whilst ensuring that applicants are
of high quality and the focus of their research is aligned to the research groups. Four PGR students
are externally sponsored (two by the Niger Delta Basin Development Authority, one by the
Vietnamese Government and one by the Bahrain Police Force). A staff support scheme was
introduced to enable staff who wish to pursue PGR study to engage in doctoral scholarship whilst
teaching (see above) and a PGR bursary scheme has enabled the sponsorship for two further PGR
candidates.


                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


PGRs undertake research in areas covered by the two Groups: GCJSR in counter-terrorism
financing; corporate governance and financial crises; and money-laundering, and ELSR in
corporate social responsibility and the protection of the environment; sustainable management of
natural resources; climate change; and the polluter pays principle. Five of the six submitted staff
were members of PGR supervisory teams during the assessment period.

All PGR students undertake a minimum 60 credit assessed training programme, appropriate to their
needs, which includes research, data collection and analysis. A Research Methods module is
offered by the School as well as additional law-specific modules. The UWE Graduate School offers
a wide variety of courses aimed at PGR development (mapped to the Vitae Researcher
Development Framework). Since the introduction of the Research Governance Record in 2019, all
doctoral research is monitored and supported to ensure it complies with research ethics and
governance requirements. Registration on the RGR is undertaken by the Director of Studies with
the doctoral candidate to enable the student to recognise the significance of ethics and governance
issues. In the PRES 2020 Law scored 94% satisfaction for Research Skills and 97% for
Professional Development.

PGR students form a key part of the research culture and environment. Students are encouraged to
take a full part in the activities of Groups by becoming members and attending events organised at
School and Faculty level. The Faculty runs a successful annual doctoral symposium, at which PGR
students present their work, usually in the form of a poster in their first year and then as a formal
presentation in subsequent years. In 2019, PGR students of the Law School and the Built
Environment Department organised a research colloquium on ‘sustainability’ at which they
presented their work. Several PGR students have been invited to write chapters in books edited by
senior researchers to develop their publishing skills (e.g. Bourton, Hall, Hillman, Johnson).
Moreover, the Faculty provides financial support for PGR students presenting papers at
conferences.

The Faculty has two purpose-built rooms for doctoral students within the heart of the new Business
and Law building (see Section 3) which both facilitates contact between PGR students and with
staff on a regular basis. Law PGR students are located within the same room which also fosters
cohort identity. The PGR community is engaged in all areas of faculty research operations and has
representatives on the Faculty Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee and Faculty
Research Degrees Committee.

Equality and Diversity
The Law School strongly endorses an equality and staff development agenda via a range of training
and supportive processes. For example, staff attend training relating to EDI issues such as
Unconscious Bias, Diversity in Practice – Working with LGBT+ Communities Disability Confident,
Sexual Harassment in the Workplace and Understanding Bias.

Account is taken of individual circumstances that may impact on research. For example, if a staff
member is considered to have a recognized disability (after an occupational health assessment)
their line manager makes reasonable adjustments to their workload and working practices. For
research-active staff this may include a reduction in teaching commitment to enable the individual
to focus on their research. Staff members who return from extended sick or compassionate leave
are phased back into their full hours which, if they are researchers, usually means their teaching
workload is reduced for a period. Several staff whose work is submitted to REF2021 have
benefitted from these EDI supportive processes.

Some staff’s research work includes aspects of inclusion such as public consultation in
environmental decision-making, gender inequality and biodiversity conservation, and the inclusion


                                                                                          Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

of indigenous people in natural resource decisions (Khan, Razzaque). In 2014, Chamber-Jones
(Associate Professor), as part of her MA Education in Virtual Worlds, considered the extent to
which text-based virtual world learning benefits the learning experience, which focused on disability
learning for nonverbal students. In collaboration with the University’s Equity programme (a BAME
student development programme established by Khan from the Law School), the Centre for Applied
Legal Research invited barrister Tunde Okewale MBE (Doughty Street Chambers) to deliver its
2017 Annual Lecture entitled ‘Nobody Rises to Low Expectations’.

The School supports and promotes women researchers in response to their under-representation in
the University’s REF2014 submission. For this REF 66% of the staff submitted in Law are female.
The School has a strong record of promoting women into research roles. Between 2015 and 2017
all heads of the five research units were female. One of the two Professors is female (Razzaque)
and both Associate Professors (Blanco and Quenivet) are female. Four of the last round of
promotions were female colleagues with experience of unit leadership (Devine, Fenton, Jones,
Quenivet), assisting them in developing research management experience, strategic thinking and
leadership skills (key attributes in their applications to Associate Professor and Professor). Two out
of the three recipients of the School’s VCECR awards were female (Das and Young). The School’s
lead for the University’s Athena Swan bronze award was a female Professor (Jones) who had
widely published on gender issues and was Chair of the National Assembly of Women, President of
the European Women's Lobby and President of the European Women Lawyers Association while at
UWE (before becoming an MEP).

Within the unit, staff were identified as having significant responsibility for research and outputs
selected in strict accordance with the University’s Code of Practice. This includes selecting outputs
based on their quality as determined through a thorough peer review process with no expectation
about the number of outputs any one individual contributed to the submission. Although individual
circumstances declared by staff in the unit allowed for a reduction in the total number of outputs
submitted, it was considered beneficial to submit the full number in order to reflect appropriately the
range of research and researchers across the unit.

Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income
The Law’s strategy to increase funding for research has involved a) pro-active identification of
funding sources and opportunities, and b) clearly articulated ambitions and targets for individual
researchers and Research Groups.

The approach to bidding for external funding in Law is aligned to the strategy of pursuing research
that has a positive, practical impact on fairness, justice and respect for the rule of law, nationally
and internationally. A major strategic element is collaboration, nationally and internationally, with
universities and relevant stakeholders in securing funding from, amongst others:
   - international bodies such as the EU (£40k) e.g. for ‘Pre-trial Detention and Alternatives -
      Monitoring Practice’ (the basis of the pre-trial detention impact case study)
   - UK-based charities such as the Nuffield Foundation (£192k) (see below).
   - UK central government bodies (£116k) such as Public Health England (see below).
   - Research Councils (£450k) such as the ESRC (see below)

Chiefly, this funding has enabled three different types of research outcome:
  1) empirically-based academic outputs such as those included in this submission (e.g. Rumney
      and Fenton investigating the response of a specialist policing unit to allegations of rape,
      funded by the British Academy);
  2) organization of events leading to networking opportunities (e.g. Blanco’s work on human
      development, the environment and economic policies, and Johnston’s work on disclosure), as

                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

      well as gathering information through formal and informal channels (e.g. Quenivet’s work on
      military investigations supported by the British Academy);
   3) research leading directly to impact (e.g. the pre-trial detention case study).

Two major projects exemplify these approaches and outcomes:
  1) The work undertaken by Devine (and later Parker as PI) investigating child protection in the
     UK and recommending practical solutions wherever appropriate. Originally funded by the
     ESRC (‘Rethinking Child Protection Strategy: Evaluating Research Findings and Numeric
     Data to Challenge whether Current Intervention Strategy Is Justified’ – £160k), the project
     subsequently won further funding from the Nuffield Foundation (‘Investigating the Reasons for
     the Rise in Care Order Applications in the Family Courts’ – £192k) and from the ESRC (‘The
     “Risk of Risk”: Remodelling Artificial Intelligence Algorithms for Predicting Child Abuse’ –
     £201k). Among the outputs of this research were the production of reports submitted to
     Parliament and the Government (for example, ‘Report of the Submission to the Law
     Commission’s Thirteenth Programme of Law Reform Consultation: Children's Social Care’ to
     the All-Party Parliamentary Group for Children, 2016; submission to the Open Consultation by
     HM Government: Reporting and Acting on Child Abuse and Neglect, 2017).
  2) The Intervention Initiative under the leadership of Fenton (sometimes in collaboration with
     Rumney) was funded initially by Public Health England through ‘Domestic Violence University
     Bystander Intervention Resources Specification’ (£10k) and then a further £27k for ‘Valuation
     of the Intervention Initiative (A Bystander Intervention Programme for Universities)’. Later,
     Bristol City Council supported the research at local level (‘The Intervention Initiative for the
     community’, £10k, and ‘Neighbourhood Partnership: Implementing the Intervention Initiative’,
     £5k). Not only was the Intervention Initiative the first evidence-based bystander programme
     for England but it has had significant impact on the HE sector in the UK. The Government's
     ‘Ending Violence against Women and Girls Strategy 2016-2020’ (page 38) states that it ‘will
     promote the learning from this programme to support development of wider bystander
     programmes to help tackle VAWG.’ This work was undertaken by Fenton at UWE prior to her
     move to the University of Exeter.

Additionally, some 8-10 bids a year were made by members of the unit for relatively small amounts
of income (up to £50k per bid). As a consequence of our priority to promote bidding, the number of
successful bids and research income have increased substantially in the current REF period,
quadrupling from £150,311 in the last REF cycle (£25k per year) to £667,424 (£95k per year) over
this REF period. This improvement can largely be attributed to the work of the CALR in providing
support for bidding in the form of ‘how to’ sessions, pre-submission reviews and peer-reviews, and
support though allocating time for research and related activities.

In contrast to the previous REF submission, Law secured funding through Knowledge Transfer
Partnerships, reflecting the strategy of promoting research with clear routes to impact. Through the
KTP scheme, Turksen (now at University of Coventry) was awarded funding of £200k to create
and apply legal compliance methodology used for large multinational companies to develop an
environmental and health and safety legal compliance software tool for smaller businesses
operating in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). As part of the KTP, Turksen undertook corporate
mentoring, consultancy, and developed short courses tailored to industry needs, as well as
research.

Law has also secured funding for research and consultancy from sources such as:
  1) the Open Society Justice Initiative, supporting Cape’s research on fair trials in Europe.
  2) law firms, providing staff with opportunities to share expertise on financial crime with relevant
     stakeholders (see case study). More specifically, Wilmington Plc sought and paid for advice
     on counter-terrorist financing in 2015-2016 from Ryder and Turksen, and LexisNexis Risk
     Solutions sought and paid for advice from Ryder in 2018-2019 on anti-money laundering.
  3) police bodies, such as the Gwent Police and Crime Commissioner, to access the knowledge

                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

      and expertise of Rumney on sexual crimes.

Infrastructure and Facilities
Law staff are based in a new £55m building that opened in 2018 and houses both the Law School
and the Bristol Business School. The building offers learning spaces for individual and group study,
interactive learning environments and conference rooms. For PGR students, state-of-the-art
facilities are provided in the new building with dedicated office space, IT support, etc. A 17,200m2
space serves 5,500 students, and contains 148 offices over 7 floors. The new building also
includes: two showcase law courts; a 300-seat lecture theatre and two Harvard lecture theatres
(which host Distinguished Professorial Addresses and Annual Lectures organized by the School –
see Section 4); an external business engagement space; a Pro Bono business and law clinic (see
Section 4); and spaces for hire by business and partners for events, conferences, training and
meetings.

Research activity is directly supported by the University’s central professional services, including
Research Business & Innovation (e.g. to support bidding, establishing business partnerships,
research governance and ethics), the Graduate School (support for PGR students throughout their
doctoral journey), Library Services (e.g. supports the Research Repository, advice on data
management, open access publishing) and the Academic Practice Directorate (which offers a range
of Advance HE accredited programmes for achieving fellowship recognition), (see Institutional
Environment Statement – Section 4).

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
Law School staff were engaged in a significant number of collaborative projects during the
assessment period with a view to conducting interdisciplinary research and research with impact.
They include;

   1) Global Crime, Justice and Security Research Group

   a) The Centre for Research and Evidence on Security Threats (CREST) funded by the ESRC, of
      which Ryder is a co-investigator. The Centre, led by Lancaster University, also includes
      experts from the Universities of Birmingham, Portsmouth, Bath and Cranfield. It acts as a
      national hub for maximising behavioural and social science research into understanding,
      countering and mitigating security threat. The Centre was funded for five years from 2015 with
      £7.23 million from the UK security and intelligence agencies and a further £2.9 million by the
      founding institutions. The overall value of the ESRC grant is £4,130,400 of which UWE was
      awarded £40,000.

   b) Rumney and Fenton were co-investigators in a £780k ESRC-funded project led by the
      University of Bristol and involving a collaboration with researchers from Cardiff University. The
      aim was to address how ‘justice’ – in its wider sense – is understood, sought and experienced
      by victims/survivors of gender-based violence (which includes sexual and domestic violence,
      forced marriage and ‘honour-based’ violence) as well as by key practitioners.

   2) Environmental Law and Sustainability Research Group

   a) Razzaque was the coordinating lead author of the Global Assessment on Biodiversity and
      Ecosystem Services of the United Nations Inter-Governmental Panel on Biodiversity and
      Ecosystem Services (2016-2019). Funded by the United Nations and approved by the UN
      member states in May 2019, this landmark report provided a comprehensive picture of the
      relationship between economic development pathways and their impacts on nature,

                                                                                         Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     presenting an array of policy responses to promote transformative change, and contributing to
     the post-2030 Agenda of the United Nations for biodiversity governance. Razzaque examined
     the challenges and opportunities for decision makers at all levels including relevant UN
     Agencies and national governments. During May-June 2019, global media coverage metrics
     show that the report was translated into 49 languages, reached 165 countries and was cited
     over 8,300 on online news sites. Razzaque was the lead author of ‘Chapter 6: Options for
     Decision-makers’, contributed to the ‘Summary for Policy Makers’ and the publication of an
     article in the prestigious journal Science.

   b) UWE was instrumental in helping the city of Bristol’s successful bid to be the UK’s first
      European Green Capital in 2015. Consequently, Law staff were involved in a variety of
      activities. For example, Razzaque contributed to reports published in 2016 celebrating Bristol
      Green Capital partnership, including reference to her highly-acclaimed book on International
      Environmental Law and the Global South (Cambridge 2015). As well as Razzaque’s
      Inaugural Lecture on ‘The Green Economy and Forest Ecosystem Services: Assessing the
      global North – South Divide’, she was also the Session Convenor for the SLSA Conference
      entitled ‘Renewable Energy and Sustainable Development’ (Warwick, 2015), a plenary
      speaker on ‘Forest ecosystem services and the north-south divide’ in the IUCN Colloquium on
      Environmental law (Indonesia, 2015) and on ‘Agricultural investment, the South and the
      North’ in the Asian Society of International Law Colloquium (Thailand, 2015).

Interdisciplinary Networks
Three interdisciplinary networks are hosted by the Law School:

   1) The Financial Crime Research Network (Ryder) launched in July 2016 was rebranded in
      2020 as the Financial Crime and Cyber Crime Research Network to reflect the research
      interests of the financial crime staff in Law and cybersecurity researchers in the Faculty of
      Environment and Technology, as well as to align itself with the research beacon ‘Digital
      Futures’. The network brings together approximately 30 experts in financial crime and cyber
      security investigating the link between the two.
   2) Launched in 2018, the Independent Organized Crime Research Network for Law
      Enforcement and Academics aims to develop better cooperation between academics and
      practitioners by bringing together academics from across the South West with senior officers
      of the Metropolitan Police Service and staff of the South West Regional Organised Crime
      Unit, the Institute of Statecraft and the Tax Justice Network. Young heads the network and
      organizes regular meetings and conferences.
   3) The Global Network for the Study of Human Rights and the Environment, established in 2010
      by its current Director Grear (then UWE, now Cardiff University), comprises 180 academics
      from around the world, including eminent thinkers in the field. It hosts the largest online
      research repository in the world dedicated to human rights and the environment and facilitates
      a range of high-quality events and publications. Grant and Das represent UWE Law in the
      network’s core team.

Visiting Scholars
Over the assessment period the School has hosted five Visiting Scholars who have enriched the
research culture and facilitated collaborative opportunities: (1) Karpe, a senior legal researcher and
international expert working for CIRAD, a French agricultural research and international cooperation
state organization working for the sustainable development of tropical and Mediterranean regions,
currently based in Kenya; (2) Basile, Academic Fellow at the Department of
Law of Bocconi University in Italy, a co-author with Ryder on investigating the different approaches
towards tackling economic crime in the UK and Italy; (3) Nortje, Lecturer at the Faculty of Law of
the University of Western Cape in South Africa, who co-wrote a book with Quenivet on child
soldiers; (4) Atack, a member of the Independent Organized Crime Research Network for Law


                                                                                        Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Enforcement and Academics and former Detective Sergeant in the Metropolitan Police Service,
working with Young; (5) Blanco, Professor in the Civil Law Department at the Faculty of Social
Work, Complutense University of Madrid in Spain who is co-writing a book chapter with Blanco on
alternative dispute resolution.

Wider Activities and Contributions to Research Base, Economy and Society
Bristol Law School staff have engaged in a wide variety of activities contributing to the research
base.

Editorial Positions
Staff hold editorial positions in journals including: Journal of Environmental Law (Razzaque),
Journal of Human Rights and the Environment (Grant), Journal of Trafficking, Organized Crime and
Security (Jones), Manchester Journal of International Economic Law (Blanco), Financial
Regulation International (Ryder), British Journal of White Collar Crime (Ryder), Goode: Consumer
Credit Law and Practice (Ryder), Business and Management Research (Ryder), Criminal Law
Review (Cape) and International Journal of the Jurisprudence of the Family (Dadomo). Grant is
editor of the ‘Critical Reflections on Human Rights and the Environment’ series for Edward Elgar.
Ryder is editor of the ‘The Law Relating to Financial Crime’ series for Routledge Cavendish and
was co-editor of the ‘Risky Groups and Control’ series for Palgrave MacMillan.

Contribution to Learned Societies and Professional Associations
Such contributions include membership of the Informal Legal Working Group and member of the
Toxic Remnants of War Project (Das); International Public Health Research Group and Invited
member of the British Association of Social Workers National Adoption Inquiry policy and ethics
steering group (Devine); EverywomanEverywhere initiative of Harvard University (Jones);
European Woman Lawyers Association (Jones); the Wales Assembly of Women (Jones); Centre
for Law Environment and Development (Razzaque); IUCN Academy of Environmental Law
(Razzaque); IUCN World Commission on Environmental Law (Razzaque); Environmental Law
Professors Network (Razzaque); Inter-governmental Panel on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services
(Razzaque); Advisory Group for Somerset & Avon Rape & Sexual Abuse specialist support service
for people with learning disabilities (Rumney); Fraud Advisory Panel (Ryder); European Society for
Banking and Financial Law (Ryder); European Working Group on Organisational Crime (Ryder);
Wales Fraud Forum (Ryder); Credit Union Research Forum (Ryder); Global Initiative against
Transnational Organized Crime (Young); Tax Justice Network (Young).

Other evidence of esteem includes; Research Fellowship at the Lauterpacht Centre for International
Law in Cambridge University (Das and Young); Keynote Speaker at the Research Institute for
Environmental Law, Wuhan China, 2014 (Razzaque); Keynote Speaker ‘Evidence-Based Policy
and Practice: Challenges and Prospects’ at a Modern Law Review-sponsored seminar at the
University of Northumbria School of Law, 2014 (Rumney); Keynote Speaker for NATO in 2018,
EUROPOL in 2019 and Taxlinked in 2019 (Ryder).

Linking Research and Teaching
In line with UWE priorities, linking research and teaching is an important aspect of the wider
collaborative activities carried out by the School. Quenivet is a regular guest lecturer on the
protection of children and women at the International Criminal Court Summer School of the
University of Galway, Ireland. The ELSR Group organises an annual student conference in
collaboration with the Universities of Bristol, Swansea and Cardiff, thereby giving students the
opportunity to present their research to a group of academics and external stakeholders. Rumney
and Johnston worked with students as part of a research project for a local organisation that
supports victims and survivors of sexual violence. The project enables students on the ‘Sexual
Offences and Offending’ module to research the answers to questions put to them by the
organisation, which is then formulated into a report and presented to its CEO.


                                                                                         Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Consultancy and Evaluation Projects
Demand for the expertise of staff members is evident in activities such as consultancy and
evaluation projects, and through providing legal advice as well as training.

In 2017, Razzaque, as a consultant of the World Bank funded project on ‘REDD+ Grievance and
Redress Mechanism’, assisted the Nigerian government in preparing national policy on reduced
emissions from deforestation and forest degradation. Razzaque’s report examined various ways to
strengthen policy, legal and institutional frameworks for managing forest-related grievances and
conflicts that address stakeholders’ concerns. Smith is often consulted on pre-trial detention issues
(e.g. by the Victorian Royal Commission in Australia in 2019, Chinese criminal judges in 2019, and
JUSTICE in 2020).

Evaluation projects include an evaluation of the training given to immigration officers as part of their
role in identifying trafficked persons (Elliott), criminal justice agency response to crime (Rumney),
the use and impact of new protocols in the family courts (Whewell), the efficacy of a university-
based crime reduction strategy (Fenton) and the review of KPI measurements of the dedicated
Cheque and Plastic Crime Unit of the City of London Police (Ryder).

Legal Advice and Training
Staff have run CPD events (including those attracting points for law practitioners) in criminal justice
(e.g. ‘Victims and Perpetrators of Sexual Violence’ seminars – Rumney), gender discrimination (UN
CEDAW training in the UK – Jones), banking and finance (for members of the Financial Services
Authority – Young), and counter-terrorist financing (for Wilmington Plc NATO, EUROPOL, Wales
Fraud Forum, Nationwide and the West Midlands Fraud Forum – Ryder).

Staff have assisted in writing training manuals. For example, training and research undertaken by
Ryder resulted in the publication of a 150-page training manual for Wilmington’s employees and
trainers, which is used to instruct financial crime compliance officers in many jurisdictions.

During the assessment period staff provided training for judges and lawyers at the European Law
Academy (Jones and Cape), the Women's Human Rights Institute, Bulgaria (Jones), military
lawyers in the UK and in Italy (Quenivet), humanitarian workers in Kenya and Senegal (organised
by the association Professionals in Humanitarian Assistance and Protection) (Quenivet) and in
Belgium (organised by the International Committee of the Red Cross) (Quenivet), as well as
diplomats, international civil servants and government officials (organised by the United Nations
Institute for Training and Research in Costa Rica) (Grant) and by the UN as part of the UN
Environment Course on Multilateral Environmental Agreements in Finland (Razzaque).

Engagement with Relevant Stakeholders
Members of the School regularly submit written and/or oral evidence to policy-making bodies that is
closely linked to their research. In this regard, they have responded to regional, national and
international priorities and initiatives on the following issues:
   1) protection of women and non-discrimination on the basis of sex/gender under international
      law: Welsh Government: ‘Increasing the representation of Women and other Under-
      represented groups on Public Sector Boards’, 2015 (Jones); National Assembly for Wales
      hearings on the Violence against Women Bill, 2014 (Jones); UN Special Rapporteur on
      Violence against Women concerning the need for an international treaty to eliminate violence
      against women, 2016 (Jones and Quenivet); UN CEDAW Committee concerning the need to
      make General Recommendation 19 into a Treaty, 2016 (Jones); UN Special Rapporteur on
      Torture: Gender and Torture, 2016 (Jones); Home Affairs Select Committee: Domestic
      Abuse, 2018 (Jones); Home Affairs Committee: Prostitution, 2016 (Jones)
   2) conduct of members of the armed forces in situation of armed conflict: Sexual Violence and


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

      Conflict Committee of the House of Lords, 2015 (Quenivet); Joint Committee on Human
      Rights: UK Government’s Policy on Use of Drones for Targeted Killings, 2015 (Quenivet and
      Sari); Ministry of Defence Consultation on Legal Protections for Armed Forces Personnel and
      Veterans Serving in Operations Outside the United Kingdom, 2019 (Quenivet, Stubbins-
      Bates and Wallace);
   3) fight against financial and economic crimes: Joint Committee on the Bribery Act 2010, 2019
      (Ryder); Treasury Select Committee on Economic Crime, 2018 (Ryder); the Law
      Commission’s Review of Suspicious Activity Reports, 2018 (Ryder).

Staff pen reports and policy briefs with a view to influencing policy. For example, ‘A Human Rights
Assessment of Hydraulic Fracturing and other Unconventional Gas Development in the United
Kingdom’, a report commissioned by the Bianca Jagger Human Rights Foundation (co-written by
Grant); ‘Policy Brief for Law Enforcement and Policy Making Agencies in Jamaica May 2018:
Organized Crime Control in Jamaica: A Small Island Country’s Dilemma’ (Young and Woodiwiss);
IPBES Global Assessment Summary for Policy Makers, 2019 (Razzaque); policy paper on 'REDD+
Grievance Redress Mechanism' (Razzaque); The Practice of Pre-trial Detention in England and
Wales: Research Report, 2016 (Smith and Cape).

Public Engagement
Staff participated in a wide range of public engagement events to disseminate their research. Such
events align with the strategic priority of Law to explore new avenues to impact and respond to
contemporary issues. For example, before and after the referendum on the EU, staff members
participated in high profile public events organised by universities in the South West as well as the
City of Bristol (Dadomo and Quenivet).

Two free public engagement series were organised to enable Law staff to showcase research and
expertise in an accessible way for members of the public and professionals:
  1) The ‘Understanding Sexual Violence and Abuse’ public engagement series (Rumney and
     McCartan in Criminology) aimed to educate and engage the public in the prevention of sexual
     assault, abuse and exploitation in a non-theoretical and accessible manner. It featured a
     range of subjects and brought together members of the public, professionals, practitioners,
     scholars and students. The five ‘Understanding Sexual Violence and Abuse’ events had over
     500 registered attendees.
  2) A series of free ‘Family Law Sessions’ was established in 2015 (Whewell). These sessions
     are open to the public and are the first of their kind to be offered in England and Wales. The
     idea was inspired by His Honour Judge Wildblood QC, the Designated Family Judge for the
     Bristol area, with the intention of making the work and operation of the Family Court as
     transparent as possible to all. The first two sessions attracted nearly 200 attendees.

External Speakers
The Faculty supports a series of Distinguished Professorial Addresses that enables the School to
invite eminent specialists to share their thoughts and knowledge on topical issues with staff and
students as well as the wider public. Among the speakers during the REF period were Schmitt (then
US Naval War College, now University of Reading) on cyber conflict, Dougan (University of
Liverpool) on Brexit, Abate (then Florida A&M University College of Law in Orlando, US and now
Monmouth University, US) on climate litigation, Kotzé (North West University, South Africa) on the
Anthropocene, Pech (University of Middlesex) on the rule of law in Europe, Arnull (University of
Birmingham) on trust and the European Union, and Akande (University of Oxford) on drones and
armed conflict.

To further enrich the research culture of the School, we also invited prominent speakers to deliver
the CALR Annual Lecture, including Rashida Manjoo, then UN Special Rapporteur on Violence
Against Women, barrister Tunde Okewale and environmentalist George Monbiot.


                                                                                         Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Other public events organised by the School have included (i) a panel on the disclosure crisis in the
criminal justice system that brought together the victim (Liam Allan), the defence lawyer and the
prosecutor and ii) an evening with David Rudolf, the defence lawyer in the infamous Michael
Peterson case which garnered worldwide attention as the focal point of the hit Netflix documentary
series 'The Staircase'.




                                                                                        Page 15
