Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Queen’s University Belfast

 Unit of Assessment: 17

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1. Overview
 Queen’s Management School (QMS) has experienced a continual step-change in its size and
 research activity over the past two decades. Table 1 provides some metrics which illustrate this
 growth and its sustainability. The diverse research culture in QMS has resulted in a vibrant
 research environment, the vitality of which is illustrated in Table 2. The University has prioritised
 the School over this REF cycle by investing heavily in staff and infrastructure. The School has a
 unique set of interdisciplinary research centres which focus on economic history, health,
 leadership, and the public and not-for-profit sectors.

 Table 1: Evidence of Growth and Sustainability over Two Decades
  Indicators                  RAE 2001          RAE 2008      REF 2014               REF 2021
  Academics (FTEs)            34.55             44            54.33                  68
  Research income (£m)        0.72              2.50          4.64                   6.68
  PhDs awarded                4                 29            52                     63
  Research quality profile    4B                2.65          2.88                   -
  FT50 publications           3                 9             18                     25
  Ranking (based on           33=               25            9                      -
  research intensity)

 Table 2. Evidence of Research Vitality for REF Review Period
  Editorial roles at journals                    30
  No. of research seminars hosted                593
  No. international speakers hosted              201
  Sabbaticals taken (in person months)           31 staff (208 person months)
  Conferences attended                           464

 1.2. Organisation
 The School is organised into four academic departments (see Table 3) and three interdisciplinary
 research centres (see Table 4). The School also has a long-standing relationship with the Gibson
 Institute, which is renowned for its research into land and environmental economics. Furthermore,
 academics in the School participate in two of the University’s Global Research Institutes (the
 Senator George J. Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice and the Institute of
 Electronics, Communications and Information Technology) and have collaborated on research
 with the University’s Centre for Public Health and the University’s Centre for Evidence and Social
 Innovation.

 Table 3. Academic Departments from REF2014 to REF2021
                         Number of research active     Number of research active
                         academics (FTE) - October     academics (FTE) - July 2020
                         2013
  Accounting             5.0                           8.2
  Economics              14.2                          15.8
  Finance                9.2                           15.8
  Management             21.6                          25.0
  Gibson Institute       4.3                           3.2
  Total                  54.3                          68.0
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Table 4. Research Centres in QMS at July 2020
                              Year of      Number of QMS          Number of         Number of
                              Creation     academics              PhD students      external
                                           associated with        associated        affiliates
                                           Centre                 with Centre       associated
                                                                                    with Centre
  Centre for Not-for-Profit     2015          20                  4                 32
  and Public-Sector
  Research
  Centre for Health             2016          30                  3                 25
  Research at the
  Management School
  Queen’s University Centre     2011          20                  9                 10
  for Economic History

 The development of a vital and sustainable research environment is a collective endeavour and
 is shaped by the four heads of department and the three heads of the research centres via the
 School’s Research Committee. The School’s Director of Research coordinates the implementation
 of the School’s research strategy across the four departments and three research centres. The
 Director of Research reports to the Head of the Management School and the Dean for Research
 in the Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences.

 1.3. Research and impact strategy
 The core purpose of research at the Management School is to deepen understanding of how
 markets, business organizations and social institutions work and evolve over time and to distil
 lessons for policy and practice. We do this by interpreting unfolding patterns of economic, business
 and social life in a manner that fosters new theories and ideas, engages in empirical research that
 is grounded in current practices, and develops practical recommendations for public policy as well
 as for institutional and organizational innovations.

 Strategic Vision: QMS aspires to engage in internationally recognised interdisciplinary research
 which has an increasing influence and impact on business and society.

 The School’s vision has been realised through the following strategic objectives which build on
 those outlined in our REF 2014 submission:

       Fostering inter- and intra-disciplinary research collaboration via Research Centres.
       Enriching the research capabilities of Early Career Researchers (ECRs) through a vibrant
        research environment.
       Increasing external research income to support research activity, international
        collaborations and research networks.
       Deepening the quality of our research by raising the proportion of publications rated as
        internationally excellent.
       Increasing engagement with societal, policy, and business stakeholders to facilitate and
        maximise the impact of our research.
       Extending and strengthening our involvement in international research networks.
       Increasing the number of PhD students and improving PhD student training.

 These objectives have been implemented through the four academic departments, the Gibson
 Institute and the three research centres. Given our strategic emphasis on interdisciplinary
 research and on research centres, the implementation of our strategy has focussed on these
 centres and an interdisciplinary research cluster that has been converted into a centre in
 September 2020 rather than departmental structures. The rest of this section will view the
 development of QMS’s research since 2014 through the lens of these centres.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 I. Centre for Not-for-Profit and Public-Sector Research
      Interdisciplinary centre aimed at promoting research, thought leadership and knowledge
         exchange in public-sector/nonprofit organisations.
      Centre published 120 journal articles, 11 books and 47 book chapters in the REF period.
      8 (out of 20) members of the centre have published in ABS4 journals in the REF period.
      Emphasis has been on the academia/practice interface, interdisciplinary perspectives and
         international cross-university engagement.
      Three of the impact case studies (Brexit and the Environment, Credit Union Reform and
         Charity Accounting) of QMS for REF2021 are based on the work of the CNPR.
      Has been successful in attracting £0.5m of grants over the REF period.

 This Centre was established in 2015, in response to our strategy outlined in REF 2014 to develop
 research centres to drive research excellence, engagement and impact. Its overall aim is to build
 and co-ordinate academic and sector expertise that will allow the examination, analysis and
 evaluation of not-for profit and public-sector organisations in order to promote understanding, good
 management practices, and evidence-based policy development and debate. As can be seen from
 Table 4, the Centre at present has 56 members and this comprises academics drawn from QMS
 and the wider University, senior academics from universities around the globe, and industry
 experts. Since its establishment, the Centre has been strengthened by the recruitment of three
 ECRs and one established researcher.

 CNPR has captured £0.52m in grant income since its 2015 establishment. Its members have been
 awarded grants from a wide variety of bodies, including the British Academy, Cordaid/Hague
 Institute for Social Justice, ESRC, Department for Communities NI, Money and Pensions Service,
 and Money Advice Service.

 The CNPR has organised a range of research/practice interface conferences/ workshops working
 with, among others: BAFA, Charity Commission (E&W), Charity Commission (NI), CIPFA, NI Audit
 Office and the Irish League of Credit Unions. Special Issues of international journals have been
 associated with these conferences including: The British Accounting Review, Abacus and
 Financial Accountability & Management. In addition, it hosted the EIASM Workshop on the
 Challenges of Managing the Third Sector (June 2017) and organised the EIASM Public Sector
 Conference (planned September 2020 – now postponed and rescheduled for September 2021
 due to Covid-19).

 The CNPR has an international reputation for its work (and impact) over an array of public-
 sector/nonprofit settings, including: credit unions/financial hardship (French, McKillop, Quinn);
 public-sector reform (Connolly, Hazlett, Hyndman, Liguori, Murphy, Stewart); nonprofit
 accountability/governance (Best, Connolly, Currie, Hastings, Hyndman, Liguori); and healthcare
 management (Melo).

 II. Centre for Health Research at the Management School (CHaRMS)
       Centre which is recognised for research in health, employee wellbeing and population
         science from a finance, economics, actuarial science, and management perspective.
       Centre published 109 journal articles, 2 books and 33 book chapters in the REF period.
       Has attracted £1.2m in grant funding, including Knowledge Transfer Partnerships.
       11 (out of 30) members of the centre have published in ABS4 journals in the REF period.

 CHaRMS was established in 2016, in response to our strategy outlined in REF 2014. The centre
 provides an evidence base for supporting policy development and management within the fields
 of health and human wellbeing. The centre works actively with other schools within the University,
 other institutions and local bodies on interdisciplinary research on policy relevant initiatives. The
 REF 2014 submission prioritised investment in this interdisciplinary research centre. Since 2016
 the centre has been augmented by the addition of six ECRs one of whom has already been
 promoted to senior lecturer.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Since 2016 CHaRMS academics have brought in research grant funding worth £1.2m to QMS and
 much more to Queen’s. This includes funds obtained from UK funders (ESRC, Biotechnology &
 Biological Sciences Research Council, Wellcome Trust, and Leverhulme Trust) and international
 funders (UNICEF, US National Institute for Health Research). Also, the centre has been involved
 in two Knowledge Transfer Partnerships with local industry partners.

 CHaRMS is structured around three main research themes: (1) health, (2) employee wellbeing,
 and (3) population science. Staff are carrying out research on the following themes. The Health
 theme has expertise in healthcare quality management (Melo, Palmer); demand for health
 services (Dickey; Graham); early life conditions (McGovern); HIV, stress (French); malaria
 (Flückiger); pharmaceuticals (Kelly); and hospital systems (Hesaraki). The Employee Wellbeing
 theme interests include work disability (McVicar); human resources (Lin); work stress (Hastings),
 and workforce ageing (Schröder). The Population Science theme focuses on the causal
 determinants of health inequalities (Dimico, Fernihough); social marketing (Downey); evaluating
 policy interventions (McGovern); fertility (Flückiger), and has emerging expertise in COVID-19
 (Guimares, Dimico, Schröder, French).

 III. Queen’s University Centre for Economic History
       Interdisciplinary research centre which is internationally recognised for research in
         accounting, business, economic and financial history.
       Centre published 115 journal articles, 3 books and 31 book chapters in the REF period.
       5 (out of 20) members of the centre have published in FT50 journals in the REF period and
         11 (out of 20) members have published in ABS4 journals.
       Has attracted ESRC, Leverhulme and EC Horizon 2020 grants in REF review period.
       High degree of media and societal engagement by Centre members.
       Two of the School’s impact cases studies for REF2021 are based on the work of QUCEH.

 According to the Tilburg University Research Ranking, Queen’s University Belfast is recognised
 as one of the leading centres of economic history in the world – based on performance over the
 past decade it is ranked 11th by them. A key strategic priority highlighted in our REF 2014
 submission was further investment in this interdisciplinary research centre. Since 2014, the Centre
 has been strengthened by the recruitment of five ECRs and one established researcher. The
 vibrant research environment of the centre has resulted in three of these ECRs already being
 promoted.

 During the REF period, the Centre has been part of the new ESRC-sponsored NINE DTP for
 Social and Economic History. It has also been successful in obtaining major grants during the REF
 period – including two ESRC New Researcher grants (de Bromhead and Fernihough), a
 Leverhulme grant (Aldous and Turner), and an EC Horizon 2020 grant (Campbell, Coyle and
 Turner).

 The Centre has a well-established reputation for its research in financial history – work which
 encompasses bubbles, banking crises and regulation (Campbell, Colvin, Coyle, Fliers, Quinn and
 Turner), corporate governance (Aldous, Colvin, Fliers and Turner), historical asset pricing and
 financial markets (Campbell, Turner, Walker), and historical monetary regimes (de Bromhead,
 Colvin and Fliers). In terms of economic history, thanks to recruitment, the Centre now has
 international strengths in demography (Colvin and Fernihough), globalisation and trade (de
 Bromhead and Fernihough), and the effect of historical institutions on economic growth (Dimico).
 In terms of accounting and business history, the Centre is renowned for its expertise on industrial
 policy (Brownlow), business ownership and the corporation (Aldous, Fliers and Turner), and the
 history of the brewing industry (Quinn).

 IV. Leadership, Ethics and Organisation Cluster
 The growth of QMS and the development of the William J. Clinton Leadership Institute since 2014
 have focused attention on both scholarly and practitioner interest in the areas of leadership theory,
 behaviours and practices, ethical decision making / sustainability and organisational development
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and change. This has contributed to the development of a research cluster structured around
 these themes, within the wider context of a concern for grand challenges, wicked problems and
 system-wide change. This cluster was formalised into a new research centre in September 2020.
 The aims of the centre are to stimulate:
      Internationally recognised interdisciplinary research which is known for both rigour and
        relevance around the themes of leadership, ethical engagement and organisational
        change
      To frame this research within a wider understanding of global concerns, grand challenges
        and wicked problems.
      To actively facilitate and encourage cluster / centre members and associates to work
        collectively and publish widely as a mechanism for knowledge generation and social
        impact.
      To encourage and facilitate members and associates to seek research funding within and
        across disciplinary boundaries with a concern for rigor and relevance.

 The Centre’s programmes are focused on leadership (Murphy, Aldous, Hazlett), ethics and
 sustainability (Hazlett, Best, Graham, Vlajic, McCourt, Ma, Prendergast, McCarthy), organisational
 development and change (Murphy, Currie, Cullinane, Isichei, Melo, Liguori). The Centre also has
 significant strength in its genuinely interdisciplinary and sector-bridging work. For example –
 stakeholder management (Best, Hazlett, Currie, Melo, Connolly), international strategy (Aldous,
 Conroy, Liu, Messina), industrial relations (Cullinane, Currie, Hastings, Teague), international
 HRM (Isichei, Kelly, Schröder), corporate governance (Aldous, Fliers, Liu, Tokbolat), and
 innovation (McCole, Palmer, Messina, Luong, Zhang, Warner, Downey).

 V. The Gibson Institute
      Specialist economics unit in Global Institute for Food Security in Faculty of Medicine,
        Health Care and Life Sciences, which is internationally recognised for research in
        economics applied to the environment, energy, health and agri-food.
      Institute published 42 journal articles and 4 book chapters in the REF period. 2 members
        have published in ABS4 journals.
      Partners with QMS and others in some of QUB’s largest interdisciplinary UKRI grants, e.g.,
        Phase 1 and 2 of ESRC/MRC Centre of Excellence for Public Health NI.
      Economic consultancy to the regulated electricity and water industries in UK and Australia.

 Our strategy in REF period to advance expertise in Bayesian Efficient Survey (BES) design for
 choice modelling and applied economic experiments in developing countries led to recruitment of
 agricultural and development economist (Bozzola) from ETH Zurich. Similarly, research in risk and
 uncertainty using both experiments and Choice Modelling was advanced by Cerroni’s recruitment.

 During the REF period, the Institute (Hutchinson and Longo) was part of the MRC funded Centre
 of Excellence for Public Health along with QMS and others, and won a sizable NIHR grant in the
 economics of physical activity, with (Longo) winning a further NERC grant. An Invest NI grant won
 with industry (Hutchinson and Cerroni) studied consumer uncertainty in food choice and (Longo
 and Bozzola) won Invest NI funding to research wildlife economics in Zimbabwe. Longo as PI won
 an interdisciplinary BBSRC grant on marine biomass.

 The Gibson Institute has a world class reputation in Bayesian Efficient Design in choice modelling,
 publishing the earliest survey of this type in 2007. In the REF period (Longo, Boeri, Cerroni,
 Bozzola, Scarpa and Hutchinson) applied choice modelling extensively to a range of economic
 applications. In the REF period, Cerroni and Hutchinson studied risk and uncertainty in food choice
 using experiments and Hutchinson, Longo, Scarpa, Boeri, Bozzola, and Cerroni advanced their
 international reputation in the Contingent Valuation Method (CVM). Research in Care, farming for
 rehabilitation of mental disability, was developed by Stephens and Hutchinson.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.4. Research and impact strategy 2027
 Research is at the centre of the School’s mission and will continue to be a key focus over the next
 decade. As well as building on existing processes and strengths, the School will pursue the
 following objectives to ensure the sustainability and vitality of its research:
       Develop Research Centres. A key plank of our strategy to date has been to build
         interdisciplinary research centres. We have just established a new Centre for Leadership,
         Ethics and Organisational Change, which will build on the existing cluster and the School’s
         standing as a PRME Champion. The School will continue to invest staff and resources into
         its four Research Centres. Furthermore, the School will also leverage its position in one of
         the leading UK cities for data analytics by developing a Research Centre for Business,
         Economics and Financial Analytics.
       Build collaboration networks with international partners. Through our Research Centres,
         we will be pursuing further institutional research collaboration with other centres of
         excellence at international universities to develop academic and PhD student exchange.
         We will achieve this objective by growing our partnership network with accredited business
         schools around the globe.
       Facilitate and recognise research engagement and impact. To improve further the impact
         of our research, we want to help our ECRs translate their research so that they can engage
         with and then impact non-academic users, including executives and our undergraduate
         and postgraduate students. This will require mentoring in this area and embedding into
         Research Centres as well as explicit recognition within the School’s Workload Model for
         engagement and impact activities.
       Incentivise quality outputs. QMS wants to increase substantially the number of publications
         in 4* and FT50 journals as well as books with leading publishers. To achieve this objective,
         we will create appropriate support and incentive systems.
       Transform our PhD programme. QMS wants to increase the number of PhD students so
         that we have one student per member of academic staff. We also want to transform our
         PhD training so that it focuses more on placement in academic and research institutions.
         We will aim to increase the length of our programme to four years and have compulsory
         first-year courses on methodology and data science.

 1.5. Research integrity, research ethics and open access
 QMS adheres to the wider University’s policies regarding research integrity, research ethics and
 open access. Research integrity, research ethics and open access in the School is overseen by
 the Research Ethics Champion, who chairs the Research Ethics Committee and reports to the
 School’s Research Committee. During the REF period, QMS has championed open access
 through its SSRN working paper series and the working paper series of its Research Centres.

 2. People

 2.1. Overview
 The key enabler of our research and impact strategy during the REF period was people.
 Consequently, QMS has invested heavily in research-active staff to develop our Research Centres
 and raise the quality of our research. To develop our global research networks, we recruited ECRs
 from all over the globe over the past seven years. To attract and retain staff, QMS has established
 a vibrant research culture, which has been driven and shaped by our research centres. A key part
 of our culture is that research-active staff have all their teaching in one semester, leaving the other
 semester free for research. In addition, a major innovation over the past seven years has been
 the development of policies which support colleagues who have taken maternity or dependency
 leave. On their return, the School ensures that their first semester back is free from teaching and
 major administrative responsibilities.

 2.2. Staffing profile and strategy
 The organisational structure of QMS is illustrated in Figure 1. Overall, research leadership is
 provided by a Director of Research, who has been supported for parts of this REF cycle by a
 Research Impact Champion. The heads of the four departments support the Director of Research
 by providing research leadership at a disciplinary level. The Director of Graduate Studies has
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 overall responsibility for the School’s PhD programme, but the day-to-day running of the
 programme is delegated to a Director of Postgraduate Research. These leadership roles are for
 a fixed term of three years, with the possibility of renewal for a further three years. In terms of
 succession planning, the Director of Research role is usually filled by a Head of Department or the
 Director of Postgraduate Research. The Director of Graduate Studies is typically filled by someone
 who has been a director for a postgraduate programme. Consideration is given to the School’s
 Athena SWAN commitments when making appointments to senior leadership roles.

 Table 5. Staffing profile REF 2014 and REF 2021
                  % female % non-UK         %                         % Senior          %Lecturer
                                            Professor/Reader          Lecturer
  REF 2014        33.3         40.0         31.1                      13.3              55.5
  REF 2021        30.1         52.9         24.2                      27.3              48.5

 Figure 1. QMS organisational chart




 Table 5 shows the change in composition of research-active staff in QMS. Notably, our strategy
 of recruiting ECRs from around the globe has been successful, with the proportion of research
 staff from outside the UK now in excess of 50%. The focus of the School on recruiting ECRs rather
 than senior academics arises from the fact that the peripherality of Belfast and the ongoing process
 of conflict transformation which characterises Northern Ireland has made it difficult to attract senior
 academics to the School in a very competitive market. Consequently, the School’s strategy has
 focused on mentoring ECRs through to senior lectureships and professorships. The success of
 this strategy can be seen in the number of promotions which occurred between 2015 and 2020 –
 17 colleagues promoted to Senior Lecturer and 4 to Reader/Professor. Our staffing strategy until
 2027 will continue to be a grow-our-own strategy, with the objective that we will have an improved
 balance between junior and senior academics by the next REF. This will deepen our research
 outputs, impact and reputation.

 In order to attract ECRs to the School, we have actively used our research culture and base to
 recruit. We have targeted PhD students and invited them to our seminar series and PhD
 colloquiums before they go on the job market. In addition, the semester-on-semester-off teaching
 arrangement makes us very attractive to ECRs who want the time and space to develop their
 research. The Research Centres have also played an important role in attracting new colleagues
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to the School – a critical mass of researchers in related areas, with expert mentors, makes us an
 attractive destination.

 At the beginning of this REF period, the School set itself ambitious targets to double the number
 of international and postgraduate students. The School also wanted to obtain PRME Champion
 status, launch an entrepreneurship agenda, and have greater interaction with practice. To meet
 these aspirations, QMS recruited 11 Lecturers of Education, 1 Senior Lecturer of Education, 1
 Lecturer of Practice, and 4 Professors of Practice. The recruitment of these staff has benefited
 research-active staff in two ways. First, these recruits have freed research-active staff to
 concentrate on their research. Second, the recruitment of these staff from industry helps to build
 engagement and impact between academic research and the world of practice.

 2.3. Equality and Diversity
 Table 5 shows that females constitute 30.1% of research-active staff. However, women are still
 underrepresented among the professoriate (25%) and in economics and finance (13% and 7%
 respectively). During the REF period, various strategies have been pursued to improve these
 areas:
      In Finance, an area where it has been difficult to recruit females, we have recruited two
        female lecturers of education who have 40% of their time devoted to completing a PhD.
      Economics is focusing on improving its job descriptions to make them more attractive to
        female applicants.
      When recruiting to senior posts, we have taken steps to increase female applications and
        ensure gender balanced shortlists.
      Voluntary mentoring is provided for all staff and female staff can also avail of mentoring
        provided by the Queen’s Gender Initiative and the Aurora leadership programme.
      The sustainability of female research careers has been supported by providing additional
        research time on return from maternity leave.
      Research Centres have actively sought greater gender balance in their seminar
        programmes to improve the availability of role models and networking opportunities.

 In terms of ethnic diversity, the School’s policy of attracting colleagues from further afield has
 greatly improved the ethnic diversity of our staff. 14 (21%) research-active staff are from a BAME
 background, 12 of these having been appointed since REF 2014.

 QMS has an active diversity and gender equality team which has developed a comprehensive
 programme of actions to improve diversity at all levels amongst staff and students. Our progress
 on gender equality was recently recognised through an Athena SWAN Bronze award.

 2.4. Staff development strategy
 The School has five key elements to its staff development strategy which contribute to a
 sustainable research environment that exhibits vitality:
       Dedicated research time is facilitated through workload models so that staff can devote
          40% of their time to research. Furthermore, where requested by staff, teaching is
          concentrated into one semester in the academic year so that colleagues have a semester
          free from teaching each year to concentrate on their research. Staff are also entitled to
          apply for sabbatical leave of one semester normally after six semesters or one year after
          six years. Staff are actively encouraged and supported financially to visit major overseas
          research universities. In the REF-period 208 person months were allocated as
          sabbaticals, which represents a major investment in research. During the REF period,
          staff in the School have been supported to have sabbaticals at leading institutions such
          as Australian National University, Brown University, Duke University, ESC Rennes,
          Harvard Business School, Harvard School of Public Health, Max Planck Institute (Bonn),
          Pompeu Fabra University, UC Davis, University of Cape Town, University of Heidelberg,
          University of Massachusetts, University of Melbourne, University of Victoria, and Yale
          University.
       A major University investment in QMS research followed the Vice-Chancellor’s
          international review of the School and subsequent project implementation group (PIG).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          The School secured £425,000 per annum. This allocation is being used to support PhD
          scholarships, incoming visiting scholars, and outgoing visits by QMS staff.
         Active weekly seminar series are run by each research centre and department. These
          are essential parts of building our research environment and ensuring its sustainability
          and vitality. Speakers at seminar series are a mixture of internal and external academics.
          In the REF period, the School hosted a total of 201 seminars by external international
          scholars such as Barbara Czarniawska (University of Gothenburg), Peter Conti-Brown
          (Wharton), Yousseff Cassis (EUI), David Canning (Harvard), Greg Clark (UC Davis),
          William Goetzmann (Yale), Zorina Khan (Bowdoin), Peter Koudijs (Stanford), Sibylle
          Lehmann-Hasemayer (Hohenheim), Eric Hilt (Wellesley), Naomi Lamoreaux (Yale), and
          Mary O’Sullivan (Geneva), Lee Parker (RMIT University), John Roberts (University of
          Sydney), and John Sherry (Notre Dame).
         Dissemination and feedback on working papers is facilitated by the QMS Research Paper
          Series. The editor of the series and a subject expert give feedback on all papers submitted
          to the series before they appear online. Since 2018 the QMS working paper series has
          been hosted by SSRN at an annual cost of £9,000.
         Impact support and advice for staff is provided by a Faculty Impact Officer, the Director
          of Research, and a School Impact Champion. The School’s International Advisory Board
          has also played an important role in facilitating pathways to impact for colleagues in the
          School.

 2.6. ECR development strategy
 The centrality of ECR development in our research and impact strategy means that we have
 additional support for ECRs in addition to what has been outlined in section 2.5. This additional
 support for ECRs is as follows:
      A research start-up package of £4,000 is given to each ECR when they join to help pump
         prime their next research project.
      The School’s workload model gives ECRs a 50% reduction in teaching and administration
         in year 1 and a 25% reduction in year 2. This is designed to give them time to develop their
         research pipeline.
      A mentor as well as a personal development reviewer are assigned to each ECR. These
         mentors help guide ECRs with their research strategy. In addition to this formal mentorship,
         the research centres and disciplinary groups through their regular meetings provide ECRs
         with feedback on their research ideas and early drafts of their work.
      A series of dedicated writing retreats has been run by the School for ECRs, where senior
         colleagues and external faculty give ECRs advice on their research.

 2.7. PhD students
 QMS has expanded its PhD programme over the REF period, attracting students from its own
 high-quality MSc programmes as well as students from other leading universities who are attracted
 because of our unique research specialisms and Research Centres. Table 6 illustrates the growth
 in our PhD programme as well as the diversity of the PhD cohort. The total registrations in 2019/20
 gives a ratio of 54 students to 68 research-active members of staff. However, it is one that we
 would want to grow over the next REF period so that the ratio of staff to PhD students is over 1.
 During the REF period, the School graduated 63 students.

 Table 6. PhD students at QMS
               Count                         International                 Female
  2014/15      45                            37.7%                         33.3%
  2019/20      54                            57.4%                         44.4%

 Funding. The quality of our PhD programme is a function of our funding base. Funds are secured
 from a variety of competitive sources: (a) the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland, (b)
 the ESRC through via the NINE DTP, and (c) QMS and university scholarships such as the Marie
 Curie funded SPARK, and (d) scholarships from student’s own government. After the international
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 review of the School, it was granted the resources to fund 6 additional PhD scholarships per
 annum, which constitutes an additional £120,000 investment per annum in our PhD programme.

 Doctoral training programme. In 2016 QMS joined the NINE ESRC DTP, which includes all
 universities in Northern Ireland and the Northeast of England. In effect, the DTP is principally a
 collaboration between Queen’s, Durham and Newcastle. The NINE DTP has 12 pathways in total
 and QMS is involved with two of those – Economic and Social History and Management, Business
 and Economics. Between 2017 and 2022, the DTP is committed to offering over 50 studentships
 per annum and a rich training environment which encourages students to approach issues in an
 interdisciplinary manner.

 Skills and training. At the beginning of this REF, QMS developed a more formal approach to skills
 and training of students beyond auditing methodology and econometrics MSc modules. First,
 students on the NINE DTP pathway take formal research methods modules provided by the DTP
 and departments within Queen’s. Second, a weekly seminar series is run for students, where there
 is emphasis on academic skills such as data science, writing, teaching, turning PhD chapters into
 papers, the art of co-authoring, and the academic job market. Third, there is an annual PhD
 colloquium where advanced students present their work to peers, staff and external faculty. First-
 year students present posters at the colloquium. Fourth, the establishment of the Graduate School
 at Queen’s University in 2016 has resulted in greater skills and training opportunities for QMS PhD
 students through schemes such as the postgraduate researcher development programme, the
 peer mentoring scheme, and the development of enterprise and innovation.

 Embedding students into the research culture is a very important part of creating a vital and
 sustainable research environment. This is achieved as follows: (a) PhD students are part of the
 research seminar series and present their work at the various seminar series in the School; (b)
 PhD students have funding to present their work at workshops and conferences; (c) the Research
 Centres include PhD students in all the activities of the centre (and MSc students are also
 encouraged to attend) and have opportunities to meet all visiting seminar speakers; (d) students
 are encouraged to work closely with their supervisory team by co-authoring journal articles – in
 this REF period 17 papers were published where students had co-authored with their
 supervisor(s).

 Employability. A key aim of our PhD programme is to place students in academic and research
 positions. To that end, as well as embedding them into our research culture, we also help them
 acquire teaching skills. During the REF period, of the PhD students who graduated, 50% have
 ended up in academic positions. Our students in recent years have been placed at institutions
 such as Aston University, De Montfort University Leicester, the Dublin Institute of Technology,
 Glasgow University, Higher School of Economics in Moscow, London School of Economics,
 Newcastle University, Nottingham University, Queen’s University Belfast, State University of New
 York, Ulster University, and University College Cork. The majority of those who do not go into
 academia have commenced research positions in organisations such as the CBI, Financial
 Conduct authority, Invest NI, Ministry of Defence, and RTÉ.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. Research income
 QMS views external research income as an input rather than an output measure of research. A
 strategic objective of the School during the REF period was to increase our external research
 income to support our research activity. We had set a growing target so that we would obtain £1
 million per annum towards the end of the REF period. As can be seen from Table 7, this was
 achieved, with the totals for the last three years of the REF period exceeding £1m.

 This uplift in research income was achieved through several means:
     Staff in the School were encouraged to apply for grants through explicit promotion
        incentives. Notably, three of those promoted to Professor/Reader in the REF period had
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        secured major research grants and several staff promoted to Senior Lecturer had likewise
        secured large research grants.
       Mentoring was provided to ECRs applying for major grants. This mentoring came in two
        forms. First, senior colleagues involved ECRs on grant applications. For example, a
        £98,000 Leverhulme grant awarded in 2017 entitled The Rise of Corporate Titans: CEOs
        in the UK, 1900-2016 was a collaboration between an ECR (Aldous) and a senior academic
        (Turner). Similarly, a £90,000 EC Horizon 2020 grant awarded in 2017 for the project
        Historical High-quality Company-level Data for Europe was a collaboration between an
        ECR (Coyle) and two senior colleagues (Campbell and Turner). Second, senior colleagues
        mentored ECRs through grant application process and through the lifetime of their
        research projects. This mentoring resulted in three ECRs in the School receiving early
        career ESRC grants for projects ranging from whistleblowing (Kenny - £154,000), the Irish
        Famine (Fernihough - £149,000) and the Sterling area currency regime (de Bromhead -
        £236,000)
       The Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences established a peer review system for
        all large grant applications to give feedback to applicants. Senior academics from the
        School serve on this peer review panel.
       During the REF period, ECRs were encouraged (and mentored) to apply for British
        Academy small grants to pump prime their next project. 11 ECRs received such grants,
        with an average value of £7,000.

 Over the REF period, this support resulted in 210 applications (for £14.6m) where the outcome
 has been decided and a further 14 applications (for £0.8m) where the outcome is still pending. 73
 of the 210 applications were funded, which is a success rate of 35%.

 Table 7. Research income in REF period (£) (‘000s)
                                     2013 2014 2015 2016 2017           2018    2019    Total
  BEIS Research Councils, The
  Royal Society, British
  Academy and The Royal
  Society of Edinburgh               121   113   203     305    396     323     271     1732
  UK-based charities open
  competitive process                152   109   114     144    154     188     162     1025
  UK central government
  bodies/local authorities, health
  and hospital authorities           228   177   318     300    603     589     660     2873
  UK industry, commerce and
  public corporations                35    16    23      4      23      52      75      228
  EU government bodies               106   69    44      56     56      93      98      520
  EU-based charities open
  competitive process                      8     15      6      8       3       2       42
  EU industry, commerce and
  public corporations                            2                                      2
  EU excluding UK other                    4             2      21      9       3       38
  Non-EU-based charities open
  competitive process                779   1     312            623     2       43      5
  Non-EU other                       3     2     3                                      8
  Health research funding
  bodies                             2     43    44      34     38      26      23      211
                                     648   541   766     849    1300    1284    1295    6682
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As can be seen from Table 7, external funding over the REF period totalled £6.68m. External
 funding has come from a wide variety of sources as demonstrated in Table 7. The sources include
 the ESRC (12 awards), British Academy (13 awards), Leverhulme Trust (2 awards), European
 Commission (1 award), and EC Horizon 2020 (1 award). Some of the major grants from high-
 quality funders, in addition those awarded to ECRs and highlighted above, include the following:

       Working with Credit Unions to Develop Financial Capability Using Web-based Tools.
        ESRC £19,000 (awarded to French and McKillop in 2014).
       Healthy Urban Living and Ageing in Place: Physical Activity, Built Environment and
        Knowledge Exchange in Brazilian Cities. ESRC £70,000 (awarded in 2015 to Melo).
       Integrating residential property with private pensions in the EU. European Commission
        £27,000 (awarded to French and McKillop in 2015).
       The Northern Ireland Longitudinal Study. ESRC £82,000 and £114,000 (awarded to
        Duncan McVicar in 2017 and 2020).
       Zero Hours Contracts: Characteristics, Prevalence and Impacts on Workers. Leverhulme
        Trust £125,000 (awarded to Duncan McVicar in 2017)
       Administrative Data Research Centres. ESRC £147,000 (awarded to Duncan McVicar in
        2018).

 The increase in QMS’s research income reflects the School’s mission to influence business and
 society. In this REF period major grants have been received from a variety of bodies which have
 resulted in deeper engagement with end users of research, particularly in the Northern Irish
 economy. Some examples of such grants include:
     Market Intelligence for the Agri-Business Sector. Invest NI £175,000 and NI Department
         for Agriculture and Rural Affairs £62,000 (awarded to Simmons in 2015 and 2016).
     Improving Financial Capability. Money and Pensions Service £196,000 (awarded to
         French and McKillop in 2016).
     Derry/Londonderry as the Nexus City for Food, Education, Trust and Health. Invest NI
         £89,989 (awarded to McCole in 2017).
     Future Research Programme and Innovation. NI Department for the Economy £75,000
         and £250,000 (awarded to Hewitt-Dundas in 2017 and 2018).

 The strategy for the next REF period will be to increase our external research funding so that it
 averages £1.25m per annum. The main drivers of this increase will be our research centres and
 the building of collaborative relationships with international partners, which results in joint funding
 bids. We will also incentivise grant applications by giving successful applicants greater allowance
 for research through the School’s Workload Model.

 3.2. Research infrastructure and facilities
 University and Faculty support for research takes the form of advice and feedback on proposals,
 bid support, contract management and administration and auditing of successful grants. The
 School has a dedicated research communications and media team and works with the Faculty to
 help disseminate new research output and build engagement with non-academic stakeholders.
 The Faculty also has a research impact officer who helps all staff in QMS develop their impact
 and engagement and plans.

 The School’s Research Office is overseen by a research and operations administrator. Within the
 office there is a PhD student administrator and clerical assistant, who look after the PhD
 programme and the recruitment of new students. A research finance administrator assists with the
 processing of research expense claims and the administration of research grants. There are also
 two research support officers, who organise all research seminars, the travel and accommodation
 for external speakers, and all conference travel for staff.

 All QMS staff are based at the Riddel Hall campus, a purpose-built building which we moved into
 in 2011. This campus is a 15-minute walk from the main Queen’s campus. Every academic has
 their own office and PhD students are in shared office space, which is located close to the offices
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of their supervisors. This was an explicit design feature. To encourage interdisciplinary research,
 the School deliberately mixes staff from different departments in the various floors of the Riddel
 Hall campus.

 In order to facilitate the School’s growth and provide facilities to attract high-quality researchers,
 the School began a project in 2018 to build a new purpose built, landmark development on the
 Riddel Hall site. This building is approximately 6,500m2 and represents an investment of £30
 million in the School. The new facility will provide a supportive and motivating research
 environment to attract and retain high quality academic staff and increase research capacity in
 terms of industry collaboration, outputs, income and impact. The building will include
 research/postdoc open plan office space, appropriate seminar and workshop spaces and common
 spaces for socialising and networking with academics, PhD students and industry partners. The
 construction of this building started in August 2020 and is due for completion in May 2022.

 QMS also invests heavily in specialist databases to facilitate our researchers. During the REF
 period, the databases that we invested in included 12 Bloomberg terminals, Datastream, Fame,
 Financial Times Historical Archive, Global Financial Data, S&P Capital IQ, S&P Capital SNL, and
 Thomson ONE Banker. The School has also received additional monies (£250,000 per anuum)
 from the University, which will be invested in acquiring WRDS, Compustat and the CRSP
 databases. These databases have helped us attract high-quality ECRs and researchers to the
 School, particularly in the areas of Accounting and Finance.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1. Summary
 Two of the main objectives of the School’s research and impact strategy in the REF period were
 to increase engagement with business, societal and policy stakeholders and to strengthen the
 School’s international research networks. The School’s research centres were the main drivers of
 our collaboration and contribution to the research base and wider society. The research centres
 engaged with the wider academic community through journal editorial roles, co-authorship,
 international advisory boards, and hosting and organising workshops and international
 conferences. The research centres and the School’s disciplinary groups also engaged non-
 academic communities through contributing to and leading government reviews, influencing and
 shaping policy, end-user dissemination events and conferences, and the traditional press and
 social media.

 4.2. Academic collaboration and contributions to wider scholarly community

 Collaboration with academics
 QMS encourages staff to collaborate with academics from other institutions in the UK, Ireland and
 further afield. The School funds conference travel and visitors and seminar speakers from
 international universities to stimulate joint research projects. QMS also funds and facilitates
 workshops through its departments and research centres. For example, there have been three
 research workshops on game theory and network analysis in 2014, 2018 and 2019. The first two
 workshops were part of and financed through a grant from the UKIERI -UGC Thematic Partnership
 and the 2019 workshop was part of the series of annual BiNoMa workshops.

 The chief objectives of the School’s collaboration with other academics are co-authorship and the
 extension of our international network. During the REF period, QMS academics published papers
 with 519 authors from other UK universities and 1,002 authors from outside the UK. Table 8
 highlights the affiliations of some of these co-authors from outside the UK.

 Another objective of our collaborations is to develop joint research grants and work programmes.
 For example, Campbell, Coyle and Turner’s EC Horizon 2020 grant is a collaboration involving
 colleagues from Paris School of Economics, Erasmus University, Goethe University Frankfurt,
 UC3M, and Antwerp University. During the Covid-19 lockdown, QMS was a co-organiser of the
 International Macro History Online Seminar along with University of Geneva, Vienna University,
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sciences Po, University of Cambridge, Banque de France, UC3M, NYU, ULB and University of
 Jerusalem.

 Table 8. Examples of affiliation of QMS co-authors in REF period
  Europe      Bocconi University           Erasmus University           IE Business School
                                           Rotterdam
              Lund University              Utrecht University           Vienna University of
                                                                        Economics and Business

  Australia    Australian National         University of New South      University of Melbourne
               University                  Wales

  Americas     Brandeis University         Harvard University           HEC Montréal
               MIT                         Northwestern University      Stanford University
               University of Notre Dame    University of Washington     Vanderbilt University

  Asia         City University of Hong     Peking University            Xi’an Jiaotong University
               Kong

 Journal editorships
 One of the main ways that QMS contributes to the wider scholarly community is through editorial
 roles at leading journals. Table 9 illustrates the breadth of journals across subject domains that
 QMS staff have been involved with during the REF period. In terms of journal quality, academics
 had editorial roles at three ABS4 and ten ABS3 journals. During the REF period, 21 academics
 from QMS have been involved with 28 journals.

 Conferences
 Collaboration and contributions to the scholarly community are an important output from
 international conference attendance by staff. Colleagues in QMS presented conference papers on
 403 occasions during the REF period and the following keynotes were delivered by staff during
 the REF period:
             Brownlow: Plenary lecture at Economic History Society Conference (2019)
             Gilles: Keynote at British Colloquium on Theoretical Computer Science (2016)
             Teague: Keynote at International Labour & Employment Relations World Congress
                 (2015)
             Teague: Keynote speaker at Irish Academy of Management (2014)
             Teague: Keynote speaker at Industrial Relations in Europe Conference (2014)
             Turner: Keynote at Accounting History Review Conference (2019)
             Turner: Connell Lecture at Irish Economic and Social History Conference (2018)
             Turner: Keynote at Australian Cliometrics Conference (2015)

 The School has also had a policy of raising its profile among the international scholarly community
 by hosting major international conferences such as the Economic History Society in 2019 and the
 Royal Economic Society in 2020. The latter had to be postponed because of the coronavirus
 lockdown. The School has worked closely with Visit Belfast to secure these conferences. The
 three research centres have also run their own annual workshops as well as hosting smaller
 international workshops. The chief purpose of these workshops is to provide opportunities for
 international collaboration as well as provide a platform to showcase the School’s research.

 UK Research Councils and Learned Societies
 Colleagues in the School contribute to research councils. For example, Hewitt-Dundas in 2015
 was appointed an Innovate UK and ESRC UK Thought Leader and in 2018 she was appointed to
 the UKRI peer review panel. McCole and Simmons were appointed to the ESRC peer review panel
 in 2015. Esteem can also be evidenced via election to learned societies. Hewitt-Dundas became
 a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts in 2017 for her work on innovation policy, Turner became a
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences in 2018 for his work on financial history, and Colvin was
 elected a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society for his work on Dutch economic history.

 Table 9. Editorial roles during REF period
  Journal                                                    Academic (role)
  Abacus                                                     Noel Hyndman (Associate editor)
  Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal              Noel Hyndman (Editorial board)
  Accounting and Business Research                           Noel Hyndman (Editorial board)
  Accounting, Finance & Governance Review                    Noel Hyndman (Editor)
  Business History                                           Chris Colvin (Editorial board)
  Community, Work and Family                                 Heike Schroder (Editorial board)
  Economic History Review                                    John Turner (Editor)
  Education for Information                                  Julian Warner (Editorial board)
  European Association for Banking and Financial             Chris Colvin (Editor)
  History
  European Economic Review                                   Anthony Ziegelmeyer (Editorial board)
  European Journal of Finance                                Donal McKillop (Associate editor)
  European Journal of the History of Economic Thought        Renee Prendergast (Editorial board)
  European Journal of International Management               Kieran Conroy (Editorial board)
  European Retail Research                                   Mark Palmer (Editorial board)
  Finance Research Letters                                   Tony Klein (Senior editor); Gareth
                                                             Campbell, John Turner (Associate
                                                             editors)
  Financial Accountability & Management                      Noel Hyndman (Associate editor);
                                                             Marian Liguori (Editorial board)
  Financial History Review                                   John Turner (Editorial board)
  Global Journal of Health Science                           Sara Melo (Editorial board)
  Human Resource Management Journal                          Anthony McDonnell (Editor)
  Information Technology and People                          Patrick McCole (Editor)
  International Journal of Public Policy                     Noel Hyndman (Editorial board)
  Irish Economic and Social History                          Graham Brownlow (Editor)
  Journal of Public Budgeting, Accounting & Financial        Marian Liguori (Editorial board)
  Management
  Journal of the Statistical and Social Inquiry Society of   Alan de Bromhead (Editorial board)
  Ireland
  Journal of World Business                                  Kieran Conroy (Editorial board)
  Public Money & Management                                  Noel Hyndman (Editorial board)
  Qualitative Research in Accounting and Management          Noel Hyndman (Editorial board); Martin
                                                             Quinn (Editorial board)
  Technovation                                               Nola Hewitt-Dundas (Editorial board)

 Recognition and awards
 Colleagues in the School who were recipients of prizes for their scholarly work include:
      Aldous (Mira Wilkins prize for the best article in Enterprise & Society in 2016).
      Hyndman and Liguori (John Perrin Prize for the best paper in Financial Accountability and
        Management during 2016).
      Liguori (most outstanding paper published in British Accounting Review during 2018).
      McCole (Emerald Citations of Excellence Winner 2017 for his publication in MIS
        Quarterly).
      Zhang (Emerald Literati Network Awards 2018 Outstanding Paper).
      Turner (Wadsworth Prize 2015 for the best business history book of 2014).

 As well as receiving prizes from their peers, the research contributions of colleagues in QMS have
 garnered coverage in international media outlets. For example, Dimico’s paper on lemons and the
 origins of the Sicilian mafia was covered in the Daily Mail, The Times, and The Washington Post
 and Graham Brownlow’s work on the DeLorean Motor Corporation was covered in the Wall Street
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Journal. The work on university spin-outs by Nola Hewitt-Dundas was covered in the Financial
 Times.

 4.3. Collaboration and engagement with non-academic communities
 A key strategic objective for QMS in the REF period was to increase engagement with business,
 societal and policy stakeholders. A vital part of our strategy was the appointment in 2015 of an
 International Advisory Board for the School, which was composed of leaders from the public,
 private and third sectors. This board has advised the School on the needs of end users and has
 helped academics raise funding for their research projects. The key vehicle for delivering our
 strategy have been the Research Centres. To this end, the Research Centres have been given
 budget to run engagement and outreach events.

 In addition, QMS and the University have invested significant resources in the area of engagement
 with non-academic audiences over the REF cycle:
      The post of Associate Director of International Communication was created – the
         incumbent is responsible for helping academics in the school engage with non-academic
         communities. This academic is supported by a Communications Officer.
      There has been a concerted effort to connect with external users via The Conversation
         and the QPOL (Queen’s Policy Engagement) blog.
      The School hosts several high-profile speakers per annum, which attract a large non-
         academic audience. For example, in January 2020 the School hosted Michel Barnier to
         give a public talk on the future of Brexit.

 Each research centre has undertaken a wide variety of events and activities during REF period to
 engage non-academic communities:

 Centre for Not-for-Profit and Public-Sector Research
 Engaging with practice and policy. The Centre’s membership includes senior figures from the
 public sector, the credit union movement and charity sector, e.g., the President and CEO of the
 World Council of Credit Unions, the CEO of the Credit Union Development Association, the
 President of the Irish League of Credit Unions, the CEO of Credit Union National Association
 Mutual Europe, the Comptroller and Auditor General for Northern Ireland, the former CEO of the
 Charity Commission of England and Wales, and the current CEO of the Charity Commission of
 NI. These external members are involved in the co-creation of research and facilitate clear
 pathways to impact. To further enhance academia/practitioner/politician engagement, members
 of CNPR have presented practitioner-focused CPD courses on charity accounting/reporting for
 members of the Chartered Accountants of Ireland and staff of the Northern Ireland Audit Office.
 Centre members have also presented in the Knowledge Exchange Seminar Series at the NI
 Assembly to bring research findings on charity regulation to the attention of key participants in
 policy/law-making (Connolly, Hyndman, Liguori).

 Engaging with disadvantaged communities. Through their close connections with the credit union
 industry, three members of the Centre (French, McKillop, Stewart) worked with the Money Advice
 Service and the Derry Credit Union to determine the effectiveness of mobile apps in enhancing
 financial capability of people from disadvantaged communities. They worked with 500 members
 of the Derry Credit Union and examined over the space of a year how exposure to financial
 capability apps improved both personal and financial well-being and confidence. The results of
 this study were disseminated widely among credit union practitioners across the globe.

 Centre for Health Research at the Management School
 Engaging with practice and policy. The Centre’s membership contains policymakers from the
 world of public health such as Mary Black (Public Health Agency), Sarah Gibney (Department of
 Health, Republic of Ireland) and Kevin Balanda (Institute of Public Health). These external
 members engage closely with academics on research projects and guide the development of the
 impact of those projects on public health outcomes. One of the key ways that the Centre engages
 with the world of policy and practice is that it has an annual conference where academics and
 practitioners interact. For example, recent conferences have included non-academic participants
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 from the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development, Nevin Economic Research Institute,
 Irish Congress of Trade Unions, HealthyKidz, and the NI Commission for Victims and Survivors.
 Another important way that the Centre engages with policymakers is that members have
 participated in the Northern Ireland Assembly’s Knowledge Exchange Seminar Series – McVicar
 on Zero Hour Contracts and McGovern on breastfeeding as an economic investment. Schröder
 from the Centre is involved in establishing "The Evidence Index" for The Economist Group in
 partnership with The Pew Charitable Trusts. Her work focuses on the subtheme of ageing and
 retirement, and examines the availability and quality of data for policymaking in the G20 countries.

 Engaging with community wellbeing. The Centre has ongoing collaboration with HealthyKidz, a
 community-based organisation which runs programmes in schools in Northern Ireland. Dimico,
 Downey, and McVicar have been helping this organisation think about how they evaluate their
 programmes, particularly in relation to child health and wellbeing. Another Centre member
 (Schröder) has been working with AWARE (a Northern Irish mental health / depression charity),
 PwC Northern Ireland and McAvoy (a construction firm) to test the impact of online mental health
 training on staff mental health and wellbeing.

 Engaging with the general public. The Centre has disseminated its research via targeted media
 efforts around its research. For example, French was interviewed on BBC Radio Ulster about the
 Centre’s conference on the long-run effects of trauma and conflict and the Centre’s work on the
 economic benefits of breastfeeding was covered by the Daily Mail, the Independent, and BBC
 radio Ulster. The Centre’s research carried out by Dimico has been covered on four occasions on
 VoxEU, the CEPR’s policy analysis and commentary vehicle, during the REF period.

 Queen’s University Centre for Economic History
 Engaging with business and policymakers. The Centre launched the Long Run Initiative (LRI) in
 2018 as a forum for business leaders, public policymakers and academic experts. It provides
 insights from the analysis of long-run experiences and trends to provide context and deepen
 understanding of the grand challenges facing businesses and government. The LRI is a
 collaborative effort between QUCEH and a Canadian business advisory group called SIERC and
 it has an international governing group consisting of the leading business figures and
 policymakers, including the former CEO of the Bank of Montreal, the former CEO of J. P. Morgan
 International, the former head of the UK’s joint intelligence committee, the chief editor of the Globe
 and Mail, and the current head of People and Culture at the Bank of Montreal. During the REF
 period, the LRI organised roundtable and online events on the following topics: productivity,
 information, big tech monopolies, the future of the corporation, and the challenge to business from
 Covid-19.

 Engaging with school children. Each year since 2015, the Centre has organised an event as part
 of the ESRC Festival of Social Science entitled ‘History by Numbers’. This is a one-day workshop
 for A-level students on how economic history can help us understand the past. The event is
 attended by dozens of local school pupils each year and introduces them to the research
 undertaken at QUCEH.

 Engaging with the general public. The Centre engages with this audience when opportunities
 present themselves and by building relationships with key stakeholders. During the REF period,
 three members (Brownlow, Campbell, Turner) gave public talks at the Library of Mistakes in
 Edinburgh. Four members (Campbell, de Bromhead, Fernihough, and Turner) of the Centre had
 their work published by VoxEU during the REF period and Colvin produced a video for VoxEU on
 the future of economic history.

 4.4. Impact on the economy and society
 A key aspect of QMS’s mission is to transform local and global business through research. In other
 words, research impact is at the core of our identity. The School’s priorities are shaped by the
 non-academic organisations that we collaborate with as well as the priorities of UKRI and other
 grant-awarding bodies.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Developed impact
 The School’s longstanding engagement with non-academic users has resulted in QMS research
 having a meaningful impact upon wider society. Among key external posts held by academics
 during the REF period were: Chair of the Credit Union Advisory Committee, Ireland, appointed by
 the Minister of Finance (Ireland) (McKillop, 2014-2018) and Non-executive Director of the Norther
 Ireland Audit Office, and Chair of the Audit Risk and Assurance Committee (Hyndman, 2019-
 2020). The research of QMS academics has impacted the regulation and structure of the Irish
 credit union sector, the financial reporting and governance of charities, business and innovation
 clusters on the island of Ireland, Brexit and the environment, the Bank of England and investment
 professionals, and public understanding of Ireland’s economic history.

 Nascent impact
 As well as the examples above which have resulted in impact case studies, there are many
 examples in QMS of impact being developed with end-users. One pathway to impact is through
 KTPs. Since 2017, QMS staff have been involved with eight KTPs across a range of business
 sectors, from global businesses such as Danske Bank and Diaceutics to Scott and Ewing, a local
 industrial plumbing company.

 Pathways to impact in QMS are also being developed in response to national priorities. For
 example, QMS provides a co-editor (Turner) to the ESRC-funded Economics Observatory, which
 exists to provide balanced and reliable answers to the economic questions that arise from the
 Covid-19 pandemic. The Economics Observatory bridges the gap between academic research,
 government policy and the general public. To date, 10 academics from QMS have contributed
 articles to the Observatory. Academics in QMS have also been conducting research into Covid-
 19 as well as past pandemics. Colvin, through his work on the Spanish Flu, has already engaged
 the media and other stakeholders.

 Another national priority for the UK is lagging productivity. QMS are part of the ESRC-funded
 Productivity Institute and have responsibility for running the Regional Productivity Forum in
 Northern Ireland. This will require them to work with business leaders to identity the major causes
 of poor productivity and work with local businesses in sandpits to road test proposed solutions to
 the productivity issue.

 The final way in which pathways to new impact is being developed is through the ongoing
 engagement of the research centres and disciplinary groups with end-users. For example, the
 funded projects of McVicar (CHaRMS) on zero-hours contracts and disability benefit reform have
 resulted in engagement with Office for National Statistics and Low Pay Commission and will in
 due course impact the measurement of work quality and the policies of governments. Similarly,
 the work of Murphy (CLEO) on leadership and organisational change with policing has resulted in
 the development of executive education provision for senior officers in the Police Service of
 Northern Ireland. The work of Campbell (QUCEH) on banking has resulted in him being appointed
 as an adviser to the Northern Ireland Assembly’s All-Party Group for Fair Banking and the work of
 Quinn and Turner (QUCEH) on financial bubbles has resulted in them providing expert advice to
 investor groups and the media.
