Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Edinburgh

 Unit of Assessment: 31 Theology and Religious Studies

 Section 1: Unit context, research and impact strategy

 Overview

 Theology and Religious Studies (TRS) at the University of Edinburgh comprises a diverse and
 collaborative community of 35 researchers (33.5 FTE, 26% growth since REF2014), with
 strengths in textual studies, theology and church history, and the study of religions in global
 contexts. Over the REF period, the unit has seen considerable growth, with 10 new
 appointments (net gain 6.9 FTE) strategically building capacity, particularly in science and
 religion and Christian-Muslim studies. This has provided welcome opportunities for wider
 collaboration beyond the School of Divinity, notably with Islamic and Middle Eastern Studies,
 from which two scholars are included in this return. The expansion in volume and scope has
 been accompanied by 65% growth in grant income, and a thriving PGR community which
 attracts more than 30 new students each year and has achieved 189 completions in the REF
 period. Our research environment has also benefited from major investment (c£5,000,000) in the
 refurbishment of the landmark New College buildings and the curation of its historic library
 collections.


 Research Strategy

 Over the current REF period, our overarching goal has been to advance excellent research and
 impact through enriching core disciplinary strengths in TRS and augmenting these with fresh
 and timely initiatives. We have achieved this through five strategic priorities.
    (1) Investment in 10 outstanding early and mid-career researchers (7 Lecturers, 2 Senior
        Lecturers, 1 tenure-track Chancellor’s Fellow), alongside comprehensive measures to
        support research across all career stages.
    (2) Development of new priority themes in science and religion and Christian-Muslim
        studies, and the establishment of other new research networks (Edinburgh Buddhist
        Studies and the Scottish Network for Religion and Literature).
    (3) Support for external grant applications, resulting in £4,166,084 funding, representing an
        average increase of 65% per annum since REF2014, including 60% growth in the
        number (11) of postdoctoral fellowships secured.
    (4) Fulfilment of key elements of our equality and diversity strategy, becoming the first TRS
        unit in the UK to receive Athena SWAN silver.
    (5) Investment in partnerships, support, and training to advance our public engagement,
        knowledge exchange, and impact activities, through appointment of a Web and
        Communications Officer, the part-time hiring of an impact specialist, and the
        establishment of a KE committee to develop engagement work across the Unit.

 This strategy has enabled us successfully to sustain and expand our range of expertise during a
 time of national contraction in TRS.


 Research Groupings

 Since 2014, we have strengthened and expanded our three established research clusters in
 theology and church history, global religions, and textual studies. Each of these three areas
 bring together academic staff with cognate interests, a diverse programme of research seminars,


                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 and an associated research centre. Within each cluster, new initiatives in the form of research
 networks have emerged during the current REF period.

    (1) Theology and Church History

 Comprising 16 staff, this is our largest grouping. Research and impact flourish across systematic
 theology, ethics, history of Christianity, and public theology. This group has expanded over the
 REF period, with 5 new appointments building additional capacity, particularly in science and
 religion. Our particular strengths in church history (4 staff) ensure that theology is pursued in
 close interaction with historical study. We have achieved substantial grant capture during the
 census period, most notably Harris and Lane Ritchie’s £2,440,000 Templeton award, alongside
 production of 14 single-authored monographs and influential editorial projects, e.g. the
 Cambridge Companion to Reformed Theology, The History of Scottish Theology, and the Oxford
 Handbook of the Oxford Movement. Other highlights include awards to Purvis for the Best First
 Book Prize (2018) by the Ecclesiastical History Society for Theology and the University in
 Nineteenth-Century Germany, and to Eglinton for the Gospel Coalition’s History and Biography
 of the Year (2020) Two other books were shortlisted for prizes – Dawson’s John Knox for the
 Scottish Saltire Society History Book of the Year (2015), and Bicket’s George Mackay Brown
 and the Scottish Catholic Imagination for the Ecclesiastical History Prize (2018).

 With its increased generation of external income from the Binks and Porticus Trusts and several
 other sources (rise of c50% from £270,000 in the previous REF period), the Centre for
 Theology and Public Issues (CTPI), led by Mitchell, has completed an impressive range of
 projects at home and overseas with a particular focus on peacebuilding and the arts. Following
 the appointments of Schmiedel and Ralston (recently promoted to a Readership), further
 expertise has been added to the leadership of CTPI. Together with the Institute for the Advanced
 Study of the Humanities (IASH), CTPI is jointly funding one early career and one senior
 interdisciplinary visiting fellowship related to public theology each year; the inaugural awards will
 be in 2020/21. Important CPTI achievements during the REF period include:
       The Peacebuilding through the Arts project (c.£120,000 second phase from the Binks
        Trust), generating publications including a multi-authored, international volume
        on Peacebuilding and the Arts (Palgrave MacMillan 2020) already with 8,300 downloads,
        a monograph on What Makes for Peace: Peacebuilding and Catholic Social
        Teaching (University of Notre Dame Press 2020) and a forthcoming book on
        Peacebuilding and Photography (co-funded by the Social Trends Institute);
       a Porticus-funded project (c. €120,000 funded by the Jerusalem Trust) on religion and
        reconciliation in Bosnia-Herzegovina, leading to three co-authored monographs and
        several edited collections;
       the Religious Leaders and Journalists in Israel/Palestine Project with funding (€88,000)
        from the Dutch Government (Foreign Ministry) and staff support of the Norwegian
        Government (Foreign Ministry), leading to interreligious peace talks and digital
        resources;
       the Women in Conflict project (co-hosted with the Beyond Borders Festival and funded
        by the Scottish Government – in total £1,200,00 over three years to Beyond Borders),
        leading to international workshops and panels;
       international and interdisciplinary conferences on Populism and Theology, Practical
        Theology, and Transformations of Tragedy, generating further edited collections.

 The History of Scottish Theology project has built upon the School’s strength as the leading
 centre in the world for the study of Scottish church history and theology. Supported by
 Fergusson’s AHRC Leadership grant (£186,000), conferences were held in 2016/17 in
 Princeton and Edinburgh. These generated a 3-volume publication by OUP in 2019 edited by
 Fergusson and Elliott (Glasgow) and supported by Forsyth as RA. Eight members of the unit


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 and several former doctoral students contributed essays to the collection, with two other staff
 serving on the editorial advisory board (Brown and Hardman Moore).

 Led by Harris, who continues his research work in physics, the science and religion grouping
 has emerged as a powerful research sub-group within this cluster. A cohort of 14 doctoral
 students have been recruited to the field since 2014. Investment in staff appointments (M.
 Fuller, M. Leidenhag, Lane Ritchie and G. Fuller) has added capacity and a wider range of
 expertise. Collaboration with colleagues in philosophy has led to the development of an online
 MSc in science, philosophy and religion with over 60 students enrolled in 2019/20; this
 programme is now producing several candidates each year for research degrees. The success
 of this emerging area is highlighted in Christopher’s Southgate’s comment that ‘the science and
 religion program [at Edinburgh] is, in my personal view, at present the most creative and
 vigorous British training ground for new researchers in the science–religion debate.’ (Zygon
 51.2, 2016, 366). This was confirmed by the award of the Boyle medal to Harris in 2018, and a
 clean sweep of all three research prizes at the 2018 European Society for the Study of Science
 and Religion (ESSSAT) by Edinburgh students (Sarah Lane Ritchie, Joanna Leidenhag and
 Jaeho Jang).

 In 2019, members of the science-religion team (Harris and Lane Ritchie) secured a grant of
 £2,440,000 from the John Templeton Foundation for work on ‘God and the Book of Nature’. This
 has enabled the establishment of ten collaborative research groups from across different
 European and American institutions, each comprising a tenure-track academic in theology or
 philosophy and a post-doctoral researcher tasked with developing links to specific empirical
 sciences in a laboratory setting. Selected themes are God and nature, mind and nature, and
 naturalisms and nature. Harris also secured substantial funding (£130,000) from the Issachar
 Foundation to research a volume on theology and quantum mechanics. His leadership was
 recognised by promotion in 2019 to a Personal Chair in Natural Science and Theology.

 A ‘rapid response impact’ grant was awarded by the university to G. Fuller and Lane Ritchie for
 a project on theology and the Covid-19 pandemic. In June and July 2020, TheoCon offered
 international and interdisciplinary theological refection on the pandemic. 20 keynote lectures
 were recorded from scholars across a host of different theological disciplines. These were
 shared through a website, sent to 1,300 people who signed up via email, and over 500 on a
 podcast feed. Lectures served to frame a series of live streamed sessions featuring presenters,
 respondents and the hosts. The 9 live sessions were streamed as a video on Facebook, Twitter,
 and YouTube; these have already reached a global audience of more than 26,000.

    (2) Global Religions

 Comprising 12 academic staff, this cluster has longstanding strengths in the historical,
 theological and social scientific study of religions, with recent growth of capacity in Buddhism
 and Islam. A pioneer in the study of world Christianity, Edinburgh continues to offer international
 leadership in this field. Recent achievements in the study of global religions include the
 production of 13 monographs, capture of three large grants, and innovative outreach work in
 religious studies. Stanley’s Christianity in the Twentieth Century: A World History received the
 2018 Book of the Year Award from the American Society of Missiology, an Award of Merit from
 Christianity Today magazine in the USA and was shortlisted for the Catholic Herald 2019 Books
 Awards in the History Category.

 Since 2014, the Centre for the Study of World Christianity (CSWC) has maintained a
 vigorous international programme, teaching a cohort of 44 doctoral students drawn from 26
 countries. Following the part-retirement of Stanley, two co-directors – Chow and Wild Wood –
 have been appointed and are leading new initiatives in research funding (especially for research
 in global health) and international collaboration. The founding director, Andrew Walls, was
 awarded an honorary degree to mark his 90th birthday. Research highlights include:



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       the peer-reviewed journal Studies in World Christianity (now edited by Chow and Wild
        Wood) celebrating its 25th anniversary in 2019;
       the annual Yale-Edinburgh conference (alternating between New College and Yale
        Divinity School) attracting an international attendance of c100 delegates;
       the substantial archives of the Centre being catalogued and integrated into the University
        Library, partly through an external benefaction ($1,000,000 from 2006-2016).

 In recognition of its established international profile, staff have been sought out by institutions
 aiming to develop capacity in the study of world Christianity. Stanley has acted as a consultant
 for Duke University and the Bethesa-Khankho Foundation in north east India, while the Centre
 has hosted visits from colleagues at Basel University and St Stephen’s College, Delhi with a
 view to the establishment of similar centres in these institutions.

 Led by Siddiqui, the Christian-Muslim Studies Network has emerged as a major new growth
 area with significant public impact. This has been significantly enhanced by the appointments of
 Ralston and Rahemtulla, together with the arrival of two postdoctoral research fellows
 (Rahman Mustafa and Anchassi). A large grant ($450,000) was secured from the Luce
 Foundation to host conferences, workshops and collaborative partnerships in several
 international locations. Both Ralston and Siddiqui have published in this field and have
 delivered keynote lectures at conferences and symposia in Jakarta, Beirut, Doha, Cyprus and in
 the USA at Boston, Emory and Yale. This activity has generated collaborative work with several
 European, Middle Eastern and North American institutions including Paderborn, the American
 University of Beirut, Emory, and Georgetown. In September 2017, a major international
 conference to launch the Christian-Muslim Studies Network was hosted in Edinburgh with
 speakers from over 5 continents, 19 countries and 24 institutions. A growing cohort of research
 students (10 at July 2020) has been recruited, and a new Masters programme will be launched
 (2020/21) – this will stimulate further research recruitment. Newman and Corboz, both specialist
 in Shia studies, provide valuable links with Islamic and Middle Eastern Studies (IMES) and with
 the Alwaleed Centre (one of two in the UK); its core objectives link research into the globalised
 Muslim world with the promotion of the public understanding of Islam – Corboz serves as its
 Deputy Director.

 The research cluster has been further enriched by the establishment of Edinburgh Buddhist
 Studies (EBS), a network convened by Appleton, which connects university colleagues working
 on Buddhism across different disciplines. Associate members are drawn from other HEI’s in
 Scotland and the north of England. Launched in 2019, the EBS holds regular workshops,
 seminars and CPD events (online and on-campus) for school teachers delivering the Buddhist
 unit at National 5 and Higher levels. EBS has been invited to host the annual UK Association for
 Buddhist Studies conference in 2021. Appleton has already secured initial running costs and a
 doctoral scholarship from the Khyentse Foundation (c£38,000 p.a.).

 Co-founded by Cotter (Leverhulme Fellow) and Robertson (Edinburgh PhD graduate), the
 Religious Studies Project (RSP) is an international collaborative initiative producing weekly
 podcasts with leading scholars on the social-scientific study of religion. Since January 2012,
 c400 interviews on cutting-edge theoretical, methodological, and empirical issues have become
 available through the website, iTunes and other portals. In addition to the podcasts, the website
 also features weekly essays, roundtable discussions, book reviews, resources, and conference
 reports, plus a weekly digest of opportunities (jobs, journals, conferences, etc).

    (3) Textual Studies

 Research in this area connects 7 staff, with expertise in Hebrew Bible and New Testament
 studies. Achievements over the REF period include publication of 7 monographs, recruitment of
 talented research students (c10 per annum), leadership in scholarly societies, editorial work (e.g.
 Oxford Handbook of Pauline Studies, Oxford Handbook of the Bible and Ecology and the 3


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 volume Reception of Jesus in the First Three Centuries), and the attraction of distinguished
 visiting scholars to Edinburgh. Published monthly by Sage, The Expository Times is based at
 New College. It boasts high circulation figures (4,000 annual subscriptions, and over 10,000
 downloads of articles on various platforms each month) ensuring wide reach amongst academic
 scholars and clergy.

 The Centre for the Study of Christian Origins (CSCO) hosts a dynamic programme of
 seminars, lectures, collaborative publications, and fund raising. Linking staff across Biblical
 studies and early church history, CSCO also hosts lectures from colleagues in Classics and
 Ancient History. Highlights include:
       the annual Kennedy-Wright lecture (Gillian Clark 2017, Martin Goodman 2018, Dale
        Allison 2019) which has attracted capacity audiences of c100;
       a popular student-led blog and social media accounts (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and
        Instagram – 5000 followers in toto) bringing the Centre’s work to an international
        audience;
       the 2018 award of the Royal Society of Edinburgh’s Thomas Reid Medal for Early Career
        Contributions to the Humanities and Social Sciences to Novenson, director of CSCO;
       a new CSCO-branded monograph series with Edinburgh University Press edited by
        Novenson, and supported by an editorial board including university colleagues from
        Divinity, Classics and Ancient History;
       a new scholarship fund in memory of Hurtado, founder of CSCO.

 The historical methodology of CSCO has been complemented by the establishment, in early
 2019, of the Scottish Network for Religion and Literature (SNRL). Led by Jack, with support
 from Bicket and Jasper (honorary fellow), this enables cross-disciplinary interaction with
 colleagues in English and Scottish Literature through seminars, conferences, symposia and
 funding applications. The SNRL held its launch event in January 2020 with novelist James
 Robertson as keynote speaker. A new Masters degree will be introduced in 2021/22 – this is
 expected to stimulate recruitment to research degrees. A Templeton Religion Trust grant
 ($234K) on Art Seeking Understanding was secured by Jack in 2020 for work with performers
 and audiences in the sacred arts programme at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe. (Owing to Covid-
 19, this has been deferred until 21/22.) The project brings together a multi-disciplinary team of
 13 scholars in the humanities, social sciences, and creative arts.


 Impact Strategy

 Our impact strategy aims to foster reflection, understanding, and constructive reception of
 religion both locally and globally. This is illustrated in three submitted case studies which profile
 research that has consistently displayed an outward dimension in its engagement with Scottish
 society, UK government, and wider international audiences. Dawson’s 2015 biography of John
 Knox has challenged monotonous stereotypes of the leading Scottish Reformer as misogynistic,
 intolerant, and hostile to the arts. The enthusiastic reception of her work in the national press
 and in a play performed at Edinburgh’s Lyceum theatre illustrates ways in which painstaking
 historical research can shift public attitudes. In 2016, Siddiqui was invited by the Home Office to
 chair a commission reviewing the function of Sharia councils in the UK. Its findings persuaded
 the government to back the Register our Marriage Campaign (ROM) which has the dual aim of
 raising awareness of the lack of legal protection for unregistered marriages and reforming the
 1949 Marriage Act to require the civil registering of all religious marriages. Bond’s TV
 documentary work on Christian origins has produced several series that have been screened
 worldwide. Shown at Easter 2018, her Channel 4 programme Jesus’s Female Disciples, co-
 presented with Joan Taylor (KCL), generated viewing figures of c1,500,000. Her broadcasts
 have resulted in historically informed accounts of Jesus and his followers reaching much wider
 international audiences beyond the academy and the churches.

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 During the REF period, strategic support for impact has focused on three main areas:

 (i) Incentivising and supporting impact activities through seed funding, and building impact into
 annual review and research leave. The CAHSS KE and Impact Fund offers start-up costs for
 new projects – the School has been successful in securing several small grants since 2014 (total
 £18K), including Dawson’s work and projects such as Holtschneider’s Jewish walking tour of
 Edinburgh, and Grumett’s work on Teilhard de Chardin’s encounter with the inquisition. A
 commitment to impact is now assessed in all applications for research leave and in the allocation
 of internal funds for research travel and support costs. Annual research interviews also include a
 discussion of impact plans, as do the University’s workload model and promotion criteria. This
 has resulted in a broader set of impacts across the unit.
 (ii) Investing in specialised support for impact activities and digital communications to broaden
 public engagement and dissemination of research. Impact projects are monitored by the
 Research and the Knowledge Exchange Committees, with a former postdoctoral fellow engaged
 at 0.2 fte to assist with the development of impact work. Our Web and Communications Officer
 assists staff members with the dissemination and profiling of their work, especially through social
 media and the School’s website. While Bond and Siddiqui are already well established as
 communicators on radio and TV, others have increasingly become involved in media work
 (Eglinton, Jack and Bicket). The use of digital technology is impressively evident in the
 Religious Studies Project and Homebrewed Christianity, mentioned elsewhere.
 iii) Strengthening collaborative partnerships with external bodies. Existing links with local
 churches, ecumenical bodies, and government have been complemented by a range of
 partnerships with local schools, Scottish Shia communities, civic bodies in the UK, and
 charitable organisations, as in the CTPI highlights reported above, in Wild-Wood’s work on
 religion and global health and Grumett’s work with the DEFRA animal welfare committee.
 Further details are listed in Section 4.


 Open Access and Digitisation Policy

 Our pro-active approach to Open Access has exceeded REF requirements. Since January 2015,
 all publications have been recorded in PURE, the institutional online repository, in line with
 relevant OA conditions of the publishing outlet, allowing open access to all outputs supported by
 public funding from UKRI and other named funders. The School of Divinity held a 100% OA
 compliance at the end of 2019. We are currently working towards the inclusion of data
 management plans in all of our research projects from the outset, using University data
 management and storage facilities as appropriate. A range of Open Access web pages, data
 bases, and short films have been produced on our School website.

 Staff members work with a variety of disciplinary approaches and data-gathering methods,
 usually from a qualitative perspective. Our research is typically textual (primary sources),
 archival (public and private repositories), and ethnographical and/or interview-based. Where
 legally and ethically permissible, we seek to maximise access to archival data, open where
 possible and closed only as necessary. One example is Longkumer’s AHRC-funded project to
 digitise material located at the Naga Archive & Research Centre (NARC) based in Dimapur,
 Nagaland. Amongst this archive are important ‘prophecy files’ collected over the last 60 years
 from political and religious events, consultations, and large public gatherings across the Naga
 areas relating to the struggle for independence from India – the world’s longest running civil war.
 The digitized archives will be made available to the public via a website.

 We are vigorously pursuing opportunities for extending the reach and accessibility of other
 resources through digital means. A new MoU was negotiated with the Church of Scotland in
 2019 to enable digitising of materials in the New College Special Collections. The construction of
 an online database on the lives of the Buddha in Indian textual and visual contexts was achieved
 through the award of a Philip Leverhulme Prize (Appleton). Two separate archival digitisations –


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 material by the psychiatrist Maurice Nicoll, and the life reformer Dugald Semple (Sutcliffe) –
 were deposited with the University Centre for Research Collections. Holtschneider’s project
 with Spiro in Glasgow has digitised elements of the collections of the Scottish Jewish Archives
 Centre.

 Founded in 2015 by Longkumer and Heneise (Arctic University of Norway, Tromsø), The
 Highlander: Journal of Highland Asia is an academic, open-access, and peer-reviewed online
 journal, broadly concerned with the study of Highland Asian communities historically situated at
 the margins of the state. This new journal is based at the University of Edinburgh. Studies in
 World Christianity conforms to Green OA, with the aim of switching to Gold OA, if and when this
 becomes affordable for the majority world target audience.


 Ethics in Research

 Several of our academic staff engage with issues of ethical sensitivity arising on the interface
 between religion and society. These include animal welfare (Grummet), right-wing populism and
 Christian identity in Europe (Schmiedel), Sharia marriages and civil law (Siddiqui), Hindu
 nationalism (Longkumer), and conflict and peacebuilding (Mitchell). This body of expertise
 attracts research students from around the world, many of whom face ethical challenges in
 relation to fieldwork and in tackling subjects of political sensitivity.

 In 2015, we undertook a review of our monitoring processes which resulted in a reconfiguration
 of our Ethics in Research Committee to ensure more comprehensive and robust reviewing of
 relevant work. Functioning previously in response-mode, the committee has moved to a formal
 constitution. Membership now represents cross-school disciplinary expertise in the School. The
 Ethics Approval Process Levels 1-3 has been revised, including Face-to-Face sign-offs between
 supervisors/mentors and students/post-docs at all levels. The committee scrutinises
 submissions to ensure that ethical practices are followed in engaging with participants in the
 research, and in the handling and storage of data collected during the course of it. When
 fieldwork is taking place in different (and sensitive) cultural contexts, including the majority world,
 and when taking part in such research might lead to participants being subject to persecution, or
 to any form of social or political victimisation, more detailed scrutiny is applied. Care is also
 taken to ensure that researchers are aware of any risks to themselves which may arise through
 their engagement with printed or online material deemed inflammatory or illegal by governments
 within whose jurisdiction they are operating or to which they will return.


 Forward Strategy

 Our strategy over the next REF period will focus on four main goals.
    1. We will further develop our two designated growth areas - science and religion, and
       Christian-Muslim studies - through recruitment of research students, generation of
       external income, and collaboration with scholars across the world. The new MTh/MSc in
       Christian-Muslim studies is expected to contribute to an increase in research student
       numbers.
    2. Our two new research networks in Buddhist Studies and in Religion and Literature will
       promote links with other Schools in CAHSS, and develop their plans for knowledge
       exchange. The proposed MTh/MSc in Religion and Literature (2021/22) has strong
       potential to generate additional research student numbers and critical mass in this area.
    3. We have set ambitious targets (presently £1,000,000 per annum and exceeded last year)
       for the generation of external income. To enhance quality control in funding applications
       we will fine-tune our processes, including greater integration with the Edinburgh
       Research Office and the strengthening of our anonymous peer review.


                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    4. Using our agile support structures, we are responding to the current crisis in developing
       projects that address the complex relationship between religion and public health in the
       majority world, as for example in Wild Wood’s AHRC grant (£110,000) for research with
       colleagues in the Democratic Republic of Congo. These projects will further extend our
       impact work.


 2. People

 New Appointments

 With a view to longer-term sustainability and vitality, we pursue a highly successful strategy of
 appointing early and mid-career scholars with demonstrably strong potential. Ten new academic
 staff have been recruited during the census period. These comprise one Chancellor’s Fellow
 (Townsend), seven lecturers (Bicket, Corboz, Forsyth, Lane Ritchie, Rahemtulla, Ralston,
 and Schmiedel) and two senior lecturers (Burton and Wild Wood). In several cases, these
 have succeeded colleagues who have advanced to more senior positions in the UK and USA
 (Adams, Adogame and Schumacher) while also replacing senior staff who have retired or part-
 retired (Dawson, Northcott and Stanley). Recent appointments have also provided additional
 capacity in new priority areas – Lane Ritchie in science and religion, Rahemtulla and Ralston
 in Christian-Muslim studies, and Bicket in religion and literature.

 Since 2014, the unit has hosted 11 post-doctoral researchers, including one British Academy
 Postdoctoral Fellow and two Leverhulme Early Career Fellows, representing an increase of
 almost 60% on the previous census period. Their addition has injected further energy through
 outputs, knowledge exchange, collaborative projects, seminars, and interactions with our
 postgraduate community. We have secured a private donation from an alumnus based in Hong
 Kong together with match-funding from the Edinburgh Futures Institute, for a two-year
 postdoctoral fellowship in theology and AI. This will commence in 2021, as will the CTPI/IASH
 jointly funded fellowships and a further Leverhulme Early Career Fellow working in Quaker
 studies.


 Support

 Staff at all career stages are supported in achieving ambitious research goals through a series of
 measures. At individual annual meetings, the Director of Research reviews progress and plans.
 Focussing on publications, grant applications, research leave, knowledge exchange and impact
 work, these meetings establish priorities, set realistic timetables, and identify new opportunities
 for grant income and collaboration. Advice is offered, particularly to early career staff, on matters
 relating to publishing houses, journals, and funding bodies. Consequently, we have significantly
 increased support for grant applications during the census period (see Section 3 below).

 From the outset of their appointment, ECRs are offered a full and integrated role within the staff
 body through inter alia membership of the School Forum and other key committees, participation
 in research seminars and postgraduate review boards, an annual research interview, and in the
 development of new courses that reflect their particular research interests. ECRs also benefit
 from a scheme in which a mentor outside of their cluster offers support over a 3-year period. The
 mentor’s role is to provide personalised support and advice on research, publications, and grant
 funding. This system has proved valuable in fostering collegial relationships within the School
 and in advancing the career prospects of ECRs. By functioning independently of any formal
 appraisal, review, or promotion process, the mentor can also offer confidential advice and
 pastoral support.

 The School Research Committee receives and approves applications for research leave
 (normally 1 semester in 7). The Director of Research disburses an internal fund (c£30,000 per
 annum) to provide support for travel, conference attendance, and research work outside

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Edinburgh. Upon completion of each period of research leave, staff are required to submit for
 approval a progress report on their research plans. In the case of early career scholars, there
 are opportunities for bringing forward periods of leave to complete major projects that require
 intense periods of research activity, e.g. a Habilitationsschrift.

 In addition, we have undertaken a review of career support for guaranteed-hours, research-only,
 teaching-only, part-time and fixed-term staff, many of whom are at an early career stage. The
 findings revealed unintended exclusion from support processes of Guaranteed Hours Contract
 (GHC) staff who are not PG students. To rectify this, GHC staff are now given an annual review,
 regular mentoring, and access to a range of facilities. The School has also appointed a
 Teaching Fellow (full time) to train, support, and review GHC tutors, most of whom are PhD
 students in the School.

 Cross-disciplinary work is advanced through the aforementioned research interviews, an
 annually-updated dossier of current research projects, and the development of funding
 applications, with support from ERO, which can partner colleagues elsewhere in CAHSS (for
 example, by engaging in 9 new cross-school research themes identified in 2019). The promotion
 of formal links with colleagues in other institutions, often through the approved strategies of
 centres and networks, also contributes to the range of cross-disciplinary activity. Research
 seminars increasingly meet conjointly, while our named visiting lectureships enable the School
 to attract scholars from different disciplines and institutions. Our 2 recent growth areas – science
 and religion, and Christian-Muslim studies – involve cross-disciplinary and cross-institutional
 collaboration, as do the nascent research networks in religion and literature, and Buddhist
 studies.


 Equality and Diversity

 Our academic staff body is increasingly ecumenical, multi-faith, international, and ethnically
 diverse. Of the 35 staff returned to the REF, 13 are women, 28 are from outside Scotland, 16 are
 from outside the UK, and 6 are BAME, with 7 nationalities represented. (The comparative figures
 for 27 staff submitted to REF2014 were 9 women, 21 from outside Scotland, 10 from outside the
 UK, 4 BAME, and 8 nationalities represented.)

 At present, women comprise 37% of academic staff in the current submission, representing an
 increase from 33% in REF 2014. The current School leadership attests the key role played by
 female staff members – Helen Bond is the first woman to serve as Head of School, while the
 posts of Director of Postgraduate Studies (Wild-Wood), Director of Undergraduate Studies
 (Klein) and Principal of New College (Hardman Moore) are all currently held by women. The
 Athena SWAN process (silver award 2018) has enabled us to build on areas of good practice to
 strengthen gender equality amongst staff. Key improvements evidenced through staff surveys
 include more positive perceptions of the annual review process and mentoring opportunities, and
 uptake of E&D training. The inclusion of Professional Services staff in the silver application
 process has also enabled us to take a broader view of our working culture and career support.
 The process has impacted on all staff through curricular review, improvement of gender balance
 of visiting speakers, review of the workload model, and one-off innovative activities such as a
 ‘Women and Religion Wikipedia edit-a-thon’ which resulted in the profiling of important
 theological figures on Wikipedia, e.g. Ruth Page, first woman Principal of New College and
 pioneer eco-theologian. Teaching rooms have been renamed after other leading female
 theologians associated with the School (Elizabeth Templeton and Marcella Althaus-Reid).

 Regular E&D sessions are included in training for both new and experienced tutors, with a
 discussion of inclusive teaching for the latter. A postgraduate representative is now elected to sit
 on the E&D Committee. A new event, ‘First Friday PG Conversations’, held 6 times each year,
 has been launched with the aim of fostering a more collegiate environment for PG students.
 Academics from within and beyond the School speak at this event, addressing themes relating


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 to the PG experience and the E&D agenda, e.g. work-life balance, mental health, and dealing
 with peer-review.

 Informal meetings and discussion groups are regularly convened by the Director of Equality and
 Diversity (Holtschneider/Townsend) to promote a safe environment for LGBTQ+ students and
 allies. A successful day conference on LGBTQ+ issues at New College, attended by c80 people,
 was held in February 2020. The conference included a tribute to the pioneer work in queer
 theology of Marcella Althaus-Reid. Workshops are held each year during the annual staff away
 day. In 2018 (attendance 77%), this focussed on bullying and harassment, and in 2019
 (attendance 78%) on unconscious bias. Given the proportion of staff regularly on research leave,
 these figures represent a high uptake.

 A programme of works is currently under way to refurbish, protect and improve accessibility
 within our nineteenth-century buildings which present some challenges in relation to mobility.
 The entrance to New College is being redesigned, better wheelchair access to our historic
 Library will be provided through the installation of a new lift shaft, new signage has been
 introduced near the entrance to the courtyard to offer clearer assistance to those with mobility
 problems, and a new stairlift has been installed to enhance access to our social hub, the Rainy
 Hall.

 In accordance with the University’s REF2021 Code of Practice, we have carefully monitored
 REF2 output selections while ensuring that all staff are apprised of the process through
 meetings of the School of Divinity Forum. Our institutional policy of inclusion has been pursued
 in the definition of ‘independent researcher’ resulting in a maximal submission of eligible staff.
 Following a review of each nominated output by 2–3 independent assessors, a prioritised list
 was generated. This was subsequently benchmarked against E&D criteria, the findings being
 scrutinised by a sub-committee comprising the REF Director, Head of School, and the Convener
 of the School E&D Committee to ensure output selection had not been affected by unconscious
 bias. The following breakdown was noted and approved. The distribution of 40 staff (including
 several who left the unit during the REF period but whose outputs have been returned)
 represented 62.5% male and 37.5% women. The selected outputs comprised 63% male-
 authored and 37% female-authored. The per capita distribution of outputs across the three
 research clusters was: theology and church history – 1.91, global religions – 2.5 and textual
 studies – 2.13. With respect to staff grades, the output selection per capita was Grade 7 – 1.5,
 Grade 8 – 2.0, Grade 9 – 2.36, Grade 10 – 2.17. In considering the fluctuations across clusters
 and grades, the sub-committee was satisfied that these were within an acceptable range and
 that distribution was well balanced across gender, research area, and career stage.


 Postgraduate Research Training and Support

 Our large postgraduate community generates a range of important research-related activities
 (workshops, mini-conferences, seminars, reading groups and language classes). Around 30
 research students (MTh by research and PhD) are recruited each year ensuring that there are
 100+ research students within New College at any one time.

 Since 2014, strenuous efforts to generate further scholarship funds have proved successful.
 Results include a gift of £800,000 from the Kirby Laing Foundation to support graduate students
 from the majority world, a bequest of over £500,000 from the estate of Dr Ruth Page, a gift of
 $100,000 in memory of Dr Lloyd Ogilvie, and a further donation of $100,000 to the J. S. Stewart
 Scholarship Fund. Each year, the School disburses almost £500,000 to its graduate students.
 During the census period, 5 of our candidates secured AHRC studentships. Doctoral candidates
 may also apply to the Gunning Fund for financial support to a maximum of £500 per annum for
 conference attendance. Recognising that all this remains insufficient in view of rising costs, we
 are continuing with these fundraising efforts, not least with the aim of recruiting more students
 from the majority world.


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We have enhanced induction and research training since 2015. A Welcome Week programme
 introduces students to the School, CAHSS and individual programmes of study, in addition to
 which there is a programme of social events and a public lecture. In September 2015 (as a result
 of our Athena SWAN work), the programme included a session to raise awareness of E&D
 policy. An ‘away day’ is held each September in the Scottish Highlands. This affords an
 opportunity for research students (and their families) to meet with academic staff and other
 students. Induction events continue during the first part of Semester 1, via ‘Approaches to
 Research in Theology and Religious Studies’, which meets for 2 hours weekly in weeks 1-6.
 This provides further exposure to the School’s research culture, training in postgraduate skills
 (programme/project-related and transferable), and sessions on career development, e.g.
 guidance on presentation, preparation of CVs, interview techniques, applying for postdoctoral
 fellowships, and how to publish a thesis. Input is provided by the University’s Institute for
 Academic Development and a commissioning editor from a university press. At the outset of
 each academic year, the PG Students Committee organises the allocation of study space, each
 incoming research student being offered a place within one of the study rooms in New College –
 these are open 24/7 via swipe-card access.

 We host 6 regular seminar programmes (Biblical Studies, History of Christianity, Theology and
 Ethics, World Christianity, Religious Studies, and Science and Religion), in addition to which
 there are 3–4 visiting lectureships (Gunning, Croall, Cunningham and Gifford) attracting
 attendance from across and outside the School. Speakers have included leading scholars from
 North America and Europe, e.g. Tanner, Stout, Fuentes, Welker, Phan, Woodhead and
 Kaufman. In addition to participation in the regular seminar series, student-led initiatives in
 conference organisation are encouraged. In 2018 Jo Thor, a PhD student, played a key role in
 co-organising ‘Research in Religion’, a 1-day interdisciplinary conference at New College co-
 sponsored by QUB. Several non-credit bearing language classes are offered to graduate
 students, including theological German, Dutch and Latin. Members of staff also run semester-
 length reading groups on classical and contemporary texts.

 Each doctoral student undergoes a review board after the first year of study. This involves
 meeting with a panel of 3–4 academic staff to whom a proposal and sample of written work are
 submitted. The subsequent report provides valuable guidance for the development of the
 student’s research project. To ensure progression, those in subsequent years must also submit
 a brief progress report to a panel. These annual interviews provide useful preparation for the
 eventual viva.

 Our PGR students benefit from opportunities provided by the Scottish Graduate School of Arts
 and Humanities (SGSAH). The inaugural meeting of the new Discipline+ Catalyst was organised
 by the School of Divinity in November 2019 bringing over 20 first-year PG students and 5
 academic colleagues from different HEIs to Edinburgh for informal discussion, instruction and
 networking. Since 2018 the School has been represented on the Theology and Religion
 Discipline+ Catalyst within SGSAH by Sutcliffe as Depute Catalyst+ Lead.

 From 2014–20, more than 40 doctoral students published their theses as monographs. In the
 same period, more than 30 graduates were awarded post-doctoral fellowships or tenured
 academic positions. Our graduates have been appointed to academic positions in 12 countries.
 Within the UK alone, posts were secured in Aberdeen, Edinburgh, St Andrews, KCL, Liverpool
 Hope, and The Open University.

 In 2019, the School of Divinity introduced a distance-learning PhD programme. This requires on-
 site visits at least twice each year, and attendance at study skills induction events. The
 availability of part-time off-campus doctoral study is intended to ensure wider participation and to
 improve the gender balance within the postgraduate research community. To support this new
 mode of learning, we have developed an online PhD hub for information and training – a virtual
 study space that will be further developed.



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 Our strategy of promoting applications for large grants has met with marked success in the
 current census period, resulting in an increase of 65% per annum in the volume of external
 income since REF 2014.

 The 2 targeted growth areas (Christian-Muslim studies and science and religion) have had
 noteworthy success in generating substantial funding. Ralston’s Luce Grant ($425,000) for
 promoting Christian-Muslim theological conversation is the first to be awarded by the Luce
 Foundation outside the USA. Harris and Lane Ritchie’s £2,440,000 grant in 2019 from the John
 Templeton Foundation for a network of postdoctoral fellowships has ensured that Edinburgh is
 positioned as a key international hub. In addition, both Siddiqui and Harris have received
 Isaachar awards, together exceeding $600,000, for work on gratitude in inter-faith perspective
 and the study of quantum mechanics and theology. These projects have an important inter-faith
 and cross-disciplinary dimension with philosophy and the natural sciences. Siddiqui’s project
 comprised 3 international workshops (Edinburgh, Yale and Dubai) with Christian and Muslim
 scholars, 2 community charity events, and, in collaboration with the Glasgow School of Art, a
 £1,000 prize competition. Further highlights include Holtschneider’s ‘Jewish lives, Scottish
 Spaces’ AHRC-funded project (2015-18) with Spiro at Glasgow (£236,000) and Longkumer’s
 Major Leverhulme Research Grant for work on Gurus, Anti-Gurus and Media in North India
 (£250,000) involving cross-school collaboration with anthropology and media studies.

 The strong growth in post-doctoral fellows and research associates has been facilitated by the
 Leverhulme Trust, the AHRC, the Templeton Foundation, the Hope Trust and a private
 benefaction. Prior to her move to KCL, Schumacher was successful in winning an ERC grant of
 over €1,000,000 for a project on early Franciscan thought. Three further post-doctoral posts
 have already been secured for 2020/21.

 All this has been achieved through a proactive and coordinated approach to grant applications.
 An annual target of £1,000,000 p.a. is now set for the generation of income (this includes the
 capturing of 6 large grants). Staff receive support from the Edinburgh Research Office in
 preparing grant applications. This involves inter alia the location one day per week of a
 Research Funding Specialist at New College, and an Open Research Officer to provide 1-to-1
 advice on funding schemes, timescales, and costings. Learning lunches are organised to
 provide information about new schemes and to create a forum for brainstorming. An internal
 system of anonymous double peer review has been implemented to screen applications at an
 early stage and to offer constructive feedback, particularly to early career scholars with less
 experience of framing applications. The annual interviewing of each staff member now has a
 stronger focus on plans for generation of research income. Our ongoing collaboration with the
 Development and Alumni Office has also resulted in our receiving several philanthropic gifts.
 Recent success includes the aforementioned 2-year postdoctoral fellowship in theology and AI
 (2020–2022). A review of all 3 research centres (2019) with input from an external consultant
 has prioritised the generation of grant income in the forward strategy of each.

 In addition to support from the ERO, the School’s in-house research infrastructure has been
 strengthened by several new appointments in the Divinity Office – a Research Officer, who
 manages grants and supports the relevant committees, a Learning Technologist, who supports
 the School’s IT needs including lecture and seminar video capture, and a new post of Web and
 Communications Officer to assist with dissemination, knowledge exchange activities, and
 publicity.




                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Infrastructure and Facilities

 All staff in the School of Divinity are based at the historic New College buildings in the city
 centre. Colleagues in IMES are housed in nearby George Square in the central campus area.
 The concentration of staff at New College contributes to the establishment of a cohesive
 research community while providing an excellent venue for seminars, conferences, and lectures.
 New College is undergoing major renovation with the aim of opening it to a wider public, as well
 as enhancing its value as a scholarly resource. In 2018–19, the university invested in a major
 refurbishment (costing £3,500,000) of our social hub, the Rainy Hall, improving the informal
 space available to staff, students and visiting scholars. We now open in the evenings to host
 courses offered to local churches and the wider public. In 2017, floodlighting of the College
 façade was installed following a major donation from an alumnus in the USA. A further $200,000
 has been received for the upgrading of the courtyard and installation of new artwork. These
 improvements, both functional and symbolic, promote an attractive city centre forum for our
 activities.

 The New College Library, an integral part of the Edinburgh University Library, has invested
 extensively in the cataloguing of its holdings. In 2016, the Funk project for the development of
 the New College Special Collections was completed after a decade of investment (totalling
 $1,000,000) from an American donor. This has enabled a team of archivists to work on several
 special collections including incunabula, early Bibles in Hebrew and Greek, 16th-century
 Reformation materials, 19th-century travel writing from the Holy Land and Egypt, and the large
 pamphlet collection portions of which (c35,000 items) are now in the online catalogue. This work
 has resulted in a marked increase in enquiries and visits from overseas scholars to consult
 archival materials. As noted, the revised MoU (2019) with the Church of Scotland has ensured
 further consolidation of the collections and the right to digitise and place on open access
 selected materials from the Special Collections. In 2019–20, our library holdings were decanted
 to enable a major programme of ‘asset protection’ which will improve fire prevention measures
 and provide the appropriate storage conditions for housing special collections materials.

 The School of Divinity has close links with IASH, an innovative cross-disciplinary institute that
 connects scholars in the humanities and social sciences through a programme of post-doctoral
 fellowships, visiting scholars and symposia. IASH brings accomplished and promising
 researchers to the city, offering them study space within its own building. Several IASH scholars
 have had close links with the School of Divinity, including Bicket who has now been appointed
 to a lectureship in religion and literature. Mitchell served as Deputy Director of IASH (2012–15)
 and continues as a member of its Management Group.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Scholarly contributions

 Staff from across the unit have made a substantial contribution to the research infrastructure of
 TRS in Scotland, the UK and internationally.

 The student-led Religious Studies Project (Cotter) has published on a diverse range of topics,
 including Scientology and American Religious Diversity, ‘religion’ in the works of Stephen King,
 and the recently published RE Commission report on Religious Education in UK Schools. These
 are augmented by a growing social media audience, the production of podcast transcriptions,
 management of the journal Implicit Religion, and a YouTube channel. The website was visited
 170,773 times in 2018. Since its inception in 2012, the RSP has produced 393 podcasts, which
 have been downloaded 790,128 times.

 Several colleagues have occupied key positions in academic societies and scholarly
 associations: Brown has served as President of the Ecclesiastical History Society (2016–17);
 Mitchell as President of TRS-UK (2012–18); Sutcliffe as President (2015–18) and Cotter as

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Treasurer of the British Association for the Study of Religions; and Holtschneider as President
 of the British Association for Jewish Studies. Appleton is chair of the Khyentse Foundation Prize
 Committee for the European Award for Outstanding Dissertation in Buddhist Studies. Chow is
 chair of the Chinese Christianities Unit, Ralston co-chair of the Reformed Theology and History
 Unit, Schmiedel co-chair of the Liberal Theologies Unit, and Rahemtulla on the steering
 committee of the Liberation Theologies Group at the American Academy of Religion. Fergusson
 serves on the academic advisory panel of the Center of Theological Inquiry in Princeton. Foster
 is treasurer of SNTS.

 In 2017, we welcomed the annual conference of the British Association for Jewish Studies to
 New College and have been invited to host the annual conference of the British Association for
 the Study of Religions to mark the 50th anniversary of Religious Studies in Edinburgh in 2021.

 Staff are at the forefront of their respective academic fields, as evidenced by the number of
 significant edited volumes produced since 2014. These include 14 collections, several of which
 are multi-volume length series, and 4 Oxford Handbooks/Cambridge Companions. Expertise is
 also invested in the editing of monograph series, including: Routledge Series in Science and
 Religion (Harris); University of Notre Dame Press Series on Chinese Christianities (Chow);
 Boydell and Brewer Series on Religion in Transforming Africa (Wild-Wood); Eerdman’s Studies
 in the History of Christian Missions (Stanley); Vandenhoeck und Ruprecht’s Forschungen zur
 Systematischen und Ökumenischen Theologie (Fergusson); CUP Current Issues in Theology
 (Fergusson); Routledge Studies in Religion and Film, and Research in Religion, Media and
 Culture Series (Mitchell); Oxford Commentary on the Dead Sea Scrolls (Lim); Oxford Apostolic
 Fathers Monograph Series (Foster); Zondervan Apostolic Fathers Series (Foster); Highlander
 Religion and Politics Series (Longkumer); Persian and Shii Studies, Routledge/Curzon
 (Newman); EUP’s Islamic Theology and Scriptural Interpretation (Ralston); Advances in
 Religious Studies (Cox and Sutcliffe); and the T&T Clark Reception of Jesus in the First Three
 Centuries Series (Bond).

 Several journals have been edited or co-edited by members of academic staff: Ecclesiology
 (Grumett); Expository Times (Riches and Foster); Holocaust Studies (Holtschneider); Journal
 of Reformed Theology (Eglinton); Scottish Church History (Newton); Studies in World
 Christianity (Chow and Wild-Wood); Theology in Scotland (Lane Ritchie); Reformation and
 Renaissance Review (Burton)


 Society and the economy

 Faith Communities. Our interaction with faith communities and related bodies takes place in
 both local and international contexts. Newman and Lea’s funded work in the Alwaleed Centre
 engages Shia Muslim communities in Scotland. With Ridgeon in Glasgow, Newman has secured
 an RSE network grant (£18K) for a project with two strands. The first involves the interaction of
 Shii with other faith representatives on the challenges for faith in 21st century Scotland; in the
 second, the lived experiences of Scottish Shii, spanning generations, genders, ethnicities and
 backgrounds, will be explored through a series of personal interviews that will be filmed, edited
 and posted online. The founder and moderator of Shii News and Resources, Newman has built
 up a list of almost 1,000 subscribers from across the world. The website went live in 2015 and
 carries news of academic events, work published, and news of Shia outside Iran, Iraq and
 Lebanon. Ralston’s consultancy work with European ecumenical agencies has offered expert
 advice on asylum seekers and refugees from the eastern Mediterranean and North Africa.
 Grumett’s project on The Six Propositions presented to Teilhard de Chardin by the Vatican
 generated a staged reading of Inquisition, a new play by Paul Bentley which dramatizes
 Teilhard’s enforced dilemma: ‘believe in either the Bible or science’. Drawing on her
 collaborative research (with Mia Spiro in Glasgow) on ‘Jewish lives, Scottish spaces’ (funded by
 the AHRC), Holtschneider has co-produced a walking tour of the city centre with the Edinburgh
 Jewish Literary Society. The tour is available through the ‘Curious Edinburgh’ App


                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (http://curiousedinburgh.org/jewish-history-tour/). The success and popularity of the app was
 recognized by the award of the Tam Dalyell Prize for Excellence in Engaging the Public with
 Science in 2018. In addition, her project has produced ‘Points of Arrival’, 5 short films about
 Jewish migration to Scotland. In response to feedback, freely available digital resource packs
 are being created for teachers and students to accompany the films. In his commissioned report
 to the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland in 2019, Forsyth drew comparisons with
 church planting projects in England and offered a series of recommendations that were
 approved. Jack serves as theological consultant to Christian Aid Scotland. Foster is an
 Honorary Canon at St Mary’s Cathedral in Edinburgh. Fergusson was appointed by the Queen
 as Dean of the Chapel Royal in Scotland and Dean of the Order of the Thistle and convened a
 5-person Special Commission of the General Assembly in 2019 which successfully proposed
 major changes to church governance.

 Media. In accordance with our impact policy, we have expanded our media work since 2014.
 One of the most high-profile public intellectuals in TRS, Siddiqui broadcasts frequently on BBC
 Radio 4 and Radio Scotland. Bond’s TV documentary work on Christian origins has produced
 several series that have been screened worldwide. G. Fuller’s highly successful Homebrewed
 Christianity, a weekly podcast disseminating the work of leading scholars to a wider public, has
 generated almost 1,000,000 downloads from c150 countries. The project has spawned a book
 series with Fortress and over 30 online classes averaging 1500+ people. Eglinton has written
 numerous op-ed pieces for the Times, Herald and other newspapers in the UK and the
 Netherlands, and participated in Gaelic-language programmes on BBC Alba and BBC Radio nan
 Gàidheal; Bicket and Jack regularly broadcast on Radio Scotland; Mitchell’s two-year project
 on religious leaders and journalists in Palestine, sponsored by the Dutch government, brought
 together Palestinian and Israeli journalists with a group of religious leaders to create media items
 and develop skills for better understanding and dialogue. Ralston and Siddiqui have organised
 short courses on Christian-Muslim relations for ministers, lay people and the wider public in
 Richmond, Virginia, in London at St Martins-in-the-Fields, at Lichfield Cathedral, and in
 Edinburgh. In 2018, the CTPI research project to mark the 50th anniversary of the ordination of
 women in the Church of Scotland was profiled in a BBC2 documentary on the subject (20 May
 2018).

 Edinburgh Festivals. Staff have been actively involved in the Edinburgh Festival Fringe, for
 example in the Rainy Hall CTPI exhibition Art, Conflict and Remembering: The murals of the
 Bogside Artists which explored the non-sectarian civil rights movement in Derry from the 1960s
 to the present day (attracting well over 1,500 visitors). As part of the Templeton funded Art
 Seeking Understanding Project, Following the delay caused by pandemic restrictions, Jack is
 currently collaborating with the Festival of the Sacred Arts for work in 2021/22. Mitchell has also
 presented, chaired, and produced events at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe. In its collaboration
 with Beyond Borders, CTPI hosted two weeks of workshops and co-hosted several panels in
 New College and at the Beyond Borders Festival.

 Secondary schools. We have initiated curricular developments with local schools and teachers.
 Corboz co-organised an Edinburgh High School Workshop for Teachers on Middle Eastern
 Politics (2019); this was attended by teachers from 8 secondary schools. The work of Appleton
 and Jack has extended the range of stories on Jesus and the Buddha employed by teachers of
 religious education. They have initiated a series of CPD workshops for teachers of RS in
 Scottish secondary schools; these have focussed on religious stories, and also on issues in
 science and religion. For school pupils, ‘discovery days’ have provided opportunities for
 academic staff to explore elements of the RMPS syllabus.

 Government. Siddiqui’s work in chairing the Home Office commission on Sharia marriages has
 already been profiled. A further example is provided by Grumett’s work on animal welfare.
 Having served on the body for several years, he was appointed Deputy Chair of the Defra
 committee on animal welfare in 2020. The committee advises Defra and the devolved
 administrations of Scotland and Wales on the welfare of farm animals, companion animals and


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 wild animals kept by people. As the committee’s ethicist, he contributes advice on sentience,
 cattle production, non-stun slaughter, and other topics.


 Collaboration

 Through scholarly societies, journal editing, and editorial projects, we have extended our
 collaboration with other HEI’s. Recent highlights include: Holtschneider’s Jewish Lives –
 Scottish Spaces project with Mia Spiro (Glasgow); Novenson’s 3-year Swedish Research
 Council-funded project at Lund University on identity in Ancient Judaism and Christianity;
 Longkumer’s cross-disciplinary Leverhulme project and collaboration with the University of
 Tromsø’s Indigenous Religion(s): Local Grounds, Global Networks project funded by the
 Norwegian Research Council; Sutcliffe’s participation in the Swiss National Foundation-funded
 project on experimenting with religions and spiritual practice at the University of Bern (2018–22);
 Burton’s co-founding of the Cusanus Society UK and Ireland, his collaboration on edited
 projects with colleagues in Warsaw and McGill Universities, and his participation in a project
 funded in 2020 by the Swiss National Science Foundation on ‘Reformed Scotism’. Schmiedel
 received a collaborative international grant from the AAR for a project on Islam’s Liberalisms and
 Liberalism’s Islam with scholars in Iran and the UK. Mitchell chaired ‘The Cultures of Peace and
 Violence’, an interdisciplinary network (2017–18) in the University of Edinburgh.

 We have forged partnerships with overseas HEI’s, including the joint PhD programme with the
 China Graduate School of Theology in Hong Kong. Research students are able to participate in
 the Tübingen exchange with a semester or year of study at the Evangelische Stift. The
 collaborative DMin degree with Pittsburgh Theological Seminary enriches our provision of
 continuing professional development.


 Wider recognition

 Named lectureships in other institutions provide evidence of international reach and
 collaboration. Lim was appointed Seymour Gitin Distinguished Professorship (2018) at the W. F.
 Albright Institute of Archaeological Research in Jerusalem, the first UK scholar to hold the post.
 Brown and Fergusson have each delivered the Sinlau and Mackay Lectures in Taiwan.
 Siddiqui was Gifford Lecturer in Aberdeen (2016), delivered the British Academy Lecture in
 Religious Studies (2018), the Distinguished Harold J. Berman Lectures in Law and Religion at
 Emory University (2019) and the Annual Bartlett Lecture at Yale (2019). Mitchell delivered the
 Keen Lecture at Chelmsford Cathedral (2014), the St Wilfrid Lecture at Ripon Cathedral (2014)
 and the Montgomery Trust Lectures in different venues (2014–18). Bond delivered the Manson
 Memorial Lecture in Manchester (2017) and the Johannes Munck Lecture in Aarhus (2019);
 Foster was invited to give the 2020 anniversary lecture at the China Graduate School of
 Theology in Hong Kong, and has delivered the annual Scottish Episcopal Institute Lecture in
 Aberdeen (2019); Ralston delivered the O’Brien and Hasten Lecture in Interreligious Dialogue at
 Boston College (2018). Siddiqui was awarded honorary doctorates by Roehampton University
 (2014), King’s College, London (2016), and Robert Gordon University, Aberdeen (2018). She
 was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Science (2019) and received the Hubert
 Walter Award for Reconciliation and Interfaith Cooperation from the Archbishop of Canterbury
 (2019). Fergusson was awarded an honorary doctorate by Aberdeen (2014), OBE (2016), and
 appointed to a visiting fellowship at Princeton Theological Seminary (2016–17). He also
 delivered the Ferguson Lecture in Manchester (2014). Klein’s Habilitation and venia legendi
 qualification was awarded by Göttingen University (2014).




                                                                                            Page 16
