Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Institution: Swansea University

  Unit of Assessment: (4) Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Overview

Research within the unit of assessment (UoA) is conducted primarily by staff from the Department
of Psychology in the College of Human and Health Sciences (soon to be Faculty of Health and Life
Sciences; n=27) based on the Singleton campus of Swansea University. Two staff from the Centre
for Innovative Ageing and the School of Management (Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences),
respectively, complete the Category A submitted staff profile. The distribution of key unit staff across
faculties has helped facilitate inter-disciplinary working as evidenced in submitted outputs, pipelines
for research innovation and enterprise, and in our growing research income and range of impact
case studies.

In REF2014, the unit was one of only four UK departments out of 82 to attain a 100% rating at 4*
(world-leading) for research impact (making it joint first in the UK league tables). Its research was
ranked 27th (by GPA), with 44% of research activity at 4* and 31% at 3*, respectively, and a GPA
average of 3.18 and research power score of 4. Almost 90% of its research environment was rated
4 or 3*. Since then, the UoA has further enhanced its reputation as a world-leading research
institution in cognitive neuroscience and clinical, health and forensic psychology. We achieved this
by targeted new staff appointments (11 since 2014), increased research income, University
investment in infrastructure and research support systems (e.g., several new labs, state-of-the-art
equipment, and growth in postgraduate student numbers), and the full implementation of our
strategic research aims.

Our research adopts a translational perspective to better understand problems of social importance
and inform policy-based debate and legislative change. Our strategy is to first gain an empirical
handle on complex psychological processes before extrapolation to socially significant challenges.
This translational-to-applied research emphasis ensures that the basic understanding of human
psychological and neuro-behavioural processes creates pathways that directly inform the
development and application of assessment and intervention techniques for use with a wide range
of populations.

Since REF2014, our research themes and groupings have been revised to reflect staffing changes
and new facilities coming online. Research is now arranged according to two general themes:

      Clinical, Health, and Forensic Psychology
      Cognitive Neuroscience

These themes encompass several distinct and overlapping research groups supported by
external funding, world-class laboratory facilities and equipment, international patient networks, and
specialist technical support.

Research groupings and labs within Clinical, Health, and Forensic Psychology consist of staff
with interests in topics such as obesity, nutrition, and appetite (e.g., the Swansea Nutrition, Appetite
and Cognition group), gambling, mental health, and behavioural addiction (e.g., the Experimental


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Psychopathology Lab), sleep (e.g., Swansea Sleep Lab), and forensic psychology (e.g., offender
management and suicide prevention).

Research groupings and labs within Cognitive Neuroscience consist of staff with interests in areas
such as brain mechanisms in health and disease (e.g., Psychology Dementia Research Group, Face
Research Swansea), neuroimaging, brain stimulation (e.g., Brain Plasticity Lab), and cognition and
perception (e.g., visual perception, memory, and language).

All research groupings are led by senior and/or early-career researchers in a collaborative leadership
structure, and members also include postgraduate research students (PhD and MSc), research
assistants and postdoctoral research officers, supplemented by our in-house technical support.
Groupings tend to be relatively informal, with many staff members of several different groups.
Overlapping these groupings and themes, the adjacent Swansea University Medical School
Institute of Life Sciences Imaging Centre houses our research MRI scanner, patient areas, and a
behavioural testing suite.

1.2 Strategic aims and objectives

The unit met its objectives described in REF2014 to:
   1. Double research income (from a broader range of sources).
   2. Increase by 25% its postgraduate research student numbers.
   3. Establish new research networks and collaborations.
   4. Host major international conferences.
   5. Increase interactions with end users.

These were achieved by an ongoing, University-led programme of investment to enhance and
maintain our world-class reputation for enabling high quality research with applied impact:

1. Our research income across the census period has increased to over £2M.

2. Postgraduate research student numbers have increased during the census period. The
   number of PhDs awarded has increased by 37.5% from REF2014 and has continued to grow
   during the census period (76% increase comparing 2013/14 data with 2019/20). This growth is
   partly driven by increased studentship funding from external partners and agencies such as the
   Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) Wales Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP).

3. New research links and collaborations continue to increase (as evidenced by co-authored
   outputs and co-creation of projects and grants). Our collaborative research is supported by
   external organisations and the public who work with us to inform, enhance, and adapt our
   research practices to address global challenges. New campus-based facilities such as the Health
   and Wellbeing Academy and the Institute for Life Sciences Imaging Centre support and enable
   world-leading research with direct impact.

4. Unit staff have hosted and organised several high-profile major international conferences,
   such as the 10th European Meeting on Human Fear Conditioning in 2018 and the 2019 British
   Feeding and Drinking Group meeting. Conferences planned for 2020 but which were postponed
   due to the COVID-19 pandemic, such the Experimental Psychology Society Summer Conference
   and the 2nd Current Advances in Gambling Research Conference, have been rescheduled.



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
5. Unit research benefits from the direct involvement of research end-users, such as patients
   and those with lived experience, during project inception, design, and dissemination phases. For
   instance, the Support and Delivery Centre Communication, Engagement and Involvement team
   from Health and Care Research Wales advise unit staff, including two Research Directors from
   the Centre for Innovative Ageing and the Gambling Research, Education and Treatment Network
   Wales, respectively, on its public involvement plans. These structures ensure fair and
   transparent processes for involving the public that reflect equality and diversity as well as
   quantifying the extent of the impact of public involvement across Wales.

Our overall strategic research aim is to consolidate further our position as a leading UoA in the UK
for internationally excellent translational psychological research with broad societal impact.
Overseen by a senior academic as the College Director of Research, and developed in consultation
with the research themes, our research and impact strategy and objectives over the next five
years are based on the following key principles:

1. Improve and maintain research quality and capacity in areas of strength. We will continue
   to incentivise research excellence and achieve critical mass to expand and develop existing,
   high-profile research groupings in cognitive neuroscience and clinical, health, and forensic
   psychology. Guided by our REF Strategy, we will assess this objective through an increased
   proportion of world-leading research outputs, further staff appointments on enhanced-research
   academic career pathways, and continued capacity building and infrastructure development.

2. Accelerate the impact of our inter-disciplinary applications of psychological research to
   better inform treatment of health and disease. We will prioritise and evidence a growing
   portfolio of high-quality research impact case studies closely aligned to contemporary policy,
   legislative and evidence-based treatment developments. We will assess this objective through a
   minimum 25% of staff having a strand of impact-related activity by the next REF cycle.

3. Further develop our levels of strategic and responsive external investment. We will assess
   this objective through research income awarded from a diverse range of funders, with increased
   funding levels from non-traditional (e.g., third sector) and international sources, and by
   consolidating staff levels in our areas of expertise. Doing so will ensure we are well placed to
   maximally respond to global societal research challenges.

4. Enhance our international profile for both research and impact. We will achieve high
   discipline rankings in reputable league tables (e.g., Times Higher Education Supplement, World
   and QS rankings) and maintain our global reputation with highly cited outputs. We will evaluate
   this objective through increased SciVal metrics of our work, achieving UK Top 20 performance
   for research impact in REF2021, and an increased number of international research
   collaborations with colleagues at prestigious institutions.

1.3 World-class research with global reach

These strategic objectives are supported by a College and departmental Research Strategy, staff
appointments on enhanced research career pathways (Section 2), research incentivisation systems,
internal roles and responsibilities and institutional systems and support for enabling impact and
maintaining the global reach of our research.

Our international focus is evident in co-authored outputs and co-production of projects and grants.
Our international collaborative research outputs have a citation impact 478% higher than the

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
world average and a Field-Weighted Citation Impact score of 5.86 (SciVal). Projects illustrative
of this global reach include the epidemiology of health and wellbeing in Brazil, work scheduling
effects on anti-depressant use in Sweden, the neuroscience of human memory, and of gambling
disorder, conducted with colleagues in the United States, and research on aging and large-scale
functional networks with researchers in Australia.

Manuscripts and datasets are regularly published, open-access, in top-tier scientific journals (e.g.,
British Medical Journal; American Journal of Psychiatry; Cortex; Neuropsychologia; Journal of
Experimental Psychology: General; Journal of Experimental Psychology; Learning Memory and
Cognition; Scientific Reports; Neuroimage). World-leading research is evident in the outputs of the
28 (26.5 FTE) Category A submitted staff (an increase of 11.7 in FTE since REF2014). Our total
scholarly outputs have increased 18% over the period (529 in total), generated 12,887 citations with
24.4 citations per publication, and have a Field-Weighted Citation Impact of 3.22. Almost 18% of
our outputs are in the top 10% most cited publications worldwide (SCiVal).

Our staff have access to a range of specialist laboratories and fifteen, centrally bookable
general-purpose testing laboratories maintained by dedicated research technicians and lab
managers. Specialist facilities include four labs for measuring psychophysiology, three
electrophysiology labs, brain stimulation labs, a sleep lab, a baby-friendly play lab, two eye-tracker
labs, as well as specialist space for research with elderly populations and for advanced neuroimaging
techniques (e.g., functional magnetic resonance imaging, fMRI; near-infrared spectroscopy, NIRS)
and biological (“wet lab”) storage and processing facilities.

The structure of the unit supports our stated aim to increase the pace of enabling research
with impact to treat common physical and mental health conditions. It does this through interfaces
and physical links with adjacent campus research facilities and centres such as the award-winning
Health and Wellbeing Academy, the Institute for Life Sciences I and II, and Data Science buildings,
respectively.

For instance, the Health and Wellbeing Academy is a collaborative project between the College of
Human and Health Sciences at Swansea University and ARCH (A Regional Collaboration for
Health). The Health and Wellbeing Academy aims to improve the health and wellbeing of people in
south west Wales by bringing together innovation, education, enterprise, and world class research.
It is located next to the unit on Singleton Campus, with excellent public transport and free parking
available directly opposite the main entrance. Many of its services and support groups are free of
charge to patients and their carers. Our staff have provided strategic input into the direction of the
Academy, having provided its founding director of research, while other staff retain senior
management and College-wide leadership roles.

The unit’s physical infrastructure and the proximity of its associated research centres with local NHS-
based services provides a convenient location for a range of clinical and research facilities. For
instance, in the space of a few minutes, service users may undertake a clinical assessment in
Singleton Hospital, walk to the Academy for group therapy or further tests, before then participating
in a world leading research study in the Department of Psychology. These physical configurations
support the sustainability and vitality of the unit by affording opportunities to directly engage with
end-users and provide a platform to disseminate findings via local and ultimately global networks.

Our structure and physical location also actively facilitate interdisciplinary research by the unit. As
our REF2014 impact track record suggests, interdisciplinary research is a proven, recognised area


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
of strength. Indeed, we strategically set out our research themes to be, intentionally and explicitly,
inter- and multi-disciplinary.

Cognitive neuroscience staff, for instance, collaborate with:
   NHS staff (e.g., dementia carers, clinical psychologists, audiologists, NHS Veterans Wales).
   rehabilitation services, brain injury clinics, and third sector treatment providers and charities
      (e.g., dementia support agencies).
   policymakers, and other stakeholders (e.g., those with anxiety disorders, face processing
      deficits, etc.).

Clinical, health, and forensic staff, for instance, collaborate with:
     healthcare professionals (e.g., occupational therapists, nurses, mental health nurses).
     criminal justice employees (e.g., prison governors and officers, probation officers).
     consultant neurologists, shift supervisors and managers.
     food and drinks industry R&D managers.
     third sector treatment providers and charities (e.g., veterans’ support agencies),
       policymakers, and other stakeholders (e.g., those with lived experience of gambling
       addiction, obesity, acquired brain injury, etc.).

These links are facilitated by established stakeholder links, on-campus and locally accessible
networks and infrastructure, and strategic research support services. A more informal system of
mentorship and support ensures we are well placed to take advantage of research opportunities and
to tackle a range of global challenges.

1.4 Impact strategy

Our strategic intent is to continue to build on the unit’s 100% record at 4* (world leading) research
impact. This is guided by the Human and Health Sciences Research Strategy. Specifically, the
UoA seeks to embed the translation and impact of research early in the research cycle for all
research staff and grows and develops the number and range of non-academic networks and
contacts with user and beneficiary communities. We currently use seed-corn funding to identify
potential impact case studies, and we encourage all staff to evidence the potential impact of their
research from inception through to data collection stages. The translation and impact of research
will continue to be supported by a dedicated Impact Support Officer to protect and exploit
commercialization opportunities, administer specialist funding to foster and disseminate impact
which reflects contemporary policy and legislative developments, and will help to increase
knowledge and technology transfer opportunities for staff.

Training in maximising the impact of unit research is provided by Library and Information Services.
Staff learn how to be strategic about impact, making sure to plan stakeholder engagement and other
pertinent activities from the outset of their research proposal. Learning how to use the best practice,
tools and techniques that boost the chances of achieving real impact is a stated goal of the
University’s excellent research support services and training. Our impact case studies have all
benefitted from this support. To date, our pioneering inter-disciplinary research with impact is
enabled and supported through established stakeholder networks, such as those with the adjacent
Swansea Bay University Health Board and other local healthcare providers.

Staff may submit applications to a centrally administered Research Impact Fund which is a popular
funding call to drive and support impact in health, energy, technical development, and associated

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
STEM disciplines and those within the EPSRC remit. Funding is available to support impact projects,
some in conjunction with other universities in Wales, and travel grants to foster networking and
support impactful collaborations aimed at kick-starting and sustaining an impact culture. Funding
from the CHERISH Digital Economy Centre supports collaborative projects aligned with the EPSRC
Digital Economy theme. Our research strategy and REF impact case studies are supported through
these and other funding mechanisms to develop further indicators of success and to target the
dissemination pipeline and evidence base for future impact studies.

1.5 Research integrity

The unit is at the centre of institutional support for research integrity, with staff having held pivotal
cross-campus roles implementing and monitoring compliance with the Concordat to Support
Research Integrity. Overseen by the Research Integrity office and supported by the University Data
Protection Officer, staff have access to specialist advice and input at all stages of the research
process, thus ensuring the highest standards of ethics and integrity are always met. Staff are further
supported by online and face-to-face mandatory training and professional development opportunities
(e.g., Epigeum’s online research ethics and integrity training course) provided by a dedicated
governance and research integrity team to help ensure research is conducted in adherence with all
relevant ethical and legal standards.

Local (i.e., departmental) and College-wide ethics and research governance systems provide a
professional framework for the conduct of research and interface with wider, University-based
support for research integrity. All unit staff and student applications for ethical approval are made
online (Infonetica), with membership of the ethics committees rotating across staff to ensure equal
representation from all levels. Staff applications for sponsored research approval from NHS RECs
are handled by dedicated advisors, who provide regular training and development opportunities for
PIs, students, and externally funded postdocs and research assistants. Our postgraduate research
(PhD) and taught masters (MSc) students also undertake these opportunities for research integrity
training, thus ensuring they have working knowledge of these important principles at the start of their
research careers.

1.6 Reproducibility and open-access practices

Unit staff are actively engaged with, and advocate for, scientific reproducibility and open access
research practices at a national level. A local, Swansea branch of the UK Reproducibility and Open
Science Network and Reproducibilitea Journal Club (chaired by Wilkinson) hosts regular ‘lunch
and learn’ journal-club discussions led by early career researchers. Staff are encouraged to adopt
other open science activities, such as preregistering studies, and of sharing published datasets and
analysis code/pipelines.

Swansea University has an established history of engagement with open access research practices
and recently established the (Welsh) Centre for Open Scholarship. The aim of this Centre is to lead
on the development of the principles, advocacy, processes, and systems to support and enhance
Open Scholarship. In accordance with existing University-wide open science initiatives, and in line
with UK/EU, international and charitable funding bodies, Welsh and UK Government, REF, and as
a signatory to sector-led initiatives such as the Concordat on Open Research Data and DORA, the
unit fully embraces the principles underpinning Open Access (of outputs, related datasets, and
code), and has put policies, systems, and processes in place to embed Open Scholarship across its
activities.


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Unit staff comply with the open access (OA) mandate to upload all research outputs to the internal
staff Research Information System and publicly accessible OA and Research-Data Repositories
(CRONFA). Dedicated members of the Library and Information Services oversee compliance, and
staff are supported by a dedicated, College-administered OA Fund to pay for article processing
charges for Gold open access. Requests are considered by REF Team members, overseen by the
REF Coordinator and College Director of Research, and may be submitted at any time. Priority is
reserved for world-leading or internationally excellent (4*) outputs and for research supporting impact
case study development; 60% of our outputs selected for REF submission are Gold OA or OA
compliant, and the remainder were out of scope.

Driven by the University’s Policy on Research Data Management, staff are supported by a centrally
administered dedicated website to achieve the highest standards in the management of research
data and records. The site provides guidance for Swansea University researchers on expectations,
obligations, advice, and support for research data management, and emphasizes why such practices
are fundamental to both high-quality research and academic integrity.

  2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

The unit has grown substantially during the REF period, driven in large part by its world class
research profile and enabling environment. In 2013, the unit comprised 19 academic staff (7
Professors, 5 Associate Professors, 5 Senior Lecturers, and 2 Lecturers), most of whom have been
retained since REF2014. The unit’s Category A submitted staff now comprises of 28 permanent
academic staff (26.5 FTE) in enhanced research career pathways (10 Professors, 7 Associate
Professors, 6 Senior Lecturers, and 5 Lecturers) all of whom have permanent contracts. Our growth
across all grade levels is obviously welcomed, while the sustainability and growth among early career
researchers (such as Lecturers and Tutors) speaks to the vitality of the staffing strategy. All staff in
enhanced research roles are supported by staff teams in teaching enhanced roles, many of whom
were appointed since 2014.

All academic staff in research-enhanced posts have considerable methodological expertise and
conduct innovative, contemporary research. Most new appointments are full-time, continuing
(permanent) posts; the remainder are fixed-term appointments with the possibility of extension. All
new, probationary staff are supported by dedicated start-up research funding (e.g., to cover
equipment costs) and reduced teaching loads, and all staff are individually mentored by a senior
colleague with regular opportunities for peer appraisal and professional development training. We
support fixed-term staff to apply for permanent positions, and many of our new staff have joined us
via this route, while others have completed doctoral studies and undertaken tutor roles or teaching
fellowships before taking up their first post.

Research activity roles and responsibilities always include both senior and junior members of staff
for the purposes of succession planning. For instance, one senior member of staff of international
standing in food and eating behaviour research (Benton) is scaling back his FTE commitment while
mentoring and advising colleagues in all aspects of research income generation, supervision of
doctoral students etc., to ensure that the UoA continues to be a renowned centre for world leading
research in this area.




                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Flexible return-to-work policies following parental leave, such as reduced workload, and ongoing
support for staff with significant caring responsibilities ensure that unit staff welfare is prioritised, and
people are afforded space to flourish.

Our strategy supports integrating of clinical-based academics with fractional appointments to bridge
the gap between evidence and practice. NHS and private-based colleagues include Fisher, with
experience in rehabilitation from acquired brain injury, Davies and Gray, both of whom retain clinical
forensic posts in offender management and the criminal justice system, and Kemp, who retains an
honorary NHS research position as part of a large, HCRW-funded project. Unit staff also hold visiting
appointments with international universities (e.g., Dymond has been Visiting Professor at Reykjavik
University, Iceland since 2015), thus ensuring sustainable and productive opportunities for research
collaboration and student exchange.

The unit provides formal support for early career researchers aided by centrally administered
development and training services structured according to the 4 domains of the Vitae Researcher
Development Framework. Since 2018, the University’s competitive Florence Mockeridge Fellowship
programme has supported one early career researcher from the Unit every year to achieve their
personal and professional potential. Each month for six months, Fellows meet to be trained in the
skills needed to be successful in their pursuit of externally funded fellowships. Swansea academics
of the highest calibre provide mentorships throughout, and sessions are supported by bid writers
and research development managers from Research, Enterprise, and Innovation Services. To date,
the Fellowship has supported submission of competitive, early career bids (e.g., to BRACE
Alzheimer’s Research and ESRC). Early-career collaborations are further fostered and maintained
by fellowships and seed-corn funding awarded from the Welsh Crucible, a development programme
for future research leaders.

In addition, the unit participates in a programme of centrally organised workshops and symposia
offered by Swansea University Research Forum (SURF), Research, Engagement, and Innovation
Services (REIS) and inter-disciplinary centres such as Digital Economy Research Centre
(CHERISH), and ad hoc events with colleagues in the adjacent Medical School and Data Science
Buildings.

Annual professional development review (PDR) processes give non-probationary staff opportunities
to update key performance indicators (KPIs) and other metrics to assess pathways progression. In
conjunction with the needs of the individual and the unit, and the identification of training needs and
other support, the PDR process enables our staff to realise their potential. Striving for personal and
collective excellence is informed by discipline specific KPIs benchmarked for career stage.
Academic promotions are based on excellence and are conducted following probation in
accordance with the University’s Strategic Plan and with annual opportunities to submit and receive
feedback on applications. Since 2013/14, 11 staff were promoted through the enhanced-
research academic career pathway: four to Professor (one female), three to Associate
Professor (all female), and four to Senior Lecturer (three female).

As well as centrally supported new posts, our increased research income continues to generate new
posts: for instance, in 2017, the unit was awarded its first Marie Skłodowska-Curie Award Ser
Cymru/COFUND Fellowship, with provision to establish a permanent academic post on completion.
Dymond’s research on gambling-related harms has during the review period led to the recruitment
of 7 externally funded researchers and a dedicated bid-writer to increase and sustain the unit’s
research capacity.


                                                                                                     Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Support for transitioning from fixed-term research roles to permanent teaching and research
positions is central to our staff development strategy. The establishment in 2017 of several, fixed-
term Tutor in Psychology posts (4 in 2017, 6 in 2018, 4 in 2019) fosters ongoing integration into the
unit’s research culture for early career (post-doctoral) staff and opportunities for further career
progression with five former tutors having taken up permanent lectureships in the Department and
elsewhere. All Tutors possess research-based PhDs and have track records of publishing in their
chosen fields; their career development is supported and accelerated through mentorship and
collaborative research working practices.

Despite growth, we have ensured research time is protected by workload models, reduced teaching
loads for three years, blocked-semester teaching, and regular sabbatical and study leave
opportunities. For illustration, Williams’ sabbatical facilitated her impact case study of a novel
measure of acquired brain injury impairment, while Tree produced new funding streams,
neuropsychological research collaborations and consolidated his professional role in the
Experimental Psychology Society. Dymond’s sabbatical, supported through funding from Health and
Care Research Wales, will establish a centre of excellence for research, education, and treatment
of gambling-related harm. The unit has also supported three periods of secondment to international
research sites (Reppa was seconded to Quebec, Canada; Tucker to Stockholm University and
Karolinska Institute, Sweden; and Weidemann to the University of Pennsylvania, USA).

As well as unit expertise and knowledge, staff are supported in all aspects of research development,
design, funding, implementation, dissemination and impact by a College-based REF Manager, Life
Sciences Hub Research Development Officers, Impact and Engagement Officers, and adjacent
expertise in the Clinical Trials Unit, Research Integrity Office, and Marketing and International
Recruitment and Press Office/Public Relations teams.

2.2 Research students

The development, training, and supervision of postgraduate research students (PGRs) is overseen
by the PGR Academy. The Academy oversees and monitors student progress and arranges training
and development opportunities for PGRs, while providing a cutting-edge research environment. The
PGR Academy benefits from representation and input from unit staff as academic leads.

Recruitment of PGRs has increased considerably during the review period, with over 50 students (a
26% FTE increase on REF2014) currently supervised by unit staff. All Category A staff supervise
doctoral students (1.43 students per member of staff). During the census period, a total of 44
research doctorates (PhD) were awarded. In keeping with our goal of being an inclusive and diverse
environment in which to excel, the cohort reflects the equality and diversity of the unit and includes
11 students with protected characteristics.

Many current MPhil and PhD students come via our MSc postgraduate training courses, and several
are in receipt of competitive sources of funding such as from:
     ESRC Doctoral Training Programme (DTP) Wales Collaborative and General Studentships
        (3 since 2018),
     International collaborative university studentships such as the Oklahoma-Swansea (2 to
        date) and Grenoble-Swansea (2 to date) partnerships,
     Coleg Cymru who funded one Welsh language student (and who has since obtained a
        lectureship based on teaching and assessing the undergraduate psychology curriculum
        through the medium of Welsh) and are currently supporting another,


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      and other, externally funded providers (e.g., GambleAware, BRACE, Ministry of Defence,
       and British Heart Foundation).

Moreover, the recent addition of the Masters in Research (MRes) pathway and industry-sponsored
Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships (KESS) studentships (3 completed/underway) have
increased the range and quality of postgraduate research conducted in the unit. Collaborative (i.e.,
cross-College) supervisory teams ensure PGR students have access to contemporary multi-
disciplinary expertise. Several staff have experience of international PhD supervision (e.g., with KU
Leuven), and the presence of competitive, institution-wide studentships with international partners
(e.g., Grenoble) speaks to the dynamic nature of supervisory regulations and student capacity
building. Annual studentship competitions afforded by the unit’s involvement as one of three centres
in the Psychology Pathway (in conjunction with Bangor and Cardiff Universities) for ESRC DTP
Wales funding has thus far led to 3 funded studentships at present, 2 of which involve an inter-
disciplinary supervisory team.

Our students benefit from research support funding of up to £750 per taught masters student
towards the costs of conducting their MSc research projects. Applications to this fund are
administered once a year by a committee with representatives from the research themes. Requests
for funds have increased every year of operation, with staff and students generally favouring using
the money to reimburse participation in online, lab- and field-based studies. Similarly, all PGR
students benefit from generous conference travel and research support funding of £1000 during
their candidature. This funding is College-wide and has been used for a wide range of dissemination
and research support activities (e.g., conference presentation and attendance, workshop
organization, and purchasing research consumables).

Networking, pastoral support and social events are managed by organic clusters of PGR students
with weekly social events overseen by a member of staff as the PGR Lead. Calls and
announcements are circulated via in-house mailing lists and our students host social events and
guest presentations in a dedicated PGR room and flexible meeting space. The PGR room also
serves a ‘hot-desk’ function for visiting research students, while the unit’s students have availed of
study abroad opportunities, such as to KU Leuven (funded by Santander).

All PGRs have dedicated office space and computing facilities as befits their research topic and most
share office space with up to four other students. Postgraduate research students are supported
through a centralised IT system (eVision) that allows for monthly updates and recording of progress
across specific candidature milestones. The system, supported by the online Academic Guide,
monitors attendance, records engagement details, target-setting, training need analysis and
performance review.

The unit adopts a PGR student supervisory team model ensuring that junior staff gain experience
of successfully supervising research students to completion. Most staff actively supervise several
students, with junior staff given experience of supervision as members of supervisory teams before
being eligible to be primary supervisor. Supervisor training is mandatory and has been completed
by all staff. Open calls for internally funded studentship proposals (such as the Swansea University
Research Excellence Scholarships) are circulated regularly. Our PGRs’ skill development is further
supported through training in small-group teaching and assessment. The annual PGR conference
is organised by the PGR Academy and provides students with experience of presenting their work
in a supportive environment; indeed, several of the unit’s students have won prizes for the best
presentation at this popular event.


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
National and locally organised public engagement opportunities for PGRs, such as 3 Minute Thesis
and FameLab are enormously successful, with unit representation at UK finals of both
competitions. Organising and hosting other outreach events such as Pint of Science and Soapbox
Science – led by female researchers and PGRs – and the recent on-campus hosting of the ESRC
Festival of Social Science series and the British Science Festival helps ensure a wide dissemination
and impact base for our research.

We encourage PGRs to pursue externally funded post-doctoral opportunities through informal
mentorship from their supervisory team and the provision of dedicated workshops and training
events based on the Concordat Framework from the University’s award-winning PGR Office.
Students may view and book formal workshops on themes such as ‘Managing information and data’,
‘Leadership and working with others’, to ‘Academic writing’, choose from a range of online and e-
courses, and participate in locally delivered initiatives such as the unit-organised Peer Academic
Writing Support which provides PhD students the time and place for protected writing time and
support from their peers to improve their writing/encourage writing output. Structured programmes
are available through the University’s Development and Training Services, while PGRs have
opportunities to tutor, demonstrate and teach throughout their candidature, hence enhancing their
employability skills. Input from students on all aspects of their candidature is ensured through PGR
representation of the College Research Committee. Supported by such initiatives, most research
students co-author papers with their supervisors and many do so during their candidature.

The health and wellbeing of our PGR community is of paramount importance, and we provide a
range of support services. These include dedicated support pages on the University website for
PGRs, programmes offered by Wellbeing Support such as free access to an online cognitive
behavioural therapy programme and a stress control course, numerous self-help resources, one-off
support sessions (individually and group), access to NHS courses and counselling, and specialist
support for learners with autism.

2.3 How the unit supports and promotes equality and diversity

We take seriously our responsibilities as part of the Concordat to Support the Career
Development of Researchers’ and strives to facilitate and maintain an internationally renowned,
diverse, inclusive, and supportive environment where individuals may flourish. Staffing strategy is
supported by Swansea University’s Investors in People status and College Athena SWAN Silver
award. The balanced demographic profile of the unit illustrates equality and diversity; we now
have a higher percentage of female staff (53.5%) compared to 13/14 (30%). Of the 28 (26.5 FTE)
returned staff, 15 are women (3 Professors, 3 Associate Professors, 5 Senior Lecturers, and 4
Lecturers) and 13 are men (7 Professors, 4 Associate Professors, 1 Senior Lecturer, and 1 Lecturer).

In a development from our REF2014 submission, our UoA now includes part-time as well as full-time
researchers from a wide age-range and nationalities. In line with the University’s Code of Practice
and our unit Statement of Intent, the team making the decisions on the final selection of outputs all
received mandatory unconscious bias training and targeted REF specific training. The submission
comprises the one best-quality output from each Category A submitted staff member with the
balance made up of the best-quality outputs from the available pool of eligible outputs that includes
outputs of former eligible colleagues.

The University is a member of Stonewall’s Diversity Champions Programme, and the College
has established its own Diversity and Equality Committee to promote equality in areas of age, religion
and belief, disability, gender, race, and sexual orientation. The unit champions these principles at all

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
levels of its activities. Encouraging and supporting an excellent research environment for all is
facilitated by the College and University Athena SWAN (Scientific Women’s Achievement
Network) Silver award recognising gender equality.

Local, departmental initiatives further support and enable staff research careers. For instance, staff
are supported by generous parental leave arrangements and individual circumstances, such as
protection from teaching on return from leave, which have helped ensure equality.

  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income, funders, and prestigious projects

In line with stated objectives, grants awarded increased by 168% over the census period, and
from an increasingly diverse range of funders, such as:
      UK Research and Innovation
      Research councils (e.g., ESRC)
      European Commission (e.g., Marie-Skłodowska-Curie Actions),
      UK charities (e.g., Forces in Mind Trust; Brace-Alzheimer’s; GambleAware; British Medical
        Association),
      Welsh Government (e.g., Health and Care Research Wales),
      commercial/industrial partners (e.g., PepsiCo; European Fruit Juice Association),
      and overseas funders (e.g., US Government’s Defense Advanced Research Projects
        Agency; International Center for Responsible Gaming).

Our growth in research income has helped increase the scope and depth of the unit’s applied
research environment. Moreover, the increased income has helped to ensure the sustainability and
vitality of our research themes in several ways. First, it has consolidated the unit’s status as a world-
leading centre of excellence for cognitive neuroscience and clinical and health psychology research.
For instance, funding for gambling addiction research (from Welsh Government) and on the impact
of and recovery from COVID-19 within the prison population (from UKRI) are two notable recent
examples of high-profile awards in our areas of expertise.

Second, it has driven our staffing strategy through the appointment of new staff, across all levels,
who contribute knowledge and contemporary research expertise to our established themes.

Third, our increased income level has afforded senior staff opportunities for teaching buy-out to allow
them uninterrupted periods of research time or to undertake periods of research leave. This has
benefitted the unit through high-quality research outputs and impact case studies (both current and
future), submitted bids for funding, and creation of collaborative networks.

Fourth, achieving our strategic aim of doubling our research income allows for ongoing investment
into research facilities and equipment, with all groups benefitting from this capital expenditure.

Fifth, the recruitment of research staff and PhD students to externally funded projects have enabled
succession planning and helped foster a supportive, productive environment where early career
researchers may flourish. For instance, international research funded by PepsiCo. combined
psychology, physiology, nutrition, and neuroscience to provide the first evidence that small changes
in hydration (<0.6%) have consequences for brain functioning, as demonstrated in a fMRI study.
Further, related multidisciplinary research funded by an industrial partner (Neolife) has generated a

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
novel knowledge base concerning the influence of cinnamon cassia on glucose tolerance and
interoceptive processes underpinning appetite and emotional regulation in older adults.

Finally, as our five-year strategy (Section 1) makes clear, we will use our growing research income
to support a strategic and responsive approach to external funding and investment and to ensure a
positive international profile for our research. Access to University-wide funding schemes (e.g.,
Swansea University Research Grant Enabler and Texas Strategic Partnership Grants) and
dedicated bid-writers and administrative support for strategic funders such as the European
Research Council, will help to ensure that staff are facilitated in securing a growing volume of
research income.

3.2 Infrastructure

Our world-class research infrastructure is supported by a dedicated team of three psychology
technicians, including software support and lab managers, backed by wider College IT and technical
services teams. Unit staff benefit from annual funding calls to purchase research equipment and
software, consumables, participant remuneration, and MRI scanning costs. These calls offer flexible
funding arrangements, responsive to the world-leading questions and initiatives of our internationally
renowned staff.

Following significant investment (£5.2M) in cognitive neuroscience capability as part of the Welsh
Government-funded Wales Institute for Cognitive Neuroscience, unit staff have access to dedicated
scanning time and analysis facilities in the ILS Imaging Centre which has generated world-leading
research projects and outputs. For example, our Marie Skłodowska-Curie Award Ser
Cymru/COFUND Fellowship research project was based in the Department and the adjacent, on-
campus imaging facilities and behavioural testing suites. Students pursuing the MSc in Cognitive
Neuroscience undertake weekly scanning as part of their studies, helping to ensure future research
capacity.

The local infrastructure for supporting research and enabling impact is a significant factor in our
successful strategy to increase income and facilitate productive collaborations with end-users.
Dedicated Research Development Officers (RDOs) based in the adjacent Life Sciences Research
Hub support and manage our growing research income. Our team of three RDOs provide support
and guidance to academics, principal investigators and professional services in all work associated
with the preparation, formulation and application for international research funding and award in the
Department of Research Engagement and Innovation Services (REIS). In conjunction with unit staff,
they use the University’s Award Management System to progress and validate grant applications
and help ensure that the highest quality of applications are developed and submitted to sponsors.
Interacting closely with Hub based RDOs, legal and contracts support staff, bid writers and research
support advisors, individual unit staff Principal Investigators are central to the customer centric,
streamlined, and robust processes aimed at meeting the needs of the University, its customers, and
external stakeholders. These goals are supported by a dedicated, unit-wide, full time REF
Coordinator role.

Staff liaise with the Hub early in the bid development process and together they ensure a robust
quality enhancement process for both bid writing and technical review for all applications. On receipt
of funding, unit staff are assigned an RDO and a post-award contact in REIS to account manage
their grants and contracts. The Principal Investigator Project Accounts online system helps
Principal Investigators, Project Managers and Administrators to access financial data easily and
conveniently.

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The effective development and promotion of research is overseen by the College Research
Committee (which is chaired by unit staff (Tree) as Director of Research) and supported by
university wide research services just described. Guided by the College Research Strategy, staff
are facilitated with bid development and informed about research funding opportunities through
College-led calls, weekly email newsletters, and targeted announcements from REIS. Mandatory
peer review of large bids (>£100K) is overseen by REIS, and internal review is encouraged for all
bids, particularly those from junior staff, to ensure high-quality, successful applications.

Research-related issues, such as open science and reproducibility practices, and the sharing of
potential funding bids are discussed at informal ‘journal-club’ lunchtime meetings in the Department
with key elements of strategy agreed at research away-days and appraisal held during individual
professional development and review meetings with line managers. The unit has developed an
effective and popular grant incentivisation scheme underpinned by the College Research Strategy
where workload reductions or instances where a proportion of indirect costs may be transferred to
individual Principal Investigator holding accounts and used to fund conference travel, pilot data
collection, research participant remuneration, or article-processing charges.

3.3 Facilities

The unit’s established international reputation for high-quality research with impact is supported by
ongoing investment in equipment, facilities, and technical support for our research. A programme of
commitment to increase our research capacity has produced several world-class laboratory
facilities capable of addressing a range of important challenges.

Examples of investment in, and development of, significant research clusters leading to impactful
research may be found in Cognitive Neuroscience where our state-of-the-art facilities include:
    The Institute of Life Sciences Imaging Centre, which has excellent facilities for 3T
       structural and functional MRI and magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS). The Centre,
       located beside the Department of Psychology, houses our 3T Siemens Magnetom Skyra
       scanner with 32-channel head-coil and a range of bespoke analysis software such as MEGA-
       PRESS and GANNET for quantification of MRS data.
    A 24 channel Artinis Oxymon 3 Near Infra-Red Spectrometry (NIRS) system for measuring
       task-related haemodynamic changes in the first 2 cm of depth of the cortex. In addition to
       traditional quantification of task-related functional activity changes, staff have developed an
       interface which permits investigation of data obtained in real-time and to determine the effect
       of training of that regulatory ability on cognitive task performance.
    The Brain Plasticity Lab, which houses a suite of transcranial direct current and
       electrical stimulation (tDCS and tES) systems, such as the wearable and wireless
       Neuroelectrics Starsim 8 and electroencephalography (EEG) monitor with NIC2 software
       interface. Starsim may be fully integrated with functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS),
       allowing for portable and wireless tES experiments concurrently monitored by both EEG and
       fNIRS. Our tDCS system, the DC-Stimulator (neuroConn), is MRI-compatible, has full double-
       blind capabilities, and is used in behavioural and neuroimaging studies investigating
       attentional control and memory in young and older adults.
    High-density ActiveTwo BioSemi EEG electrode arrays with BESA analysis software and
       customised response capture equipment housed in a shielded testing lab for use in research
       on human cognition, action, and perception.



                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      And several labs equipped with SR Research Eyelink eye-trackers for use in attentional
       and implicit cognition paradigms.

Research in our Clinical, Health and Forensic Psychology theme is supported by a range of
facilities including:
     The Swansea Sleep Laboratory, which is accredited by the European Sleep Research
         Society, has two bedrooms equipped with full polysomnography facilities.
     The Experimental Psychopathology Lab, which is dedicated to threat and avoidance
         learning, houses a suite of interfaced BIOPAC psychophysiology facilities including isolated
         and MRI-compatible stimulators (to present aversive stimuli), wireless electrode arrays to
         record skin conductance and electromyography (EMG) for fear-potentiated startle research,
         and electrocardiography (ECG) for phasic heart rate or baseline heart rate variability
         assessment.
     The Nutrition and Behaviour Lab, which houses BIOPAC psychophysiology equipment,
         cognitive test tasks, food preparation facilities, and state-of-the-art equipment for measuring
         body mass and hydration. Further facilities include adjacent labs for analysing cortisol, and
         a -80° degree freezer for collecting and storing biological samples such as urine, blood, and
         saliva for longitudinal studies of the effects of food and drink consumption on mood and
         cognition.
     And the Baby Play Lab, which is a multi-room, child-friendly observation, and testing space
         for the study of typically developing infants and parents’ behaviour.

In addition to these specialist facilities, the unit has a wide range of bookable general-purpose
behavioural testing labs and access to further research infrastructure in the Centre for Innovative
Ageing and School of Management.

  4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

The unit’s emphasis on applied/translational research embeds it within numerous regional, national,
and international collaborative networks of stakeholders, policymakers, and beneficiaries. As
evidenced in our outputs and impact case studies, staff collaborate internally, with researchers from
other faculties, and with international-based colleagues on a range of translational research projects.

4.1 Highlighted collaborations and contributions

Much of our research is rooted within the local South West Wales community, with A Regional
Collaboration for Health (ARCH) representing perhaps the most tangible evidence of our local
collaborations and contributions. ARCH is a unique partnership formed between Swansea University
and Abertawe Bro Morgannwg (ABM) and Hywel Da University Health Boards. In 2017/2018, ARCH
became one strand of the City Deal awarded by the UK Government to the Swansea Bay City
Region. Unit staff are therefore key players in ARCH working with local authorities and industry to
influence health, housing, education, transport, and regeneration across the region. The
development of Health and Life Sciences campuses at Singleton is a tangible consequence of the
ARCH partnerships. Indeed, since 2017, the Health and Wellbeing Academy at the College of
Human and Health Sciences at Swansea University – the only service of its kind in Wales - has
treated 2,700 new patients (including 70 in the community who would otherwise be on NHS waiting
lists), delivered 15 different health and wellbeing services, worked with 6 different charities and 7
regional businesses.



                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
New and existing collaborations and opportunities for knowledge exchange are facilitated by a
regular invited speaker departmental seminar series held at lunchtime and advertised across
campus. Staff host overseas senior researchers on sabbatical (more than 5 to date), such as the
outgoing Editor of Psychological Science in 2019.

Our international collaborative research projects and grants activity is considerably higher than the
world average. For example, Kemp’s large-scale, multi-site epidemiological research on the
health and wellbeing of the Brazilian population (ELSA-Brasil project) places research end users
at the heart of the process and has led to several high-profile publications. Further collaborations
with colleagues from University College London on the Whitehall II Stress and Health study, a
position on the advisory group of the Human Affectome Project, the publication of training manuals
to manage loss of identity following acquired brain injury, and recognition by government and local
health boards are testimony to the benefits of the unit’s research-informed service delivery model
with direct stakeholder involvement. Weidemann’s work with the University of Pennsylvania on the
development of neuro-prosthetic devices using intra-cranial recording with epilepsy patients
has identified biomarkers for semantic and episodic memory ability, resulting in colleagues from
prestigious US-based research labs contributing to outputs in leading journals like Nature
Neuroscience. Facilitated by a two-year secondment funded by the US Department of Defense, this
collaboration has generated state-of-the-art innovations in data capture, stimulation, and analysis
with enormous translational potential.

4.2 Relationships with beneficiaries

Staff regularly provide expert testimony to government and policymakers. Dymond’s work on
the neuroscience of slot-machine gambling was presented to the All-Party Parliamentary Group on
Gambling-related Harm and contributed to UK-wide legislative change in stake-size reduction.
Dymond’s other contributions include contributions to the 2017 annual report of the Chief Medical
Officer for Wales, and his recent appointment to the Welsh Government’s Task and Finish Group to
implement its recommendations. Recently, he contributed to a commissioned report for Public Health
Wales on area-based vulnerability to gambling-related harm in Wales, is a member of the Senedd
Cymru Cross Party Group on Gambling.

4.3 Wider activities and dissemination

Disseminating our research is facilitated by Oriel Science, which aims to create accessible,
informative, and interactive science exhibitions in the community. It is a research-led, hands-on
science centre, designed for all ages. Unit staff have played pivotal roles in its development and
contribute to Super Science Swansea and Oriel Science Café public dissemination and engagement
events.

Unit research directly involves end users as co-creators throughout all stages of the process, from
design to implementation. For instance, Blagrove’s interactive research on sleep and dreaming holds
regular events at the British Science Festival, British Science Week, the University of California at
Los Angeles, and recently held a dedicated conference on arts and health in Swansea in June 2020.
This dynamic work is shaped and informed by the direct involvement of members of the public in
settings such as the Freud Museum in London and local art galleries (e.g., Glyn Vivian). At the
events, participants report their dreams and have the opportunity of capturing them in real-time as
visual illustrations accompanied by scientific interpretation. An invited textbook is in progress based
on the outcomes of this research engagement with end users. Blagrove recently hosted the ESRC
Festival of Social Science and Swansea Science Festival where members of the public interacted

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
with scientific demonstrations and participated in large-group studies of a range of psychological
phenomena.

Our research appears regularly in online, TV and print media. For instance, over the review
period, Reed’s Internet addiction research was featured in Charlotte Church - Inside My Brain (BBC,
2018), a CBS/Netflix Documentary – Click for Murder (2017), on the Discovery Channel’s Through
the Wormhole with Morgan Freeman (2014), and in numerous radio and TV news, newspaper, and
news website features. Burianova’s work on language and memory specialisation of the brain was
featured in documentary episodes – Redesign my Brain – on ABC TV in Australia (2013). Staff
regularly feature in BBC and ITV local news and documentary programmes, such as problem
gambling (ITV News Wales This Week) and cognitive decline (BBC Wales). Staff regularly engage
with research end-users and other interested stakeholders via online dissemination networks such
articles in The Conversation.

All staff regularly undertake peer review for specialist journals in their domain and edit special issues
or topics. Among wider activities, many staff hold leading editorial positions with a range of journals:
      Editor-in-Chief (Reed) for Learning & Motivation.
      Eleven Associate Editor roles with journals including PLoS ONE, Frontiers in Psychology,
         Frontiers in Psychiatry, Criminal Behaviour and Mental Health, and Journal of Developmental
         and Physical Disabilities.

In addition, our staff serve on review/grants committees for national organisations such as Medical
Research Council, Economic and Social Research Council, Biotechnology and Biological Sciences
Research Council, Wellcome Trust, and National Institute for Health Research, international funders
such as European Research Council, European Science Foundation, National Health & Medical
Research Council Australia, Australian Research Council, Israel Science Foundation, German
Research Foundation, Research Foundation Flanders, and Netherlands Organisation of Scientific
Research, and charities such as Action on Hearing Loss and Alzheimer’s Association, among others.

4.4 Recognition of esteem

Research excellence is recognised through prizes and awards won by unit staff, such as:
    the Medal of the President of the Republic of Italy for outstanding scientific contribution to
      society (Reed).
    Jacobs Foundation Junior Scholar (Ellis-Davies).
    Doctor of Science, University of Melbourne (Kemp).
    Working in Partnership’ Award, Abertawe Bro Morgannwg University (ABMU) Health Board
      and College of Human and Health Sciences (Tree).
    Chairman’s VIP Award for Commitment to Research and Learning, ABMU Health Board
      (Reed).
    Health and Wellbeing Academy, Research and Innovation Award for Outstanding Impact on
      Health and Wellbeing, Swansea University (Kemp).
    Elected Fellows of the Association for Psychological Science (Kemp), Association for
      Contextual Behavioral Science (Dymond), and The British Psychological Society (Blagrove,
      Tales, Tree).
    Welsh Editor’s Award for Journalistic Excellence, The Conversation (Kemp).
    Best Paper Award 2019 - Attention, Perception, & Psychophysics (Reppa).




                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our staff regularly give invited keynote presentations, conference talks and guest lectures at sites
such as the MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, University of Leeds, University of Liverpool,
University College Cork, Bangor University, South Australia College of Forensic Psychology
(Adelaide), Victoria College of Forensic Psychology (Melbourne), and at conferences such as the
12th Conference on Applied Behaviour Analysis, Milan, Italy, the Experimental Psychology Society,
The Association of Anaesthetists of Great Britain & Ireland, Nordic Institute for Advanced Training in
Occupational Health, the University of Angers, Laboratoire de Psychologie des Pays de Loire,
France, and Institute of Cognitive Neurology, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Several international conferences have been hosted in Swansea and/or organised internationally by
unit staff since 2014, including the 10th European Meeting on Human Fear Conditioning, the British
and Irish Group for the Study of Personality Disorder, three annual meetings of the St. Andrews-
Swansea Neurobehavioural Outcome Scale group, Judgment and Decision-Making Preconference,
and the Experimental Psychology Society Summer Conference.

As well as UK universities, staff regularly examine PhD theses for international institutions (e.g., KU
Leuven, Belgium; Swinburne University, Melbourne, Australia; University of Auckland, New Zealand;
National University of Ireland, Galway; University of Copenhagen; University of Western Australia).

With continued investment and close alignment to our strategic aims, our reputation for international
quality, collaborative translational research conducted in an excellent, supportive environment will
continue to thrive.




                                                                                              Page 18
