Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Glasgow

 Unit of Assessment: 34

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Unit’s strategic vision is to be a world-leading locus and focus for research into film,
 television, theatre and cultural policy. We have been among the UK’s pioneers since
 establishing Theatre Studies in 1966 and Film and Television Studies in 1974.

 Our identifying focus is cultural politics and practices. Our research, characterised by
 historical, critical and theoretical innovation, engages with major concerns in practice and
 policy. It has had particular impact in the UK and Europe. Our research and impact
 strategy is founded on outward-facing engagement with Scottish, UK and international
 collaborators, both academic and non-academic. This shapes our approach to outputs,
 KE/impact, interdisciplinarity and open access (OA).

 The Unit consists of 30.7 FTE (16.8 women, 13.9 men), up from 23.8 FTE since REF2014.
 Our high retention rate, promotions and strategic appointments have been key to our
 growth. This has encompassed the development of new postdoctoral researchers and a
 major commitment to PGR supervision (69 PhDs awarded). We are international in outlook,
 with one-third of staff and over half of our PhDs from outside the UK.

 The Unit consists of three subjects: Centre for Cultural Policy Research (CCPR) (6.4 FTE);
 Film and Television Studies (FTV) (14.2 FTE); and Theatre Studies (TS) (10.1 FTE). Our
 intellectual unity and distinctive identity derive from our cross-subject research agenda. This
 underpins our multidisciplinary research environment. The Unit (alongside History of Art,
 and Music) is situated within the School of Culture and Creative Arts (SCCA). Support is
 provided though SCCA’s Research Committee and the College of Arts’ Research Office and
 ArtsLab. Our research plays a major role in the University’s connection with the cultural
 world; our bespoke facilities enable scholarly endeavours and KE/impact activities with
 external partners and diverse communities.

 The Unit’s multidisciplinary structure shapes its approach to research. Each subject, led
 by its Research Convenor, develops appropriate goals, incorporating research meetings,
 away-days, clusters, ad hoc groups, tailored seminar series and major events. The Unit’s
 particular strengths are grounded in our component fields: cultural policy; media
 economics; media sociology (CCPR); world cinemas; film in Scotland; television and
 society (FTV); critical dramaturgies; ecology, environment and heritage in theatrical
 performance (TS).

 The Unit’s Research Strategy Committee (URSC) was established in accordance with our
 REF2014 future strategy. A collaborative forum for the 13.4 professors across the subjects
 (6.8 women, 6.6 men) its role is to strengthen cross-subject engagement and collaboration.
 Responsibilities include: overseeing all research strategy; securing support for strategic
 research aims; integrating practice research; providing research roadmaps and feedback to
 all colleagues; and sharing expertise and best practice. The URSC’s overarching decision-
 making means regular, sensitive consultation and interaction with the subject teams.



                                                                                          Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Since REF2014, supported by £3.1m in funding, three overarching themes prioritised by
 the URSC have aligned outputs produced and KE/impact activities pursued. These three
 themes reflect our shared commitment to intervening in key areas, and the outcomes are as
 follows:

 Critical Study of Cultural Forms and Policies. An AHRC-funded monograph on the Cultural
 Enterprise Office which analysed support for the creative practice sector (Schlesinger/Selfe);
 books and articles on labour in the creative industries (Banks, Oakley, Eikhof); CREATe pursued
 a range of activities (see below); consortial engagement in the Policy and Evidence Centre
 (PEC), part of the AHRC’s Creative Industries Clusters Programme (Schlesinger/Doyle); ESRC-
 funded publications on multi-platform media and the digital challenge, and television production
 in transition (Doyle); a monograph on talent in the television industry (Boyle); world cinema
 publications (on African women filmmakers [Bisschoff], cosmopolitanism [Eleftheriotis], ethics
 [Martin-Jones]); a Leverhulme-funded monograph exploring digital media (Barker); Wellcome
 Trust-funded research on television and care (Lury/Holdsworth).

 Cultural History and Heritage. Three significant AHRC grants for research into film in Scotland
 (early cinema-going [Caughie], children and amateur filmmaking [Lury], rural film exhibition
 [Goode/Neely]), with diverse outputs (anthology, website, articles, special issue); a monograph
 on British cinema (Harrison); four journal special issues on ecology funded either by AHRC or
 AHRC/LABEX (Lavery), a book on ruins (Murray); a monograph, and articles on theatre in
 Germany (Heinrich, Bachmann); and an AHRC-funded book on the UK Film Council
 (Doyle/Kelly/Schlesinger/Boyle).

 Critical and Creative Practices. AHRC/Creative Scotland-funded explorations of artist
 development resulting in a monograph and network (Tomlin); books on critically creative practice
 forms, both contemporary (Delgado-Garcia) and marginalised (Greer, Heddon); externally-
 funded performance practice on water (Donald) and prize-winning practice on disability
 (Eatough); Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) and Carnegie Trust-funded research into industry
 practices in Scotland (Archibald, Kelly); prize-shortlisted online videoessays (Garwood), and
 internationally-exhibited digital artistic practice (Emadi).

 Our aims, set out in REF2014, were to: consolidate existing areas of excellence while
 developing complementary ones; strengthen cross-subject collaboration within and beyond
 the Unit; maximise the social and intellectual impact of large projects; and develop our
 national and international leadership. Future strategy focused on maximizing the benefits of
 CREATe to our research culture, and expanding our engagement with digital media and
 ecology. This was implemented as follows:

 CCPR proactively engaged with CREATe. Established in 2012 as an inter-disciplinary centre for
 copyright and the creative economy, CREATe connects copyright law with Arts/Humanities
 perspectives on cultural creativity in the digital age. Its founding Deputy Director (Schlesinger)
 is located in CCPR. From 2012-2018, CREATe was funded with £5m by AHRC/EPSRC/ESRC.
 CCPR’s research for CREATe was on digital media, sports media rights, the data economy,
 film policy, and critical cultural economy (Boyle, Doyle, Schlesinger, Sorensen), resulting in
 articles, a journal special issue, and industry-focused policy seminars. Since 2018, CREATe
 has sustained its viability as a world-leading research centre with new funding awards, including
 the AHRC grant, jointly held with CCPR, for research in the Creative Industries Policy and
 Evidence Centre (PEC). Multidisciplinary research into internet platform regulation is under way,


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with publications, written and oral parliamentary evidence on public service broadcasting, and
 two major policy IPR conference presentations to date.

 The CCPR/CREATe collaboration raised the profile of cultural economy and policy in the
 University, with three new chairs appointed to this field: Oakley, Banks, Eikhof. Relatedly,
 “Creative Economy and Cultural Transformation” has been institutionally identified as a key
 research theme for the University’s new £113m Advanced Research Centre (ARC) (see Section
 3): this will focus and articulate research in law, cultural economy and policy, digital humanities,
 and immersive technologies.

 Our strategy for expansion in digital media resulted in: appointments for sustainable growth of
 practice and non-practice-based research (bolstering existing expertise); and expanding
 leadership beyond the Unit. Two appointments were made to dedicated Lecturer posts,
 exploring mixed-media performance (Nedelkopoulou) and digital practice (Emadi). Existing
 research on digital media (Doyle) was complemented by an RSE-funded workshop series on
 digital production/distribution (Sorensen); a videogames workshop and exhibition
 (Bachmann/Barker, Barker/Bisschoff); a Leverhulme-funded book on digital media (Barker);
 anthology/articles on digital performance (Nedelkopoulou); and a multi-component output on
 digital filmmaking (Emadi). We are central to the University’s research on digitality, co-convening
 the College’s Digital Departures Lab (Barker), and contributing our expertise to the cross-
 College interdisciplinary Social and Digital Change Research Group.

 Our strategy for expansion in ecology was led by TS’s cluster on Ecology, Environment and
 Heritage (Lavery et al.), which has consolidated our expertise through interdisciplinary
 collaborations and by developing funding proposals, seminars, colloquia, performance
 events, and joint publications. The “Imagineering the Future” network was established with
 colleagues in Geography and Engineering (receiving Chancellor’s Fund support). The cluster
 secured two Lord Kelvin Adam Smith awards: with Archaeology (a practice-based project
 with Geochronology), and Geography and Social Sciences (a project on Disability Studies). It
 also promoted public screenings on Ruins and Ruination at Glasgow’s Centre for
 Contemporary Arts (CCA) (Chancellor’s Fund). These projects have resulted in special
 issues, KE events, and practice-based performances. The cluster is integral to the Unit’s and
 the University’s work on ecology and will continue to play a key role in initiating interdisciplinary
 art-science collaborations.

 More broadly, the key outcomes of our REF2014 future strategy are evident from a) our
 development of people, especially early-career staff and doctoral students (see Section 2);
 and b) the varied outcomes of our research. Our outputs totalled over 25 monographs and
 anthologies; 250 articles/book chapters; and substantial practice research works. Funded
 projects informed cultural policy nationally and internationally. There were numerous
 KE/impact activities; there was media engagement; and – increasingly prominent – work with
 diverse communities (Section 4).

 Our outward-facing strategy has maximised external interdisciplinary collaboration by
 capitalising upon our multidisciplinary breadth. Our three themes are underpinned by shared
 research interests: the curation of culture (CCPR/FTV/TS); cultural policy (CCPR/FTV/TS);
 digitality (FTV/TS/CCPR); industrial, social and aesthetic dimensions of television
 (FTV/CCPR); stage and screen performance (FTV/TS); aesthetics and ecology (TS/FTV).
 Our research supports collaborative doctoral supervision, grant applications, and co-
 authorship of outputs. In addition, we have maximised our interdisciplinary potential by

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 seeking collaborations with external partners, the range of which is expansive due to our
 multidisciplinary breadth (see Section 2 on interdisciplinary doctorates, Section 3 on funded
 works, Section 4 on collaborative projects).

 The Unit’s approach to impact, and open access are core to its outward-facing strategy.

 Since REF2014, our impact strategy has aimed to raise the potential for impact inclusively
 across the Unit so as to engender long-term sustainability. This strategy involves two linked
 operations:
    a) encourage and support KE/impact-inducing activities in all colleagues’ research;
    b) provide tailored support and development for highly impactful research (thus identifying
        potential Impact Case Studies).

 Accordingly, the three subjects collaborate with key partners aligned with their research
 strategies in Glasgow, Scotland, the UK, and internationally. Partnerships include: Africa in
 Motion Festival; Creative Scotland (the national cultural agency); Document Human Rights Film
 Festival; Edinburgh International Television Festival; Glasgow Feminist Arts Festival; Glasgow
 Life (the City’s cultural agency); Historic Environment Scotland; National Library of Scotland
 Moving Image Archive (NLSMIA); National Theatre of Scotland; OECD; Ofcom; Scottish
 Canals/Scottish Waterways Trust; Take Me Somewhere Festival; UEFA; and Visit Scotland. We
 also work with local history and community groups. To support these activities, targeted internal
 funding has seeded impact-related activities, subsequently securing external funding and
 support (e.g. from Creative Scotland, Glasgow City Council, Heritage Lottery Fund).

 Our approach has enhanced inclusivity and sustainability, evident in our Impact Case Studies.
 Two of the three are led by women, one, a Senior Lecturer, whose work on African cinema
 addresses EDI issues.

 The Unit has pursued research accessibility proactively: ORCID take-up is 100%, OA
 compliance for post-2016 articles is 80%. We have published outputs in 14 OA journals.
 Since REF2014, our strategy has been to draw upon our expertise and links to external partners
 to curate access to data online for various stakeholders. Examples include: an interactive
 map linked to archival materials (Early Cinema in Scotland), five practice research-based
 websites (e.g. Indy Vinyl, reimagining the Film Studies monograph online, alongside Motion
 within Motion, How to Act, Guddling About, Then/Now), four teaching packs (Animating Africa
 [Into Film]; Scotland in the World [Education Scotland]; Cinema and WWI in Scotland; Christmas
 in Scotland [Scotland on Screen]), collected interviews with performers (The Soloist Podcast), a
 subject catalogue database (deleuzecinema.com), and securing funds for gold OA publication
 where relevant to industry collaborators (Incubate-Propagate). We also support wider
 developments with colleagues serving on 11 different OA editorial boards.

 We promote research integrity through mentorship of early career colleagues, the annual
 Performance and Developmental Review (P&DR) for all staff, and our ethics officers’
 presence on the College’s Research Ethics Committee. The three Research Convenors are
 the subjects’ interface with University policy (aligning with the 2019 Research Integrity
 Concordat), the College’s and School’s Research Integrity Officers, and the School
 Research Committee. Because new colleagues and PGRs receive mandatory training in
 research integrity, and since subject research meetings explore ethical implications in
 discipline-specific contexts, knowledge is disseminated throughout the environment.


                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our future strategy is to maintain our distinctive national and international contribution to
 research and its related KE/impact, maximising the potential of our leadership. While
 continuing to contribute broadly across our three themes, we will aim to:
 - consolidate and enhance our recent advances in practice research;
 - expand our investigations into digitality;
 - respond with agility to key contemporary challenges impacting on the cultural sphere.
 Informing and underpinning these strategic aims across our three themes are: our
 investment in people; commitment to innovative, interdisciplinary work with outside partners;
 and the distinctive strengths of the subjects that sustain our contributions to knowledge.

 Investment in people will continue to create stability through high retention. Mutual
 collaboration and support in the subjects will drive innovation, while the Unit maintains its
 overall coherence via the integrated feedback loop connecting the subjects and the Unit’s
 Research Strategy Committee (URSC). Inclusive participation will be nurtured in emerging
 areas – e.g., interdisciplinary work in medical humanities developing in FTV and TS. The
 URSC will continue to ensure the promotion, realisation and integration of research within,
 across, and beyond the subjects. It will expand and diversify its EDI subcommittee. We will
 further strengthen Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity in School, College and University
 contexts via the Athena Swan Bronze Award (2019) action plan and through the College’s
 EDI Lab. We lead both initiatives.

 Our innovation, interdisciplinarity and outside partnerships will be crucial both for our
 immediate environment and our leadership of the University’s cultural interface with the City
 of Glasgow and the wider world. While continuing to develop our wide range of research,
 emergent foci include the following:
 -Led from within CCPR, joint work with CREATe on the platform economy will be key to the
 ARC’s “Creative Economies and Cultural Transformation” theme.
 -Led from within FTV, interdisciplinary research enabling diverse communities will be among
 our projects on digital media, including the initiatives we contribute to the Digital Departures
 Lab.
 -Led from within TS, interdisciplinary collaborations in environmental humanities will focus on
 the Anthropocene, developing new critical and creative practices informed by ecological and
 wellbeing concerns.

 Our inclusive approach to developing KE/impact will be essential to maximising our
 contribution to the research base, economy and society, both through our existing strengths
 (e.g. in cultural policy) and by increasing our research outreach to diverse communities.
 Particular attention will be given to the burgeoning research of early and mid-career
 colleagues, creating focused, inclusive teams to ensure our impact gains scale and
 momentum. Our emphasis on supporting colleagues’ applications to diverse funders will
 focus on maintaining our wide range of skillsets and career trajectories.

 2. People

 During this cycle the research base has been expanded and rebalanced by pursuing robust
 retention, promotion and supportive development practices. Since REF2014, our strategy
 for advancing research has been to provide mutual critical support for colleagues to ensure
 that all achieve their potential. This includes nurturing early-career colleagues through
 mentoring, peer support and researcher skills training. This staffing strategy was
 implemented by fostering a culture of mutual investment in research alongside a bespoke

                                                                                           Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 approach to Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity. Specifically, we have supported early career
 colleagues in becoming Senior Lecturers (SL) and have enhanced research leadership and
 influence through collaborative projects. PGR strategy meant retaining our historic commitment
 to both national and international students, equipping all doctoral candidates with a full
 academic portfolio (thesis, teaching, publications, KE/impact) and, where appropriate, building
 capabilities for cognate non-academic positions.

 The Unit has grown by almost one-third since REF2014: from 23.8 FTE to the 30.7 FTE now
 returned. With high retention (only 3 departures and 1 retirement) and most scholars aged 36-
 55, we have reshaped the research base for long-term sustainability. Our REF2014 submission
 included 9.2 Professors, 2.0 SLs, 12.6 Lecturers. To rebalance our profile, we energetically
 supported promotions (10 early-career scholars progressed to SL) and new strategic
 appointments. There is now a broader middle band: 13.4 Professors, 9.5 SLs, 7.8 Lecturers.

 Our gender balance has also significantly improved. In REF2014, we returned 14.2 men and 9.6
 women. The current profile is 16.8 women and 13.9 men (55%: 45%). The professoriate consists
 of 6.8 women and 6.6 men (previously, 4 women, 5.2 men). Our 51% women professors
 exceeds the University’s 32% average, ensuring gender balance on the Unit’s Research
 Strategy Committee (URSC). We have actively sought to retain women colleagues and to
 support their advancement. Of our 23 promotions, 12 were women, with a 100% success rate
 in women’s promotions. Women also secured over two-thirds of all new appointments. Of
 15 appointments, 11 were women: 1 Research Fellow, 6 Lecturers, 2 SLs, 2 Professors

 Our staffing strategy of retaining and developing all staff aligns with University research
 strategy, which emphasises empowering people and teamwork, and also its commitment to the
 Concordat for Researcher Development. All colleagues receive maternity leave, paternity leave,
 support from University Academic Returner’s Policy, and have access to a wide range of
 institution-level professional development courses. Our tailored support enriches the institutional
 framework. The annual Performance and Development Review (P&DR) is complemented by
 individual meetings to assist colleagues’ research development across outputs, KE/impact
 and grant capture. At College and School levels, support is given by the specialist ArtsLab unit
 (providing regular workshops and dedicated peer review on grant proposals); through
 College/School policy on Research Leave (eligible after each 6 semesters in post to all
 Research and Teaching-contract staff); and via the School Research Committee (on-application
 allocation of research funding, organisation of School-level symposia and workshops). Our
 subject research meetings and away-days shape team investments: production of five-year
 plans to optimise research activities, sustaining clusters, KE/impact, and leave allocation. It
 is our norm to solicit peer feedback when developing research.

 Through the School’s Research Fund and the College’s Strategic Research Allocation
 colleagues have benefitted from support for outputs, KE/impact, and development of
 funding proposals (e.g. conference travel funds, strategic teaching buyouts). At University
 level, the Chancellor’s Fund, Knowledge Exchange Fund and the interdisciplinary-focused
 Lord Kelvin Adam Smith doctoral and fellowship schemes have helped nurture our
 KE/impact projects (see Section 3). With our outward-facing approach to connections with
 industry, we have appointed prominent figures as Research Fellows (BFI); Research
 Associates (Glasgow Life); Industry Fellows (Cultural Enterprise Office); and Honorary
 Professors (Association for Commercial Television in Europe).



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our support for Early Career Researchers articulates with the University’s Early Career
 Development Programme (ECDP). Early career Lecturers are supported to achieve SL within
 eight years, with dedicated mentorship and a lightened teaching load (50% reduction in Year
 1, 25% in Year 2). The ECDP leads to the Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice
 (including training in research supervision and research integrity), and offers participation in
 The Glasgow Crucible, the University’s leadership and development programme. The Unit’s 7
 participants in the ECDP have all progressed successfully, including to Grade 8 and/or SL.
 Grant-funded projects have given career-starts to 15 Postdoctoral Research Assistants, along
 with one two-year Postdoctoral Fellowship (Québec Fonds de Recherche). These were
 supported through P&DR, with in-house training (e.g. on qualitative data-analysis software),
 conference travel funds, and career/employment mentoring. Consequently, posts were secured
 at universities (Glasgow, Queen’s Belfast, Queen Margaret, Stirling, West of Scotland) and
 relevant organisations (Creative Scotland, Ofcom, Springer Nature). Our support ensured that
 our two fully-funded three-year Lord Kelvin Adam Smith (LKAS) Research Fellowships
 achieved permanent lectureships (CCPR, FTV).

 The pursuit of Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity has been integral to the Unit’s strategy. Much
 of our intellectual environment and outreach has been shaped by research on topics
 emphasising EDI. These range from gender to queer studies, transpolitics, disability, care,
 labour, and decolonisation. This commitment has enabled us to contribute institutionally (e.g.
 Holdsworth was the School’s first Disabilities Officer; Heddon is a Role Model for the University’s
 LGBT+ Staff and Postgraduate Network). Building on this, we developed a three-pronged
 strategy to embed EDI in the environment: a) engaging with institutional best practice (e.g. E&D
 training has 100% compliance); b) leading the School’s Athena Swan Bronze Award application
 (secured in 2019); and c) facilitating collaborative shaping of the wider institutional landscape.
 Exemplifying this, Bisschoff became inaugural School EDI Officer, successfully led the Athena
 Swan application and, supported by five FTV colleagues, established a College EDI Lab,
 mobilising researchers across the University.

 Our EDI strategy has enhanced:

    a) Diversity. The Unit’s diversity of heritages grew in this cycle. With scholars hailing from 9
       countries, one-third are of non-UK origin (exceeding the one quarter across the
       University). The 9 non-English languages spoken have aided international collaborations
       (e.g. grants from France and Spain), outputs published in different languages,
       engagement with foreign-language texts, scholars and interviewees, the delivery of
       KE/impact internationally.
    b) Inclusive investment in people. All our Research and Teaching-contracted scholars,
       and our two colleagues on Learning, Teaching and Scholarship-contracts, are on open-
       ended contracts (the only exception is Caughie), the vast majority full-time. Colleagues
       advancing to SL benefited from The Glasgow Crucible to which we contributed
       presentations (Sorensen) and mentorship (Schlesinger). We participated in Aurora
       (Holdsworth), and provided Mentors (Lury, Tomlin). Research meetings and seminars are
       scheduled with sensitivity to caring responsibilities. Temporary workload redistribution
       supports colleagues with health or personal circumstances, or changes to caring and
       maternity/paternity responsibilities. Remote working is supported during research days
       and leave.
    c) Equal access to resources. All Research and Teaching-contracted colleagues may
       apply for research leave: of 28 semesters applied for 27 were awarded (14 to men, 13 to
       women). Support was spread equitably, part-time staff receiving leave alongside full-time

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        colleagues; additional leave compensated those completing significant service roles
        (Dean, Head of School). All of our 88 applications to the School Research Committee for
        research expenses were successful: FTV, the largest subject, was awarded funds for 23
        men, 22 women; TS, which has the majority of our part-time staff (21% of TS’s FTE),
        received 34% of its awards for part-time staff (including two research-practitioners).
     d) Inclusive events and outreach. Our conferences, workshops and seminars are
        programmed with inclusivity in mind. For example, the Radical Film Network
        “Unconference” broke down barriers between academics and activists/artists, eschewing
        keynotes. It co-organised events with Raising Films (on industry work conditions for
        people with children), Flourish House (mental health), Glasgow Women’s Library
        (feminist films), Glasgow’s Centre for Contemporary Arts (queer film exhibition in
        Scotland), and included a crèche, funded by the ‘pay-what-you-can’ conference fee. Our
        practice works have engaged with diverse communities, including autistic and deafblind
        participants (see Section 4). The EDI Lab was founded on the basis of prior events
        addressing diversity and inclusivity in Scotland’s cultural and creative industries
        (incorporating speakers from BBC Scotland, BFI, Glasgow Life, Scotland’s Queer
        International Film Festival).

 In the next cycle, the School’s Athena Swan action plan will be implemented by the EDI
 Committee (led by Bisschoff, our Unit provides majority membership). Foci will be: increasing
 audience diversity at academic and public-facing events (e.g. expanding childcare provision),
 and enhancing training and access to information and resources regarding mental health and
 work/life balance (e.g. PGR students, carers). The Unit’s leadership of the EDI Lab connects our
 engagement with institutional policies (e.g. the University’s strategy for increasing racial and
 ethnic equality in response to the EHRC’s Tackling Racial Harassment: Universities
 Challenged). The Unit will continue to provide EDI-related outreach (e.g. Kelly’s service in
 tackling screen industries’ inequality, previously on Creative Scotland’s Screen EDI Working
 Group, now the Board of Glasgow’s GMAC Film). One newly-appointed Chair, Eikhof, will lead
 our growing research into EDI and the creative industries.

 Our staffing strategy has underpinned the retention and rebalancing outlined above. Two
 paradigmatic outcomes are:

 -   An increased SL cohort (some one-third of the Unit) capable of initiating and leading
     projects within the institution and their fields. Mostly early-career when the cycle
     commenced, these colleagues now contribute major outputs (solo and co-authored); an
     Impact Case Study; large grants; research leadership; service to the AHRC Peer Review
     College, editorial boards, professional organisations.

 -   Our improved gender balance, reflected in the diversity of large-scale research outputs
     and the related leadership of experienced scholars. In REF2014, the monograph was the
     dominant major output (10/3, men/women), plus 1 co-authored book. Now, across all
     outputs/reserves submitted, monographs are more gender-balanced (7/6 men/women).
     Considered inclusively, for significant projects (monographs, co-written books, anthologies,
     special issues, multi-component-outputs), the gender balance is effectively 50/50 (24 by
     men, 22 women). Scholars with 3 or more outputs/reserves (supportively balancing the input
     of those with fewer), number 8 men, 8 women. Collaborative work is integral to this
     rebalancing – e.g. our 4 co-authored books all feature women, including established
     scholars in leading roles (Doyle, Oakley).


                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Unit’s selection of outputs is drawn entirely from scholars in post. This reflects our strong
 staff retention, and the successful fostering of a culture of collaborative research investment.
 This culture ensures that knowledge of external forms of quality assessment (e.g. peer review
 standards of journals, and funding bodies) is disseminated across the environment, and
 encourages all colleagues to seek leadership of significant projects, solo or collaborative.

 The REF2021 output selection was made by the Unit’s Research Strategy Committee using the
 output review methodology formally ratified by the University. In line with the University’s Code
 of Practice, this process was distinct from performance-related assessment of individuals. To
 ensure that research quality was the determining factor, the committee constituted gender- and
 subject-balanced reading groups, with open and continuing reflection on our practice, constantly
 reviewing for unconscious bias. A dedicated EDI subcommittee was formed to scrutinise the final
 selection.

 Our strategy for PGR recruitment and training likewise means investing in people and
 encouraging outward engagement. We have a thirty-year history as a key provider of doctoral
 training, with former students employed in institutions across the UK and in fifteen countries
 worldwide. Over half of all doctorates awarded this cycle were to non-UK students: 19% EU,
 34% elsewhere; the remaining 47% were UK. Students hailed from 25 countries across Asia,
 Africa, Europe, North and South America.

 Securing funding is key to this strategy. We recruit PGRs in both active and responsive modes.
 We aim for our PGR community to be integrated into the broader funding landscape and to
 perform a leading role in shaping the intellectual terrain. Supervisors work closely with
 prospective students in developing funding applications, and draw on our non-academic
 contacts to enable pathways to KE/impact.

 As a result:
        Active Mode. The Unit has secured over 20 scholarships from a wide range of funding
        schemes, including AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Awards; Scottish Graduate School for
        the Arts and Humanities (SGSAH)/Scottish Funding Council Applied Research
        Collaborative Awards; Leverhulme Trust; Screen; Commonwealth Commission; various
        national governments (e.g. Chinese Scholarship Council, Algeria, Malaysia); the
        University’s Lord Kelvin Adam Smith (LKAS) fund. Projects include collaboration with
        scholars in UK universities and outside partners (BBC, Blackheart Press, Buzzcut
        Festival, Citizens Theatre, Document Film Festival, National Library of Scotland,
        Platform).

        Responsive Mode. Since the establishment of the AHRC-funded SGSAH-DTP in 2014,
        we have secured 25 studentships in open competition. A further 9 full scholarships were
        awarded by the College of Arts. These often link us with external collaborators: the BBC,
        Glasgow Life, Glasgow’s Centre for Contemporary Arts, National Transport Museum
        Scotland, etc.

 This cycle, we have supervised 69 students to completion by headcount, 60 by supervisory load.
 This is almost double the tally in REF2014 (31.75 by supervisory load). Women constituted 55%
 of this cycle’s graduates; 70% were mature students. Some 50 doctoral projects are ongoing,
 corresponding to the yearly average across the cycle.



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our openness to external PGR collaboration, both interdisciplinary and cross-HEI, has
 increased the range of opportunities we offer. Interdisciplinarity has propelled postgraduate
 research into diverse areas, including children’s theatre, film tourism, geochronology, musical
 performance, television and disabilities, and queer cultures. We cooperate widely in supporting
 interdisciplinary doctorates: 8 were co-supervised between our three subjects; 18 with subjects
 beyond our Unit. Co-supervision was undertaken with colleagues across the UK (10 institutions);
 internationally, we co-supervised with universities in Germany, South Africa, Sweden, and New
 Zealand. This openness facilitated projects with Archaeology, Chinese Studies, Education,
 English Literature, Geography, History of Art, Law, Sociology, Music, Psychology, Theology, and
 Tourism. We hosted visiting international postgraduate students under Erasmus+ and the
 Basque Fellowship Programme. The range of opportunities we offer is enhanced by part-time
 PhD provision (15 this cycle), and the one-year MRes (4 this cycle).

 Doctoral students have at least two supervisors. Experienced colleagues take on more
 students and lead supervisory teams (the professoriate consistently carrying the largest
 proportion of supervision), enabling early career colleagues to develop their supervisory skillset.
 This spread of labour ensures a manageable workload and requisite time dedicated to all
 students. Supervisors complete mandatory training every four years, supplemented by specific
 sessions supporting key skills (e.g. examinations and vivas).

 Opportunities for PGRs to engage with the research environment (in the University and
 beyond) are offered by supervisors, the subjects’ PGR Convenors, the School, the College
 Graduate School, the University’s Support and Development for PGRs scheme, and the
 SGSAH. These include:
 -access to the PGR community (University, College, School and subject inductions,
 postgraduate-led seminar series, annual progress reviews);
 -access to support (the College Graduate School provides pastoral and academic advice, with
 staff trained in mental health first aid);
 -access to knowledge (regular subject-seminar series, workshops on relevant topics,
 conferences);
 -opportunities to train (an annual Training Needs Assessment with supervisors and a suite of
 College and discipline-specific workshops, including mandatory EDI training for first years, the
 SGSAH offers a Visiting Doctoral Researcher Scheme enabling skills-enhancing placements at
 HEIs worldwide, paid Internships and Artists’ Residencies beyond academia [including
 internationally], student-led collaborative training, annual national PhD Summer School, and
 Research Impact Showcase);
 -opportunities to reflect and review (annual progress reviews involve each student, their
 supervisors, and an external panel member);
 -opportunities to present (the annual two-day symposium co-organised by CCPR/ FTV/TS
 students, the College’s annual PGR conference);
 -funding opportunities (travel funds from School Research Committee, College Research
 Support awards, Nicol Travel Scholarship, Principal’s Early Career Mobility Fund, and
 MacRobertson Scholarship – supporting research at partner institutions Columbia and Hong
 Kong), funding for running workshops and collaborative cross-institutional events;
 -opportunities to publish (in our own edited works, or by editing the open access journal e-
 Sharp);
 -opportunities to practice (involvement in festivals, theatrical productions);
 -opportunities to innovate (the UK’s first-ever practice-based PhD on the videoessay);



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 -opportunities to lead (organising events for: the annual postgraduate symposium; an annual
 Screen Seminars workshop; on KE/impact activities with non-academic partners; the SGSAH’s
 three-year developmental Leadership Programme);
 -opportunities to represent (membership of committees, including School Research
 Committee);
 -opportunities to teach (teaching is contracted, not zero hours, open to application, supported
 by mentors).

 The success of PGR recruitment and training strategy is evident:
       PRES. School results consistently indicate over 90% satisfaction for supervisory
        expertise, contact and feedback (2017, 2019).
       Awards. National and international prizes. For writing: Society for Cinema and Media
       Studies Annual Essay Award; TaPRA Postgraduate Essay Prize; Pirandello Prize Essay
       Award; Honourable Mention (British Association for American Studies' Postgraduate
       Essay Prize), and shortlisting (Women’s Prize for Playwriting). For papers: Outstanding
       PhD Paper Award, The Toronto School: Then|Now|Next Conference.
       Employability. Graduates this cycle secured international post-doctoral funding
       (Aarhus/University of Iceland), and a range of university posts internationally: Aarhus;
       Ambedkar, Delhi; Babes-Bolyai, Cluj; Digipen Institute of Technology; Fudan, Shanghai;
       Hangzhou; Lahore; Reina Sofia, Mexico City; Shih Hsin, Taipei (joining a long history of
       such appointments, from Germany to South Africa, from the USA to Malaysia). Posts
       were also secured in UK universities: Birmingham, Edge Hill, Edinburgh, Edinburgh
       College of Arts, Essex, Glasgow Caledonian, Leeds, Manchester, Royal Conservatoire of
       Scotland, Royal Holloway, Stirling, Sussex, The Arts London, Open, West of Scotland.
       Non-academic employment. Our graduates secured positions as commissioned artists
       and in occupations cognate to their interests, including in: BBC (New Generation
       Thinker); British Film Institute; Cinematheque of Vancouver; Creative Scotland;
       Document Film Festival; Goethe-Institut; Jacobs Engineering Group (Digital
       Communications); NatCen Social Research; National Theatre of Scotland; Scottish
       Documentary Institute; Renfrewshire Council (Cultural Policy Officer).
       Books. Five doctorates awarded this cycle were published as monographs (Edinburgh
       UP, I.B. Tauris, Mississippi UP, Palgrave, Routledge). Two were prize shortlisted: Kurt
       Weill Prize and BAFTSS Best Monograph.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Grants awarded demonstrate our UK and international vocation, while at the same time our
 position at the heart of Glasgow’s cultural and media quarter means we are integral both to the
 city’s, and Scotland’s, cultural life. Since REF2014, a two-fold strategy has increased funded
 expenditure from £2,219,166 to £3,103,889: we have diversified our grant capture while
 using our infrastructure and facilities for external engagement. The cycle commenced with
 several large grants (AHRC, ESRC), and concluded similarly (e.g. the AHRC-funded Policy and
 Evidence Centre [PEC]). Distinctly, in this cycle, our grant capture encompasses a greatly
 diversified funding portfolio. Looking ahead, we will aim for our funded research to continue to
 range broadly, from nationally-focused projects enabling diverse communities, to internationally-
 collaborative ventures examining industry and policy.

 Pursuit of external grants, particularly in collaboration with external partners, realises the
 REF2014 strategic aim of optimising the intellectual and social impact of our multidisciplinary
 research. We have increased and diversified grant capture throughout the Unit, as appropriate to

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 career-points and personal aspirations. In this, we have benefited from the interdisciplinarity of
 our research and close links to non-academic partners.

 All colleagues were supported in this inclusive aim. Multi-level peer review of grant
 development has been particularly effective. We provide tailored internal feedback,
 supplementing that of ArtsLab. In roadmap and annual P&DR meetings we provide guidance on
 the most appropriate grants. To keep abreast of developments, all colleagues are encouraged to
 participate in external peer review activities. Widespread engagement with research councils
 and charities has increased collective knowledge of grants available and best practice in
 applications.

 As a consequence, some 90% of staff now hold or directly collaborate on funded research
 (typically, grants under £100k); the gender-balance of funded income this cycle is 56% women,
 44% men. This portfolio includes larger grants, with 9 projects of over £100k income. The
 strategy has expanded the range of funders: RCUK/UKRI, British Academy, Leverhulme Trust,
 Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE), Carnegie Trust, Scottish Funding Council (SFC), Creative
 Scotland, Heritage Lottery Fund, and European Regional Development Fund. Over half of the
 total value of new awards this cycle came from sources other than the AHRC. EU funding was
 just under 11% of income (up from 7.5% in 2013/14) at times accounting for a quarter of all
 funding. PGR tuition income was in excess of £2m.

 The result is that across all three themes our research is supported by grant income,
 underpinning a wide range of outputs and KE/impact projects:

 Critical Study of Cultural Forms and Policies: major grants from ESRC (Doyle); and AHRC-
 funded Creative Industries Policy and Evidence Centre (Schlesinger); a range of medium and
 smaller grants: RSE (Schlesinger, Sorensen); CREATe (AHRC/EPSRC/ESRC [Boyle, Doyle,
 Schlesinger, Sorensen]); AHRC and GCRF (Bisschoff); Wellcome Trust (Holdsworth/Lury);
 British Academy/Leverhulme and Leverhulme (Barker); Carnegie Trust (Greer); Creative
 Scotland, Glasgow Life, and AHRC (Heddon, Tomlin); AHRC (Eikhof). Outcomes: i)
 interdisciplinary work at the intersection of cultural politics, law and economics, media and
 medicine, and performance and politics; ii) three Impact Case Studies (African cinemas, Ofcom
 Content Board, TV windowing strategies); iii) books, including Against Transmission; iv) the
 Connected Communities and Being Human Festivals.

 Cultural History and Heritage: major grants from the AHRC (Goode/Neely; Caughie; Lury;
 Doyle/Schlesinger); AHRC/LABEX (Lavery); also, Spanish Ministerio de Economía y
 Competitividad/European Regional Development Fund (Delgado-Garcia); SFC (Goode); RSE
 (Heinrich); Heritage Lottery Fund (Heinrich/Eleftheriotis). Outcomes: i) interdisciplinary work at
 the intersection of film and history, theatre and history, performance and heritage, theatre and
 ecology; ii) journal special issue On Drifting; iii) books, including The Rise and Fall of the UK
 Film Council, Beyond Categories, Theatre in Europe under German Occupation, and Early
 Cinema in Scotland; iv) Commonwealth Games Film and Theatre Festival.

 Critical and Creative Practices: European Commission Horizon2020 (CulturalBase
 [Schlesinger]); Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (Oakley); RSE and
 Carnegie Trust (Kelly); Creative Scotland and Film Hub Scotland (Archibald); GCRF (Emadi);
 Heritage Lottery Fund, Creative Scotland and Scottish Canals (plus competitively-won artists’
 commissions [Donald]). Outcomes: i) interdisciplinary scholarship at the intersection of culture
 and policy, film and politics, performance and geography; ii) public artworks pertaining to water

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (performances, sculptures); iii) books including Curators of Cultural Enterprise; iv) the Radical
 Film Network Festival.

 This strategic pursuit of a varied funding portfolio has also demonstrated its sustainability.
 Targeting a range of project-relevant schemes sensitive to individuals’ career development has
 ensured that recently-secured grants across the board already total over £1m in income.
 These awards will propel our externally-funded research in the next cycle. Alongside Policy and
 Evidence Centre research projects, these include: funding enabling career development (AHRC
 Leadership Fellowship [Greer, July 2020]); awards responsive to identified challenges of benefit
 to diverse communities (UKRI COVID-19 rapid response projects such as a study of touch with
 Deafblind UK [Emadi, November 2020], and of public experiences of walking during the
 pandemic [Heddon, December 2020]). Furthermore, there are significant collaborations
 reflecting Glasgow’s continuing international leadership in policy research (Research Council of
 Norway [Oakley, April 2020]), and EDI and industry (ESRC [Eikhof, October 2020]).

 Facilities and Infrastructure: The Gilmorehill Halls includes a dedicated theatre and
 performance studio, cinema, two digital editing suites and two Media Labs. We benefit from
 professional-grade production equipment and our collection of over 10,000 recordings of films,
 television programmes and theatre performances. The University curates the Scottish Theatre
 Archive, which the Unit continues to enhance. Our Postdoctoral Research Assistants are
 accommodated in Gilmorehill Halls and CCPR’s nearby offices. Our research is supported by
 two technicians, one specialising in AV, one in theatre and performance. Our specialist
 collections and facilities foster research in five key ways:

 First, conducting primary research: Numerous outputs drew on our audiovisual and material
 collections, including the award-winning It’s All Allowed (Heddon) based on extensive research
 in the Scottish Theatre Archive’s Adrian Howells Collection.

 Second, enabling practice research: Rehearsals and development workshops for plays and
 films, including: If You're Feeling Sinister (Avalon/BBC Arts); The Reason I Jump and How to Act
 (both National Theatre of Scotland); No End to Enderby (Winner, Contemporary Arts Society
 Prize); the filming of dance for At Twilight, performed by Scottish Ballet, choreographed by
 Javier de Frutos (Eatough, in collaboration with Turner-prize winning artist Simon Starling). The
 award-winning documentary Govan Young was produced using our equipment; Gilmorehill’s
 cinema hosted a cast-and-crew screening for the child participants (Archibald). A professional
 workshop for designers, planners, architects and environmentalists was hosted for the Living,
 Working, Playing with Water project (Donald). Several of our practitioners’ websites are hosted
 by the University.

 Third, facilitating research dissemination by hosting conferences, seminars, screenings,
 workshops and symposia. Most prominent is the annual international Screen conference, which
 signifies our long-established global position in the field and Screen’s role in it. We hosted other
 major annual conferences (TaPRA, Film-Philosophy, Radical Film Network) and 20 bespoke
 events developing our projects. We also organized events off-campus, contributing to the
 cultural vibrancy of the city (e.g. at Kelvin Hall Museum, Centre for Contemporary Arts [CCA],
 Glasgow Women’s Library).

 Fourth, although an industry presence is common at our events, at Gilmorehill Halls and
 elsewhere we also ran special PE, KE and Impact-oriented events. In addition to
 collaborations with our affiliated festivals, examples include: RSE workshops on screen

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 agencies’ commissioning, and also on the press, constitution and identity in Scotland; an
 international Creative Industries Policy Workshop for the PEC; screenings, with director Q&As
 (e.g. Icíar Bollaín); talks by playwrights (e.g. David Grieg) and artists (e.g. Ron Athey); public
 talks by international scholars (e.g. Prof. Laura U. Marks); practitioner talks and workshops for
 arts professionals; presentations and theatrical commissions for the Glasgow Science Festival;
 KE with Cultural Enterprise Office; a multiplatform media symposium at the RSA in London.

 Fifth, events have been organized to enable engagement with diverse communities (see
 Section 4).

 At University level we provide a cultural dimension essential to current infrastructural
 developments. The University’s current £1bn campus building programme includes the £113m
 Advanced Research Centre (ARC). We have been selected as crucial to the ARC’s role in
 driving the institution’s research. Of the Centre’s five interdisciplinary themes, our research is
 central to “Creative Economies and Cultural Transformation”, which articulates cultural
 policy research with law, digital humanities and immersive technologies, extending some of our
 key research areas (from digitality to culture and the environment). Cultural and creative
 economies-focused research into ecological sustainability and climate justice will be led by our
 two new Chairs in CCPR, Banks and Oakley. Our presence in the ARC will consolidate and
 develop collaborations in a diverse interdisciplinary setting.

 More broadly, our research benefits from institutional support, facilities, and funding.
 Discipline-dedicated university librarians support the collections. Pre-COVID-19, centralised
 facilities, such as video-conferencing suites, were reducing the carbon-footprint of our
 international engagement, as were recorded keynotes. During the pandemic, the Unit’s research
 has remained highly active (see Section 4), supported by institutional measures: from the
 Library’s prioritising of e-resource purchases to training for online vivas. The University’s
 Knowledge Exchange Fund supported 21 of our projects in this cycle, with some £143k in
 awards, including funds used to develop an Impact Case Study on African cinema.

 Our research practices demonstrate our embeddedness in the immediate urban milieu. We are
 located in Glasgow’s cultural and media quarter, close to key cultural institutions (National
 Library of Scotland Moving Image Archive, Hunterian Museum and Art Gallery, Centre for
 Contemporary Arts, BBC, Scottish Television, Film City, Channel 4’s Creative Hub) alongside
 major cultural spaces such as Kelvingrove’s Gallery and Museum, and Park. Our proximity
 facilitates collaborative projects (e.g. an AHRC CDA with the BBC on children with learning
 difficulties as digital audiences [Holdsworth]); and artistic work in green spaces (Eatough’s
 adaptation of The Reason I Jump, in The Children’s Wood; Heddon’s Glasgow Life-funded
 research on walking as artistic practice offered a series of free urban public walks).

 The £35m Kelvin Hall redevelopment (co-funded by the University, Glasgow City Council, the
 Heritage Lottery Fund, the Scottish Government and Historic Scotland), re-sited the National
 Library of Scotland Moving Image Archive (NLSMIA) to Kelvin Hall, a short walk from
 Gilmorehill Halls. The national archive of Scotland’s moving image heritage is a key external
 partner. We proactively devised mutually-beneficial collaborations with NLSMIA in two key ways:

 -   We initiated research projects to draw upon and enhance NLSMIA’s collections and
     outreach. Lury’s collaborations on her AHRC-funded research into childhood and film added
     2000 new titles to the archive, and prompted a subsequent BBC documentary series,
     Scotland’s Home Movies. Caughie’s AHRC-funded research on early cinema in Scotland

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     elucidated the socio-historical contexts for numerous films in NLSMIA, lodging hard-copy
     sources from the project’s website research with the archive.

 -   We worked with NLSMIA to promote the interdisciplinary benefit of archives/collections.
     Kelvin Hall houses the University’s Hunterian Collection, the University Library’s Special
     Collections Unit, and the Glasgow Life archives. Lury’s £1.05m Leverhulme grant, awarded
     when Arts Dean of Research, supported 15 doctoral studentships for collaborative and
     interdisciplinary research with international collaborators into the collections’ potential.
     Crossing arts and humanities, social sciences, medical sciences, and engineering, this
     research addresses ethical issues faced by collections and archives, including trafficking and
     questions of consent, and benefits from our doctoral supervision (Harrison, Selfe,
     Schlesinger).

 Our research maximises the potential of our own holdings and facilities whilst also benefitting
 others. It has enhanced the collections and outreach of key partners, increasing curated
 accessibility to their holdings, and generating related doctoral funding and postdoctoral
 employment. The key to realising the potential of our facilities and holdings, as well as our
 position both in the University and in Glasgow’s cultural and media quarter, lies in our outward-
 facing and collaborative approach to research.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The Unit plays a leading role in shaping the research base nationally and internationally. In
 combining our existing national contribution and international presence, we have aimed to
 innovate through collaboration with academic and non-academic partners across the UK, in
 Europe, and further afield. In a culture of expertise-sharing and mutual development, all
 colleagues are supported to conduct research collaboratively. The outcomes include
 interdisciplinary work; widespread engagement with KE/impact; influence on policy; international
 collaborations, including GCRF awards; engagement with disabilities in Scotland; esteem
 indicators, including several awards; contributions to leadership of the research base.

 Since REF2014, we have contributed to over 30 interdisciplinary projects, including
 participation in 20 funded networks including CulturalBase (European Commission); Spaces of
 Memory (British Academy); Heaven and Earth (EU Culture Programme); British Audiovisual
 Research Network (RSE); Northern Peripheries (AHRC); Childhood and Nation in World Cinema
 (Leverhulme), leading to conferences, workshops, festivals, exhibitions, anthologies, toolkits,
 films and performances. Our multidisciplinary research breadth has ensured that collaborations
 with external partners are many and wide-ranging. We were involved in 40 UK-based
 collaborative relationships, including major UK institutions (BBC, Ofcom), Scottish bodies
 (National Theatre of Scotland, Scottish Newspaper Society, VisitScotland), city-wide entities
 (Glasgow Film Theatre Glasgow Life, Glasgow Women’s Library), and various institutes, learned
 societies, theatres, artists’ studios, games and events companies. We have provided evidence
 to the Scottish Parliament, House of Commons, and House of Lords. We serve on the boards of
 festivals organizations such as Glasgow Film Theatre, GMAC Film, The Children’s Media
 Foundation, The Work Room (facilitating dance across Scotland). We have organized
 workshops assembling cultural and creative industries figures across Scotland, the UK, and
 internationally. Numerous KE/impact outcomes have resulted, including influence on policy,
 museum exhibitions, art installations, documentaries, educational materials, festivals, plays, and
 screenings.


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 This approach benefits the national research base, as has Tomlin’s AHRC-funded Incubate-
 Propagate. This network explores alternative models for artist development in theatre and
 performance via academic collaboration (Glasgow, Leeds, Royal Central School of Speech and
 Drama) alongside independent producers (China Plate, Magnetic North) and funders (Arts
 Council England). The network has broadened the socio-economic diversity of the next
 generation of theatre, performance and cross-disciplinary artists.

 Our activities balance national and international contributions. Paradigmatic is our shaping of
 cultural policy through collaborative projects, advisory work and policy briefings. All three
 subjects have contributed: at local level (Glasgow City Council/Metropolitan Glasgow Strategic
 Drainage Partnership [Donald]); in Scotland (RSE response to Scottish Government’s Draft
 Culture Strategy [Schlesinger]); UK-wide (BAFTA and Creative Diversity Network [Eikhof]); and
 globally (UNESCO [Bisschoff]). CCPR worked intensively with CREATe’s consortium partners (6
 UK universities and 80 stakeholders) in a series of workshops and conferences (including The
 CREATe Festival, RSA, London). Schlesinger advised Ofcom (from 2004-2018) first as member,
 then chair, of the Advisory Committee for Scotland, and subsequently as Member for Scotland of
 the Content Board, influencing the practice of UK communications regulation. He also advised
 the Scottish Government on BBC Charter renewal.

 CCPR’s contribution to policy has a strong European presence. Schlesinger’s research for
 CulturalBase influenced the EC's research agenda on cultural heritage, cultural memory and
 creativity. Doyle’s work with the European Commission, the OECD, and as member of the
 European Expert Network on Culture and Audiovisual (EENCA) contributed to development
 of cultural and audiovisual policies. Boyle’s broad involvement in UEFA’s pan-European
 education/CPD programmes resulted in national football associations’ changed communication
 practice. Oakley co-wrote a Norwegian Arts Council consultancy report, comparing support for
 artists in Canada, Denmark, England, Scotland, and Sweden.

 Our increased international presence has involved extensive collaboration. Caughie’s Early
 Cinema in Scotland project was a partner in developing HoMER (History of Moviegoing,
 Exhibition and Reception), an international consortium of scholars (Australia, Canada, Europe,
 USA). Lavery’s AHRC/LABEX-funded project on the Situationist International is a joint venture
 involving the University of Paris X Nanterre. Garcia-Delgado’s exploration of Twenty-first
 Century British theatre is conducted with the Universities of Augsburg, Barcelona, Jaume I de
 Castelló, and the Charles in Prague (funding: Spanish Government, European Regional
 Development Fund). World cinema scholarship conjoins UK academics and scholars in Africa
 (Bisschoff’s Africa’s Lost Classics) and Latin America (Martin-Jones’ journal issue on Uruguayan
 cinema). International collaboration has developed new practice research, including exhibitions
 through Emadi’s links with Simon Fraser University, Canada, and Donald’s commissioned
 performances, exhibitions and installations in Canada, Finland and Spain.

 We have prioritised international external partnerships, ranging from OECD and UEFA to
 Sydney Harbour Foreshore Authority, European Documentary Network, Nanterre Théâtre des
 Amandiers and Théâtre l’Échangeur in Paris. Our 4 awards in the SFC’s Global Challenges
 Research Fund (GCRF) to assist diverse communities have been a major development.
 - Emadi’s interdisciplinary team worked with displaced children, young people and families in
    Cairo, New Mexico, and Glasgow, partnered by the Egyptian Board on Books for Young
    People, UN High Commissioner for Refugees Cairo, Save the Children, St Andrew’s
    Refugee Services, and Mexican Ministry of Culture.

                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 -   Harrison was integral to interdisciplinary teams (with Geography, also Hydrology and
     History) working with indigenous communities in Chiapas (Mexico) to support sustainable
     agricultural practices threatened by globalization and climate change. Partners included
     Escuelas para Chiapas, indigenous NGOs and civil groups, farmers and schools.
 -   Bisschoff led a team on the development and delivery of training to aspiring film curators in
     Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. Partners included Docubox, Kenya; Kwetu Film Institute,
     Rwanda; Zanzibar International Film Festival, Tanzania.

 The GCRF awards are paradigmatic of the Unit’s innovation through international
 collaboration, interdisciplinarity, responsiveness to international priorities, and close links
 between research and outreach. They illustrate the success of strategically targeting grant
 funding at all staffing levels; the leading role of women researchers; our thorough integration of
 KE/impact; the importance of practice in diversifying outreach; and our commitment to
 decolonising research.

 Our international contribution is also evident in over 100 invited papers in 38 countries
 (across 6 continents), including over 40 plenaries/keynotes and 20 performances of practice
 works in 10 countries. Colleagues took up international fellowships (Harvard [Heinrich],
 European University Institute [Schlesinger]); visiting professorships (Oslo and Navarra [Doyle],
 Melbourne [Heddon]), and artists’ residencies (Collemachia [Heddon], New Plymouth [Emadi],
 Calgary [Donald]). We examined over 25 international doctorates and provided service to
 international peer review colleges and councils (see below). Alongside our non-English language
 publications (French, German), our outputs were translated for publication in Europe, Asia and
 Latin America.

 Our engagement with diverse communities in Scotland has focused on collaborations to
 enable participation by those with disabilities, drawing on both practice research and
 KE/impact activities.
 - Eatough’s adaptation of The Reason I Jump (funded by the Scottish Government, in
    collaboration with National Theatre of Scotland [NTS], Royal Conservatoire of
    Scotland [RCS], National Autistic Society and NHS Scotland) offered an augmented
    reality insight into the experience of being autistic. The project provided a template that
    influenced policy and practice in NTS and RCS.
 - Lury and Holdsworth’s research on care, with Wellcome Trust funding, expanded to include
    work on disability and media content for children, engaging with organisations like Values
    into Action.
 - Emadi’s work with Glasgow’s Centre for Contemporary Art and Deafblind Scotland
    investigates sense perception and accessibility in crossovers between art and technology –
    e.g. deafblind participants are enabled to create moving images.

 Our media engagement further expands our reach to diverse publics. Our research has
 received media attention (The Times; The Guardian; Sight and Sound), our expertise being
 sought nationally and internationally (Boyle interviewed for the BBC documentary series
 Scotland’s Game; Heddon on Radio 4’s Women Who Walk; Archibald in the New York Times;
 Bachmann on Bavarian Broadcasting; Eleftheriotis on Iran’s Diibache). We also provided content
 for various outlets: Sight and Sound, The Guardian, The Conversation, several blogs, podcasts,
 film screenings at festivals, and the BBC’s broadcast performance for Shakespeare 400.




                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our contribution to the research base also includes: external examining of doctorates (since
 REF2014 rising from 50 to over 100); invited keynote/plenaries (rising from 40 to over 70); and
 over 250 invited talks nationally and internationally.

 This cycle saw over 20 awards and 10 shortlistings, with recognition ranging from early career
 researcher to Chair.
 - Scholarly: European Media Management Association Award for Excellence (Doyle); TaPRA
     Prize, Edited Collection (Heddon); IAMHIST Best Article, Junior Scholar (Harrison); German
     Society for Contemporary Drama and Theatre in English, PhD Thesis (Delgado-Garcia).
     Shortlistings: Saltire Society Research Book of the Year (Caughie); Theatre Library
     Association’s George Freedley Memorial Award (Heinrich); BAFTSS Best Article, Runner Up
     (Martin-Jones); International Communication Association Outstanding Journalism Article
     Award (Doyle/Schlesinger); BAFTSS Best Edited Collection (Martin-Jones); TaPRA David
     Bradby Award (longlist) (Greer); Sunday Herald Scottish Culture Award for Cultural Events
     (Heinrich/Price).
 - Practice: Eatough for How to Act (Scotsman Fringe First, Summerhall Lustrum Award),
     Lanark (Critics Award for Theatre in Scotland, Herald Angel Award, EIFF), and No End to
     Enderby (Contemporary Arts Society Prize). Archibald’s documentary Govan Young won 7
     awards at 5 specialist international festivals. Shortlistings: BAFTSS Best Practice
     Research Portfolio, Runner Up (Garwood); Adelio Ferrero Awards (Garwood); Venice-Cardiff
     Residency (Donald); Institute of Advanced Studies, Playwriting Fellowship (Eatough).
 - Industry-related: Visit Scotland’s Set in Scotland won Best External Publication, Chartered
     Institute of Public Relations Excellence Awards (Martin-Jones).
 - Memberships: first foreign Honorary Member of the Spanish Association for
     Communication Research (Schlesinger); Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences (Banks).

 The Unit also leads and shapes research nationally and internationally, its expertise
 sustaining diverse contexts.
 - Disciplinary. We lead editorial work in two international journals. The sixty-year-old Screen
    is Chaired by Lury (editorial board: Eleftheriotis; advisory board: Caughie, Holdsworth,
    Martin-Jones). The forty-year-old Media, Culture and Society is Chaired by Schlesinger;
    Boyle is joint managing editor. We serve on 41 journal editorial boards and 19 advisory
    boards; edit 3 book series (Bloomsbury, Edinburgh, Palgrave); serve on 5 series advisory
    boards; and provide leadership in learned societies: UK Council for Graduate Education
    (Heddon), Executive Committee of MeCCSA (Boyle, Doyle), SCUDD (Greer).
 - Scottish Graduate School. Heddon led the successful bid for the AHRC Doctoral Training
    Partnership/Scottish Graduate Studies for Arts and Humanities. As founding Dean (2014-
    2020) she secured grants worth £19.1m, and for its second phase £19.2m more. Service
    was provided to assessment panels (Lavery, Tomlin) and Discipline+ Catalysts (Holdsworth).
 - Funding. Our expertise has been sought extensively: Caughie chaired the Irish Research
    Council’s International Advisory Board on Postdoctoral Applications; Lury served on AHRC’s
    Advisory Board; Heddon served on AHRC’s Research, Training and Careers Committee. We
    provide appointed members to national and international peer review bodies: AHRC Peer
    Review College (6 members), ESRC Peer Review College, Carnegie Trust, European
    Science Foundation, Humanities in the European Research Area, and the research councils
    of Finland, Flanders, Ireland, Hong Kong, Portugal, and Norway. We also review for the
    British Academy, European Commission, Leverhulme Trust, RSE, Wolfson Foundation, and
    10 national awarding bodies, and sit on numerous funded projects’ advisory boards.
 - Aurora. Mentors (Lury, Tomlin), Champion (Heddon).
 - Institutional. Our contribution to major research management roles includes: School

                                                                                         Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Research Convenor; Deans of Research, of Postgraduate Studies, and of
     Internationalisation.

 This research leadership experience has enhanced knowledge, external contacts, and shared
 best practice. Drawing on an outward-looking culture, it has engendered an inclusive approach
 to KE/impact. Our framework has enhanced key skills needed to build, nurture and sustain
 relationships with external partners that underpin the sustainability of our environment.

 The capacity and capability of our environment was demonstrated by our rapid response to the
 COVID-19 pandemic, ensuring continuity of research and KE/impact whilst enabling inclusive
 participation:
 -We swiftly contributed new scholarship, with articles on COVID-19 and the cultural economy
 (Banks; Eikhof).
 -Responsive funding proposals assisting diverse communities were prioritised and secured
 (Emadi, Heddon).
 -PGR supervision, annual reviews and vivas quickly transitioned online. Eligible doctoral
 students received extension funding.
 -Subject research support was transformed into newly tailored online formats, facilitating
 continued research whilst maximising inclusive participation (e.g. PGR reading
 groups/workshops, research sharing group, annual away day).
 -Intellectual engagement remained responsive to the latest socio-cultural developments (e.g. a
 Black Lives Matter online reading group was established).
 -At School and College level, the Unit continued to lead: the School’s annual research workshop
 featured Doyle’s research; Barker/Bachmann initiated a new online reading group for ArtsLab.
 -Nationally, Heddon’s walking library for the National Forest was adapted to provide virtual
 walkways.
 -Internationally, Emadi’s interdisciplinary Substantial Motion Research Network maintained
 regular virtual interactive meetings; Bisschoff launched Vimeo podcasts on women in African
 cinema.
 -Outreach preparations for Autumn 2020 included: In Touch an online exhibition interactive
 workshop, with Deafblind Scotland, on touch post-COVID-19 (Being Human 2020); the transition
 to online of the Africa in Motion Film Festival.

 In conclusion, our outward-facing collaborations with academic and non-academic partners
 have enabled innovative contributions to the research base locally, nationally, and
 internationally. The Unit’s research focus on cultural politics and practices has produced a
 wide range of outputs and KE/impact activities: influencing cultural policy nationally and
 internationally, engendering new international interdisciplinary collaborations. Our research
 across the whole team has been enriched by enabling and supporting funded research activities
 (totalling £3.1m income since REF2014). Our dedicated facilities and location in Glasgow’s
 cultural and media quarter nurture practice research and outreach to diverse communities.
 To sustain this environment, both staffing and KE/impact strategies are being devised with
 continued regrowth and renewal in mind. Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity – a feature of the
 Unit’s research – is core to developmental support offered to colleagues and PGRs, and how we
 pursue KE/impact activities.

 Our longer-term future rests upon our dedication to innovation, investment in retaining and
 developing all colleagues, and drawing on the longevity and depth of our research experience.
 The new directions outlined in our future strategy – cultural and creative economies, digitality,
 environmental humanities – have all developed from the established strengths of each subject.

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Leadership offered by our Unit to the research base includes: identification of its Creative
 Economy and Cultural Transformation theme by the University as key to institutional-level
 collaborative research; our shaping role in journals like Screen and Media, Culture and Society;
 service provided to national and international funding bodies; and our wide-ranging engagement
 across several cultural fields. These are proven foundations for sustaining our future strategy.




                                                                                          Page 20
