Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Kent

 Unit of Assessment: 10: Mathematical Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 This submission comprises the research activities and achievements of Kent’s School of
 Mathematics, Statistics and Actuarial Science (SMSAS), which forms part of the Division of
 Computing, Engineering and Mathematical Sciences (CEMS). The School’s research is organised
 into three research groups: Mathematics; Statistics; and the Centre for Actuarial Science, Risk
 and Investment (CASRI), and includes the work of 33 Category A staff (32.7 FTE), of whom seven
 are early career researchers (ECRs). The research activities in our three research groups fall
 within several broad research themes, which provide a structure for our research seminars,
 reading groups, and staff mentoring. They stimulate collaboration, the sharing of expertise, and
 encourage cross-disciplinary research activities within the School and beyond. The themes are
 broad, and many staff are active in more than one theme.

 Mathematics: Research in the Mathematics Group is centred around three themes: Algebra,
 Geometry, and Topology (AGT) (Bowman, Hone, Launois, Paget, Pech, Roitzheim, Shank,
 Sibilla, Topley, J. P. Wang, Woodcock); Mathematical Analysis and Computational
 Mathematics (MACM) (Clarkson, Deano, Iliopoulou, Hydon, Lemmens, Loureiro, Wood); and
 Mathematical Physics and Nonlinear Systems (MPNS) (Bearup, Clarkson, Deano, Dunning,
 Hone, Krusch, Loureiro, Pech, Topley, J. P. Wang, Wood). The team comprises five Professors,
 five Readers, six Senior Lecturers, and five Lecturers.

 Statistics: Research in the Statistics Group falls within two themes: Statistical Ecology (SE)
 (Bearup, Cole, Matechou, McCrea); and Statistical Methodology and Applications (SMA)
 (Bentham, Kalli, Kume, Leisen, Liu, X. Wang, Zhang). The team comprises two Professors, one
 Reader, three Senior Lecturers, and four Lecturers (plus Bearup from the Mathematics group).

 CASRI: Research in CASRI focuses on the theme: Actuarial Risk Management (ARM) (Alai,
 Tapadar), the team comprising one Senior Lecturer and one Lecturer.

 A core aim of the School’s mission is to deliver original and impactful research of the highest
 quality in Mathematics, Statistics, and Actuarial Science, and to foster interdisciplinary research.
 In this REF period, the School has significantly grown its external research funding: it was awarded
 over £3.5 million in grants since 2014. The School has also hosted several distinguished
 fellowships: Pearson was an EPSRC Early Career Fellow (2015-17). Hone is an EPSRC
 Established Career Fellow (2014-20). Topley was awarded a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship in
 2019.

 SMSAS has a strong focus on the development of ECRs, and actively supports and promotes
 equality, diversity, inclusivity (EDI). The School was the first at the University of Kent to be awarded
 an Athena SWAN Silver Award (2018).

 The success of SMSAS over the last decade is reflected in the University’s strategic decision to
 invest £35 million in the new Sibson Building, which the School has shared with Kent Business
 School since 2017. This award-winning building is a major asset to the School.

 Research strategy
 The primary objectives of SMSAS’s research strategy are to produce and disseminate high-quality
 innovative research at the forefront of our disciplines, to maximise the impact of all our research
 activities, to support and train researchers at all career stages, and to enhance the School’s
 research reputation nationally and internationally. Below we provide details on the main actions
 taken in this REF period to realise these objectives. These actions follow on from our REF2014
 submission and are:


                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    1. Further enhance the high-level research activities in our established research themes.
    2. Expand the research activities and build research capacity in the Mathematical Analysis
       and Computational Mathematics theme.
    3. Grow the number of PhD students and enrich our vibrant research environment.
    4. Introduce progressive EDI policies in the School to support staff to reach their full academic
       potential.

 These actions have been the driving forces behind the successes that the School has enjoyed in
 this REF period, and the recognition it has received through various awards. In 2020, two of our
 statisticians received prestigious awards from the Royal Statistical Society (RSS). McCrea was
 awarded the Guy Medal in Bronze ‘for her innovative and novel work in statistical ecology’.
 Emeritus Professor Morgan received the Barnett Award for ‘ground-breaking work in statistical
 ecology’. Clarkson was awarded the distinguished 2020 Senior Anne Bennett Prize by the London
 Mathematical Society (LMS) in recognition of his influential work on promoting equality, diversity,
 and inclusivity practices in UK mathematics.

    1. Enhancement of research activities in the established research themes

 At the start of the REF period, research in the AGT theme was centred around Representation
 Theory, Invariant Theory, Algebraic Topology, and Quantum Groups. Through several strategic
 appointments, this theme has significantly widened its scope and strengthened its connections
 with research in the MPNS theme. It now includes research in Algebraic Geometry, Mirror
 Symmetry, Derived Geometry, and Algebraic Combinatorics. In 2015-16, two positions in
 Geometry and Topology were created as a result of the University’s strategic investment
 initiatives. They were awarded to ECRs (Pech, Sibilla), whose expertise complements the
 research of Roitzheim and Launois in AGT, and Hone and J. P. Wang in MPNS. In 2017, Bowman
 was appointed to further strengthen our research in Representation Theory and Algebraic
 Combinatorics. In 2019, Topley, who at the time was research associate (RA) on Launois’ EPSRC
 grant, was awarded a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship to support his research at the interface
 between Geometry and Representation Theory. He was subsequently appointed as a Lecturer.
 Researchers in the AGT theme have made ground-breaking contributions in this REF period.
 Particular highlights include work by Bowman, who settled several longstanding problems and
 conjectures in Representation Theory, and works by Launois and Topley, who pioneered novel
 methods from Model Theory in the study of Poisson Algebras.

 The MPNS theme focuses on Classical and Quantum Integrable Systems, Topological Solitons,
 Symmetries and Conservation Laws, Random Matrix Theory, and Mathematical Biology. Our
 research in Integrable Systems has been recognised for many years to be among the strongest
 in the UK. Hone was awarded an EPSRC Established Career Fellow in 2014 to work on a cross-
 disciplinary project concerning interactions between Integrable Systems, Algebra, and Number
 Theory. Work by J. P. Wang and Tian on the classification of super-symmetric evolutionary
 equations was included in the ‘Highlights from 2017’ issues of Studies in Applied Mathematics. In
 this REF period, external funding has supported one fixed-term lectureship (Xenitidis, 2015-18),
 and three RAs (Kouloukas, 2016-20; Lampe, 2018-20; and Casati, 2018-20). The theme has
 hosted four long-term visitors who spent their Fellowships or study leaves with us (see below),
 and several world-leading researchers in the field visited the School for short periods of time,
 including Van Assche (Leuven), Kodama (Ohio), and Sokolov (Landau Institute for Theoretical
 Physics).

 The SE theme in the Statistics Group has a longstanding reputation for research excellence, and
 has enjoyed numerous successes in this REF period. To sustain its vitality, an early career
 statistical ecologist (Matechou) was appointed in 2014. The appointment of a mathematical
 biologist (Bearup) in 2017 provides a new bridge between the MPNS theme and the SE theme.
 The School’s support for ECRs has been instrumental for Matechou and McCrea to grow into its
 future leaders. McCrea, who is the winner of the Guy Medal in Bronze, was promoted from Senior
 Lecturer to Professor in 2020. The theme has been successful in securing research funding, which

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 has supported two RAs (Diana and Rodriguez de Rivera Ortega). There is a considerable drive
 for impactful interdisciplinary research within this theme. It has strong collaborative links with
 numerous wildlife and conservation organisations, which are often formal project partners on
 active grants and facilitate CASE PhD studentships. Researchers in the SE theme have developed
 important new stochastic models to make better use of all information contained in complex
 datasets in ecology. One of the research highlights includes the development of a new model for
 environmental DNA data, which, for the first time, accounts for both false positive and false
 negative errors.

 The SMA theme has key research strengths in Bayesian Nonparametric Models, Statistical Shape
 Analysis, Data Science, and Machine Learning. It has strong links with industry and external
 organisations. Research in this theme underpins two of our impact case studies. In this REF
 period, we appointed Villa (2014, ECR) and Kalli (2017) to enhance research in Bayesian
 Nonparametric Models. The theme was further strengthened by the appointment of two other
 ECRs: Bentham (2017) and Liu (2019). Their research expertise in Data Science and Machine
 Learning complements the research of Zhang and X. Wang. Research in this theme is truly
 interdisciplinary, with members publishing in top conference proceedings in data mining and in
 prestigious medical journals such as the Lancet and Nature, as well as in leading statistics
 journals. Research by Bentham and collaborators on obesity and diabetes is used in the WHO
 Global Report on Diabetes 2016 and as official UNICEF statistics. The theme has also been
 awarded a KTP to support an industrial collaboration with KROHNE Ltd, and participated in
 another KTP project with Zero Trace Procurement Limited. Members of this theme have
 undertaken ground-breaking work in Statistical Methodology. Particular highlights include work by
 Leisen (joint with Griffin), who pioneered a unified framework for dependent random measures
 called compound random measures for Bayesian nonparametric mixture models, and fundamental
 work by Zhang, who developed a new methodology for beamforming, which is an important
 statistical tool used in software for brain imaging analysis.

    2. Intensify research and build capacity in the MACM theme

 At the start of the REF period, the School set out to expand its research activities in Numerical
 Analysis. In 2015, SMSAS appointed Pearson, who secured an EPSRC Early Career Fellowship
 soon thereafter. In the same year, the School appointed early career numerical analysts Xu and
 Deano. The latter’s research provides a bridge to the MPNS theme. The appointment of Hydon as
 Head of the School in 2015 further strengthened our research in Numerical Analysis.

 Research in Numerical Analysis complements existing research expertise in Mathematical
 Analysis, which is wide-ranging. It includes: Geometric and Nonlinear Functional Analysis;
 Spectral and Operator Theory; Special Functions and Orthogonal Polynomials; Harmonic
 Analysis; Approximation Theory; and Geometric Integration. The theme has seen rapid
 developments in this REF period, and has provided an excellent environment for the ECRs to
 flourish. Some have taken up prestigious positions in the UK or abroad: Pearson moved to
 Edinburgh in 2017; Waterstraat took up a professorship in Halle (Germany) in 2018; and Xu
 became a research professor at the University of Science and Technology of China in 2018. To
 ensure the sustainability of the theme, Iliopoulou was appointed in 2019. The theme has supported
 three RAs, two funded by EPSRC grants and one internally funded to support Hydon. The theme
 has hosted the 14th International Symposium on Orthogonal Polynomials, Special Functions and
 Applications (2017), one of the flagship events in the field. A particularly noteworthy research
 highlight is the ground-breaking work by Iliopoulou and co-researchers, who settled an open
 problem by Hörmander on oscillatory integral operators, standing since 1973, and derived the
 best-known bounds for the famous Bochner-Riesz conjecture in Fourier multiplier theory.

    3. Grow our PGR student numbers and enhance our vibrant research environment

 During this REF period, an average of 8.6 students have been awarded a PhD each year (2014:
 5; 2015: 7; 2016: 6.5; 2017: 8; 2018: 14.5; 2019: 8.5; 2020: 11), up from 6.5 in the previous REF
 period. The School was able to grow the number of PhD students by match-funding scholarships,

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 securing additional University-funded scholarships, and attracting support from industrial partners
 and external organisations. Two studentships were partially funded by the Radfall Charitable
 Trust, and a third was funded by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries. We also have three CASE
 PhD studentships in Statistical Ecology, two of which are funded through the NERC Advanced
 Research and Innovation in the Environmental Sciences (ARIES) Doctoral Training Partnership
 (DTP), and a third is in partnership with the Centre for Ecology and Hydrology. We recruit high-
 quality PhD students from the UK and abroad, and have a diverse PGR student population, with
 students from the UK, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, China, India,
 Mauritius, Guyana, and South Africa.

 Over this REF period, the School has supported nine RAs through externally funded projects. In
 2019, there were seven EPSRC-funded postdoctoral RAs. The School has also internally funded
 one RA to work with Hydon.

 The School’s research environment was further enriched by the appointment of 11 ECRs on fixed-
 term Education & Research (E&R) contracts in this REF period. These positions came with a
 significantly reduced teaching load to give the ECRs the opportunity to gain teaching experience
 and to further strengthen their research profile.

 In this REF period, the School has hosted two Marie Curie fellows (Casteels and Naboko) and
 numerous international visitors, including several longer-term (more than six months) international
 visitors: Rossini (Italy, 2015-16), D. Jiang and J. Li (China, 2015-16), K. Tian (China, 2016),
 Pereira (Brazil, 2016-17), Gómez-Ullate (Spain, 2017), C. Yang (China, 2018-19), Cesar de Souza
 (Brazil, 2018-19), and X. Duan and C. Li (China, 2019-20). The long-term visit of Jordaan (South
 Africa) to Kent to work with Clarkson, as part of her Royal Society Newton Advanced Fellowship,
 was postponed due to Covid-19. This growing international dimension has greatly enriched our
 research environment.

 The School has a vibrant research community. It runs five regular seminar series and a
 Postgraduate Seminar Series. It is also involved in organising several virtual seminar series: the
 RepNet Virtual Seminar (Bowman); Virtual Integrable Systems Seminars (Clarkson); and Virtual
 Harmonic Analysis Seminars (Iliopoulou). The new state-of-the-art Sibson Building has enabled
 us to host numerous research events. On average, five externally supported workshops have been
 held in the School each year. These include a number of high-profile research events: Total
 Positivity: A Bridge between Representation Theory and Physics (2016); the 14th International
 Symposium on Orthogonal Polynomials, Special Functions and Applications (2017); Young
 Researchers in Mathematics (2017); National Centre for Statistical Ecology meeting (2017);
 Actuarial Teachers’ and Researchers’ Conference (2017); EPSRC Inverse Problems Network
 (2019); LMS Women in Mathematics Day (2019); and Interactions between Representation
 Theory and Model Theory (2019).

    4. Introduce progressive EDI policies in the School to support staff reach their full academic
       potential

 In the course of the REF2021 period, the School has introduced a number of progressive EDI
 policies. It allocates a generous amount of research time to staff returning from maternity (or
 shared parental) leave, and from extensive periods of sick leave, to provide staff with the time to
 pick up their research activities. This policy has been very successful, with two members of staff
 securing substantial grants shortly after returning from maternity leave
                                                             . Further details on our EDI actions that
 have resulted in our Athena SWAN Silver Award are supplied in Section 2 below.

 Research Strategy 2021 onwards
 In line with the University’s Research & Innovation Strategy 2025, our future research strategy
 aims to further enhance the national and international research and innovation profile of the
 School, maintain the vitality and sustainability of our research environment, and further embed


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 progressive EDI policies to help our staff and our postgraduate researchers realise their full
 potential. In particular, we aim to:

    1. Strengthen our interdisciplinary research and increase our external research and
       enterprise income

 We will further extend our research collaborations through the Eastern ARC, a research
 consortium between the universities of East Anglia, Essex, and Kent. In particular, we will intensify
 our involvement in the ARIES DTP, in which members of the Eastern ARC are collaborating. We
 will also actively participate in the University’s new Signature Research Themes (SRT) to foster
 interdisciplinary collaborations and develop new networks within the University. McCrea is the
 sciences Theme Lead for the Migration and Movement SRT. Building on existing expertise in
 Statistical Data Science, Machine Learning, and Biomedical Statistics (Bentham, Liu, Zhang), we
 intend to develop strong research links with the new Kent and Medway Medical School (KMMS),
 which opened on our Canterbury campus in 2020. We will also take advantage of the newly
 created academic Divisions in the recent University restructure, and intensify collaborations with
 the two other schools in our Division: Computing; Engineering and Digital Arts.

 The School Director of Innovation and Enterprise (X. Wang) organised a number of meetings with
 potential collaborators from industry and academia in this REF period, including the 2019
 workshop ‘Mapping Out the Impact of Machine Learning’, which was attended by representatives
 from more than 40 UK and international companies from a range of sectors. We intend to grow
 the number of this type of event and expand our involvement in interdisciplinary research projects
 and enterprise activities. This will help us diversify and grow our research income.

    2. Continue to support staff to deliver impactful high-quality research

 We will continue to support and enhance our existing research themes. In recent years, a number
 of our statisticians left: Kong took up a professorship at the University of Electronic Science and
 Technology of China; Griffin took up a professorship at UCL; and Villa moved to Newcastle
 University. In 2021, we will appoint two lecturers in Statistics. Over the course of the next REF
 period, we intend to make further investments in the Statistics Group through the recruitment of
 promising ECRs, and continue to support current members of the group to grow and develop into
 its future leaders. The new Division has a strong drive to grow its research activities and provides
 a supportive infrastructure for staff to do their research. Further details on the infrastructure are
 given in Section 3 below.

    3. Sustain our number of Research Associates and PhD students

 The School has a strong desire to participate in a Centre for Doctoral Training in the area of
 Algebra, Geometry, and Mathematical Physics. Activities to support an application for such a
 centre have already begun, and will be extended in the next REF period. We will continue to give
 our PhD students high-quality supervision and opportunities to attend conferences to present their
 work and to network. We will enhance our career events for PhD students and expand our training
 opportunities for our PGRs to develop their employability skills. The School has a strong track
 record of supporting ECRs to apply for fellowships to work in our School; for example, Topley’s
 UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship. We will continue to provide support for such fellowship
 applications and attract high-quality ECRs through our existing research networks.

    4. Implement the Athena SWAN Silver Award action plan

 Throughout the next REF period, we will continue to implement our Athena SWAN Silver Award
 initiatives, which include actions to ensure that our research environment is inclusive and diverse,
 and that researchers at all levels in the School receive the support they need to realise their full
 research potential. We will maintain our strong support for ECRs and mid-career academics, and
 further develop our successful family-friendly policies, so that academics can have a fulfilling
 work/life balance. We have fully implemented the University’s new Academic Career Map, which

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sets out performance standards and promotion criteria at different levels, with transparency, and
 we will support and guide all our staff towards their career progression.

 Enabling the realisation of impact
 In this REF period, both the School and the University have made strategic investments to support
 the generation of impact. To support our impact activities in statistical ecology, SMSAS financially
 supported a two-year RA in 2015 (Dennis), to work on a project that was partly funded by Butterfly
 Conservation (£50k). The School has also successfully used University funding to organise
 outreach and training events to develop its impact case studies. In addition, we have prioritised
 PhD studentships that are associated to research projects underpinning impact work. Further
 support for the generation of impact was provided by the School’s Strategic Research Fund. To
 further drive our innovation and enterprise strategy, the School created a Director of Innovation
 and Enterprise role in 2017, the post-holder being a member of the School’s Research Committee.

 In this REF period, impact was achieved via three routes:

    1. Influencing society to benefit the environment

 The School has a strong track record of generating impact from its research in statistical ecology
 and wildlife conservation. Researchers in the Statistical Ecology theme have long-term
 collaborations with the Durrell Institute of Conservation and Ecology (DICE), the National Centre
 for Statistical Ecology, and UK and international charities including Butterfly Conservation,
 Mauritian Wildlife Foundation, and the Bumblebee Conservation Trust. They have developed
 novel statistical methods in ecology and conservation, which have led to new insights into
 biodiversity. Their research has influenced policy-makers and changed practices of ecological
 data collection through a variety of outreach and training events. The importance of this research
 was recognised by the Royal Statistical Society through distinguished awards to McCrea and
 Morgan, and also by the NERC grant award to Matechou, as part of its Strategic Priorities Fund.

    2. Industrial collaborations

 Throughout this REF period, the School has collaborated successfully with companies and
 external organisations. It made substantial contributions to a joint project with KROHNE Ltd to
 develop new instruments to measure the flow rate of gas-liquid two-phase flows in industrial
 processes. The incorporation of advanced statistical and computational techniques, which had not
 been done before, has led to simplification of the instrument’s design and enhanced its
 performance. This collaboration was supported by two KTP projects (KTP008285, 2011-13;
 KTP010905, 2018-20) led by X. Wang, both of which received grades of ‘Outstanding’ and
 certificates of excellence from the Technology Strategy Board (Innovate UK).

 Research by Kalli (joint with Griffin) on Bayesian nonparametric methods was picked up by the
 Berliner Wasserbetriebe (BWB) at a conference in 2017, where Kalli was presenting. The BWB is
 the largest municipal water supply and sanitation company in Germany, servicing Berlin and
 surrounding areas. In a collaborative project, Kalli’s research has been used to develop more
 accurate forecasting models to predict maintenance costs for BWB’s sewage and water
 infrastructure. These more accurate predictions will impact positively on the water bills of millions
 of BWB’s customers. Kalli’s knowledge transfer project will thus have significant economic impact.

    3. Public engagement

 The School has been involved with research-based public engagement for a long time. In 2015,
 the Mathematics Group was selected to participate in the LMS’s 150th Anniversary Mathematics
 Festival at the London Science Museum. With a 2.5m wave tank and a vortex gun, members of
 the Mathematics Group created fluorescent green tsunamis and large smoke rings to engage the
 general public with our research on Integrable Systems and Solitons. The School also runs many
 outreach activities with secondary schools to engage students with its research. Activities include:


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   A research project involving the crowdsourcing of pseudorandom dynamics developed by
        Hone in collaboration with the Institute for Research in Schools.
    •   Research opportunities for Year 12 and 13 students through the Nuffield Foundation
        summer research projects.
    •   Members of the Statistical Ecology theme ran two large outreach events: ‘Statistics Gone
        Wild’, for more than 200 Year 8 and 9 students. In these events, students were exposed
        to current ecological research from the Statistical Ecology theme.
    •   Annual Royal Institution Masterclasses for Year 6, 9, and 12 students.
    •   In 2017, we organised an LMS Girls in Maths event at Kent.

 Future impact strategy and plans
 Building on the experience in this REF period, we will intensify and expand the impact of our
 research by strengthening the contact with stakeholders beyond academia through hosting regular
 sandpit meetings and by providing networking and training events. We will actively seek new
 industrial partnerships by encouraging cross-disciplinary collaborations and consultancy. The
 School will also seek opportunities through its involvement in the University’s Signature Research
 Themes to find pathways for impact. We will work with the University’s Knowledge Exchange and
 Innovation (KEI) team to develop new links with the insurance industry and finance and risk
 consultancy firms through CASRI. We will continue to communicate our research to a wider
 audience via public lectures, including the University’s ‘Think Kent’ lecture series, and expand
 outreach activities such as the Royal Institution masterclasses. Staff will also be encouraged to
 engage with the University’s Corporate Communications team and the Office of Scholarly
 Communication to identify opportunities for wider dissemination of our research. The School will
 continue to support staff engaged with impact activities through its work allocation model and will
 provide support and training for staff developing impact cases.

 Open Access
 The School fully embraces the Open Access agenda. Through the University’s Research and
 Innovation Services team and the Office for Scholarly Communication, all members of staff have
 access to training opportunities on Open Access, copyright, research metrics, and dissemination
 planning. The University’s Templeman Library manages the Kent Academic Repository (KAR)
 database, which is an outward-facing research repository showcasing research publications of
 Kent researchers. Staff are required to deposit their publications on KAR, where they are
 monitored for Open Access requirements. Staff are also encouraged to put their work on arXiv.
 The University has contracts with Springer and Wiley that allow our researchers to publish Open
 Access without paying APC’s. Close to 50% of our REF2021 outputs have been published Gold
 Open Access.

 Research integrity
 Throughout the REF period, the School had a representative on the Faculty’s Research Ethics
 Advisory Group (REAG), which provides external ethics reviews for large grant applications. The
 School only had to seek advice for a couple of grant applications in this REF period. In the new
 Divisional structure, the School will have a representative on the new Divisional REAG.

 2. People

 A key part of the School’s staffing strategy is to support staff to reach their full academic potential
 and to create a vibrant and sustainable research community that values equality, diversity, and
 inclusivity. There is a strong focus on the development of ECRs in the School, which is directly
 linked to our recruitment strategy. The only senior-level appointment that we made in the REF2021
 period was Hydon as Head of School. Our research reputation and research environment attract
 excellent applicants for all new and replacement posts, and have enabled us to appoint staff of
 the highest calibre from the UK and abroad. Staff appointed since 2014 are originally from Canada,
 China, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Spain, and the UK.


                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Our recruitment strategy focuses on appointing promising ECRs to strengthen or expand existing
 research themes in the School. In this REF period, the School has made significant staffing
 investments by appointing 18 permanent Category A staff: 17 staff at Lecturer level and one Head
 of School at Professorial level. In the same period, there were three retirements and 11 Category
 A staff left the School for positions elsewhere. Among those, seven returned to their home country
 to continue their academic career, one went into industry, and three took up positions at other
 universities in the UK. Over the REF2021 period, there has been a net gain of four Category A
 staff, which has both strengthened and diversified our research activities.

 In this REF period, we also employed 11 ECRs on fixed-term E&R contracts to cover long-term
 fellowships, maternity (or shared parental) leaves, and study leaves. These ECRs have further
 enriched our research environment. The fixed-term positions came with a 50% teaching reduction
 to enable the ECRs to further develop their research profile, while gaining teaching experience.
 Eight of them found permanent positions in academia: Adamopoulou at Heriot-Watt; Argiento at
 Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore of Milano; Besbeas at Athens University of Economics and
 Business; Hadjiantoni at the University of Essex; Lecoutre at Université Clermont Auvergne;
 Towers at UCL; Xentidis at Liverpool Hope University; and Zhu at City University of London.

    1. Staff development
 Beyond the University’s infrastructure for staff development and career progression (see the
 institutional-level environment statement), the School has continued to implement the UK
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, through recruitment and appraisal
 procedures, commitment to EDI, and encouraging the uptake of training and development
 opportunities. All staff members benefit from an annual appraisal (under the University’s ‘Reflect,
 Plan, Develop’ framework) with the Head of School or Head of Group. In addition, all E&R staff
 annually discuss their Individual Research Plans with the School Director of Research in an
 informal meeting, which provides an opportunity for staff to reflect on personal achievements, to
 discuss future research, grant applications, potential EDI-related barriers, and the support required
 for their research.

 In this REF period, a number of our staff have also participated in national leadership training
 schemes such as Advance HE’s AURORA (three staff members), in the University’s Leadership
 for Areas of Significant Responsibility (LASR) programme (five staff members), and in Kent’s
 Insights programme, which is Kent’s Women's Senior Leadership Programme (one staff member).

 The School holds annual staff Away Days, where half of the time is devoted to research matters,
 reflecting our dual-intensity approach. Research-active staff are encouraged to apply for study
 leave in accordance with the University’s study leave regulations. In the last four years, more than
 one-third of our staff have taken leave for either 12 or 30 weeks to concentrate on their research,
 this having a positive impact on grant applications and research outputs.

    2. ECR support and probation
 Probationary staff are required to complete the University’s Postgraduate Certificate in Higher
 Education (PGCHE), and are assigned a mentor to help them settle into the School. They are also
 required to write a probation plan, against which progress is assessed on an annual basis. To
 write the probation plan, they receive support from their probation supervisor (a senior member of
 staff), who provides advice and comments on the progress made. All probationary staff have
 significantly reduced teaching load (50%-75% of a normal load) and minimal administrative tasks.
 They are invited to join a PhD supervisory team, and are prioritised in PhD studentship allocations
 after their probation is completed. They also receive an additional £1,000 funding to support their
 research activities. During their probation period, they are expected to apply for a significant grant
 such as an EPSRC New Investigator Award.




                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    3. Development of Research Associates
 All our RAs are fully integrated into the School, and a range of opportunities are provided to help
 them develop their career. They take part in our research seminars and are often involved in their
 organisation. They also have access to staff development courses and are given opportunities to
 engage with all aspects of academic life in the School: lecturing, supervising MSc projects, and
 running undergraduate summer research projects and outreach activities. RAs are invited to
 participate in the termly meeting of the School Board and the School’s Away Days. They are
 appraised annually by the School Director of Research, and receive additional career support such
 as feedback on CVs, job applications, fellowship proposals, presentations, and mock interviews.
 Our approach has been successful, with many RAs finding academic positions: Casteels:
 Lectureship at the University of California at Santa Barbara, USA; Lampe: Lectureship at Europa-
 Universität Flensburg, Germany; Fasondini: postdoctoral position at Imperial College, London;
 Casati: Associate Professorship at Ningbo University, China; and Roelands: Lectureship at Leiden
 University, Netherlands. Topley was awarded a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship.

    4. Promotion
 The University has a promotion process that recognises and rewards all aspects of academic
 excellence. This process, with the timetable and links to HR documentation, and the role of the
 School Promotion Panel (SPP), along with mentoring information, is communicated by the Head
 of School to all staff each year. The SPP was introduced in 2013 to advise and support academic
 staff on applying for promotion and career development. It actively considers EDI issues and
 potential barriers. All non-professorial staff are invited annually to submit their CV to the SPP,
 together with a draft application form in cases where they wish to make a promotion application.
 The SPP discusses the merits and strengths of all CVs and draft applications at an annual
 meeting, and encourages submission of CVs from some who do not self-nominate. Feedback is
 provided to each applicant in an informal one-to-one meeting. Those who decide to make a
 promotion application are given advice on preparing their case for promotion by an experienced
 member of the SPP. In addition, the School offers informal mentoring on career development that
 is available at any time during the year. It regularly holds Athena SWAN events aimed at
 demystifying the promotion process. The University also holds annual workshops for individuals
 who are preparing their cases for promotion.

 The extensive support for career development offered by the School and the University has
 contributed to the successful career advancement of a number of our staff in this REF period:
 three to Professor (Launois, McCrea, J. P. Wang); five to Reader (Bowman, Deano, Dunning,
 Leisen, Lemmens), and six to Senior Lecturer (Krusch, Loureiro, Paget, Roitzheim, Wood, X.
 Wang). Among those staff, one was promoted to Professor from Senior Lecturer, and two were
 promoted to Reader from Lecturer. In the 2020 promotion round, Kalli, Matechou, and Pech were
 all promoted to Senior Lecturer (announced in May 2020 and effective from October 2020).

 Research students
 Since 2014, the School has benefited from an average of 35 PhD students funded through
 studentships from the University, the School, and EPSRC. All studentships are offered for 3.5
 years. Robust recruitment and selection procedures ensure that the School only recruits the best-
 qualified candidates and does so transparently and equitably. PhD studentships are advertised
 nationally and internationally, and shortlisted applicants are interviewed by a diverse selection
 panel. The panel for the Periodic Programme Review (March 2017) commended the School for
 the quality of the research student and supervisor relationship. Feedback from the annual PRES
 has been outstanding, with an average overall satisfaction of 92%, and 94% average satisfaction
 with supervision in the last four years. Since 2014, 61 students successfully completed their PhD
 degree (two withdrew). Our extensive training and support mechanisms have ensured that all PhD
 submissions have been within four years. More than half of our PhD students secured a position
 in academia or a research position in industry.




                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    1. Training and support mechanisms
 Our postgraduate researchers have a supervisory team with a lead academic supervisor and a
 second supervisor who often has a more pastoral role. As well as regular supervisions, there are
 scheduled formal review meetings where research progress, skills training, and publishing
 opportunities are discussed. At institutional level, the Graduate and Researcher College (formerly
 the Graduate School) is responsible for shaping the strategic development of postgraduate
 research in the University. The College plays a key role in developing and supporting the research
 environment for our PGRs. It offers training courses for PGRs as well as for PGR supervisors. In
 addition to structured supervision by their supervisory team, all our PGRs receive formal research
 training and career development training. They attend at least 100 hours of assessed taught
 courses to broaden their subject knowledge. Options are chosen from courses provided through
 two taught course centres: the Academy for PhD Training in Statistics and the London Taught
 Course Centre (LTCC). In addition, our PGRs can take advanced courses from our MMath and
 MSc programmes. During this REF period, staff have delivered eight LTCC basic and advanced
 courses. Our PGRs also complete the University’s Researcher Development Assessment and
 reflect annually on their skills and training needs.

 In the School, PGR career events are organised regularly. Workshops include: CV skills for
 academic and professional jobs; workshops on varied career opportunities; and presentations on
 academic career paths. Supervisors support their PGRs by helping them prepare academic job
 applications and practise presentations and interviews. Our PGRs are encouraged and financially
 supported to attend national and international conferences. They attend on average at least two
 international conferences during their period of study. The School also runs a Postgraduate
 Seminar series, which gives our PGRs additional opportunities to present their work and to
 practise their communication skills. Our PGRs gain teaching experience through teaching on UG
 modules and marking; for this, they are given appropriate training, and their teaching is observed
 by members of staff, with informal feedback sessions thereafter.

    2. Achievements
 Our PGR students regularly attend national and international conferences, and are also involved
 in the organisation of national events. In 2017, our PGRs organised the Young Researchers in
 Mathematics conference at Kent. Many of our PhD students obtain travel awards from conference
 committees or funding bodies, and have also won prizes. For example, Jiménez-Muñoz won the
 Silver Award for Mathematical Sciences at the STEM for Britain event at the House of Commons
 in 2019. Research students who graduated during this REF period have (co-)authored over 70
 peer-reviewed publications. Many of them have received prestigious prizes and scholarships after
 graduation. Lecoutre (2015) secured a 150th Anniversary Postdoctoral Mobility Grant from the
 LMS. Nolan (2017) won the 2016 Cecil King Travel Scholarship from the LMS. Papamikos (2016)
 secured a Richard Rado postdoctoral fellowship at the University of Reading. Fischbacher (2017)
 secured a postdoctoral position at the University of California at Irvine. Ishak (2019) was appointed
 to a postdoctoral fellowship at Vanderbilt University, Nashville. Jeyam (2017) secured a
 postdoctoral position at the University of Edinburgh. Jiménez-Muñoz (2019) was appointed to a
 postdoctoral position at the German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research. Diana (2020)
 secured a postdoctoral position at the University of Kent. Lima (2020) won an LMS Early Career
 Fellowship. Pallister (2020) won a JSPS fellowship.

 Equality, diversity, and inclusivity
 SMSAS is fully committed to promoting EDI to ensure that all our staff have the opportunity to
 make contributions to our research activities and to succeed in their research ambitions. In this
 REF period, the School was awarded an Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2014, the first School in
 the University to receive an Athena SWAN Award. This was followed by an Athena SWAN Silver
 Award in 2018, one of only nine mathematics departments in the UK at the time to hold a Silver
 Award. These awards recognise the School’s commitment to supporting gender equality within
 higher education and research, and showcased the wide range of positive actions we have taken
 to achieve this.


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School’s EDI Committee holds five scheduled meetings annually. Its role is to analyse the
 effects of School and University policies on EDI, to work to improve policies and build consensus
 to implement new initiatives, and to embed awareness of EDI issues throughout the School. It
 organises training events such as the half-day in-person unconscious bias training for all staff, and
 holds information sessions (often tied to termly Athena SWAN lunches). Information and issues
 are fed into the EDI Committee through our organisational structure. The Chair of the EDI
 Committee is a member of the School’s Management Committee and also sits on the School
 Promotions Panel. EDI is a standing item for all committees, group meetings, and boards of study,
 with discussion points and updates referred to these meetings from the EDI Committee. The EDI
 Committee also holds termly Athena SWAN themed lunches, focusing on relevant issues such as
 staff with caring responsibilities, the promotion process, and unconscious bias. The Committee
 designs regular staff surveys to capture diversity better, and to identify areas in need of further
 improvement. All staff in the School have undertaken Kent’s internal EDI training and all staff on
 appointment panels and the REF Working Group have received additional Unconscious Bias
 Awareness training.

 The School has been signed up to the LMS Good Practice Scheme since 2012. Clarkson was the
 Chair of the LMS Good Practice Scheme steering committee (2013-18) and is a member of the
 Equality Challenge Unit’s Athena SWAN working group. He received the Senior Anne Bennett
 Prize awarded by the LMS in 2020, ‘in recognition of his tireless work to support gender equality
 in UK mathematics, and particularly for his leadership in developing good practice among
 departments of mathematical sciences’, as the prize’s citation read. Our EDI initiatives have
 greatly benefited from his leadership.

 For this submission, our Category A staff consists of 12 women (two Professors, one Reader, five
 Senior Lecturers, and four Lecturers) and 21 men (five Professors, five Readers, five Senior
 Lecturers, and six Lecturers). The proportion of female Professors has increased to 29%
 compared to 11% in REF2014. Three out of nine members of the School’s Management
 Committee are female. Five female members of the School have participated in internal and
 external leadership training programmes: Dunning, Loureiro (Aurora), Paget (Insights), and
 Dunning, Laurence, J. P. Wang (LASR). Of the 14 staff members who were promoted during the
 REF2021 period, seven are female, including one to Professor from Senior Lecturer.

 School meetings and seminar series are held within core hours to maximise the opportunity of
 attendance, especially for staff with caring responsibilities. Within the REF period, the percentage
 of external female speakers invited by the School has improved from 16% in 2013-14 to 32% in
 2016-17 (data from our Athena SWAN Silver application). The University has a number of Family-
 Friendly Practices to make working for staff with, or starting, a family as easy as possible. The
 School follows all these policies to create a flexible working environment. SMSAS put in place
 comprehensive maternity/adoption leave policies that go above and beyond the University’s
 policies in 2014, and these have been adopted by several other Schools across the University.
 We believe maternity leave can be a critical time in a researcher’s career, and resources must be
 devoted to help maintain a vibrant research programme. Any staff member returning from an
 extensive period of leave, such as maternity or shared parental leave, receives a significantly
 reduced teaching load for a period of 12 months after returning and a reduced administrative load.
 In addition, they receive an extra £1,000 to help them renew their research activities. Staff going
 on extensive leave have discussions before leaving about their planned teaching allocation for
 their return, and Keeping in Touch days are used to support staff members on leave to stay
 connected with research and the School. In the current REF period, six Category A staff have
 taken maternity leave and have benefited from the School’s policies. The return rate is 100%, and
 all of them remained fully research active after returning. Two of them secured significant grants
 shortly after returning from leave.

 The School has implemented an evidence-based and transparent REF process, following the
 University’s Code of Practice. The School REF Working Group consists of six members of staff
 (two female), with representatives from each research theme. All Category A staff have had the
 opportunity to discuss their output selection and comment on a draft of the Environment Statement

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in face-to-face meetings with members of the REF Working Group. For the output selection, the
 Working Group relied on internal and external reviews of outputs, as well as ranking by the author.
 It has also sought to balance the outputs of the different research themes to give a fair reflection
 of the research activities in the School.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Since 2014, the School has been awarded research grants worth over £3.5 million from a variety
 of funding bodies. This is a significant increase in comparison with the £2.2 million in the previous
 REF period. Funding has included: EPSRC: £2.38 million from eight awards (one Established
 Career Fellowship, one Early Career Fellowship, one Network award, one First Grant, one New
 Investigators Award, and three Standard Grants); UKRI: £647k from one award (Future Leader
 Fellowship); NERC: £340k from two awards; European Union: £82k from one award; Institute and
 Faculty of Actuaries: £98k from one award; and KTPs: £83k from one award. Numerous small
 grants have also been obtained from the Royal Society, Leverhulme Trust, London Mathematical
 Society, and Institute of Physics.

 Staff on E&R contracts are expected to apply for grants regularly. Members of the School are
 supported in the development and submission of grant applications by the University’s Research
 and Innovation Services team and also by the School’s Research and Innovation Committee.
 Research and Innovation Services (working with the Graduate and Researcher College) provides
 training opportunities, grant development workshops, advice on costings, and arranges internal
 competitions, mock interviews, and reviews. At School level, staff benefit from advice from
 experienced colleagues who have served on recent EPSRC/UKRI panels (Clarkson, Dunning,
 Hone, Launois, McCrea, Roitzheim). All grants over £60k are reviewed within the School. Staff
 are incentivised to submit high-quality grant applications, and receive a supplement to their annual
 travel allowance for a near-miss large grant application. The Research and Innovation Committee
 oversees the School’s research strategy and coordinates the support for grant writing. It holds a
 £10k strategic development fund to support staff in the development of their research and
 innovation activities. In this REF period, the School has supplemented several fellowships and
 grants by extending the length of the RA position associated to the project.

 All staff are given a fixed allocation of research time in their work allocation. Additional time is
 reserved for the development of research grant proposals, as well as PhD and RA supervision.
 Staff on grants receive additional research time in their work allocation. Within the School, staff
 have an annual travel budget and are encouraged to accept invitations to organise and participate
 in long-term research programmes, provided there is sufficient capacity to cover their teaching.

 The School promotes a culture of engagement with the wider world and supports staff to find
 pathways for the knowledge generated by their research to benefit and influence society, culture,
 our environment, and the economy. Staff who are extensively involved with impact activities
 receive credit for it in our work allocation model. The Director of Innovation and Enterprise works
 closely with the University’s KEI team to foster industrial contacts, and organises meetings with
 potential industrial partners. For most of our industrial collaborations, KEI provides assistance with
 the management, contracts, and development. It played a key role in the development of the KTP
 project with KROHNE Ltd.

 Through CASRI, we foster strong links with financial organisations and insurance companies. For
 instance, Alai and Tapadar were involved with two consultancy projects at Aviva Central Services
 Ltd in 2015 and 2016. Through our research in Statistics, we maintain links with a variety of
 organisations and charities, which have led to consultancy projects and PhD studentships. In
 addition to external sources, the School has taken advantage of the University’s internal funding
 schemes. All our impact case studies have benefited at various stages from the University’s
 Research and Impact Support Funds. The School also generates income through the Stats Desk,
 which is an on-campus service funded by the University to assist academic colleagues and
 research students on statistical matters.
                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Infrastructure and facilities
 The University recognises the strengths of SMSAS. In 2017, the School was re-housed in the new
 Sibson Building, funded by a £35 million University investment, which won the Royal Institute of
 British Architects Regional and National Award. The building, which we share with Kent Business
 School, not only provides modern staff offices, and spaces for collaborative discussions, but also
 contains three state-of-the-art lecture theatres, seminar spaces, dedicated rooms for our
 postgraduate students, and offices for RAs, research visitors, and emeriti. All academic staff have
 their own office, and RAs and PhD students share offices.

 It is School policy to refresh desktop computers every three years and to provide licences for
 relevant computing software. The School also maintains a computer cluster of three servers for
 researchers to store and process research data and to perform high-performance computations,
 and has a dedicated IT Support Officer. The School also benefits from a Research Support Officer,
 who assists with the organisation of scientific events in the School and supports the Director of
 Research.

 The University’s Templeman Library provides online subscription to AMS reviews and to the
 majority of journals relevant to our research. In this REF period, the Library has significantly grown
 its access to e-book collections in mathematics and statistics. The Library also manages the KAR
 database, which collects research publications of University of Kent researchers.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations
 All our staff have active research collaborations and regularly host visitors, make research visits,
 and collaborate on joint research projects. Approximately one-third of submitted outputs are with
 international co-authors. The School has hosted over 30 short-term research visitors and 10 long-
 term visitors (six months or more) in this REF period. Several of our grants involve national and
 international partners. Two EPSRC standard grants are held jointly with other UK institutions:
 University of Leeds and Queen Mary University of London. The co-investigators on Matechou’s
 NERC research grant are from the University of East Anglia, Lancaster University, Durrell Institute
 of Conservation and Ecology at Kent, and University College London.

 Staff are also working collaboratively on projects funded in other countries. Hone was a Partner
 Investigator for an Australian Research Council Discovery Grant (2014-16) with investigators from
 the University of New South Wales and La Trobe University. He was also the international partner
 on a SPIRIT project (2013-17) with a team from the Norwegian University of Science and
 Technology and the University of Bergen funded by the Research Council of Norway. Since 2015,
 Tapadar has led the pension modelling team (from Kent and the University of Waterloo, Canada)
 in the global collaborative research project on population ageing, asset values, and pension plans.
 This research has been supported by an international partnership of funders, including the Institute
 and Faculty of Actuaries, the Canadian Institute of Actuaries, and the Society of Actuaries in the
 US, with a total funding award of more than $500k.

 Involvement in national and international research networks
 Our staff are involved in numerous national and international networks. Launois is the UK lead
 and PI of the EPSRC-funded Anglo-French-German network in Representation Theory and its
 Applications (2018-21). McCrea is Director of the National Centre for Statistical Ecology (NCSE),
 a research centre spanning a number of UK institutions. Members of the Statistical Ecology theme
 ran short advanced training courses for NERC-funded PhD students and RAs (over 100 PhD
 students external to Kent). These were funded through three-year contracts with NERC worth
 £82k.

 We coordinate three LMS-funded Joint Research Groups: Dunning has organised the South-East
 Mathematical Physics Seminars since 2014; Loureiro has organised Orthogonal Polynomials,

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Special Functions, Operator Theory and Applications meetings since 2018; and Pech organised
 the COW seminar series (an algebraic geometry seminar across the southern UK) 2019-20.
 Members of the MPNS theme, led by Krusch, co-organise the Eastern ARC conference series on
 ‘Topological Solitons and Quantum Fluids’, which has been running annually since 2015. The
 School has also funded the Littoral-Kent Seminar series, led by Wood, since 2013.

 Our staff are encouraged to organise or accept invitations to participate in long-term research
 programmes. Mansfield co-organised a six-month programme on Geometry, Compatibility, and
 Structure Preservation in Computational Differentiable Equations at the Isaac Newton Institute
 (INI) in 2019. Hydon was an invited participant in this programme. Clarkson was an invited
 participant in the Complex Analysis: Techniques, Applications, and Computations programme at
 INI in 2019. Roitzheim was an invited participant in the Homotopy Harnessing Higher Structures
 programme at the INI in 2018. Dunning co-organised a one-month programme on Integrability in
 Low Dimensional Quantum Systems, in Melbourne, 2017. Bowman and Launois took part in the
 thematic trimester programme on Representation Theory at the Institut Henri Poincaré, Paris,
 2020. Hone was a visiting Professorial Fellow at the University of New South Wales in 2018-19,
 supported through their Distinguished Researcher Visitors Scheme. Dunning was supported by
 the Australian National University through their Mathematical Sciences Research Visitor Program
 for a five-week visit in 2019.

 Collaborations with industry and other bodies
 Our staff also collaborate extensively with industrial partners and other bodies. Bentham is
 collaborating with Imperial College, London, and the World Health Organization to understand the
 global trends in non-communicable diseases, including obesity, body-mass index, blood pressure,
 diabetes, underweight and overweight, by analysing public health data. He is also conducting
 genomic research with King’s College London, and is collaborating with the MRC Epidemiology
 Unit at the University of Cambridge on associations between fruit and vegetable consumption and
 blood pressure. Bentham and McCrea provided consultancy to the Global Initiative against
 Transnational Organized Crime in 2020 through a £17k contract, measuring irregular migration
 and associated protection risks. Hadjiantoni (2016-19) was involved in a KTP project with Zero
 Trace Procurement Ltd, funded by the ESRC and Innovation UK. Kalli is collaborating with the
 economics research unit of the European Central Bank to evaluate the impact of fiscal policy
 decisions, using Bayesian statistical models to macroeconomic time series, and with the Berliner
 Wasserbetriebe (BWB). These knowledge transfer activities have led to one of our impact case
 studies. Matechou provided consultancy to the Department for Environment, Food and Rural
 Affairs (Defra) in 2019. Since 2013, Tapadar has been collaborating with Radfall Charitable Trust.

 Community and outreach
 In addition to the research-based outreach activities mentioned in Section 1 above, members of
 the School have connected with diverse audiences through a variety of media and activities over
 this REF period. Research by Bentham and collaborators on childhood obesity (Lancet) has
 received extensive media coverage (BBC, CNN, Le Monde, El País), and was discussed by
 Bentham on the National Public Radio (NPR) programme All Things Considered in the USA in
 2016. Mansfield appeared on BBC Radio 4’s In Our Time programme on Emmy Noether in 2019.
 As part of the Think Kent ‘Discovers’ series, research by Morgan and Dennis was showcased in
 the Counting Butterflies documentary, which was also reported in Kent Online in July 2020. Since
 2019, the School has organised the Noether Public Lecture to showcase research in mathematical
 sciences to the public. In 2016, the School hosted the LMS Undergraduate Summer School.
 SMSAS also supported and hosted several LMS Undergraduate Research Bursaries. In 2015, we
 ran a CPD day for local secondary-school teachers, with research-led sessions based on the
 research of Dunning, Launois, Matechou, and McCrea.

 Fellowships and prizes
    •   Marie Curie International Incoming Fellowship (Casteels, 2013-15; Naboko, 2013-15);
    •   EPSRC Established Career Fellowship (Hone, 2014-20);


                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   EPSRC Early Career Fellowship (Pearson, 2015-17);
    •   Leverhulme Trust Emeritus Fellowship (Brown, 2018-20; Morgan, 2017-19);
    •   Humboldt Research Fellowship (Bowman, 2018-20);
    •   Senior Anne Bennett Prize, London Mathematical Society (Clarkson, 2020);
    •   Guy Medal in Bronze, Royal Statistical Society (McCrea, 2020);
    •   Barnett Award, Royal Statistical Society (Morgan, 2020);
    •   UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship (Topley, 2020).

 Editorial activity
 Our staff have been members of editorial boards or editorial advisors for more than 20 journals
 since 2014. These include: Quarterly Journal of Mechanics and Applied Mathematics, Studies in
 Applied Mathematics, and Acta Applicandae Mathematicae (Clarkson), Biometrics (Cole); Journal
 of Physics Communication (Dunning); Journal of the Royal Statistical Society, Series B, Bayesian
 Analysis, Statistics and Computing (Griffin); Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and Theoretical
 and Journal of Nonlinear Mathematical Physics (Hone); Journal of Applied Econometrics (Kalli);
 Journal of Statistical Planning and Inference (Kume); Linear Algebra and Its Applications
 (Lemmens); Journal of Computation and Mathematics (Mansfield); Statistical Methods and
 Applications, Methods in Ecology and Evolution, and Journal of the Royal Statistical Society,
 Series C (McCrea); and Glasgow Mathematical Journal (Roitzheim).

 Conference invitations and organisation
 In this REF period, members of the School have given plenary talks and lecture series all over the
 world, and have been invited to present their research at world-leading mathematics research
 centres, including Banff, Luminy, MSRI, Oberwolfach, ICMS, the Institute for Advanced Study
 (Princeton), and the Isaac Newton Institute. Since 2014, over 20 workshops/schools have been
 organised at Kent. In addition to the meetings mentioned in Section 1 above, the School has
 hosted numerous other events, including: seven LMS-supported Celebrating New Appointments
 meetings, the 2nd Eastern ARC Conference on Topological Solitons and Quantum Fluids (2016),
 and the LMS Research Summer School on Orthogonal Polynomials and Special Functions (2017),
 which attracted 43 PhD students from 19 countries.

 Highlights of conferences organised outside Kent by our staff include:

    •   Bowman: co-organised the Mini-Workshop ‘Kronecker, Plethysm, and Sylow Branching
        Coefficients and their Applications to Complexity Theory’, Oberwolfach (2020).
    •   Clarkson: ICMS workshop on Applied and Computational Complex Analysis, Edinburgh,
        (2017); 2nd and 3rd IMA Conference on Nonlinearity and Coherent Structures, Norwich
        (2017) and Newcastle (2019).
    •   Hone: 12th SIDE conference, Montreal (2016); ‘Hamiltonian Methods and Algebraic
        Structures in Integrable Systems’, Tsinghua Sanya International Mathematical Forum,
        China (2019).
    •   Hydon and Mansfield: the inaugural LMS-IMA Joint Meeting, ‘Symmetry and Computation’,
        London (2017).
    •   Launois: scientific committee member of the CIRM conference ‘Representations in Lie
        Theory and Interactions’, Luminy (2018).
    •   Leisen: co-chaired the organising committee of the 12th International Conference on
        Bayesian Nonparametrics, Oxford (2019).
    •   Lemmens: co-organised ‘Order Structures, Jordan Algebras, and Geometry’ at the Lorentz
        Center, Leiden (2017); and ‘Advances in the Geometric and Analytic Theory of Convex
        Cones’’, Korea, (2019).
    •   McCrea: chair of the scientific programme of the International Statistical Ecology
        Conference, St Andrew’s (2018).
    •   Shank: conference on ‘Group Actions and Algebraic Combinatorics’, Herstmonceux Castle
        (2016).


                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Wood: LMS-EPSRC Durham Symposium ‘Mathematical and Computational Aspects of
        Maxwell’s Equations’, Durham (2016).

 Learned societies and professional bodies
 Currently, nine members of staff in the School are on the EPSRC Peer Review College. Clarkson
 was a member of the LMS Research Policy committee (2014-18) and Vice-Chair of the Heads of
 Departments of Mathematical Sciences (2014-18). Cole was Chair of the Environmental Statistics
 Section of the Royal Statistical Society (2013-15). Dunning was Chair of the Institute of Physics,
 Mathematical and Theoretical Physics Group (2013-17). Launois was a member of the EPSRC
 Mathematical Sciences Strategic Advisory Team (2018-20). Mansfield was Vice-President of the
 Institute of Mathematics and its Applications (2014-18), a Council Member of the London
 Mathematical Society (LMS) (2011-15), and a member of the LMS Society Lectures and Meetings
 Committee until 2019. Matechou is Chair of the Environmental Statistics Section of the Royal
 Statistical Society (2019-present). McCrea is Secretary of the British and Irish Region of the
 International Biometric Society (2019-21), while Ridout was President of the British and Irish
 Region of International Biometric Society (2016-18).




                                                                                           Page 16
