Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: City, University of London


 Unit of Assessment: 11 Computer Science and Informatics



 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE
 City’s Unit of Assessment B11 is based in the Computer Science (CS) Department, within the
 School of Mathematics, Computer Science, and Engineering, one of the five Schools within the
 University. From its origins as a mixture of loosely aligned Departments and Schools (dating back
 to 1990), the CS Department is now made up of five research centres that provide focal points for
 collaborative research, publications and funding applications. These are ACSML (Adaptive
 Computer Systems and Machine Learning), CitAI (Artificial Intelligence Research Centre), CSR
 (Centre for Software Reliability), giCentre (Data Visualisation) and HCID (Human-Computer
 Interaction Design).
 The Department currently comprises 42 academics (up from 36 in 2014). We are returning 40
 staff under B11 for REF 2021 two under D34. In addition, we depend on a research, teaching and
 student complement, with 13 post-doctoral research assistants (PDRAs), 48 PhD students, 3
 teaching-only staff and over 1,000 taught-course students, 30% of whom are postgraduates
 (2020-21). Critical to the success of our research are 5 administrative staff (dedicated to
 research), consisting of 2 postgraduate research officers, a researcher manager to support grant
 applications and a research officer whose remit is to target impact.
 The Department’s strategic and practical planning of research is jointly managed by the Head of
 Department and the Centre directors. Together, they set out the longer-term research agenda and
 agree on initiatives such as prioritising areas of growth and staff to hire, encouraging
 interdisciplinary research and fostering a healthy research environment. They also provide a
 bridge to the broader School- and University-level strategies, the latter outlined in our REF5a
 statement. Staff across the Department are involved in discussion and feedback on strategic and
 practical planning during monthly staff meetings, and this widespread participation is further
 encouraged at Centre level through regular meetings.
 As a Department, we pride ourselves on our welcoming and collegial research culture and the
 commitment of our staff, who invest considerable energy in growing and strengthening the
 research environment. This energy and vitality have led to a wide range of successes in this
 assessment period, including growth in research capacity (i.e., staff numbers and funding), the
 expansion of our PhD programme, enlargement in strategically targeted areas, and increased
 investment in partnerships across academia and industry. This exciting period of growth stems in
 particular from the aims we formulated four ourselves in 2014 and a strategic plan we have given
 shape to since then.

 1.2 RESEARCH STRATEGY
 In REF 2014, we set out a research strategy aiming to build expertise and extend our impact
 across four areas of research: cyber systems security, adaptive systems engineering, creative
 system design, and data analysis and visualisation. We also set out two broad goals: (i) to
 produce world-leading, problem-driven interdisciplinary research and, (ii) to use the outcomes of
 our research to benefit society, enterprise and the public sector. We pursued these goals by:
 aligning our research directions with new funding programmes and priorities (e.g. the EU Horizon
 2020 (H2020) and Research Councils UK’s Global Uncertainties, Healthcare and ICT

Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 programmes); supporting joint research programmes and bids with user, industry and academic
 partners; and channelling Departmental resources to seed high-priority research. This strategy led
 to growth and numerous successes in this assessment period, including:
    •    Growth in research staff: The number of Category A staff members has increased from 36
         to 42, representing a 17% growth in independent, research-active staff. Reflecting
         growth in funded research, the number of PDRA positions has also increased, from 3 new
         posts in 2015 to 13 and 14 in 2018 and 2019 respectively.
    •    Growth in funded research: Since REF 2014 we have achieved a 33% growth in
         research income (£6.7m for REF 2014 to £9m in this period), with funding from UK
         Government sources (i.e. research councils) growing by 80% (£1.5m to £2.7m).
    •    Increased visibility and prominence of outputs: We have achieved measurable
         improvements in visibility and prominence of outputs since REF 2014. Comparing our
         outputs from 2014 to those submitted in this period, average citations per output rose from
         7 to 26 (Scopus). A normalised field citation ratio (FCR) (a normalised value accounting for
         subarea and year, used by Altmetric) shows that all but two of our outputs that have data
         available (57 out of 59) are outperforming comparable work. The average h-index score,
         indicating the prominence of journals and conferences in which our outputs were
         published, increased from 97 to 129 (using the SCImago Journal Rank (SJR) indicator).
    •    Growth in areas of increasing economic and societal significance: In 2018, we formed the
         interdisciplinary Data Science Institute (with £500k internal investment) and, in 2019,
         established a research centre in AI. Both respond to the burgeoning research and
         development in data science and AI, and capitalise on our interdisciplinary strengths,
         which are in high demand due to sector-wide growth in these areas.
    •    Growth in doctoral training provision: In 2019, the Department launched two centres for
         doctoral training supported by EIT-Digital, one in AI and one in Cyber Security, offering
         an approximate total of £16m for potential PhD sponsorship until 2023.
    •    Increased enterprise, third-sector and public investment: Over the period, we achieved a
         balanced portfolio of public sector and industry-funded research, with industry and
         charity funding growing from £0.9m to £1.1m and funding from UK Government, health
         and local authorities growing from £0.87m to £1.5m. This amounted to almost a third of our
         total income for the assessment period.
 The Department’s strategy for research was developed alongside the work we did to meet our
 aims from 2014. We now seek to be bolder in our long-term strategic planning. Thus, our strategic
 plan is designed to guide us in where to concentrate investment and growth and how we build
 connections across our five research centres. It has also been developed to respond to our
 strengths and to reflect the wider research and industrial landscape in the UK and globally.
 Specifically, it recognises and responds to the proliferation of data intensive systems across many
 sectors and facets of society, and the sociotechnical challenges and risks that come with these.
 The plan sets out goals under three areas:
    (i) Focused research: Our plan establishes cross-subject themes of strategic importance at
        the intersections of AI and machine learning (ML); reliable, safe and secure systems; and
        intelligible and useable interfaces. We are prioritising work across these themes in
        response to the rapid growth of and widespread investment in data-intensive systems.
    (ii) Interdisciplinarity: We strongly promote interdisciplinary research. This has meant
         targeting investments in new interdisciplinary units and prioritising funding applications that
         depend on research across computing’s sub-disciplinary boundaries, as well as with other
         departments (see below and section 4 for examples).

Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    (iii) Collaborations and partnerships: Our research strategy prioritises building collaborations
          and partnerships within the UK and internationally. This goal targets the nurturing of
          networks that staff build in their areas of expertise, support for cross-institutional sharing of
          research, and the pursuit of impactful projects that combine expertise across institutions.
 We are achieving these objectives by:
    •    Targeted hiring: We have made seven new appointments of staff who conduct research in
         or related to ML and AI (Daviaud, Garcia-Ortiz, Jimenez Ruiz, Mondragon, Tarroni,
         Taylor and Ter-Sarkisov). We also have a forthcoming appointment of a Professor in AI
         (not formally returned for this period).
    •    Seed and bridge funds: We use internal funding and resources so that research centres
         incubate new research as well as extend and sustain important established research
         areas. This, for example, includes a University-wide pump-priming fund (£80k per year)
         and Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) targeted funding (£75k per year). Centres
         also use funds the University provides from grant overheads (currently the calculation is
         8% of income from overhead bearing grants plus one third of principal investigator time
         charged against projects).
    •    New organisational initiatives: To enable work in our focused areas of research and
         interdisciplinarity, we have launched an Interdisciplinary Research Centre in Data Science
         (spanning six departments across the University), a new Research Centre in AI, and two
         European Institute of Innovation & Technology (EIT)-Digital doctoral training centres (in AI
         and Cyber Security).
    •    Cross-institutional sharing of research: Encouraging collaboration and partnerships, we
         commit funding to staff travel and research centre and Department seminars. During the
         reporting period, £25k was committed to fund travel to other institutions and for visitors to
         City. Through this support, we have attracted high-profile international speakers and
         leaders from a range of CS areas (see Section 2.2).
    •    Topically targeted funding: Aligned with our focused research, we have targeted grant
         applications and had funding successes in, for example, work on explainability in AI
         systems (Fujitsu, £86k), risk and self-driving cars (Intel, £200k), and visual analytics in
         crime prevention (EU Seventh Framework Programme (FP7), £519k). We also received an
         EPSRC new investigator award for applying ML techniques in verification algorithms
         (£324k awarded in February 2020 but with the start date just outside the timeframe of this
         assessment).
    •    Sustained research combining expertise across areas and institutions: For example, the
         Diversity and Defence in Depth for Security project (£560k) involved collaboration with the
         Universities of Lisbon and Maryland to develop robust layers of defence against security
         attacks on diverse systems. The work led to outstanding research outputs with the
         collaborators (Distinguished Paper at the IEEE’s European Dependable Computing
         Conference 2018) and subsequent involvement in a H2020 consortium project (DiSIEM,
         overall funding, €4m), which involves collaboration between two of our CSR and the
         giCentre.

 1.3 IMPACT STRATEGY
 Our impact strategy aims to take full advantage of the pathways to impact offered by industry
 collaboration and commercialisation, and public and policy engagement. Thinking strategically



Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 across the lifespan of these pathways we target both short-term investments, with high impact
 potential, and sustaining long-term commitments.
 In the short-term, we prioritise applications for internal resources (e.g. pump-priming, HEIF
 funding and UKRI block grants) on the basis of their potential for impact. We also target funded
 partnerships that emphasise knowledge co-production. The latter, through Innovate UK and
 knowledge-transfer partnerships (KTPs), has resulted in projects worth £720k over the
 assessment period.
 The DMINR (Digital Mining in News and Retrieval) project provides an example of how we
 progressively build on industry collaborations and work towards commercialisation. The project,
 funded by Google (£550k), is a collaboration between staff in CS, the University’s Journalism
 Department and Google, and involves the design of a tool to help journalists work with
 heterogeneous data sources to produce verifiable news. As well as research outputs, the project
 has produced a demonstrator tool that uses data-driven ML models to filter news and visualise the
 sources of information. Awarded HEIF funding (£10k), this tool is now set to trial in BBC and
 London Times newsrooms, and has been given access to Dow Jones’s news sources.
 A significant proportion of our projects for the period funded by UK Research and Innovation
 (UKRI) and the EU projects also involved partnerships with industry and third-sector organisations
 (54%). The EPSRC funded SCAMPI (Self-Care Advice, Monitoring, Planning and Intervention)
 project (£1.2m) offers an example of the Department’s involvement in a consortium with non-
 academic partners, targeting real-world healthcare planning and provision in the community. The
 research has involved collaborations with charities, investors, practitioners and business owners
 in the healthcare, social care and other sectors, and is culminating in a business proposition that
 includes the computational modelling of quality of life.
 It is through cultivating sustained engagements such as these that we seek longer-term,
 established industry collaborations and opportunities for commercialisation. Examples of such
 longer-term successes are captured in our four impact cases submitted for this assessment
 period. The collaboration with BetBuddy, for instance, demonstrates how over a period of 6 years
 our staff have sought to translate underpinning research in ML into a viable commercial product
 for predicting gambling addition, leading eventually to an acquisition by Playtech, the world’s
 largest provider of online gambling software.
 Similarly, the successes and international recognition of staff in CSR (detailed in 4.3) show how
 our longer-term commitments have built capacity for public and policy engagement. Here, staff
 such as Bishop, Bloomfield and Littlewood show how expertise, based at City for over 20
 years, can be both commercialised through consultancy and operationalised in ongoing
 contributions to safety critical industries and governments, internationally.
 Our commercial impact and public and policy engagements are more broadly aided through the
 support of enterprise and professional services, including a dedicated Impact Officer and
 academic enterprise staff (12 full-time equivalents (FTEs)), all of whom have expertise in
 brokering connections with commercial and non-commercial partners (see REF5a). In addition,
 Research Support Services (10 FTEs) and Press and Communication (5 FTEs) staff support
 impact-focused engagement activities, marketing, publicity and communications.
 Supported by these enterprise and professional-facing services, we have, for example, pursued a
 number of initiatives aimed at building stronger relations with industry partners. In April 2019, we
 held an Industry Engagement Event with a focus on grand challenges related to AI, an ageing
 society, clean growth, and the future of mobility. We also held an event in May 2019 on
 megacities in conjunction with Design Week hosted in the local area of Clerkenwell. These
 activities have been closely linked to the University-funded interdisciplinary Data Science Institute.
 Led by Garcez, the Institute has built partnerships with the BBC, the British Library, Delta Capita,

Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the NHS, Société Generale, etc. and is targeting solutions in business, finance, health, transport
 and the creative industries. Annually, we also host an HCI Design Open Day to present City-
 based Human-Computer Interaction research to a largely industry-based audience. Through our
 relationships with technology- and design-based companies, particularly located around the
 nearby ‘Silicon Roundabout’, the event has attracted up to 200 attendees from SMEs and larger
 organisations, and also provided the opportunity for presentations from the Alzheimer’s Society,
 BBC, BAE, Barclays, British Council, Government Digital Service, Pearson, Tesco and Thompson
 Reuters.

 2. People

 2.1 STAFFING STRATEGY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT
 The Department’s staffing strategy has been shaped by our strategic plan and the University’s
 institutional vision and Research and Enterprise Strategy 2016-2021 (see REF5a). Ongoing
 improvements in response to our annual staff surveys are also being planned and implemented in
 CS. Together these inputs set out a strategy for staffing and development that prioritises inclusive
 recruitment, a welcoming and collegial research culture, transparency and fairness in workload,
 and clear and transparent appraisal and promotion procedures.
 Recruitment
 During the assessment period, recruitment was designed to support incremental growth in the
 Department, fulfilling the need for broad-based research and teaching across CS. Accordingly,
 since 2014 we have hired 15 new staff and, with promotions, made a total of 27 new
 appointments. Accounting for staff who have left, this represents an overall increase from 36 to 42
 staff members (17%).
 We have sought to strengthen the quality of our research by using a well-rounded approach to
 recruitment, with staff hired across research areas. We have also ensured that the Department’s
 staffing strategy is closely coupled with our strategic plan. Thus, hiring has been spread over our
 three priority areas, AI and ML (6), reliable, safe and secures systems (4) and intelligible and
 useable interfaces (5), but with an emphasis placed on research related to data intensive
 systems. As well significantly growing our staff working directly in AI and ML, we have sought staff
 with complimentary research in medical imaging (Reyes-Aldasoro), visual data analysis (Jianu)
 and AI ethics (Taylor).
 Research culture
 We aim to support an inclusive research culture, paying attention to this in our strategic plans and
 our support for early career researchers (ECRs) and research students (see Sections 2.2 and
 2.3).
 With respect to staff development, an inclusive culture is built through both University and School
 inductions, a mandated equality and diversity general awareness training, and a range of courses
 and training programmes targeting inclusion and inclusive leadership and management practices
 (see Sections 2.2 to 2.4).
 The University-wide annual staff survey provides a valuable resource for assessing levels of
 satisfaction. The results are used to run workshops on issues that have been given a high priority
 and identified as challenging by staff. Crucial for the Department is that issues are addressed
 transparently and through a participatory process (see workload and promotion examples below).
 This process has worked particularly well around issues of diversity and inclusion in the current
 REF period, enabling a broad base for consultation, strategic planning and achieving milestones



Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (such as the Athena SWAN Bronze award; see Section 2.4) and planning ongoing events and
 activities led by our Diversity and Inclusion committee.
 Workload
 Our staff survey in 2018 showed CS staff wanted greater recognition of workload and more
 transparency in the allocation of tasks around teaching, administration, research and attracting
 funding. In response, a workload model was instituted in 2019 that now offers a uniform and
 transparent measure of staff contribution, while being flexible enough to adapt to the demands of
 different sub-fields and individual circumstances. The model contains a weighting scheme for
 three types of activity: teaching, research and administration. An annual allocation exercise
 ensures work is fairly distributed across staff and allows staff to declare preferences for
 weightings across the three activity types.
 In addition to managing day-to-day workloads, staff have a number of different options for
 managing their time and taking leave, including long-term leave, parental and adoption leave,
 flexible working and sabbaticals. Very few staff have taken up any option for extended leave in
 this assessment period (11 staff, School-wide, took maternity, paternity or shared parental leave
 in the period). Staff can take sabbaticals after six years of service on request to the Head of
 Department and if approved by the School’s Board of Studies.
 In CS, 11 staff took year-long sabbaticals in the assessment period. This proved effective in
 supporting our research achievements, outputs, and networks with other research institutions. For
 example, Child was awarded two Innovate UK KTPs (£652k); Howe held a visiting research
 fellow position at the University of St Andrews; Spanoudakis applied for and won two H2020
 grants (€818k for City); Stumpf established three separate industry partnerships with Microsoft,
 Microsoft Research Cambridge and Fujitsu Labs (total £276k); and Wood released Elm-Vega, a
 software tool that produces declarative visualisations using Elm.
 Appraisals
 Appraisals occur annually. These are held with the Head of Department for staff at a professorial
 grade and with research centre directors or departmental professors for those at lower grades.
 The appraisals take into account research achievements over the year set against agreed targets.
 Staff outputs are incorporated into appraisals through an Annual Research Quality Monitoring
 (ARQM) review. Each year, staff are asked to nominate up to four publications from the past four
 years, which are then assessed using the same scoring system as REF (i.e. 1* to 4*). The number
 of outputs required is reduced for staff who are part-time or early career, or who have had
 maternity leave or other extended periods of absence. The ARQM review is managed by the
 research centres, with some solely using external referees and others using internal assessment
 and external referees for calibration of the results.
 Training needs are also considered in appraisals. A new mechanism for mappings between
 career paths and training is being developed to support this. This will help to identify which
 training activities are of most use to staff at various stages of their career and what training is
 required to undertake certain roles.
 Promotions
 There were 12 promotions in the Department during the assessment period (around 30% of the
 total staff count), 8 from lecturer to senior lecturer, 3 from senior lecturer to reader, and 1 from
 senior lecturer to professor.
 From 2019/20, the promotions process for the Department has been refined to improve
 transparency and set clearer criteria. Applications for promotion are initiated by staff and a panel
 considers staff achievements, contributions to research, education, professional practice, and

Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 service and/or leadership. In assessing promotion cases, the panel also takes into account the
 internal ARQM review. Promotions from lecturer to senior lecturer are determined at School level.
 Promotions to reader, associate professor and professor, as well as advancements within
 professorial banding, are first considered at School level, but ultimately determined at University
 level by the Academic Promotions Committee chaired by the President.

 2.2 SUPPORT FOR RESEARCHERS AND EARLY CAREER RESEARCHERS
 As indicated in our REF5a statement, the University is signed up to the Concordat to Support the
 Career Researcher Development of Researchers. Relatedly, our aim is to excel at the supporting
 and managing researchers, and to prioritise their active control in career-related decision making.
 This has meant, for example, that researchers’ contracts now have parity with academic staff
 contracts at the University, and research staff are now automatically promoted to a higher salary
 grade (5B to 6) upon successful completion of a PhD or equivalent doctoral award.
 As a Department, we make use of the full range of internal funding opportunities to support our
 staff and especially our ECRs. ECR-specific successes in funding include two awards in 2017
 under the EPSRC’s “First Grant” scheme (Kalyvianaki, £100k; Turkay, £134k). To offer a current
 example of how we support researchers, Neate, a grant-funded PDRA (hired in 2017) in HCID,
 was awarded pump-priming funds (£5k) to conduct research into mid-air haptic technology and its
 potential for gesture-based systems. Neate subsequently submitted an EPSRC Future Leaders
 application (£1.43m), which has reached the final stage and is currently awaiting a decision. This
 application has been supported by a commitment to fund a complementary PhD student and to
 promote Neate to lecturer at the end of the project.
 Support and scholarly development are encouraged in and across the centres. Numerous seminar
 series (both centre-based and across the Department) provide opportunities for City staff to share
 their work and for external academics to visit from national and international institutions. Internal
 talks are seen as especially important for sharing expertise and serve as a catalyst for
 collaboration. We have found our monthly short-talk seminars, that group staff presentations, are
 especially effective in sharing the background to specific research areas and projects, and
 providing a basis for collaboration. World leading in areas of computing, we are also proud to
 attract internationally recognised speakers to present as part our seminars and departmental
 events. Highlights include, Dr Carpendale (University of Calgary), Prof. Fitzpatrick (Vienna
 University of Technology), Prof. Gaver (Goldsmiths), Prof. Hook (KTH, Sweden), Dr Fekete (Inria),
 Dr Munzner (University of British Columbia), Dr Rosner (University of Washington), Prof.
 Shneiderman (University of Maryland) and Dr Viegas (Google).
 Complementing these seminars, the centres run a range of research activities. For example,
 HCID holds weekly research groups, a biweekly reading group, and regular research-planning
 and strategy meetings that include all staff and postgraduate research students. ECRs and
 researchers routinely participate in all these activities to the extent that they have become core
 contributors to the intellectual vibrancy of the Centre and have chosen to build on this collective
 ethos by establishing a weekly writing group and, among the PhDs, daily commits (borrowing from
 the Agile software development tradition).
 2.3 POSTGRADUATE RESEARCH
 Postgraduate research (PGR) students are core to the energy and vitality of our Department. Two
 significant achievements over the current REF period are especially noteworthy under PGR.
 During the period, our department joined the EU’s European digital innovation and entrepreneurial
 education organisation, EIT Digital. Through EIT Digital, we have received support for two
 doctorial training centres (DTCs), one in AI and the other in Cyber Security. Both permit the intake
 of ten PhD students per year over four years (2019/20-2020/23). With a commitment to promoting

Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 industry impact, students must match their EIT Digital funding with funding from an industry
 partner. In each DTC, the maximum award ceiling is £8m, yielding a total of £16m for potential
 PhD sponsorship between 2019 and 2023.
 In addition to these funds, the School makes EPSRC and block grant funds available for PhD
 studentships across its three departments; CS received funds for 16 PhDs between 2014 and
 2020, and individual centres funded a smaller number of students (currently 9). We also continue
 to apply and receive awards for individual student funding (this period having won 3 AHRC
 doctoral training partnership awards and a Microsoft Research PhD scholarship).
 Altogether, the significant increase in PhD funding over this period has set the stage for
 considerable growth in postgraduate research in CS. Through the EIT Digital model, we are also
 closely aligned with the University-wide strategic plan to extend international and enterprise
 partnerships (as outlined in our REF 5a).
 Recruitment and completions
 Over this assessment period, we have maintained healthy enrolment and completion numbers
 and diversity in our PGR programme (see 2.4). The annual intake of PGR students remained
 stable between 2014 and 2018/19 (9-14 students) and began to grow with the inauguration of the
 EIT Digital DTCs. In 2020 we had an intake of 16, and we expect this to increase significantly with
 the potential for an additional 20 part-funded positions each year across AI and Cyber Security.
 With respect to completions, we awarded 57 PhDs in the six years between August 2013 and
 2019/20 (approximately 9 per year), representing a 19% increase on the previous assessment
 period.
 To provide a snapshot of our PhD cohort, in July 2020 there were 43 PGR students, of whom 21
 were studying full time and 22 part time. Most students were part of the ACSML (47%), CSR
 (16%) or HCID (16%). Of these, 16 were ‘home’ students, 18 from the EU and 9 ‘overseas’. About
 half were funded through University or Department funds and half through self-funding or external
 grants.
 Support and training
 Research student supervision and progression monitoring are undertaken through a supervisory
 procedure with all students having a primary and a secondary supervisor, and in some cases –
 particularly industry collaborations—additional external supervisors.
 Wider support for research students is provided by postgraduate student representatives (three in
 CS), two research degree administrators and three departmental senior tutors for research
 (STRs), all with oversight from the School’s Associate Dean for Research and Enterprise.
 Quarterly Research Degree Committee meetings are held with student representatives and staff
 representing academic, administrative, and research management and strategy roles. Outputs
 from the Committee have included regular updates to the Department’s Guide to Research
 Studies document, improvements to graduate teaching assistant contracts, and the design and
 provision of our Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) and Survey of Research
 Culture.
 An inclusive culture is core to investing in our students and recognising their contribution to the
 Department. The School holds an annual summer symposium to enable PGR students to present
 their work through posters and papers and compete for prizes. The School also provides students
 with a conference travel fund (£1k/student) and the Department’s centres supplement this with
 fixed sums per year and responses to specific requests. This allows, for example, students to
 attend top-ranked conferences in their area and to present their work to an international audience.
 Across all areas of postgraduate training and support, we pride ourselves on enthusiastically
 encouraging and promoting students’ contributions. Our PhD students have many impressive
Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 achievements, including: Booth being awarded a National Science Foundation grant to attend
 IEEE Symposium on Visual Languages and Human-Centric Computing 2015 (one of only two
 awards to non-US students) and presenting a full-paper at the top-ranked ACM SIGCHI 2016
 (USA); Koulman’s paper presentation at CogSci 2019 (Montreal); Liem’s Best Poster Award at
 IEEE VIS 2018 (Berlin); Mereani’s two consecutive papers at the International Joint Conference
 on Computational Intelligence (2018-2019, Bangladesh); and Reljan-Delaney winning the
 Equality and Diversity Scholarship to fund attendance to IEEE VIS 2018 (Berlin) as well as acting
 as Student Ambassador at IEEE VIS 2019 (Vancouver).
 Under training, the University’s Doctoral College oversees a Researcher Development
 Programme for PGRs (see REF5a statement). This provides training in qualitative and
 quantitative methods, research ethics, thesis writing, and viva preparation. In CS, training for PGR
 students begins with twice-yearly departmental inductions that cover library services, our
 Research Manager software tool and FigShare (the latter, an institutional repository and
 publishing platform for digital research outputs). In their first year, students also attend seminars
 on writing literature reviews; research ethics; institutional procedures for data management,
 research integrity and good practice; and thesis submissions and vivas. Like ECRs (see Section
 2.2), PGR students have access to much of the University’s professional development and
 research training, with courses ranging from presentation skills and project management to
 integrity and ethics in publishing and creating impact.
 Progress monitoring
 The Department’s PGR programme is evaluated each year. This is undertaken by the STR team
 and submitted to the School’s Board of Studies for approval. It draws on the outcomes of
 Research Degree Committee meetings, survey data, direct student and supervisor feedback, and
 progression data. In addition to our annual evaluations, in 2018, we undertook a programme
 periodic review (PPR) of postgraduate research degrees. The review was undertaken by a cross-
 School committee of academic and management staff, and an external reviewer, Professor Helen
 Petrie (York). One specific outcome from the PPR has been the formation of a Framework for
 Doctoral Training for autumn 2019, which put in place a training programme for PGR students.

 2.4 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
 Our strategic vision for the Department is led by a commitment to building and enriching a
 collective and inclusive culture (see Section 1.2), and core to this is recognising the significance of
 equality and diversity. At an institutional level, support for this area comes from City’s numerous
 programmes and courses developed to promote and instil the values of equality and diversity, as
 specified in our REF5a statement.
 In 2018 the School received the Athena SWAN bronze award. A self-assessment team of
 academics cutting across the Departments that make up MCSE (including two staff from CS) and
 professional services staff assessed our teaching provision and academic staffing against the
 principles of the Athena SWAN Charter. This resulted in a series of action items: supporting
 students, academic staff recruitment, staff induction, promotion of academic staff, staff training,
 appraisal, flexible working, support for staff and culture.
 In accordance with the Athena SWAN Charter, we have been monitoring the gender diversity
 across the CS Department’s total headcount. We currently meet Athena SWAN’s Equality
 Challenge Unit 2017 CS benchmarks (78% men, 22% women). However, we recognise the
 challenges of ensuring an inclusive culture; achieving fairness in assessment and promotion;
 promoting flexible working and support for parental leave; and eliminating discrimination,
 harassment, and bullying.


Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 With issues such as these foremost in our minds, we are pursuing (alongside the School) a set of
 initiatives to further improve equality and diversity. Our priority areas are:
    •     Improving gender diversity and representation: In hiring over the assessment period, we
          have done better in gender distribution than national metrics. Five (31%) of our newly hired
          staff members are women, 8% higher than the average reported by HESA for “IT, systems
          sciences & computer software engineering” (23% for 2018/19). Of the department’s 12
          promotions, 3 were women, representing greater than the proportional number of women
          to men in the unit (20%-80%). We have been especially strong in achieving a gender
          balance in postgraduate research students. In 2019/20, 24 of our PhD students were male
          and 20 female.
    •     Supporting staff through a fair and transparent promotions process: By increasing the
          transparency of promotion criteria for both full-time and part-time staff and tailoring support
          for particular needs, the School targeted 75% satisfaction in assessing ‘fairness and
          transparency of the promotion process’ by 2020 (yet to be assessed), and for women to
          make up 20% of professors by 2022.
    •     Tackling bullying and harassment: By making dignity at work, unconscious bias, and active
          bystander training compulsory, and by improving communication of procedures for
          reporting bullying and harassment, the School targeted a marked reduction in the reporting
          of bullying and harassment by 2020 (yet to be assessed).
    •     Ensuring equitable treatment of staff through a workload model: In 2019, we instituted a
          fair workload model with a transparent responsibility allowance (which includes outreach
          and engagement activities) (see Section 2.1).
 The most recent data on ethnic identities for all staff (research and teaching) in the CS
 Department are from 2017/18. The breakdown is as follows: Black, Asian or minority ethic: 9;
 White: 48; Refused or not known: 1. With 15.5% of staff in CS identifying as Black, Asian or
 minority ethic, we have a greater representation than the national measure for higher education
 (13.7%) (HESA, 2018/19). The Department also has academic staff and research students
 representing a broad range of nationalities, with 50% of staff from EU countries and 17% from
 non-EU countries, representing 34 nationalities overall. Among research students who graduated
 during the assessment period, 21% came from EU countries and 54% from non-EU countries,
 representing 20 nationalities.
 The Athena SWAN principles act as a key mechanism for shaping and promoting an inclusive
 culture across the Department, and we have worked hard to arrange thought-provoking events
 and discussions around diversity and inclusivity. For example, in April 2018 we organised our first
 Athena SWAN lecture – ‘Bringing about Change’ given by Carolyn Griffiths, President of the
 Institute of Mechanical Engineers – with 100 attendees. In December 2018, there was an Athena
 SWAN and Ada Lovelace Celebration in which CS Department staff contributed to a School-wide
 panel discussion, ‘Career Progression of Women in STEM: Challenges and Opportunities’
 (approximately 60 attendees). In mid to late 2020, CS staff also contributed widely to a series of
 talks and discussions on diversity and inclusion in response to the race protests in the US and
 worldwide and the Black Lives Matter movement.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 INCOME
 The Department’s aim to foster a culture of generating grant applications and initiatives to attract
 funding from diverse sources has seen an overall growth in our applications since REF 2014 (see
 Figure 4). As an example, in 2013/14 we submitted 10 proposals (to EU government bodies and

Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UK research councils). In 2019/20 we submitted a total of 43 applications for external funding,
 with an outstanding success rate of 44%.
 The diversity of our research portfolio has been important to balance the risk to our income, as
 well as ensure wider engagements with both the users of technology and related areas of
 research and industry. In this period, we have achieved a greater diversity of income across UK
 research councils, UK/international industry, charities, and EU government bodies. In REF 2014,
 22% of our income came from national public bodies, 50% from EU government bodies, and 10%
 from industry and commerce. For this assessment period, the respective figures are 30%, 40%
 and 29%.
 Overall, the strategy to strengthen our research portfolio and diversify funding has resulted in
 significant growth in income, rising from a total of £6.7m (REF 2014) to £9m for the current period.
 This represents a 34% growth in funding. The growth in funding from Research Councils UK
 funding and from other public sources has been marked, almost doubling from £1.5m (REF 2014)
 to £2.7m. Funding from national and international industry sources and charities has also risen,
 from £0.9m for REF 2014 to £1.1m for this period, indicative of our increased commitment to non-
 academic as well as academic partnerships (see Section 4). We have also seen growth in EU
 Government funding, from £3.4m in REF 2014 to £3.6m in REF 2021 (with a general trend of
 fewer EU applications, possibly associated with Brexit).



            £4              Funding awards compared between REF 2014 and 2021
 Millions




            £3


                                                                 REF 2014         REF 2021
            £2



            £1                                                                                Figure 1. Funding
                                                                                              awards compared
                                                                                              between REF
            £-                                                                                2014 and this
                     UKRI       EU Gov     Charities   UK Gov, local   Industry       Other   assessment
                                                        authorities,                          period.
                                                        healthcare


 Funding highlights include significant EU and EPSRC grants:
            •    AQUAS (Aggregated Quality Assurance for Systems) (2017-2020): EU H2020 grant,
                 €15,512,787 with City awarded £670k. Academic, public sector, and industry consortium.
            •    Communicating and Evaluating Cyber Risk and Dependencies (2014-2017): EPSRC
                 grant, City awarded £503k. Academic lead.
            •    CyberSure (CYBER Security InSURancE – A Framework for Liability Based Trust) (2017-
                 2020): EU H2020 grant, €1,647,000 with City awarded £250k. Academic and industry
                 consortium.
            •    D3S (Diversity and Defence in Depth for Security – A Probabilistic Approach) (2015-2018):
                 EPSRC grant, City awarded £704k. Academic lead.
            •    DiSIEM (Diversity Enhancements for Security Information and Event Management
                 systems) (2016-2019): EU H2020 grant, €4,020,018 with City awarded £0.9m. Academic,
                 non-profit and industry consortium.
Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •    EVOTION (Big Data Supporting Public Hearing Health Policies) (2016-2019): EU H2020
          grant, €4,963,776 with City awarded £482k. Healthcare, academic and industry
          consortium.
     •    INCA (Inclusive Digital Content for People with Aphasia) (2017-2020): EPSRC grant, City
          awarded £620k. City academic lead.
     •    Learning, Approximating and Minimising Streaming Automata for Large-scale Optimisation
          (2020-2023): EPSRC grant. £250k awarded to City’s new CS AI Centre. City academic
          lead.
     •    TOREADOR (TrustwOrthy model-awaRE Analytics Data platfORm) (2016-2018): EU
          H2020 grant, €6,311,218 with City awarded £468k. Academic and industry consortium.
     •    VALCRI (Visual AnaLytics for sense-making in CRiminal Intelligence) (2014-2018): EU
          FP7 grant, €16,569,525 with City awarded £519k. Academic and industry partners
          including Antwerp Federal Police, Linköping University, Middlesex University, West
          Midlands Police Force, and University of Konstanz.
 A range of initiatives are in place to sustain our strategy for attracting income and offering all staff
 the resources to develop their research. We run a departmental pump-priming scheme and
 provide significant funding for seminars and events (totalling £30k/year). These initiatives have
 seen embryonic projects grow into funded research programmes and have successfully seeded
 external partnerships. For example, work with Microsoft Research funded through pump-priming
 in 2018 studied the role of AI in front-end systems. This work created the opportunity for a
 Microsoft sponsored PhD scholarship focused on AI in team-based tools (£72k) and a two-year
 Microsoft-funded project, ORBIT, to develop a dataset for AI-based assistive technologies (£91k).
 Research centres also supplement departmental resources to encourage research in their
 respective areas. Three of the five Centres pool their income from grant awards to provide
 investment for all levels of FTE and research staff, and PhD students. For instance, the centres
 have used these funds to provide bridge funding for PhDs transitioning to grant-funded research
 or writing fellowship grants, or to cover minor research costs. To offer an example, the HCID
 maintains a relatively healthy centrally pooled fund from grants (between £60K and £90K per
 year). During this assessment period, this has allowed one of our PhD students to receive bridge
 funding while preparing postdoctoral grant proposals; supplemented the pump-priming funds that
 one of our PDRAs received from the School (£5k); funded two small projects in preparation for
 larger grant applications (£10k); and provided conference fees and travel costs including for all
 staff and students (with accepted papers or workshop papers) attending ACM SIGCHI 2019.
 Overall, we will continue the strategy of prioritising interdisciplinary and collaborative initiatives
 and placing an emphasis on building non-academic partnerships that have significant and far-
 reaching impact (see Section 1.2). In Section 4, we capture how our efforts and successes with
 collaborations and wider economic and social impact are targeting this strategy.

 3.2 INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES
 Much of the Department’s support infrastructure and facilities are delivered through the School of
 MCSE’s investment in world class buildings and labs, equipment and service provision, as well as
 maintenance and repair. In total, this amounted to £19.4m over the assessment period.
 The infrastructure and facilities provided to support the CS Department’s staff and students range
 from equipment for research, to tools for the management, sharing and distribution of research
 data and outputs.
 Research


Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CS staff and research students receive support for computationally intensive research through the
 provision of computing equipment and services, such as data storage, dedicated hardware,
 software, networking and cloud computing. During the assessment period, almost £950k was
 spent on new computing equipment for our labs. Notable is the new CitAI Robin Milner Lab, which
 contains state-of-the-art high-performance GPU computers and software tools, and the
 computational power needed for artificial general intelligence and deep learning. The Department
 is also home to the Interaction Lab, which provides a dedicated space and professional-grade
 facilities for user-testing, expert reviews and accessibility audits. The lab supports in-house
 research by staff and postgraduate students, as well as offering a successful commercial user
 experience consultancy (with an income of approximately £200k per year) run by a dedicated, full-
 time lab manager.
 Supporting research and research impact
 To support research and research impact, the University offers a range of events and training
 programmes. All Department staff receive support from the University’s Research and Enterprise
 team on relevant grant initiatives and calls, developing grant proposals, costing grants, and
 managing their administrative duties while they are running projects. In addition, all staff have
 access to training on grant-related activities, including grant writing, interdisciplinary research,
 research leadership, ethics and integrity, project management, inclusive hiring and assessment,
 and creating impact. The University also regularly holds events hosting funders such as the UKRI
 councils, the Leverhulme Trust and the Royal Academy of Engineering.
 To facilitate impact and in particular expand the reach of their work, all staff are encouraged to
 make use of third-party licensed tools and services. This includes provision for project
 management (Worktribe), research management (Haplo’s Research Manager), data management
 and sharing (FigShare), research profiles, publication management and sharing (Symplectic
 Elements and ORCID – with all staff having ORCIDs).
 To ensure best and ethical practices in data collection, and storage, the University offers training
 on the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). We adhere to the GDPR in our
 Framework for Good Practice in Research and our Research Ethics Framework.
 Library Services
 The University’s Library Services plays a central role in supporting the Department’s research.
 Our staff have access to an extensive portfolio of 300 University-wide and specialist databases
 including Scopus, Web of Science and ScienceDirect. These collections are maintained by a
 current annual budget of approximately £254k for specialist resources and a £1.6m annual spend
 on cross-School and cross-Department content. A dedicated Research Librarian and a Subject
 Librarian serve the Department, offering staff and PhD students support and workshops on
 literature searching, citing and referencing, and specialist database access.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 ACADEMIC COLLABORATIONS
 Staff in our five research centres have strong ties with their respective communities. Indicative of
 our diverse geographic and institutional collaborations are the number of cross-institutional
 outputs (73% of total) submitted for this assessment period (with institutions in the UK, Asia,
 Australia, Europe, and North America). Of these collaborations, over a quarter (29%) were with
 institutions ranked in the top 100 of the Times Higher Education World University Rankings for
 2020 (e.g. the universities of Cambridge, Oxford, Southern California and Stanford, and Imperial
 College London and LMU Munich).


Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To offer an example of our academic collaborations, Reyes-Aldasoro, from our giCentre, has
 worked with life scientists from the Francis Crick Institute, King’s College London, the University of
 Sheffield and Monash University to aid in the analysis of cells in in vivo environments and better
 understand the characteristics of the immune system. This work has resulted in numerous
 conference papers, 14 articles in top-ranked journals (e.g. Nature Methods, REF2_ID:241422,
 and PLoS Medicine, REF2_ID:255870) and two grants from the Australian Research Council. The
 work’s importance for cancer cell analysis has been covered in the press, including at Phys.org
 (‘Academics develop algorithm to analyse HeLa cancer cells’, 2020).

 4.2 CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE RESEARCH BASE
 The visibility and prominence of our outputs show we are having a marked impact on the research
 base. Although we recognise their limitations in reflecting research quality, metrics suggest we
 have achieved measurable improvements. Comparing this period’s output to REF 2014, the
 average citations per output has risen from 9 to 26 (Scopus). Available normalised data indicate
 the significance of this achievement. For the 59 publications submitted for this assessment period
 that have data available, all but two have a field citation ratio (FCR, a normalised value accounting
 for subarea and year) greater than 1, indicating a higher-than-average rank relative to comparable
 articles (data from Altmetrics). The FCR is greater than 10 for 25 of this 59. For the 61 outputs
 where journal ranks are available, 58 are in the top quartile of journals in their subareas, with the
 remaining 3 in the second-to-top quartile (data from SJR). We have also seen a greater proportion
 of our publications scoring higher in the SJR field-normalised rank (a measure of a journal’s
 prestige derived from citations and the source of citations). On average, the SJR value rose from
 1.013 in 2014 to 1.974 for our outputs in REF 2021.
 The strength and recognition of our outputs has been captured in numerous accolades, including
 prestigious individual awards, high-profile research achievements, and recognition from external
 agencies and organisations. These include:
 •   First Prize, European Institute of Innovation and Technology, ICT Labs Idea Challenge on
     Smart Energy Systems (2014): €40k awarded to Alonso for the project ‘Neural Networks for
     the Smart Grid’.
 •   Best Paper Award, European Conference on Mathematical and Theoretical Biology (2014):
     Teichmann, Broom and Alonso, ‘The Application of Temporal Difference Learning in Optimal
     Diet Models’ (in best 4 of 800 papers).
 •   Best Paper Session, Quantitative Evaluation of Systems (2015): Salako, Stankovic
     and Popov, ‘Stochastic Model for Performance Evaluation of Database Replication Protocols’
     (in best 4 of 42 papers).
 •   Best Paper Session, European Dependable Computing Conference (2016): Gashi,
     Povyakalo and Strigini, ‘Diversity, Safety and Security in Embedded Systems: modelling
     adversary effort and supply chain risks’ (in best 3 of 59 papers).
 •   Best Paper, EuroVis (2017): Buchmüller, Janetzko, Andrienko, Andrienko, Fuchs and Keim,
     ‘Visual Analytics for Exploring Local Impact of Air Traffic’.
 •   10-Year Impact Award in Ubiquitous Computing (2017): Brown, Taylor, Izadi, Sellen and
     Kaye, ‘Locating Family Values: A Field Trial of the Whereabouts Clock’ (awarded every ten
     years to papers deemed most impactful in Pervasive and Ubiquitous Computing).
 •   Test of Time Award, IEEE VIS (2018): Andrienko and Andrienko, ‘Spatio-temporal
     Aggregation for Visual Analysis of Movements’ (recognises major impact and influence within
     and beyond the visualisation community).


Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Contribution to House of Lords committee report, Regulating in the Digital World (2018):
     contribution invited to materials on internet regulation to the Lords Select Communications and
     Digital Committee (‘The Internet: To Regulate or Not to Regulate?’).
 •   Best Paper, ACM SIGCHI (2018): Schlesinger, O’Hara and Taylor, ‘Let’s Talk About Race:
     Identity, Chatbots, and AI’, REF2_ID:243935 (top 1% of accepted papers).
 •   Best Paper Honorable Mention, IEEE VIS (2018): Wood, Kachkaev and Dykes, ‘Design
     Exposition with Literate Visualization’, REF2_ID:246961 (in top 3 of 165 papers).
 •   Three Best Paper Honorable Mentions, ACM SIGCHI (2019): Heitlinger, Bryan-Kinns and
     Comber, ‘The Right to the Sustainable Smart City’, REF2_ID:255941; Neate, Bourazeri,
     Roper, Stumpf and Wilson, ‘Co-Created Personas: Engaging and Empowering Users with
     Diverse Needs Within the Design Process’, REF2_ID:255038; Neate, Roper, Wilson and
     Marshall, ‘Empowering Expression for Users with Aphasia through Constrained Creativity’,
     REF2_ID:255039 (top 4% of accepted papers).
 •   Best Paper Session, IEEE Symposium on Software Reliability Engineering (2019): Zhao,
     Robu, Flynn, Salako and Strigini, ‘Assessing the Safety and Reliability of Autonomous
     Vehicles from Road Testing’ (best 3 of 134 papers).
 •   Advisor on Ethereum Foundation: Krol invited advisor on service discovery protocol to be
     implemented in Ethereum 2.0.
 Our staff are frequently asked, through numerous service duties, to set research benchmarks and
 contribute to their subareas. Such contributions include reviewing for and serving on UKRI panels,
 membership of the EPSRC College, journal and conference reviewing, and examining PhDs.
 Our Department has been represented on many conference committees (including ACM SIGCHI,
 CSCW, IEEE VAST, IEEE VIS and IJCAI) and top-tier journal boards (including ACM Interactions,
 IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing, IEEE Transactions on Neural
 Networks and Learning Systems, IEEE Security & Privacy and IEEE Transactions on Visualization
 and Computer Graphics).
 The research expertise we bring to these activities, and the regularity with which staff are asked to
 undertake them, reflects core strengths embedded within the Department, which in turn feed back
 into the research base internationally. External recognition of our contributions includes conferred
 fellowships such as FBCS (Garcez), FREng (Bloomfield), FRSA (Taylor), and Fellow of the
 Royal Statistical Society (Littlewood).
 We are especially excited to see ECRs making significant contributions to their subareas and
 attracting high-profile recognition. Denisova has had novel work on the ‘placebo effect in games’
 (Denisova and Cairns, CHIPlay, 2015) promoted through outlets including the New Scientist and
 tech-media outlet Gizmodo. In 2019, Turkay received the EuroVIS Young Researcher Award; the
 committee recognising his highly innovative and influential contributions in the visual analysis of
 high-dimensional data. Jimenez-Ruiz was ranked in the top three knowledge engineering
 scholars the AI 2000 Most Influential Scholars annual list (2,000 of world’s top-cited research
 scholars in AI). Tarroni was awarded a Marie Skłodowska-Curie European Fellowship (€183k,
 H2020) and also led on work contributing to the UK Biobank Dataset (Tarroni et al., IEEE Trans.
 on Medical Imaging, 2019).
 Our giCentre presents an outstanding case of contributing to the research base in longer-lasting,
 structural terms. Over 15 years, giCentre has become an influential leader in Visualisation by
 publishing a body of high-quality research at IEEE VIS, the premiere visualisation conference.
 This has amounted to more than 60 papers in the associated journal, IEEE Transactions on
 Visualization and Computer Graphics (39 published in current REF period). Of these highly
 collaborative papers, many with leading international colleagues, 4 have received honourable
Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mentions at IEEE VIS. This influence has been sustained through an equal commitment to
 service. Dykes (2012/13), Wood (2018/19) and Gennady Andrienko (2015/16) have served as
 Papers Chairs at IEEE VIS and IEEE VAST. Between 2014 and 2019, Dykes served on the
 InfoVis Steering Committee, during which time he contributed to the reVISe process, which has
 consolidated the conference, extended its formats, improved governance and increased
 transparency. He now serves as Vice-Chair of the conference’s Executive Committee. In addition,
 he and Natalia Andrienko have acted as Associate Editors of IEEE Transactions on Visualization
 and Computer Graphics. The quality of the giCentre’s academic contributions and staff members’
 sustained work and commitment to visualisation represent a long-lasting and transformative effect
 on a significant area of CS.

 4.3 CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE ECONOMY AND SOCIETY
 The Department aims to build partnerships that translate into wider impact. Our income data show
 how we have succeeded in strengthening such partnerships, with combined industry and charity
 funding totalling £1.2m and funding from government agencies (such as healthcare and local
 authorities, GHCQ, Innovate UK and the National Cyber Security Centre) totalling £1.6m.
 Together, this represents a 33% increase in income from non-research dedicated sources
 (industry, charities, local health authorities, etc.) since REF 2014.
 Our outputs also reflect the substantial number of industry and commercial collaborations we are
 involved in. Over a quarter of our outputs were co-authored with non-academic partners including
 AT&T Labs, BT, CSIRO, the Fraunhofer Institute, Google, IBM, Inria, the Max Planck Institute and
 Microsoft Research. We have successfully developed such partnerships into funded research
 projects. Funding for small- to mid-scale projects have come directly from industry such as
 Telefonica Alpha (£20k), the Tavistock Trust for Aphasia (£50k), Intel (£200k), Microsoft Research
 (£250k), the Stroke Association (£250k) and Google (£550k).
 Stumpf’s involvement in the FREEDOM (Flexible Residential Energy Efficiency Demand
 Optimisation and Management) project offers an exemplary case of industry collaborations and
 our commitment to wider impact. The research aims to understand the effects of smart metering
 technology in consumers’ homes and, specifically, what can be done to improve the presentation
 and use of the data the meters produce. The project is conducted in collaboration with the home
 energy service and device manufacturer Passiv Systems Ltd and funded by Western Power
 Distribution and Wales & West Utilities (£94k).
 Slingsby leads another project that will have long-term impact. The work stems from funding from
 the Rail Safety and Standards Board (£118k), the rail industry’s applied research funder, which
 only funds research that is likely to have impact. Thus far, the work has led to the design and
 implementation of interactive visualisation tools that will help to interpret the modelling of delays
 and alternative timelines. Currently, the project is undertaking case studies with Great Western
 Railway, Greater Anglia and Railtrack. The target is for the work to become part of a commercial
 service offered to train operating companies.
 CSR’s longstanding and significant contribution to safety and risk control in computer-based
 systems deserves special mention (see REF3 impact case ‘Risk Framework’). Notable is CSR's
 research on assurance methods for critical systems in nuclear power plants. CSR
 worked between 1997 and 2018 for the Control and Instrumentation Nuclear Industry Forum, that
 represents the industry and regulators. With overall funding above £1m, this research delivered
 advice on diversity and defence-in-depth (work central to a REF 2014 impact case, judged
 especially noteworthy by the panel), and probabilistic assessment of safety. Much of this research
 has been published in well-respected peer-reviewed forums such as IEEE TSE and TDSC,
 Reliability Engineering and System Safety, and the ISSRE and DSN conferences. Published

Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research by Bishop and Povyakalo (REF2_ID:142285; REF2_ID:273212) is being used for a
 multi-million-pound test programme that will be used for regulatory approval of a nuclear plant
 protection system.
 Dealing with the wider implications of sociotechnical systems, several members from CSR have
 been involved in efforts to overturn the miscarriages of justice in the Post Office Horizon case.
 Bishop contributed to a review that challenged the statistical basis of a key defence submission
 made by the Post Office. Littlewood and Newby (Engineering) co-authored a paper used to
 support the recent overturning of convictions of 39 sub postmasters at the Court of Appeal. The
 same authors were invited by the Under-Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice to provide a
 case to support a referral to the Law Commission to replace the presumption in English Law of the
 infallibility of computer systems. More recently, these authors have briefed the Shadow Minister
 for Science, Research and Digital on legal and technical issues likely to arise as a result of
 emerging technologies, such as ML and AI.
 Our impact cases (REF3) present four examples of where we have achieved sustained impact. All
 our impact cases are directed at the welfare of populations in the UK and internationally; they
 target issues including gambling (‘BetBuddy’), equality and inclusion (‘GenderMag’), and forensic
 analysis and criminal investigation (‘familial DNA searching’). A fourth impact case (‘Risk
 Framework’), improves the safety and security of high-risk industries and the communities they
 affect, internationally. The BetBuddy, GenderMag and the Risk Framework cases demonstrate
 how wider social benefits can yield economic benefits for the stakeholders. These cases include
 testimonials or evidence showing impact on and benefits to products and services from major
 companies in the respective gambling (Playtech), software design and development (Bloomberg
 and Microsoft), and safety critical industries (Intel and Radiy).
 The wider societal relevance of the Department’s contributions is captured in press coverage and
 plaudits we receive. Highlights include:
    •     ‘Which Bits of London Are Most Photographed?’ (Londonist, 2104) – coverage of work by
          Wood;
    •     ‘Royal Institution Christmas Lecture‘ (BBC, 2014) – contribution from Weyde’s Music
          Informatics Research Group;
    •     ‘Early Warning System to Assist Gamblers’ (Bloomberg Businessweek, 2015) – coverage
          of work by Garcez;
    •     ‘EVA Park: a Virtual World to Help With Speech Recovery‘ (Huffington Post, 2015),
          ‘Tech4Good People’s Award’ (2015), and ‘Braille smartwatches, bespoke wheelchairs...
          technology that matters’ (The Guardian, 2016) – coverage of the Tech for Aphasia work,
          led by Wilson;
    •     ‘How science can help us make AI less creepy and more trustworthy’ (The Conversation
          and Daily Mail, 2016) – authored by Stumpf;
    •     ‘Musical Influence in Jazz Investigated with ‘Big Data’’ (myscience.org, 2017) – coverage
          of research from Weyde;
    •     ‘Microsoft Accessibility Grants Go Out to Companies Aiming to Improve Tech for People
          with Disabilities’ (TechCrunch, HuffingtonGlobal and Wiredfocus, 2019; Techregister,
          Scienmag and Finance.yahoo.com, 2020) – coverage of City’s lead in the AI and disability
          project ORBIT, led by Stumpf;
    •     ‘Record Number of People Ride ‘Boris Bikes’ after Lockdown Rental Slump’ (Evening
          Standard, 2020) – coverage of data science and visualisation work by Wood;



Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •     ‘Five Ways Artificial Intelligence Can Change Online Gambling’ (Newswatch, 2020) –
          coverage of BetBuddy work from Weyde and Garcez;
    •     ‘Professors Bev Littlewood and Martin Newby to Improve Software for COVID-19 Models’
          (ScienMag, 2020) – coverage of awarded funding from the Royal Academy of Engineering.
 At home, we have leveraged our central London location and excellent facilities for the benefit of
 the surrounding community. Situated alongside design and technology firms as well as long-time
 residential neighbourhoods in London’s Clerkenwell, we are invested in building and sustaining
 local relations, with both businesses and the community. Aiming to support the local economy, the
 CS Department has been working with the Digital Catapult and the Connected Places Catapult to
 establish mechanisms to transfer STEM knowledge to SMEs and start-ups; the HCID’s annual
 Open Day attracts representation from local firms.; the Centre also supports and hosts activities
 and events run by the UK chapter of the, not-for-profit, User Experience Professionals’
 Association.
 In surrounding communities, we engage with local schools. For example, as part of City’s
 “Widening Participation” programme, Makri delivered a “masterclass” titled ‘Designing for
 serendipity: An oxymoron?’ to sixth form and college students from the local area. Separately, six
 research students and ECRs from the Department ran four- to six-week coding clubs for primary
 schools in Central and East London. Key goals in designing and undertaking this project were to
 introduce the concepts of coding to children with diverse ethnic backgrounds and to appeal to a
 balance of boys and girls.
 Our investment in the local community is also represented in our research portfolio. Building on
 the EPSRC-funded Connected Seeds project (with an associated publication receiving an
 Honourable Mention award at CHI 2019), Heitlinger is continuing to engage with the charity
 Spitalfields City Farm. This research has had the objective of exploring inclusive technology
 design with and for sustainable urban communities, cutting across the usual divisions of social
 class and ethnicity. As part of this work, Heitlinger established the City Farm Lab, an academic–
 community partnership building on her long-term collaboration with the Farm. This has meant
 operating a user-centred, open-innovation Living Lab, which integrates research, teaching and
 innovation processes. The engagement started with nine master’s students’ dissertation projects,
 run in collaboration with the Farm. In recognition of her support and commitment to the Farm,
 Heitlinger now holds a position on its Board of Trustees.




Page 18
