Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Reading

 Unit of Assessment: UOA33 – Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and structure
 The Department of Film, Theatre & Television (FTT) is a relatively small, close-knit team with 13
 permanent T&R staff (12.6 FTE). We have clearly defined specialisms across Film studies,
 Television and Theatre studies, from which we reach out with innovative and distinctive research
 that draws people and ideas together in exciting ways. We are part of Reading’s School of Arts
 and Communication Design (Head of School: Gibbs) alongside the departments of Art and
 Typography & Graphic Communication. Our research outputs are primarily historical and critical
 studies, complemented by research-led audio-visual essays in film, and performance,
 installations and curation practice.

 As described in the Institutional Environment Statement (IES, Section 1), the University’s
 research activity is structured around four interdisciplinary research Themes. FTT is one of nine
 Research Divisions that make up the Heritage & Creativity Theme (H&C). Our staff have leading
 roles in two of the University’s ten Interdisciplinary Research Centres:

    •   The Centre for Film Aesthetics & Cultures (founding Director, Nagib) examines
        diverse political, historical and cultural contexts of filmmaking and creates international
        research networks and cultural exchanges between academics, filmmakers and
        producers across disciplines and national borders.

    •   The Samuel Beckett Research Centre (founding members Bignell, McMullan) links
        colleagues in Reading to national and international Beckett scholars, befitting our role as
        the leading home of Beckett Studies in the world. Researchers in English, FTT, Modern
        Languages and Philosophy form a critical mass, and the Centre has introduced a
        Creative Fellows programme to link archival research and new creative practice in
        writing, music composition and filmmaking.

 During the assessment period the Department’s research and impact strategy has been to:
    • enhance our focus on live and screened performance and production in the twentieth and
        twenty-first centuries by expanding the reach of our work into new areas of
        specialisation.
    • innovate theoretical, practical and historical methodologies.
    • forge productive relationships between colleagues in our three specialisms to generate
        research across film, theatre and television, and between theoretical and practical study.
    • drive original research within and across discipline boundaries with impactful
        collaborations with external academic and industry partners.

 This strategy is evident in the design of our funded research projects, as well as individual
 scholarship. For example, the AHRC-funded IntermIdia project centred on film, but worked
 across cinema and performance, and brought together academics, practitioners and producers
 to understand histories and aesthetic forms in Brazilian culture through theoretical and practical
 methodologies. Large-scale research initiatives such as this have generated new archival work,
 investigated commercial and institutional records, and collaborated with other universities and
 key non-HEI resource holders, growing organically from our established ways of working.

 Since 2014 there has been a step-change in the ambition of our research and impact strategies,
 and in corresponding support from the University through enhanced infrastructure and strategic
 initiatives designed to help us achieve our objectives, for example the £500k Strategic
 Collections Project designed to increase research use of the University’s extensive archival
 holdings (IES, Section 4.4).


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research strategy
 Our research strategy is reviewed annually by our Research Division Lead (RDL) (Bignell,
 formerly McMullan) in discussion with the Research Dean and Head of School (Gibbs). The
 resulting Research Division Operational Plan feeds into the Theme plan for Heritage & Creativity
 and fosters interdisciplinarity and collaboration.

 The department planned in 2014 to grow its staff complement and mix of permanent research-
 active academics and fixed-term research staff, using external research income and PGR
 recruitment to nurture collaborative research internally and with external partners. We have
 achieved this, using income from external sources to reduce teaching and administrative loads
 for staff whose research fits our strategic priorities.

    •   Research in Film centres on the analysis of films and the histories of cinema, including
        work on mise-en-scène by Butler, Gibbs, O’Brien, Purse, Nagib, on avant-garde and
        art film by Butler, and digital and 3D aesthetics and technologies by Purse. Expertise in
        the analysis of audio-visual texts and methodologies for aesthetic study has created a
        foundation for the development of related approaches. The Department’s established
        focus on the globally dominant US film culture and film style is complemented by
        research on European and non-Western cultures of cinema, especially Nagib’s work on
        film’s intermedial histories and forms. Distinctive new initiatives include our first feature-
        film as a research output, Passages (director Nagib), and experimenting with the audio-
        visual essay (led by Gibbs) as an open access output format accessible to a range of
        users.

    •   Theatre and Performance research clusters have created work on the historical,
        cultural, political and production contexts of twentieth and twenty-first century
        performance, in British and Irish theatre (Bartley, McFrederick, McMullan, Murjas,
        former staff Angelaki, Saunders, Taylor (Emerita)); diasporic performance, translation,
        and non-Anglophone theatres (Angelaki, Murjas, Woynarski); and interdisciplinary
        practice-as-research allied to written scholarship (Murjas, Taylor). We gained our first
        funding from the national Industrial Strategy via Taylor’s work with software designers
        Marmelo and theatre company Dante Or Die, making new links with IT specialists keen
        to work on the challenges of integrating interactive media with live performance.

    •   Television research centres on the analysis of the aesthetics of TV programmes and
        their histories, especially British and US TV drama and documentary (Bignell, Knox,
        Woods). Archival work on television history is conducted by Bignell and Knox, and
        research on contemporary television by Knox and Woods. Knox’s studies of screen
        acting link theatre with television, as does Bignell’s work on the dramatists Beckett and
        Pinter and especially to the expertise of McMullan and McFrederick on these
        practitioners. The Television Drama research group now brings together established staff
        Bignell, Knox and Woods with PDRAs and research students. Our AHRC-funded
        research on ‘Pinter Histories and Legacies’ was the most recent large grant project to
        document and make public new work in TV history, with open access scholarship and a
        public online database of all of Pinter’s work in the UK.

 Progress since 2014
 In 2014 we declared plans to extend our work with external partners such as the BBC and the
 Victoria and Albert Museum, and to maximise the value of important archives and collections at
 Reading. Over the assessment period, staff have built collaborative research projects using the
 collections such as work on the world-leading Samuel Beckett Archive (McMullan), the wartime
 evacuee archive (Murjas), and the personal archive of filmmaker Steve Dwoskin (Butler).

    •   We planned to exploit opportunities to develop research in the area of digital and ‘new’
        media, and have done this in Purse’s work on digital cinema production and the
        aesthetics of visual effects, and Taylor’s work on social media technologies in theatre

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        performance. Taylor’s research was funded by the AHRC/EPSRC Creative Economy
        programme on next-generation immersive experiences to work on questions of social
        media identity through performance.

    •   We also planned to seize opportunities for research links within the School, and Butler is
        working with Art’s experts in art film on research using the Dwoskin Archive to explore
        the history of his output through historical, archival and practice-as-research
        methodologies. This is leading to filmmaking projects as well as scholarship. Dwoskin’s
        early adoption of computing for creative projects in the 1980s has enabled us to embrace
        collaborative working with computing experts to pilot innovative digital forensics
        methodologies that enable us to recover and interpret his unpublished notes, scripts and
        other records of the creative process, which were held in digital form but hitherto
        inaccessible to researchers.

    •   We outlined our ambitions to internationalise and diversify our research in Film, and this
        has led to work such as collaboration by Butler, Gibbs, Nagib and Purse with the
        Federal University of São Carlos on Brazilian Cinema and intermediality. This has
        brought international experts to Reading and staged research events that combine film
        with live performance. Methodologically, we have also benefitted from Gibbs’s
        contributions to the development of the audio-visual essay as a research output format,
        addressing intermedial film histories and approaching classical Hollywood in new ways.

 Impact strategy
 Our impact strategy meshes organically with our research aims, and leads us to:
    • innovate within our relatively small staff cohort to link the three audio-visual mediums in
       which we specialise, so as to generate resources and forge connections internally and
       externally in order to carry out ambitious cross-disciplinary projects. Taylor’s work with
       theatre company Dante Or Die led to the User Not Found performance funded by
       AHRC/EPSRC and associated impact using video and IT. Murjas’s theatre company
       Around the Well comprises professional interpreters who work in public services, creating
       performance-as-research into migration, involuntary displacement and cultural/linguistic
       mediation. This was showcased in Glasgow for UNESCO’s Refugee Integration
       programme and in the Language Acts programme (London) of the AHRC-funded Open
       World Research Initiative.

    •   exploit opportunities to build impact as an embedded part of scholarship, supporting staff
        to collaborate through the mutual support that we have cultivated and promote.
        McMullan’s Beckett scholarship fed into the creation of open access resources in the
        AHRC-funded Staging Beckett project, working with McFrederick and external
        collaborators to document all productions of Beckett’s plays in the UK and Ireland in an
        extensive public database. New collaborations with Trinity College Dublin are testing
        innovative VR performance that pushes technological boundaries and opens up new
        forms of live, interactive experiences of Beckett’s work for digital users.

    •   extend and enhance relationships with external partners, to develop ambitious new
        research underpinned by excellent scholarship. Our geographical location facilitates links
        with non-academic partners who are involved in co-creating research and they benefit
        from the resources for public/non-academic audiences that are produced as outputs from
        our research. These partners include the British Film Institute (BFI), BBC Archives,
        National Theatre collections and the V&A Museum’s Theatre collections. We have
        launched research-led cinema programmes, internationally with the Museum of Image
        and Sound, Brazil (on film history), nationally with BFI South Bank (the Pinter on Screen
        season devised with them) and locally with Reading Film Theatre (Brazilian cinema
        season), with initiatives embedded in scholarship and new research.

 Open research


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Department is committed to open research as evidenced by publication in Open Access
 journals and our creation of open archives and databases to ensure our work is accessible and
 replicable. We have also made extensive use of funding support for Gold OA, through research
 grants, institutional arrangements with publishers or University funding, enabling Bignell, Nagib,
 O’Brien to fund open articles and monographs.

 Research integrity
 A School ethics committee reviews all relevant people-centred research projects for the
 Department, with any requiring higher scrutiny reviewed at University level. Our annual Personal
 Development Review incorporates a strong professional standards aspect which reinforces
 issues of research integrity and provides an opportunity to review training needs. Staff are made
 aware of the values set out in the University Code of Good Practice in Research and
 responsibilities under the Concordat to Support Research Integrity through the University’s
 committee (IES, Section 2.2).


 2. People

 Staffing strategy
 There are 13 core staff in the unit, one of whom (McMullan) is part-time. Senior staff comprise
 Professors in Film (Gibbs, Nagib, Purse), in Theatre & Performance (McMullan, Murjas), and
 Television & Film (Bignell). Associate Professors comprise Butler in Film, and Knox and
 Woods in Television & Film. Our early career researchers are O’Brien (Lecturer in Film), and
 Bartley, McFrederick, Woynarski (Lecturers in Theatre).

 Our staffing strategy has been to use increases in and replacements of staff to strengthen and
 expand existing expertise in line with our research and impact strategies. Our collegial research
 culture provides secure foundations and continuity of staffing; five staff in post since 2014 have
 been promoted internally, two new Chairs appointed, and two Teaching-focused staff were
 mentored to develop research profiles that enabled them to achieve T&R roles:
     • Bartley joined us in 2020 to spearhead new collaborations with creative practitioners in
         Applied Theatre and develop research into performance and community.
     • O’Brien was appointed to extend existing strengths in film aesthetics, bringing expertise
         in film analysis to bear on pressing global issues of ecology and environment.
     • Woynarski has enhanced our established strengths in theatre and performance,
         especially ways in which performance can engage audiences in contemporary political
         and ethical debates and explore questions of community and diversity.
     • Nagib joined us in 2013 at Professorial level to develop our Film expertise further beyond
         Anglophone cinemas, and her leadership initiated the creation of the Centre for Film
         Aesthetics and Cultures and ambitious international collaborative research in World
         Cinema and intermedial studies.
     • Taylor retired as Professor in Theatre & Performance and remains active as Emerita,
         leading research with creative industry partners and supervising PGRs. Aspects of her
         expertise, and that of former colleague Saunders, were taken further by Angelaki in
         studies of historical and contemporary British Theatre, and in ecology and politics. These
         aspects are now led by O’Brien and Bartley, demonstrating our commitment to forward-
         looking investment in innovative and socially relevant research.

 Equality and diversity
 Concern for equality and diversity is embedded formally and informally in our ways of working.
 We have proportionately more female staff (7 of 13), and our seniority profile reflects that (4 of 6
 professors, all 3 associate professors, and 2 of 4 ECRs are women); and although we are 95%
 white, 21% are non-UK nationals. Several colleagues have undertaken LGBT+ Ally training and
 Purse is a Stonewall LGBT+ Role Model. We have two formal leadership roles for Diversity and
 Inclusion (held by Tyler and Woynarski), whose remit embraces both staff and students, and
 research and teaching. Leadership roles held by women staff include McMullan as Co-Director
 of the Beckett International Foundation charitable trust administering Reading’s Beckett Archive,

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Purse’s role as Head of Department and formerly leader of the Faculty Research Theme on
 Minorities. Nagib sits on the steering committee of the UK-China Humanities Alliance,
 representing the University, and represented the H&C theme on the University Board for
 Research & Innovation (2016-20).

 Our disciplines address academic questions of identity and community, such as in Nagib’s work
 on world cinema, Woynarski’s work on indigenous performance as political intervention, and
 Bartley’s work in applied theatre in the community, and such questions are organic rather than
 exterior to our thinking. Tyler’s Arts Council-funded Diversity through Development project has
 welcomed guests to talk on issues of gender, race and equality, including performance creators
 Nicky Werenowska and Greg Wohead, ‘in conversation’ events with playwrights Inua Ellams and
 Natasha Gordon, and a performance co-organised with Reading School of Law commemorating
 women’s entry into the legal professions. Murjas’s work on diasporas, migration and linguistic
 integration is fundamentally about diversity and inclusion and involves collaborations within and
 outside academia to explore questions of identity. An event organised by Nagib (funded by the
 British Council) for the UK-China Alliance brought filmmakers to Reading to discuss intercultural
 communication, including Wu Wenguang, pioneer of independent documentary cinema in China
 and founder of Caochangdi’s ‘Folk Memory Project’, and Zhang Mengqi, Resident Filmmaker
 and Choreographer at Beijing’s Caochangdi Workstation.

 To address Equality and Diversity in our REF submission, all staff were asked to nominate
 outputs and these were peer reviewed. The selection was made to ensure representativeness of
 gender, career stage, and specialism within the Department. All staff were involved in collation of
 information for the environment statement which was circulated for review. We followed the
 University Code of Practice and information about the REF processes was widely shared with
 staff, who were given the opportunity to declare personal circumstances if they wished. We
 reflected on the outcomes of the University’s interim Equality Impact Assessment (2020) and the
 bias analysis on our final selection (2021) using these opportunities to minimise potential for
 bias.

 Support for ECRs and research staff (PDRAs)
 FTT has a sustained record of recruitment of ECRs to funded research posts, and they have
 gone on to employment at HEIs in the UK and internationally (Courage, Davies, Donaldson,
 Elduque, Jeffery, McFrederick, Panos, Smart, Solomon, Wrigley). We were able to retain Jeffery
 and Smart as PDRAs on two AHRC projects, and McFrederick became a Teaching Fellow
 following a post on McMullan’s AHRC project. We helped him to transition to a permanent T&R
 lectureship in 2020 and two other current Teaching Intensive staff on permanent contracts
 (Ghosh, Tyler) are similarly being supported to develop research profiles that will enable them
 to transition to T&R appointments. Their career development is proactively supported by
 mentoring from the Research Division Lead, support of the Head of School and seed-funding
 from the Theme to help them develop their research. Woynarski was awarded a University
 Research Fellowship, and the Dean for H&C awarded seed-funding to both Woynarski and
 O’Brien, who was also a winner of the H&C annual ECR Research Output prize. ECRs on T&R
 contracts are awarded relief from teaching or early research leave for completion of research,
 especially to complete their first monograph or other major output. For Teaching-Intensive staff,
 staff development time (similar to the ‘research day’) can be used to develop research if they
 wish, for example completing a PhD (Tyler) or conducting practice-as-research (Ghosh). New
 lecturers are mentored by an established academic, including formal induction into departmental
 procedures for research planning.

 We expect PDRAs to be outward-facing and ambitious, and we support them to develop
 independent careers. Individual PDRAs have presented their research at seminars both within
 FTT and elsewhere in the University, and at other HEIs. Research staff also participate in
 external events and networks that develop their research skills, e.g., PDRAs Panos, Smart and
 Wrigley (on the ‘Spaces of Television’ and ‘Pinter Histories & Legacies’ AHRC projects) have
 been active members of the Southern Broadcasting History Group, comprising academic
 researchers and representatives from BBC Archives and Learning on Screen. McTighe, when

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PDRA on ‘Staging Beckett’, participated in the International Federation of Theatre Research’s
 Samuel Beckett Working Group and is now its Chair.

 PIs inform research staff about training and development opportunities and advise them on
 training that may be relevant. PIs inform each PDRA about the Concordat for Research Staff
 and discuss its provisions. The Head of School oversees School policies relating to research
 staff but it is the responsibility of the RDL to ensure that research staff receive appropriate
 mentoring and Personal Research Planning support. Research mentors are appointed by the
 Head of Department in consultation with the RDL and PI. Each PDRA has a mentor other than
 their PI/line manager, and all PDRAs have at least annually Personal Research Plan meetings.
 PDRAs benefit from training offered at University level by the Centre for Quality Support and
 Development (CQSD), and are offered, and normally undertake, some limited teaching to
 develop their skills and employability. Training includes sessions on dissemination of research
 (e.g., conference presentations and publication), interviewing for research, preservation of
 research data and University financial processes. Records of staff training from the CQSD are
 maintained centrally online, and PIs report termly on project staff progress to the Department’s
 Research Committee. Research staff have a representative on the Committee and training and
 development is a standing item. Other training, for example on social media, collections-based
 research, Digital Humanities and open research, is provided via the Heritage & Creativity
 Theme, promoting links across Divisions.

 Support for staff
 We are an inclusive and supportive team, enjoying informal seminars, launches, performances
 and screenings of our own and others’ research work, and social events that bring us together
 regularly. This culture underpins our support for colleagues who have experienced illness or
 bereavement, taken maternity and paternity leave, or had other special circumstances during the
 assessment period. The onset of the COVID-19 pandemic was challenging because it reduced
 opportunities for teamworking, but we sustained our collaborative culture by quickly creating
 informal seminars, coffee break meetings and research workshops online.

 Our research policy is to promote original work by all members of staff and to create a culture
 that encourages collaboration. The Personal Research Plan (PRP) process, in which all
 research-active staff including PDRAs participate, centres on one-to-one discussions with the
 RDL to discuss plans and address individual research support needs, producing short- and
 medium-term plans for outputs, funding, public engagement and impact activity. Considerations
 of workload, resource needs, mentoring and feedback on specific outputs or plans are
 addressed and actions reviewed on a rolling annual basis. Often these discussions identify
 unforeseen research opportunities, and ways for staff to engage with University support such as
 the expertise of Research and Enterprise Services (RES) colleagues, the Impact team,
 Research Data or Digital Humanities support to help us develop technically ambitious projects.
 In many ways the PRP is a mechanism for making connections between people, ideas and
 resources to facilitate research excellence.

 Overall strategy for staff research development is coordinated by the department’s Research
 and PGR Committee, meeting termly. Research leave, funded by internal redistribution of
 workload among colleagues, is based on an established pattern of one term in nine, subject to
 the Research Committee’s approval of research objectives and plans. In addition, research
 leaders and mentors encourage and assist staff to apply to external funding schemes as well as
 University and H&C seed-funding to pilot new research. Schemes include financial support for
 research leave and grant bid development from the University’s Research Endowment Trust
 Fund (RETF), controlled by the Research Dean for H&C, and research travel from the
 Conference Travel Fund. During the assessment period, Bignell and Taylor benefitted from
 pump-priming funding to support short-term PDRA employment of Courage and Jeffery to help
 scope and draft grant bids, and Nagib won a University Research Fellowship to complete major
 outputs and funding bids. Murjas won a H&C fellowship to explore new research questions and
 develop innovative outputs based on University museum collections.


                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School allocates discretionary funding to each colleague for research expenses via Staff
 Development Accounts (SDA), normally used for travel, short-term buy-out from teaching or
 support from a short-term PDRA to help develop a major research initiative. Bignell, for
 example, used SDA funds to employ Wrigley to conduct bibliographic surveys and assist with
 grant development workshops with potential collaborators. The Head of School allocates a share
 of overhead from external research projects to the SDAs of staff with project leadership roles,
 and this is often used to support individuals’ research that cannot be funded externally because
 of its experimental or speculative nature.

 Postgraduate research students
 Our Postgraduate Research student numbers have grown steadily, from 19 in 2013/14 to 28 in
 2019/20, and we have seen an increase in non-UK students from 37% in 2013/14 to 46% in
 2019/20, reflecting our strategy of internationalisation and increased breadth of specialisms.
 18% of our PGR students declared a disability in 2019/20. We have a departmental Director of
 PGR Studies (Butler), and all research-active staff supervise postgraduate researchers and act
 as assessors for PGR monitoring. All PGRs are supported by Academic Tutors and central
 support services for wellbeing as well as training.

 Since 2014, we have awarded 16 PhDs, and have developed an MA by Research to prepare
 further graduate students for PhD. In 2014 we launched a new taught MA in Creative Enterprise
 (with pathways for Film and for Theatre), working with Reading’s renowned Henley Business
 School to develop students who want to link their academic specialisms to the creative
 industries.

 The University’s Research Endowment Trust Fund awards doctoral studentships, and we benefit
 from AHRC Doctoral Training Consortium membership. The South-West and Wales
 Consortium (Aberystwyth, Bristol, Bath, Bath Spa, Cardiff, Exeter, Reading, Southampton)
 includes studentships in all areas relevant to the department’s cross-disciplinary work: Drama
 and Theatre, Film and Television, Media and New Media.

    •   In the assessment period we also participated in a University-wide PhD programme in
        Collections-based Research which funded a practice-based PhD student working on
        performance practice with Murjas in the University’s Evacuee Archive.
    •   A bequest from former Reading colleague Mary Bryden’s funds a PhD studentship in
        Beckett Studies, supervised by Bignell and McMullan, and another Beckett PGR
        receives the James and Elizabeth Knowlson Bursary.

 The University’s Graduate School implements the University Code of Practice on Research
 Students, including provision of training across the four aspects of the Researcher Development
 Framework. It coordinates an extensive development programme, focusing on key transferable
 skills, such as research methods, communications, and entrepreneurship, as well as an
 induction into University teaching (compulsory for any student who wishes to undertake such
 duties). It also oversees competitions for PhD funding, coordinates recruitment and annual
 monitoring processes, and provides desk space, training rooms and social activities for students,
 allowing them to meet and develop networks across the University.

 Each PGR student is jointly supervised. Monitoring includes an annual presentation attended by
 Department staff, and regular formal evaluations of written work by supervisors and third-party
 readers with a feedback interview. Confirmation of PhD registration after a year of work (or part-
 time equivalent) is granted after review of chapter-length submissions by two colleagues with
 PhD supervision experience, leading to more timely completions and excellent pass rates for
 FTT students. Across the assessment period 82% of vivas resulted in outright Pass or Pass with
 Minor Amendments at the first attempt.

 Our support equips PGRs to innovate and acquire new skills, whether they come to us from
 conventional academic backgrounds or as creative professionals looking to deepen their
 intellectual base (80% of our PGR students are aged over 25, and between 40% and 60% of

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGRs since 2014 have funded their own studies). For example, PhD graduate Lees, a
 professional film and television director, came to FTT to seek ways of thinking critically about his
 creative practice, and took new ideas about mise-en-scène back into his career. In the
 assessment period students working through theatre and film practice have staged and
 screened innovative work at UK and overseas venues as part of, and resulting from, their
 studies: Hegarty-Lovett creates Beckett performances with her theatre company Gare St Lazare
 Players, as does Scaife with her Company SJ, while former student O’Brien has become an
 internationally renowned performance artist.

 More traditionally, our postgraduates benefit from a programme of research presentations by
 visiting academics, departmental staff (including PDRAs) and research students. There is a
 strong culture of regular, less formal seminars organised by PGRs and supported by staff,
 including discussion groups on film and TV analysis, critical theory and practice-as-research
 methodologies and case studies. Our annual PGR conference Journeys Across Media (JAM)
 (co-founder Purse) is organised by current students, and in its evolving formats it has offered a
 supportive environment for students to present work and make interdisciplinary connections.
 Murjas led the development (from 2012) of an annual edition of the Journal of Media Practice in
 which PGR papers from the JAM conference have been published.

 Research travel support for PGRs is available from the University’s Conference Travel Fund,
 and additional Department funds are allocated for discretionary support for expenses such as
 travel and conference attendance. The Department underwrites research events initiated by
 PGRs. Our PGR students are collegial and enterprising, and their contribution to our research
 culture is recognised and supported.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding and strategies
 Research income since 2014 totalled £1.63m, deriving largely from the Research Councils
 (primarily AHRC). We have sustained a track record of securing large awards and we have
 expanded collaborations as Co-Is, e.g., Bignell’s collaboration with Leeds on Pinter’s media
 writing and Butler’s collaboration with Art on Dwoskin’s films. We have led major externally
 funded research projects in each of our subject areas, establishing FTT as a centre of
 excellence in specific areas and embracing collaborations with external experts and industry
 professionals. The Department’s research infrastructure shares and supports both discipline-
 specific and cross-disciplinary research and methodologies through its research clusters,
 projects and research events. For example:

    •   In Film we have focused on the specificity of cinematic styles and the historical and
        intermedial links between film and other arts, winning £720k plus R$267k for the
        AHRC/FAPESP co-funded project with Brazilian colleagues, ‘Towards an Intermedial
        History of Brazilian Cinema: Exploring Intermediality as a Historiographic Method’
        (PI Nagib, 2015-19). Purse secured Leverhulme funding for Visiting Professor Chris
        Holmlund (2018) to collaborate on international research into contemporary digital
        cinema and its cross-media aesthetics.

    •   Our expertise in British theatre history was expressed in the AHRC-funded research
        project, ‘Staging Beckett: The Impact of Productions of Samuel Beckett’s Drama on
        Theatre Practice and Cultures in the UK and Ireland’ (£816k, led by McMullan, with FTT
        CI Saunders and a CI from Chester, 2012-15) employing full-time PDRAs at Reading
        (McTighe) and Chester, and with one PhD student at Reading (McFrederick). It
        documented and analysed the histories of Beckett performances in the UK and Ireland
        using the Beckett archive and external sources including the V&A’s theatre holdings. At
        the start of the assessment period Saunders was completing work as PI of the AHRC
        project ‘Giving Voice to the Nation’ (2009-14) on the role of Arts Council funding in
        shaping British theatre, with a CI and two PDRAs at the V&A and retired Emeritus


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        colleague Bull as consultant. These projects focused on archival work and created new
        resources as well as scholarship.

    •   Similarly, in Television Studies, archival and historiographic methods drove ‘Spaces of
        Television: Production, Site & Style’ (PI Bignell, 2010-15), an award of £722k with Co-Is
        at Leicester and Glamorgan. It linked archival work on written records of TV production
        with testimony from producers, writers, directors and other creative staff, to research the
        distinctions between and development of TV studio and location shooting in TV drama.
        The project employed three PDRAs at Reading (Donaldson, Panos, Smart) with PhD
        students at partner HEIs. Bignell was CI for ‘Pinter Histories and Legacies’ (2016-20, led
        by Taylor-Batty at Leeds, an £800k award), with Reading PDRAs Davies, Smart and
        Wrigley to research radio, TV and film drama by Pinter. The Reading team collaborated
        with the British Library (holder of the Pinter Archive) on a joint conference, with the Pinter
        Theatre (London) on its anniversary performances, and with BFI on a film season (2018)
        and new commercial DVD release.

 Effective research team management and leadership are developed by means of the close
 relationships between colleagues in the Department as well as formal training. During the
 assessment period, eight staff have been PIs or Co-Is on large grants (Bignell, Butler, Gibbs,
 McMullan, Nagib, Purse, Saunders, Taylor). These colleagues share extensive experience in
 research and in staff management: Bignell has been PI of six previous funded projects with
 research staff, is currently Research Division Lead and Academic Lead of the Grant
 Development College for Heritage & Creativity. Taylor, now Emerita, is a former Head of
 School, Head of Department and School Director of Research. McMullan is a former Head of
 School and Research Division Lead. Nagib was founding Director of the Centre for Film
 Aesthetics and Cultures. We maintain links with colleagues now retired or moved on, as in the
 collaboration with Emeritus Bull on ‘Giving Voice to the Nation’, and Saunders (now at
 Birmingham) as CI with Bignell on ‘Pinter Histories and Legacies’.

 University support structures
 The federal structure of the School enables considerable autonomy for the Department,
 including research planning and allocation of resources and staff time for research. We are
 supported by funding from the Research Dean for Heritage & Creativity to pump-prime new
 research, with over £30k competitively awarded to eight colleagues starting up new projects.
 Since 2014 the University has invested £1m in additional professional services posts to drive
 innovation, impact and communications, and the Theme also supports new methodologies
 through Digital Humanities training and expert advice (benefitting Butler, McMullan, Taylor),
 and funds a Grant Development College that provides peer review and drives innovation and
 best practice in research and collaborative funding proposals. Our impact strategy, supported by
 a dedicated Impact Manager for H&C, identified ambitious work led by McMullan, Murjas and
 Nagib that the University supported with expertise and resource in its Building Outstanding
 Impact Support Project (IES, Section 2.3).

 Facilities
 FTT is based in Minghella Studios, a purpose-built complex of staff offices, meeting rooms and
 facilities for making film, television and theatre performances to professional standards The
 Studios provide state-of-the-art facilities where research conferences, performances, screenings
 and exhibitions are mounted, including high-profile events for expert and public audiences. They
 include a digital cinema, two theatres and an experimental performance space (licensed for
 public performance, and equipped with flexible seating and storage), foyer and exhibition areas,
 a digital sound stage/multi-camera television studio, editing rooms, audio post-production
 spaces and a sound studio. University investment of £11.4m was supplemented by contributions
 for equipment from the University, Department and the Friends of the University, and in 2018 a
 £144k investment from the University’s Research Infrastructure Fund equipped the School with
 technology to underpin our work with new VR and multimedia research methodologies.



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   For research by practice, staff and PGRs have free access to all departmental
        performance spaces, editing suites, software and camera and lighting equipment.
    •   Research collections held by the department include an extensive AV collection of films,
        broadcast adaptations of theatre and records of performances, and a wide range of
        television programmes. Much of this collection is digitised and held on our own servers,
        maintained by central IT staff.
    •   All staff have networked computing facilities in their offices, and PGRs have a dedicated
        room with shared networked computing and playback equipment, and software for
        moving image editing and capture.
    •   Support staff comprise six technical staff (four full-time and two part-time) and one
        administrator, with additional support provided by the School administrative and
        University technical and IT staff.
    •   Support staff facilitate individuals’ research projects, providing for example lighting,
        costume and scenography for Murjas’s practice-as-research installations on diasporic
        memory, PGR Husanovic’s multimedia performance research on belly-dancing, and the
        staging of live performance ‘prologues’ with archive film screenings in the IntermIdia
        research on Brazilian cinema (Nagib working with Tyler).
    •   Support staff also facilitate research conferences, with capability for four simultaneous
        strands or panels within Minghella Studios, and facilities for public screenings and events
        (e.g., presentations by guest film director Walter Salles and philosopher Jacques
        Rancière).
    •   In the virtual arena, the University’s CentAUR online repository promotes access to the
        outcomes of our research and staff make work available through portals such as
        ResearchGate and research blogs (mainly attached to our Research Centres and funded
        projects). We support staff to publish increasingly in open access formats, taking
        advantage of publisher initiatives (e.g., Berghahn’s Knowledge Unlatched for O’Brien’s
        monograph), University central funds (Historical Journal of Film, Radio & Television
        articles as Gold OA for our Pinter research) or individuals’ discretionary Staff
        Development Account funding (Gold OA for Bignell’s article in the Adaptation journal).

 Our research is greatly aided by the University Library, which has extensive holdings and
 excellent IT facilities. The Film, Theatre & Television collection has been built up systematically
 in Drama since 1926 and in Film and Television since 1974 when we launched the first Film
 degrees in the UK. Relevant databases include FII, FIAF, JSTOR, MLA, Project MUSE and
 TVTimes. A specialist librarian oversees these collections and liaises with the Department.
     • The University’s Museums and Special Collections house the Samuel Beckett
        Archive, the world’s largest collection of Beckett papers, on which research projects and
        outputs by Bignell, McFrederick, McMullan and Saunders have been based.
     • Reading’s collection of Second World War evacuee papers led to the launch of a new
        research project in 2013, led by Murjas to animate the archive, winning Arts Council
        funding, and also to Murjas’s related work on the University’s Huntley & Palmer archive
        to tell soldiers’ stories through their creative uses of the biscuits in their food rations.
     • In 2013 the University acquired the personal archive of filmmaker Stephen Dwoskin
        which Butler studies alongside internal and external colleagues, including specialists in
        digital forensics (to decode Dwoskin’s legacy of digital files held on his outdated
        hardware).

 As mentioned above, the University’s interdisciplinary Research Themes and priorities connect
 researchers across disciplines and promote collaborative research. The Beckett Research
 Priority (led by Bignell, then McMullan) grew into the cross-disciplinary Samuel Beckett
 Research Centre in 2017. Purse led the Minorities Rights & Representations research
 priority, focusing on questions of race, ethnicity and gender, and encompassing work on the
 body in digital cinema by Purse and theatre representations of Polish ethnicities by Murjas. This
 informed the development of the University’s Research Theme in Prosperity & Resilience in
 2015. Bignell co-chaired the Implementation Group of the new Heritage & Creativity Research



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Theme (2015) and led its Grant Development College which promotes new (especially digital)
 methodologies and collaborative projects.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Partnerships
 Our major academic collaborations are outlined in Section 3 above (research funding). We have
 grown collaborative research with UK and international scholars and partner institutions, and
 public engagement through the process and outputs of our research, in particular with non-
 academic partners. Our funded research projects are a base for enhancing industry and public
 engagement, incorporating film production, performance, exhibitions and web-based
 dissemination that lead to public dialogue. Our practice-based research has led to increasing
 interaction with local, national and international practitioners, archives and community and arts
 organisations. For instance, the Gate Theatre (Dublin) Network benefits from McMullan’s
 expertise as their International Advisor, Taylor is a member of theatre company Dante Or Die’s
 management Board and assists them with project development and FTT is an institutional
 partner in the Tate Exchange programme, creating research-focused public events for Tate
 Modern.

 Local and regional arts culture benefits from our close collaborations with South Street Arts
 Centre in Reading, recognised by Arts Council England as a key interface with hard-to-reach
 audiences. Applied Theatre specialist Tyler (now joined by Bartley) was appointed with a remit
 to energise South Street’s support for new writing in theatre and diverse new writers,
 collaborating to develop best practice in addressing new audiences and using theatre as an
 engine of social change. One outcome, the drama ‘Being Gordon Greenidge’ about the West
 Indian cricketer, won a 2018 Reading Cultural Award. The collaboration was the basis for
 Development & Diversity Through Theatre (2019), an initiative led by Tyler and funded by ACE,
 in which selected emerging theatre companies (e.g., Red Cape, Action Hero, Dante Or Die)
 gained new opportunities for research and development at South Street including working with
 FTT staff. South Street’s reach as an arts hub expanded (Cultural Space of the Year award,
 2019) with new shows premiered and new, diverse audiences responding.

 One of our Impact Case Studies features innovative research in co-created theatre
 performance generated by, and producing, collaboration. Murjas facilitated innovative
 engagements with evacuees, migrants and their support groups, generating social value via the
 practice-based War Child research project using the University’s Evacuee Archive and her work
 on migration and displacement in collaboration with linguists, psychologists, performers and
 interpreters. The performances of the practice-as-research piece ‘Between’, by her theatre
 company Around the Well, were staged as a live stream for events at the Open University and
 University of Glasgow (2019) for UNESCO, and as a live performance for the European
 Commission (London). They involved public service practitioners (especially interpreters working
 with migrants) through participation and audience engagement activities that tried out new ways
 to address current problems.

 In our second Impact Case Study, we organised initiatives in local and national venues to share
 knowledge and research results created by the IntermIdia research project. We proposed and
 co-organised the ‘Tropicália’ season of Brazilian cinema at Tate Modern, London, in 2017,
 publishing a catalogue and running associated events to introduce curators and the public to this
 unfamiliar film culture. Locally, we collaborated with the independent Reading Film Theatre (a
 BFI regional venue), and with the Museum of Image and Sound in São Paulo to run seasons of
 Brazilian music films, and to stage the live ’prologues’ that were performed in Brazilian cinemas
 in the mid-twentieth century.

 Collaboration between FTT, the theatre company Dante Or Die and the London-based
 technology agency Marmelo, led to new performances using mobile phones integrated with
 live performance. Taylor led this ‘User Not Found: Social Media Technologies as Immersive
 Performance’ project, funded by AHRC, which enabled Dante Or Die to develop a more

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ambitious project than would otherwise have been possible, and Marmelo to build new expertise
 and client relationships with arts organisations and venues. The performance won national
 awards, toured the UK and transferred to New York in 2019. Its innovative and timely focus on
 people’s legacies in social media led to sharing expertise that benefitted will-writers, end-of-life
 carers and funeral directors, and generated invitations to speak to archaeologists and curators,
 e.g., at the British Museum’s Grave Goods conference (2019) to connect today’s virtual legacy
 to historic memorialisation practices.

 As part of both the ‘Spaces of Television’ and ‘Pinter Histories and Legacies’ AHRC projects,
 Bignell and his PDRAs (Panos, Smart, Wrigley) initiated and led discussions with archive
 curatorial staff at BFI, and negotiated with broadcasters, literary agents and publishers to
 facilitate high-profile public events that enabled these institutions to showcase their
 custodianship of cultural assets and created opportunities for rights holders to generate value
 for their intellectual property. We worked with BFI South Bank in London to plan and curate
 seasons of television and film screenings (2015, 2018) that also included platform events,
 interviews and presentations with leading television producers, directors, actors and designers,
 linked to the launch of a new five-DVD box-set of his plays (‘Pinter at the BBC’) and supporting
 materials authored by our team.

 Contribution to the research base
 We maintain established links with institutions holding key research collections and resources,
 notably BBC Archives and the Theatre Museum and Arts Council archives at the V&A. These
 relationships enable us to create and enhance research resources with and for them, which are
 then used by other academic researchers and schools, creative practitioners working on new
 interpretations of past works, and members of the public with specialist interests.
     • ‘Giving Voice to the Nation’ included cataloguing Arts Council papers at the V&A, thus
         enabling future research, and several guides for researchers were created about the
         online Arts Council archive.
     • ‘Spaces of Television’ created interview, report and blog materials, and new public
         databases of historic UK TV drama intersecting with online fan discussions.
     • The ‘Staging Beckett’ research team, in partnership with the V&A, compiled a database
         of all UK and Irish productions of Beckett’s plays, as a pilot for a globally compatible
         performing arts database in dialogue with the creators of the Australian database
         AusStage and IbsenStage (University of Oslo).
     • ‘Pinter Histories and Legacies’ also produced an online, open access database (2020)
         cataloguing all Pinter’s works for stage, screen and radio (hosted at Leeds), for which we
         created the film, radio and television records.

 Leadership of networks
 Department staff have leadership roles in national and international research groups including:
    • Association for Adaptation Studies (former Trustee: Bignell).
    • British Association for Film & Screen Studies (Treasurer: Nagib).
    • British Association for Modernist Studies (Advisory Committee member: Bignell).
    • Southern Broadcasting History Group (Chair: Bignell).
    • McMullan is Co-Director of the Beckett International Foundation, a charitable trust that
       administers Reading’s Beckett Archive and pursues internal and external collaborations
       in Beckett Studies; she and Bignell are Trustees.
    • Woynarski has been Co-convenor of Performance and Ecology Working Group for the
       American Society of Theatre Research.
    • Within Reading, Bignell sits on the Board of the Graduate Centre for International
       Research in Childhood.
    • Nagib is an invited member of the steering committee of the UK-China Humanities
       Alliance, involving Reading and universities in Tsinghua, Peking, Fudan, Wuhan, Hong
       Kong, King’s College London, Manchester, Oxford, SOAS and Warwick.




                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Editorship
 We assess, evaluate and enable research by collaborating with funding bodies and by leading
 publishing initiatives across our three disciplines. Selected examples include:
    • In Film, we supply Editors for the journals Screen (Butler) and Movie (Gibbs, Purse).
    • In Theatre, McMullan is on the Editorial Board of the Journal of Beckett Studies and Irish
         University Review, and Murjas is an Editor of the Journal of Media Practice.
    • For the Critical Studies in Television journal, Bignell is Corresponding Editor and Knox
         sits on its Editorial Board to formally represent the European Communication Research
         and Education Association.
    • Major monograph series supported by Editors from our staff include Manchester
         University Press’s 'Television Series' (Bignell), Palgrave’s ‘Close Readings in Film and
         Television’ (Gibbs), ‘Anthem Studies in Theatre and Performance’ (McMullan),
         Bloomsbury’s ‘Film Thinks’ and I.B. Tauris’s ‘World Cinema’ series (Nagib).

 Conferences and keynotes
 The Department’s programme of regular international conferences develops and disseminates
 our research and supports our research strategy, by promoting collaborations between
 academics, resource holders and practitioners in the creative industries, and between discipline
 specialists.

 Conferences we have organised include:
    • Disappearing War: Cinema and the Politics of Erasure in the War on Terror (Purse,
       supported by the British Academy) linked Film specialists with experts in politics,
       economics and international relations.
    • The Moving Form of Film (Nagib) focused on intermedial research into world cinema.
    • Action Cinema Now and Reconsidering Movie Special Effects (co-organised by Purse)
       addressed how digital film industries might be studied in new ways.
    • Videographic Film Studies Now! (Gibbs) focused on new methodologies.
    • Nation, Nationhood and Theatre (co-organised by Angelaki) was the Contemporary
       Drama in English network conference in 2017, hosted at Reading.
    • Screen Studies conference 2019 in Glasgow (co-organised by Butler)
    • Towards an Intermedial History of Brazilian Cinema (co-organised by Nagib in São
       Paulo.
    • World Cinema and the Essay Film (co-organised by Nagib with DAAD-sponsored
       Visiting postdoctoral fellow Krstic).
    • Onwards and Outwards: Women’s Filmmaking in Contemporary Britain (Butler, Nagib)
       at the ICA in London.
    • Liberation Struggles (co-organised by Nagib and CFAN Visiting Post-Doctoral Fellow
       DoCarmo Picarra) on film and African decolonisation in London with funding from the
       Gulbenkian Foundation and the Camões Centre for Portuguese Language and Culture.

 Externally, FTT staff gave invited keynotes at conferences at the universities of Belfast, Brighton,
 Bristol, Exeter, Hertfordshire, Kent, Leeds, London, Northampton, Oxford Brookes, Warwick, and
 in Australia, Brazil, Denmark, France, Germany, Iran, Ireland, Mexico, Poland, Portugal,
 Romania, Spain, Switzerland.

 A few examples of the range and reach of events at non-HEI venues include:
     • Bignell presented on television history at the National Science & Media Museum, on
        Pinter’s TV dramas at BFI South Bank, and made a filmed presentation for a Canadian
        Centre for Architecture exhibition in Montreal, Lisbon and then on YouTube.
     • Murjas was invited to present results of her performance research to audiences
        interested in methods for ‘animating the archive’ at the Hunterian Museum, Wellcome
        Trust, the National Archives and Research Libraries UK which features her work online
        as an example of innovative responses to research collections.



                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   O’Brien was invited to speak at the Royal Opera House (and webcast from there), and
        presented at the British Academy/Royal Irish Academy’s Knowledge Frontiers
        symposium for ECRs in Dublin on approaches to the Anthropocene.
    •   Both Angelaki and McMullan have featured in the National Theatre’s Talks programme
    •   Elduque (PDRA) gave an invited talk and curated a season of films with Purse at the
        Brazilian Embassy in London, and Smart and Wrigley (PDRAs) presented and led
        discussions at a public Pinter Archive event at the British Library.

 Partners in our collaborative AHRC projects in the assessment period included the BFI, LUX film
 arts agency, the V&A Museum, the Universities of Chester, Glamorgan, Leeds, Leicester and
 Sao Paulo, with research events taking place at partner institutions and in Reading. We have
 also hosted major international conferences in which academic keynote talks were combined
 with practitioner presentations (e.g., live performances, film premieres, masterclasses by film
 directors, etc.), and such events at Reading during the assessment period included ‘Acting on
 Television: Analytical Methods and Approaches’ and ‘The Moving Form of Film: Exploring
 Intermediality as a Historiographic Method’, ‘Spaces of Television’ and ‘Staging Beckett’.

 Visitors to the Department
 Distinguished visitors speaking at events we have organised include the actor Lisa Dwan,
 theatre director Ian Rickson, filmmakers Walter Salles (awarded an honorary degree from
 Reading in 2020) and Fernando Meirelles (whose film The Two Popes had its UK premiere with
 a discussion event on our campus), novelist and filmmaker Xialu Guo, philosopher Jacques
 Rancière, and academic speakers from numerous international institutions.

 We hosted Leverhulme Visiting Professor Chris Holmlund from the USA, and many Visiting PGR
 students and Postdoctoral researchers, especially those studying the work of Samuel Beckett or
 World Cinema, with funding from DAAD (Germany), CAPES and FAPESP (Brazil) and ICT
 (Portugal) for example, joined our research community.




                                                                                         Page 14
