Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London School of Economics and Political Science

 Unit of Assessment: 16: Economics and Econometrics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Department of Economics at LSE is one of the leading Economics Departments in the
 world, looking back on a history over a century long, during which it has been consistently at the
 forefront of intellectual developments in the discipline. With typically over 60 faculty and over
 1,000 students it is also one of the largest Economics Departments. It offers a thriving
 environment for research and study with leading scholars in most mainstream areas.
 Maintaining and further developing excellence in academic research alongside practical
 engagement and training of the next generation of economists has been and remains the central
 goal of the Department.

 In the QS World University Rankings by subject, in Economics and Econometrics, LSE ranked
 number five in 2020 behind Harvard, MIT, Stanford, and Berkeley, tied with Princeton. In the
 Tilburg University Top 100 Worldwide Economics Schools Research Ranking based on research
 contribution between 2015-2019 LSE ranked number four, just below Chicago, Harvard, and
 Stanford. These departments and many ranked below us are in well-endowed universities with
 more resources than we can draw on.

 The Department of Economics is a core asset of the London School of Economics. The
 Department educates a large number of students from undergraduate to research training, it
 accounts for a significant part of School revenues and expenditures, and it engages widely in the
 intellectual life of the School. Many academics who trained as economists also work in other
 departments throughout the School. Taken together, LSE Economics contributes significantly to
 the external profile and international recognition of the School.

 The approach to research in the Department is bottom‐up, giving researchers the freedom to
 develop their ideas while allowing them to draw on feedback and advice from excellent
 colleagues. The Department’s size, frequent visitors, and a vibrant series of weekly seminars
 with internationally renowned speakers as well as conferences contribute to this by constantly
 exposing staff and PhD students to new ideas and allowing for interactions with prominent
 economists.

 Directly affiliated to the Department are four research centres that are critical for the success of
 our research strategy: the Centre for Economic Performance (CEP), the Suntory and Toyota
 International Centres for Economics and Related Disciplines (STICERD), the Centre For
 Macroeconomics (CFM), and the International Growth Centre (IGC). All are housed, together
 with the Department of Economics, under one roof in 32 Lincoln’s Inn Fields. In addition to
 providing essential infrastructure and research support, the research centres also serve as the
 interface between academic research and practical engagement. The Department also
 maintains strong links with the Financial Markets Group (FMG), a long-standing research centre
 based in the Department of Finance at the LSE, with the Institute for Global Affairs, which has
 now been subsumed into the new School of Public Policy, and the more recently established
 Marshall Institute, which studies private action for public benefit.

 The research centres play a key role in raising external research funds and most individual
 grants raised by Department faculty are administered by the centres. The centres also support
 newly recruited faculty to raise such research funds. The centres provide much of the
 administrative backbone for many of the activities relevant to our research environment: running
 seminars and conferences, hosting visitors, providing research assistant opportunities for PhD
 students, and the dissemination of research findings. In addition, the centres are a key avenue
 to facilitate the impact and engagement resulting from our work through such avenues as media
 work, general audience publications, collaboration with policy-makers and public events.


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The research focus of the Department and centres is broad, covering all mainstream fields of
 economics. The Department is proud to have particular strengths in the following areas at the
 moment:
    • Political economy and development economics
    • Productivity and growth
    • Inequality, labour markets, and public economics
 and the Department’s presence in business cycle macroeconomics is growing.

 As of 31 July 2020, the UOA has 66 academic and research staff. The Department also has a
 large PhD programme, with between 11 and 26 PhD students in the cohorts from 2013-14 to
 2019-20: usually there are about 100 to 120 PhD students in the Department at any one time.

 The Department dedicates significant resources to maintaining and improving its standing in the
 economics profession. Our hiring and promotion policies are central to this aim, along with
 efforts to foster a departmental culture conducive to first-rate research and an environment in
 which junior faculty and research students can hone their expertise and develop into world-class
 researchers. By attracting some of the world’s top researchers, which have included a number
 of Nobel Prize winners over the decades, the Department is able to enhance the intellectual
 atmosphere of the entire scholarly community.

 Recruitment of world-leading faculty including in emerging fields has been one of the important
 means to deliver our objectives. We have been successful in recruiting faculty with interests in
 political economy, behavioural economics, field experiments (often using randomized control
 trials) and business cycle analysis in a strategic way. In the next five years, we intend to recruit
 researchers who are at the frontier of data science, in line with the LSE2030 strategy to develop
 an important footprint in at the intersection of this growing area with the social sciences.

 The PhD programme of the Department plays an integral part in our research strategy. We treat
 our PhD students as peers and collaborators. To be able to do this, we expend great care on
 the selection and recruitment of promising PhD candidates, just as we do in faculty hiring. Once
 at the LSE, the students become quickly integrated into the research communities in the
 Department and research centres, where they work as research assistants and often become
 collaborators on projects. As we detail below, our PhD students obtain excellent academic
 placements upon finishing.

 The Department’s mission since the REF2014 has been to be a leader in research, economics
 education, and public engagement, both at the national and international level. We believe that
 we have achieved our objectives to produce original ideas that advance our understanding of
 economic interactions and shed light on major international policy debates and to rank among
 the top economics departments worldwide by academic publications and research impact, as we
 hope our outputs, impact case studies, and the remainder of this statement demonstrate.

 Our goal for the coming five-year period is to further strengthen the leading position of the
 Department. We have been building up our macroeconomics group considerably over the past
 10 years and strive to have the best group in Europe in this area. We have a lot of strength
 across the areas of economic growth, business cycle analysis, and monetary policy but we plan
 to hire additional staff in international macroeconomics. At the same time, we are planning to
 secure new funding for the Centre for Macroeconomics in order to enable effective research and
 outreach in this area. Similarly, the Department has done well in the field of international trade
 and economic geography but we need to add a senior faculty member in this area. We are also
 planning to become a major player in the economics of gender. We have various senior
 colleagues engaged in this area already and are planning to add junior researchers and attract
 funds to support their work. We will build on the environment we already have, including our
 research centres, to enable researchers to carry out ground-breaking research, to relate this
 research to policy debates, inform the wider world about the results, and engage directly in the
 policy domain in an advisory capacity.


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We are committed to identifying and pursuing opportunities to achieve wider research impact
 from academically excellent research and the expertise created in conducting such research.
 The research in the Department and centres is very diverse, ranging from highly theoretical to
 very applied and the tradition of the Department has always been to play host to this entire
 spectrum. Given this range and the size of the Department, there are numerous opportunities for
 knowledge exchange and impact and many colleagues are engaged in these activities. The
 spirit that research should inform the wider world is deeply embedded in the fabric of the School,
 the Department, and particularly the research centres.

 The audience for our knowledge exchange and impact activities is wide ranging, from the
 general public to policy-makers. The main goal of our research is always to answer important
 questions and to influence the academic discourse in the discipline and the wider social
 sciences. Important research finds its way into the public domain. Proactive pathways to impact
 include: the production of research summaries for a general audience disseminated through
 social media, centre publications, external platforms like VoxEU; direct contact with journalists
 and news outlets; public lectures; engagement with policy-making bodies; and collaboration with
 other research organisations. Colleagues give evidence to parliamentary committees, advise
 government bodies, carry out commissioned policy research and sit on important advisory or
 policy-making bodies (as noted in Section 4, Professor Tenreyro is a member of the Bank of
 England’s Monetary Policy Committee and Professor Manning was Chair of the Migration
 Advisory Committee to the Home Office). Partnerships with UK and international policy
 agencies play an important role for our activities. LSE researchers, within the IGC and the
 Marshall Institute, are at the forefront of the “co-generation of knowledge”, working to combine
 projects in the field with significant academic value with immediate scalability into policy
 interventions. Our impact case study by Oriana Bandiera and Robin Burgess on improving the
 conditions of the ultra-poor particularly illustrates this approach.

 Our impact-generating activities therefore range from sharing our research results in forms that
 allow much wider non-academic use to helping users solve specific problems by leveraging the
 research expertise of colleagues. The missions and infrastructure of the research centres
 provide an important backbone to the continued vitality and success of these impact activities of
 the UOA, through various publications and media, existing networks including policy-makers and
 journalists, and the administrative capacity for a variety of events. The research centres are led
 by colleagues with strong interests in KEI. These structures are creating an environment where
 extra-academic impact flourishes.

 The impact case studies submitted by the UOA reflect these different approaches. Impacts
 described in the case study by Tim Besley on state capacity and development and by John van
 Reenen to increase firms’ productivity by identifying and promoting sounds management
 practices are underpinned by academic work which asks fundamental questions about the
 functioning of the social world. The case study by Dimitri Vayanos, Ricardo Reis, and Luis
 Garicano on a safer financial system for the Eurozone and by Paul Dolan, Richard Layard, and
 Laura Kudrna on the role of happiness in public policy start more directly with questions about
 the policy process. They draw on existing research and create new research output to address
 these issues. The above mentioned case study by Oriana Bandiera and Robin Burgess on the
 ultra-poor combines aspects of both these approaches.

 The multifaceted research themes of colleagues in the Department and the wide-ranging
 methodologies used are a springboard for interactions with scholars in many other disciplines at
 the LSE and elsewhere. This engagement is also facilitated by the fact that many economists
 work in other departments of the School together with academics from other disciplines. For
 example, the Department has a vibrant group in political economy, which collaborates closely
 with political scientists in other Departments around the School. Work in urban economics and
 economic geography benefits from the CEP’s Spatial Economics Research Centre and their
 affiliated colleagues in the Department of Geography and Environment. The Wellbeing
 Programme of the CEP cooperates with colleagues in the Department for Psychological and
 Behavioural Sciences. The Department also participates in the School’s Beveridge 2.0 initiative,

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 which brings social scientists together across the School to discuss the future of the welfare
 state.

 The School has embraced the move towards an open access publication environment and
 colleagues make use of this through LSE Research Online (LSERO) and gold publication routes
 where required by funders. Beyond this, the economics discipline has a long history of
 disseminating research findings early in the research process through working papers. The
 research centres of the Department all run working paper series, which are widely distributed
 and used actively by UOA members, further contributing to an open research environment.
 Working papers on Economics in LSERO are harvested by REPEC, making them even more
 discoverable. Tim Besley is Editor in Chief of LSE Public Policy Review which is published fully
 Open Access via LSE Press.

 In addition to sharing the final outputs of research via open access publication routes, the
 Department also fully supports the initiative to engage in open data sharing and archiving.
 For example, datasets for two ESRC sponsored studies, Stephen Machin’s “Supporting the
 Industrial Strategy” and Greg Fischer’s “Experimental Microfinance Data on Contract Structure,
 Risk Sharing and Investment Choice’ were deposited in the UK Data Archive. Many of our
 researchers also choose to publish datasets via the trusted data repository Harvard Dataverse.
 Examples include Alwyn Young, John Van Reenen and Xavier Jaravel.

 The Department and the research centres support the maintenance of high ethical standards in
 their research conduct. Most of the frontline oversight is done by the research centre directors
 and programme directors. This is true for peer reviewing and quality controlling research grant
 applications prior to submission to the funding bodies. Research involving human participants or
 identifiable personal data is subject to scrutiny under the auspices of the LSE Research Ethics
 Committee.

 Section 2. People

 The research strategy of the Department of Economics is excellence in all core subject areas,
 combined with a global focus. This is both supported and implied by our policy of recruiting only
 the best-performing candidates, independent of field and background. Recruiting the most
 talented economists in a competitive international market is difficult, and the LSE has
 consistently supported the Department in recruiting and retaining leading researchers at both
 junior and senior levels.

 The Department is large with about 60 full-time positions. Given its size, there is a lot of natural
 turnover, and we constantly have open positions and are typically searching for new colleagues
 at both the junior and senior level every year. The size and breadth of the Department also
 means that we do not need to hire simply to fill slots in specific fields or for specific teaching
 needs. As a result, we recruit academic colleagues solely based on individual merit and
 potential, drawing on the largest possible international pool of candidates. Because we can hire
 every year and can make multiple job offers in every hiring round, we can also be very ambitious
 in our offers, accepting that many of our offers will be declined. Since research activity is
 administered by the research centres, the Department does not employ research staff on short-
 term contracts but the externally funded centres CEP and CFM hire such staff with grant
 resources.

 Regardless of rank, once joining the Department, new members are immediately integrated into
 the intellectual life of the Department through involvement in seminars, formal teaching, and
 research in close collaboration with colleagues longer established at the LSE. Junior colleagues
 frequently co-teach a high-level course with a more senior staff member; they have a great deal
 of opportunity to co-author research papers; and they interact with senior colleagues in
 seminars. New members of the Department typically also become directly associated with one
 or more of the research centres.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Department provides out of its own revenues research funds for both faculty and students:
 currently each faculty member is awarded £2,000 every year; newly hired junior faculty receive
 an additional £25,000 start-up funds and are supported through additional research funds on an
 individual basis. The Department raises the funds for this purpose from its engagement in the
 LSE Summer School, the University of London International Programme, and executive
 teaching. The main financing of our research activity happens through the research centres by
 raising external funds. The centres can often draw on their grants or income stream to offer
 initial research support to new hires who fit into their research programme as well.

 On top of natural interactions occurring among colleagues within their research field, all junior
 members of the Department are also mentored by a professor outside their field, who discusses
 with them their work, career plans, achievements, and research trajectory. The mentor is careful
 to seek a balance between teaching, administration duties, and research for the new colleague:
 while research activity is to be emphasised, the Department is an academic organisation that
 undertakes the complete range of university activity. All new members of the Department
 receive a reduced teaching load in their first two years and retain a slightly lower teaching load
 until Major Review. We adapt flexibly to the circumstances to support junior academics. For
 example, during the Covid-19 lockdown we started a junior seminar series in order to make up
 for the lost opportunities from many cancelled conferences and external seminars these
 colleagues would normally attend.

 In addition to Department provided teaching reductions, all academic staff receive a full year of
 sabbatical after seven years of full-time teaching. Unpaid leave is also available to allow
 academics to visit other institutions. Sabbatical and leave requests are routinely granted as the
 Department can manage individual absences from teaching relatively easily due to its size. The
 following number of terms of sabbatical leave were taken by Department staff during the REF
 period, with the split between males and females roughly reflecting the gender composition in
 the Department:

            2013-14   2014-15   2015-16   2016-17   2017-18   2018-19    2019-20   Cumul.
  Female    2         2         1         1         2         1          2         11
  Male      2         7         10        8         11        8          11        57
  Total     4         9         11        9         13        9          13        68

 Except for the early career reduction, the notional teaching load is 100 contact hours per year for
 all Departmental faculty. Actual teaching loads are typically significantly lower as most faculty
 are able to attract research funding, either internal or external, which enables them to buy out
 some teaching time. The Department welcomes staff members raising funds for such buyouts.
 Inside the School, sources of buyout money include our main research centres, STICERD, CEP
 and CFM. Outside the School, the main sources are ESRC, the ERC, Leverhulme, and the
 British Academy. The Department, the centres, and the School’s Research and Innovation
 Division provide advice and assistance in applying for and obtaining research grants.

 The Department participates in the LSE Academic Career Development Scheme, monitoring
 non-professorial colleagues annually to discuss research, teaching and collegiality. An annual
 written report is prepared jointly by a Professor and the early-career researcher for the Head of
 Department to co-sign, and then filed with HR. This process is strictly monitored both by the
 Department’s internal processes and the School’s Human Resources Division.

 Individual performance of non-professorial faculty is also monitored by the Departmental
 Promotion and Reviews Committee, a sub‐committee of the Professors of Economics
 Committee that is chaired by the Deputy Head of Department for Research. This Committee is
 the body responsible for guiding the academic promotion and review process according to
 Departmental procedures. The guidelines require that for each candidate for promotion an
 internal committee consisting of three Professors provides a detailed appraisal of research
 achievements and citizenship. The committee also obtains at least ten independent evaluations

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by external referees of a candidate’s research quality and international standing. During the
 REF period, the introduction of the New Academic Career structure with an up-or-out review by
 the end of the eighth year has been established at the LSE, and all junior colleagues are now
 subject to this regime. In response, we have sharpened the monitoring of the progress made by
 junior faculty after their Interim Review in year four and provide tailored support and guidance for
 junior colleagues ahead of their Major Review.

 An important feature of the LSE’s review and promotions process is the reading of four
 publications by a School-wide Promotions Committee. This signals a focus on the candidates’
 most important work rather than on the length of the CV. We very much stress this vis-à-vis our
 junior colleagues and encourage them to work on important questions where they can make a
 real difference. As a result, many of them grow into accomplished researchers in their field at
 the LSE.

 A Junior Recruitment Committee, comprised of both junior and senior faculty, coordinates the
 junior hiring over a five-month period. The committee shortlists about 12 to 20 candidates
 among the applicants, in some years after interviews of a larger number at the meetings
 organised by the AEA or EEA. All faculty members are invited by the committee to provide their
 views at the shortlisting stage. The Department then hosts the shortlisted candidates through
 January and February. These candidates present a research seminar attended by the entire
 Department and meet faculty members during their visit. At the end of this process, the
 Department decides on the best candidates and then makes, on average, four to six Assistant
 Professor offers.

 In contrast to the time-focused junior recruitment process, the Senior Recruitment Committee is
 constantly looking for new hires. This Committee provides a first layer of early information-
 gathering, to make sure that time is well spent on all sides. After due discussion, selected
 individuals are invited to visit, present research work, and meet other members of the
 Department. The timing of these visits is less constrained than for junior recruits, and so can, in
 principle, occur anytime during the academic year. At the end of this process, the Professors
 decide whether to recommend any offers to the School based on substantive discussions at two
 meetings and the reading of ten or more external letters of evaluation in addition to an internal
 report.

 The Department has had considerable success with academic recruitment. At the professorial
 level we have attracted Benjamin Moll (previously Professor at Princeton), Nava Ashraf
 (previously Associate Professor at Harvard Business School, also appointed as Research
 Director, Marshall Institute), Stephen Machin (previously Professor at UCL, also appointed as
 CEP Director), Ricardo Reis (previously Professor at Columbia) and Philippe Aghion (half time
 shared with College de France, previously Professor at Harvard), and we rehired John Van
 Reenen, who left the Department to become a Professor at MIT. Michael Callen joined as an
 Associate Professor from UCSD. At the Assistant Professor level, we recruited Rachael Meager
 (PhD MIT), Daniel Reck (Michigan), Xavier Jaravel (Harvard), David Baqaee (Harvard),
 Shengxing Zhang (NYU), and Yike Wang (Chicago).

 These hires have substantially strengthened the Department in the areas of monetary
 economics and business cycle analysis (Moll, Reis, Baqaee, and Zhang) and on productivity and
 growth (Aghion, van Reenen, Jaravel), while adding to our existing strength in development
 economics (Ashraf, Callen, Meager) and public economics (Jaravel, Reck).

 Research staff in the research centres are typically junior researchers who just or recently
 obtained their PhD. They would normally join an existing research project on which they work in
 collaboration with more senior colleagues and become co-authors. Like junior faculty in the
 Department, these researchers are integrated into the wider research environment of their
 centre and the entire UOA: they attend seminars and have ample opportunities to interact with a
 variety of LSE staff and visitors. All these interactions give them plenty of scope to grow and


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mature under the mentorship of more senior colleagues. As this happens, they often also work
 on their own projects, sometimes raising their own funds as principal investigators.

 The Department and its associated research centres are involved in a substantial amount of
 applied research, and many researchers are interested and engaged in taking research results
 into the public domain outside academia. Section 4 gives details of many of these activities. The
 research centres provide infrastructural support for such engagement, including by organising
 public events, policy panels, non-academic publications to disseminate research results and
 providing a social media presence. The International Growth Centre is directly built on the
 premise of integrating research with policy-making processes in a two-way interaction. A lot of
 the funds for impact activities therefore come from the external fundraising of the centres.

 The Department has no formal mechanisms for rewarding impact activities as the existing model
 work well, drawing on the interests and motivations of staff, which are in turn supported by both
 the mission and infrastructure of the research centres. We are able to generate a large amount
 of impact activities without creating negative impacts on the workloads of particular colleagues.
 On some occasions, when a colleague takes on a particularly substantial and important role in
 this area in the School or the public arena, this is supported through reductions in teaching or
 administrative responsibilities.

 The Department runs a large PhD programme and we see our doctoral students as an important
 and integral part of our research environment. Over recent years, the Department has
 apportioned an increasing amount of resources to the training and development of research
 students, teaching them over two years in a set of dedicated courses. The Department and the
 School are substantially increasing this investment during the REF period through 16 PhD
 Scholarships per year, administered at the Department level, which will allow us to compete
 more strongly with the very well-funded top US PhD programmes.

 Our PhD students work in all major areas within economics. The Department offers a
 comprehensive range of advanced field seminars in which our students are able to appreciate
 the most recent research advances. The research environment offers ample opportunities for
 informal interaction with more senior researchers, and students are integrated into research
 groups formed across the Department and in associated research centres.

 The Department aims to recruit 20-25 research students to its MRes/PhD programme each year.
 The doctoral programme offers structured research training and supervision by faculty members
 prominent in their fields. Specifically, the MRes/PhD programme is grounded in a rigorous two-
 year coursework component and strong research element. In the first year, our students take
 core courses in Microeconomics, Macroeconomics, and Econometrics. In the second year, they
 take PhD-level field courses, which might continue into the third year, and write a supervised
 research paper. After this extensive and formalised training component, students enter a more
 apprenticeship-based component by developing their dissertation under faculty supervision from
 the third year onwards. Dissertations consist of three chapters with the expectation that these
 will be turned into journal articles upon completion.

 Each research student has a main supervisor and a second advisor/supervisor from among the
 Department’s faculty, based on fields of interest. Typically, however, de facto supervision and
 advice are provided throughout the student’s LSE career by the entire group of Department
 faculty in the student’s research area—both through seminar interaction and individual
 consultations.

 All research students and faculty working in specific areas participate in the corresponding field
 seminars organised within the Department and research centres. These research seminars,
 held weekly during term time, are organised around presentation of research in progress by
 Department and visiting faculty and are attended by 30 to 50 faculty and PhD students. We find
 that a great deal of research training is imparted to our research students in these seminars, as
 this is where they see faculty and outside researchers thinking through research problems.

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Discussion in these seminars is always lively. PhD students also have the opportunity to meet
 seminar speakers in small groups or in one-to-one meetings outside the seminar.

 In addition, research students participate in field specific work in progress (WIP) seminars,
 where they present their own developing research and receive feedback and guidance. Faculty
 in the various research fields get a good idea of the progress of PhD students through these
 WIP seminars. At a more formal level, the PhD Programme Director monitors progress and PhD
 supervision through annual progress reports completed by both students and supervisors.

 Starting in 2019/20, the Department of Economics with support from the School has begun to
 create 16 PhD Scholarships paying a stipend of £22,000 in addition to fee remission for five
 years, which will complement PhD fellowships obtained from ESRC or other funding students
 may obtain from external sources. In conjunction with introducing these scholarships, we have
 stepped up our efforts in recruiting PhD students. We put great care in the admissions process
 of our PhD applicants to select highly talented individuals. We also work hard in recruiting the
 applicants we admit to our programme. In 2019, we ran our first PhD Open Day, where we
 invited admitted applicants to visit the LSE for a day or two and meet faculty and current PhD
 students, and get a feel for the environment in the Department. In the last two years, we
 managed to attract new PhD cohorts which include applicants with competing offers from PhD
 programmes like Chicago, Northwestern, Yale, Columbia, Berkeley and Penn.

 Research students have desk-space in the Department to maximise interaction with faculty. All
 research students have a dedicated desk with a desk-top PC from their second year onwards;
 first-year students share hot-desk space. Many students bring in their own laptop computers to
 connect with LSE’s network.

 The Department of Economics runs its own placement programme, chaired by a senior faculty
 member. This effort focuses on placing students in academic jobs. PhD students start preparing
 for the job market beginning in the spring before entering the market. In October, students
 present a mock job talk in front of faculty and fellow students. In November, they are invited to
 mock interviews with faculty. These activities help them to hone their presentation skills to pitch
 their presentations to a wider audience outside their own research field. The Placement Officer
 disseminates information on the job candidates to recruiting institutions throughout the world.
 LSE Careers supports students seeking non-academic jobs with consultations and advice. The
 Department also supports job candidates in managing the stress of the process, for example by
 sponsoring yoga classes.

 Our PhD students who graduated in 2014–2020 went on to placements throughout the world,
 securing jobs in highly regarded academic departments as well as non-academic institutions.
 From 2014 to 2020, our prominent academic placements include the following:

    •   2019-20: Oxford (Economics), Cornell (Economics), Bocconi (Economics), Warwick
        (Economics), Toulouse School of Economics
    •   2018-19: MIT (Economics), Stanford GSB (Finance), Northwestern Kellogg (Strategy),
        Duke (Economics), Bocconi (Economics), Maryland College Park (Economics), Carnegie
        Mellon Heinz School
    •   2017-18: University of Pennsylvania (Economics), Berkeley Haas (Finance), Chicago
        Booth (Economics)
    •   2016-17: Berkeley Haas (Business and Public Policy), Bocconi (Finance), Pompeu Fabra
        (Economics), Essex (Economics)
    •   2015-16: Harvard (Kennedy School), University of Chicago (Harris School)
    •   2014-15: Columbia (Economics), Stanford GSB (Finance), Toronto (Rotman School of
        Management), Duke (Economics), Northwestern (Kellogg School) – two placements,
        Warwick (Economics), Bonn (Economics)
    •   2013-14: Harvard Business School, Essex (Economics)

 This record is comparable only to the most prestigious US Economics Departments.

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We treat our PhD students as colleagues and we encourage them to work to their full potential,
 just as our junior faculty. As a result, many become collaborators of faculty or publish their own
 research in top academic outlets. The following top economics journal publications were either
 part of the PhD work or produced shortly after by our students who graduated during the REF
 period (in bold); many of these are co-authored with faculty (underlined):

    •   (Michael Best PhD 2014), Anne Brockmeyer (PhD 2013), Henrik Kleven, Johannes
        Spinnewijn and Mazhar Waseem (PhD 2014), 2015 “Production vs Revenue Efficiency
        with Limited Tax Capacity: Theory and Evidence from Pakistan,” Journal of Political
        Economy 123 (6), 1311-55
    •   Michael Best (PhD 2014), Henrik Kleven, 2018 “Housing market responses to
        transaction taxes: Evidence from notches and stimulus in the UK,” Review of Economic
        Studies 85 (1), 157-193
    •   Michael Best (PhD 2014), James Cloyne, Ethan Ilzetzki, and Henrik Kleven, 2020
        “Estimating the Elasticity of Intertemporal Substitution Using Mortgage Notches,” Review
        of Economic Studies 87 (2), 656-690
    •   Jonathan de Quidt (PhD 2014), Johannes Haushofer and Christopher Roth, 2018
        “Measuring and Bounding Experimenter Demand,” American Economic Review, 108
        (11), 3266–3302
    •   Claudia Steinwender (PhD 2014), 2018 “Real Effects of Information Frictions: When the
        States and the Kingdom became United,” American Economic Review 108 (3), 657-696
    •   Henrik Kleven and Mazhar Waseem (PhD 2014), 2013 “Using notches to uncover
        optimization frictions and structural elasticities: Theory and evidence from Pakistan,”
        Quarterly Journal of Economics 128 (2), 669-723
    •   Thiemo Fetzer (PhD 2015), 2019 “Did Austerity Cause Brexit?” American Economic
        Review, 109(11), 3849–3886
    •   Reka Juhasz (PhD 2015), 2018 “Temporary Protection and Technology Adoption:
        Evidence from the Napoleonic Blockade,” American Economic Review, 108 (11): 3339-
        3376
    •   Andrea Lanteri (PhD 2015), 2018 “The Market for Used Capital: Endogenous
        Irreversibility and Reallocation over the Business Cycle,” American Economic Review,
        108(9), 2383-2419
    •   Guo Xu (PhD 2017), 2018 “The Costs of Patronage: Evidence from the British Empire”,
        American Economic Review, 108(11), 3170-3198.
    •   Marianne Bertrand, Robin Burgess, Arunish Chawla, and Guo Xu (PhD 2017), 2020,
        “The Glittering Prizes: Career Incentives and Bureaucrat Performance,” Review of
        Economic Studies 87 (2), 626-655.
    •   Kilian Huber (PhD 2018), 2018 “Disentangling the Effects of a Banking Crisis: Evidence
        from German Firms and Counties, American Economic Review, 108(3), 868–898
    •   James Cloyne, Henrik Kleven, Kilian Huber (PhD 2018), and Ethan Ilzetzki, 2019 “The
        Effect of House Prices on Household Borrowing: A New Approach,” American Economic
        Review 109, 2104-2136

 The Department awards PhDs as the only type of doctorate degree.

 The representation of female academic staff in the Department is low, although this is largely a
 reflection of the female share in the economics profession at large. During the REF period, the
 Department has addressed this issue in junior recruiting. The Junior Recruitment Committee
 was instructed to target 50% female candidates in longlisting and this target was later extended
 to the shortlisting (visit) stage as well. In most years, the actual numbers were at or near this
 target. During the REF period we have hired two female Assistant Professors out of five new
 hires (40 %). As a result, the fraction of female staff in the Department has increased from 15%
 in 2014 to 21% in 2020. At the senior level, one of five new hires (20 %) has been female.
 Overall, only four Professors in the Department (13%) are female, and so the Department is now


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 being similarly pro-active in identifying senior candidates to improve representation at senior
 level.

 The intake of female PhD students has also increased over this period. From 2014 to 2018, just
 over 30% of external offers were made to female applicants on average. For the 2019 intake, we
 broadened the application process by asking candidates to write about specific topics in their
 research statement, including discussing their favourite economics paper and writing a short
 comment for a general audience on one out of a list of eight questions. This was designed to
 enable the admissions committee to better gauge the research potential of applicants, in terms
 of how they think about economics as well as widen the evidence on which applications are
 assessed. We believe that this has helped to increase the diversity of our intake, and
 particularly has allowed us to attract more female candidates. In 2019, we made 40% of offers
 to female candidates and in 2020 over 50%. These shares are diluted by the fact that we also
 offer a place on our PhD programme to well-performing candidates in our own MSc programme,
 and the applicant pool from that programme is more strongly male biased.

 In terms of selecting REF outputs, the internal grading of individual outputs is done on the basis
 of the academic merit of the outputs. However, the Departmental REF Panel is committed to
 taking EDI issues into consideration, as identified by HR analysis of the selected portfolio and in
 consultation with the REF Strategy Committee. In particular, in the final stage of the evaluation,
 the panel will make sure that the number of submitted outputs by protected characteristics
 reflects the proportion of individuals with protected characteristics in the population of the UOA.


 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 It is relatively costly to sustain the research environment of the Economics Department. By most
 measures, the UOA has been highly successful in acquiring funding for its research, attracting
 over £50M in external research grants over the REF period. The main vehicles for raising these
 funds and supporting this research are three affiliated research centres; the Centre for Economic
 Performance (CEP), the Centre for Macroeconomics (CFM), and STICERD. In addition, the
 International Growth Centre (IGC), although a much broader network, plays a role in supporting
 research done in the Economics Department, as do other centres around the LSE, like the
 Institute for Global Affairs and the Marshall Institute. CEP and CFM raise external funding
 centrally to support a programme of work by associated researchers and have successfully
 utilised the ESRC centre grants. STICERD has an endowment supporting its activities.
 Department faculty also raise numerous individual research grants, typically with assistance of
 the centres.

 The research centres also provide infrastructure to support the research of faculty and PhD
 students. The research centres collaborate in the Research Laboratory (RLAB) and the RLAB
 IT team provide a full range of data support and a computing and server infrastructure for its
 members and visitors. Expertise and working relations with government departments built over
 decades allow us privileged access to administrative data, for example access to Department for
 Education datasets. High end computer needs beyond those of the RLAB IT infrastructure are
 provided by the LSE’s High Performance Computing (HPC) Cluster “Fabian”. Faculty and PhD
 students from the Department of Economics and the research centres have accounted for 84%
 of the usage on the system.

 Apart from funding IT needs and administrative staff, centre funding is used to hire research
 assistants, often our own PhD students but also PhD students from other institutions as well as
 pre-doctoral students. In addition, the CEP and CFM employ Research Officers to work on
 specific projects. Centre funding also supports our seminar series, academic visitors, and
 publications.

 The CEP was established in 1990 and has received its core funding as an ESRC research
 centre over six consecutive funding rounds. In 2018, it has been recognised as a global centre

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of excellence by the ESRC and granted official ESRC Research Institute status guaranteeing its
 future funding. The CEP is an interdisciplinary research centre, housing seven research
 programmes on Growth, Trade, Labour Markets, Education and Skills, Urban and Spatial
 Economics, Wellbeing, and Community. Each research programme carries out a number of
 projects, circa 70 projects in total, addressing key issues, set out under the Programme of Work
 2015-2020 (and previously 2010-2015). In addition, the Centre for Vocational Education
 Research (CVER), part of the What Works Centre for Wellbeing, and the What Works Centre for
 Local Economic Growth are housed within CEP. Members of the CEP who have left the LSE
 often stay associated and continue to contribute to the work of the centre, like Stephen Redding
 (Princeton), Nick Bloom (Stanford), or Raffaella Sadun (Harvard), thus creating an international
 network of researchers we can tap into.

 The CFM was founded in 2012 with a centre grant from the ESRC. It is a joint research centre of
 the LSE, the University of Cambridge, UCL, the Bank of England, and NIESR. It has five
 research strands: developing new methodologies; consequences of fiscal austerity plans and
 high debt levels; interaction between financial markets, monetary policy, and the macro
 economy; shifts in the world economy; and labour markets, unemployment levels and long-term
 prospects.

 STICERD was established in 1978 with funds donated by Suntory Limited and the (then) Toyota
 Motor Company Limited of Japan, with further donations from Suntory Limited in 1984 and 1989
 and the Toyota Motor Corporation in 1995. The centre has eight research programmes:
 development economics, econometrics, economics of industry, economic theory, Japanese
 studies, political science and political economy, psychology and economics, and public
 economics. Including faculty, research students, and visitors, on average 75 resident
 researchers are involved in the work of the centres at any one time.

 The IGC is a global research network primarily funded by DfID, directed by staff from the LSE
 and Oxford, and headquartered at the LSE. During the REF2021 period, IGC has provided
 £596k in funding for projects resulting in 11 publications by faculty or PhD students associated
 with the UOA and sponsored six further projects by department PhD students. The IGC
 received a new seven-year grant of £56m from DfID in October 2019.

 Over the REF census period, UOA 16 researchers and centres have received a total of about
 £53m in external research funding. This includes £14.7m in centre grants from the ESRC and
 another £5.8m in individual grants and £15m in individual grants from the ERC. The Department
 and centres encourage and support all researchers equally in raising external research income.
 Female PIs raised 22% of the external research funds, above the representation of females in
 the UOA.

 Some of the most influential research produced by the UOA has been supported by this
 infrastructure and research funding. For example, the ESRC core grant to the CEP 2010-15
 supported:

    •   Alan Manning (with Goos and Salomons) “Explaining job polarization: Routine-biased
        technological change and offshoring” American Economic Review 104 (8), 2014, 2509-
        26

 and the CEP core grant 2015-20:

    •   Nick Bloom, Mirco Draca, and John van Reenen, “Trade induced technical change? The
        impact of Chinese imports on innovation, IT and productivity” Review of Economic
        Studies 83 (1), 2016, 87-117

 Daniel Sturm’s ERC grant supported his work



                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   (with Ahlfeld, Redding, and Wolf) “The economics of density: Evidence from the Berlin
        Wall” Econometrica 83 (6), 2015, 2127-2189, winner of the Frisch Medal.

 The Department of Economics has been housed together with its research centres under one
 roof in 32 Lincoln’s Inn Fields since January 2013, facilitating a cohesive research environment.
 Seminars, workshops, lectures and the arrangement of offices and desks enable effective
 interaction and collegiality among faculty, visitors, and PhD students.

 Journals are the main publication avenue in economics, and the LSE Library supports faculty
 and research students through electronic access to journal publications from JSTOR and other
 platforms. In addition, pre-publication working papers are an important resource for frontier
 knowledge. The Library subscribes to the working paper series from the NBER and from 52
 central banks around the world.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Activities to share and engage users with our research results are wide ranging. At one end of
 the spectrum, the UOA is extremely active in disseminating the results of our own research to
 non-specialists and the user community in a variety of ways. At the other end, many colleagues
 engage with specific users (particularly policy-makers) to help them solve problems by drawing
 on our expert knowledge of the research frontier. In addition, some impact activities draw on a
 wide range of research results seeking to influence the policy agenda directly.

 In many cases, this involves working with UK and international policy agencies directly. In
 addition, LSE economists routinely work with non-government organisations, think tanks, and
 businesses, to co-produce and disseminate research and hence reach a wider audience we are
 not otherwise directly connected with. For example, CEP has worked with UK in a Changing
 Europe on Brexit, with the Sutton Trust on intergenerational mobility, with Action for Happiness
 and Healthy Minds, Hertfordshire, on mental health, and with Cognition X and Capital Enterprise
 on future technologies.

 An example of our work drawing on a broad base of research is the LSE Growth Commission,
 which first reported in 2013 to provide recommendations to the UK government on policies to
 promote productivity growth. The commissioners consisted of LSE academics and leaders in
 business and public affairs and brought together existing frontier research and new evidence to
 distil a set of growth promoting policies. The commission reconvened for a new report in 2017 to
 address new questions facing the UK following the result of the 2016 Brexit Referendum. The
 Sunday Times called the report “more coherent and comprehensive than anything the
 government has yet come up with.” A similar model was used by the LSE-Oxford Commission
 on State Fragility, Growth and Development in 2017-18, to leverage academic expertise and
 knowledge in order to help some of the poorest states ravaged by conflicts and lacking effective
 government. The work of both commissions was supported by the LSE KEI Fund.

 The Industrial Strategy Papers of the CEP are written in an accessible way for non-specialists
 and bring together CEP research to inform the UK Industrial Strategy. These policy papers
 present best evidence on training and apprenticeships, the role of universities in fostering
 productivity growth, ways to enhance the productivity of small enterprises, and low carbon
 growth.

 From 2016, the CEP has been deeply engaged in the Brexit discussion under the leadership of
 researchers Swati Dhingra, Gianmarco Ottaviano, Steve Machin, Thomas Sampson, and John
 van Reenen. The core of this effort has been the CEP Brexit Analysis series, published between
 2016 and 2020. This comprises 16 pieces, each discussing a specific topic like the impact of
 Brexit on trade, living standards, foreign investment, immigration, inequality, and regions, as well
 as policy options and analysis of particular policy proposals. Although based on rigorous
 academic research, the Brexit Analysis series is written for and accessible to a much wider

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 audience. Papers from the series had been downloaded over 2.3 million times by December
 2019. In addition, researchers have published academic articles in the Journal of Economic
 Perspectives, Economic Policy, and Fiscal Policy and the CEP has produced a video and Brexit
 Blog.

 The CEP regularly provides non-partisan Election Analyses before every UK national election on
 major areas of public interest where the centre has expertise.

 While the CEP provides research- based policy analysis for a UK and rich country audience, the
 International Growth Centre (IGC) does the same for poor countries. The IGC, founded in 2009,
 is a network of world-leading researchers on development issues and includes colleagues Robin
 Burgess, Oriana Bandiera, John Sutton, Michael Callen, Camille Landais, and Gharad Bryan in
 leadership roles. The IGC model is based on the recognition that building effective growth
 policies in developing countries requires more than imported solutions. Countries face a range of
 challenges that require new thinking, new evidence and a flow of new ideas. Running
 programmes in 20 countries, the Centre develops research projects to provide solutions to
 specific questions posed by developing country governments and working in close collaboration
 with them. Many LSE PhD students get involved in these IGC projects.

 The Marshall Institute at the LSE pursues a very similar model of co-developing research
 projects with partners who implement them, focusing on the non-profit and social enterprise
 sector. Department member Nava Ashraf is Research Director of the Marshall Institute, which
 started in 2016. Much of the Institute’s work is about understanding and leveraging prosocial
 behaviour by individuals in developing countries. The IGC and Marshall models make it easy to
 scale up successful interventions through the partners involved in the initial projects and can
 therefore influence policy delivery very quickly and directly.

 One example of this approach is Nava Ashraf’s work in Zambia, whose team designed a
 programme of negotiation skills to be taught to adolescent girls in schools. The programme was
 evaluated with a randomised control trial and showed effects on educational outcomes as well
 as a reduction in teen pregnancies. From the beginning, this project was designed and
 implemented with partners in the Zambian Ministry of General Education. As a result, elements
 of the programme were implemented in a 2016 curriculum reform, only four years after the start
 of the initial project. In comparison, the academic paper analysing the project appeared only in
 May 2020 in the Quarterly Journal of Economics. The LSE KEI Fund supported Nava Ashraf’s
 work to expand this co-generation of knowledge model further.

 The Centre for Macroeconomics (CFM) was founded in order to respond to the challenges
 arising from the global financial crisis starting in 2008. Like the other research centres, it has
 been heavily engaged with policy-makers and the public. The Centre carries out the monthly
 CFM Survey started in 2014, which informs the general public about the views held by UK-based
 economists on important macroeconomic and public policy questions. It has now broadened its
 scope to economists based in Europe. An important motivation for the survey is to give a more
 comprehensive overview of the beliefs held by economists, and in particular to embrace the
 views of those economists whose opinions are not frequently heard in public debates. It can also
 shed light on the extent to which there is agreement or disagreement among these experts. As
 a result, it hopes to provide a more rounded basis for policy discussions.

 In 2019, the LSE opened its School of Public Policy (SPP), which took over running the
 successful Master of Public Administration programme. The Department of Economics has
 been involved in the conception and running of this programme for over a decade and has
 strong links with the new School. The SPP’s education programmes directly trains the next
 generation of individuals to be involved in the policy making process. This includes a
 customised programme for the UK civil service, strengthening our connection to this important
 backbone of the policy process. The School’s remit goes beyond teaching and it is becoming an
 additional vehicle at the LSE for discussion and dissemination of policy relevant research and


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 analysis. Economists and other social scientists from around the LSE are heavily involved in
 this as the SPP does not have any faculty members of its own.

 There are many examples of academically oriented research influencing public policy. The
 Impact Case Studies by Tim Besley on state capacity and development and by John van
 Reenen on how to raise firms’ productivity by identifying and promoting sounds management
 practices are examples of this. Another one is the research by Camille Landais, Johannes
 Spinnewijn, and Pascal Michaillat on the optimal design of unemployment insurance policies. In
 various research papers published in the American Economic Review and the American
 Economic Journal: Economic Policy between 2015 and 2018, they explore how unemployment
 benefits should vary over the business cycle and over individual unemployment spells. The
 results have influenced discussions in various countries. In the US, the research figured in the
 main report made by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) reviewing unemployment
 insurance during the Great Recession. In France, Camille Landais wrote policy briefs to the
 French Prime Minister and the French President to advise them on a reform of the
 unemployment insurance system in 2019.

 Various members of the Department have served in important policy-making roles or on advisory
 bodies of the UK government.

    •   Professor Silvana Tenreyro is external member of the Monetary Policy Committee of the
        Bank of England
    •   Professor Alan Manning was Chairman of the Migration Advisory Committee to the Home
        Office
    •   Professor Nick Stern authored the Independent Review of the Research Excellence
        Framework “Building on Success and Learning from Experience” 2016
    •   Professor Tim Besley is a Commissioner for National Infrastructure Commission
    •   Professor Besley is also on the IFS Deaton Review Panel on Inequality
    •   Professor Charles Bean is a member of the Budget Responsibility Committee

 The work of our colleagues on these external bodies typically draws both on their own research
 as well as their knowledge of the evidence base. The policy activities often feed back into new
 research motivated by the policy challenges. Where necessary, the Department supports its
 members to carry out such high-profile roles in the public policy arena, for example through
 teaching buyouts. Many Department members frequently also act in smaller or more ad-hoc
 roles.

 The Department and the research centres engage in interdisciplinary research through links with
 other LSE units as well as externals. Colleagues working on political economy in the
 Department are part of the interdisciplinary Political Science and Political Economy (PSPE)
 group, which includes members from the Government Department, the European Institute,
 International Relation, the Department of International Development, and most recently also the
 SPP, which hosted the latest conference for the group on populism. The PSPE group provides
 a unique interdisciplinary environment, through weekly research seminars, the beating heart of
 the group, and periodic workshops and conferences. The group also delivers joint courses at the
 MSc and PhD level and is involved in the new four-year BSc in PPE. PSPE is a founder member
 of several national and international research networks, POLECONUK (a UK based political
 economy network), the European Political Economy Consortium (EPEC), which includes
 universities such as Toulouse, Warwick, Bocconi and others, and the new CEPR group in
 political economy. The PSPE group organizes three annual conferences: The Formal Theory
 and Comparative Politics Conference, now in its eighth year, the LSE/NYU Conference in
 Political Science and Political Economy, and the Behavioural Political Economy Conference.

 The CEP Wellbeing Group, led by Richard Layard, cooperates with health and psychological
 experts, as well as colleagues in Departments around the LSE. The Impact Case Study by
 Dolan, Layard, and Kudrna on the role of happiness in public policy documents the work of the
 group in promoting subjective wellbeing as a central objective of public policy in the UK and

                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 elsewhere, with a focus on developing measurement tools which can be part of the headline
 indicators collected by the ONS. Apart from working on the measurement of wellbeing, the
 research of the group has highlighted the importance of life events and mental illness for
 individual wellbeing and analysed programmes designed to improve life satisfaction. An
 example of such a project, Healthy Minds, is a new four-year curriculum for secondary schools –
 on physical health, emotional health and behaviour. The elements of the programme, which
 involve building resilience, looking after one’s mental health, developing healthy relationships
 with others, were sourced and developed by Richard Layard together with psychologists John
 Coleman and Daniel Hale. The programme was then implemented by the educational charity
 Bounce Forward and evaluated in a randomised trial of 39 school cohorts by Grace Lordan, LSE
 Department of Psychological and Behavioural Sciences, and Alistair McGuire from the LSE
 Health Policy Department in 2018. They found substantial improvement in self-reported physical
 and mental health as well as life-satisfaction.

 Beveridge 2.0. Redefining the Social Contract, directed by Department member Tim Besley, is a
 new LSE-wide initiative exploring avenues for collaborative cross-disciplinary research. Set up
 in 2017, 75 years after the original Beveridge Report, it is addressing new challenges which are
 putting a strain on social sustainability and forcing us to reconsider the conditions underpinning
 the social contract. These challenges bring to the fore cross-cutting questions - from issues of
 rights and expectations of citizens with respect to welfare provision and democratic institutions,
 to questions around financial, environmental and social sustainability, but also to the values and
 goals that welfare states seek to promote.

 These questions require a global perspective and a focus on their interconnectedness, which
 can only be achieved through fostering dialogue across disciplines. Beveridge 2.0 aims to
 provide the space for this dialogue, recognizing the unique position of the LSE in contributing to
 the research and public debate around the solutions suited to the demands of the twenty-first
 century. Beveridge 2.0 supports interdisciplinary research, runs events, engages students in
 research activities, and sponsors a new publication, the LSE Public Policy Review to which
 Economics Department members contribute.

 Other interdisciplinary initiatives happen at the level of individual faculty members. For example,
 Maitreesh Ghatak (Economics) is collaborating with Mukulika Banerjee (Anthropology) in a
 project to examine how poor individuals in India are coping with the Covid-19 crisis and the
 lockdown. They focus primarily on migrant workers who work in cities and were forced to return
 to the villages when the lockdown was announced with very little notice and without proper
 planning. While the pandemic is preventing standard approaches to data collection, they want to
 use this collaboration between the disciplines of Economics and Anthropology to overcome
 these challenges. They will carry out phone interviews utilising pre-existing research networks,
 creatively use secondary data from a number of surveys that have already been carried out by
 other researchers, and draw on their existing contacts in the media and bureaucracy to form a
 composite picture of how migrants coped with the crisis and what they perceive the future to
 hold for them.

 In addition to the main disciplinary seminars, there are a number of regular seminar series which
 involve collaboration with other departments, such as the Joint Econometrics and Statistics
 Workshop Series, Political Science and Political Economy Research Seminar Series,
 Psychology and Economics Seminar Series (STICERD), Capabilities, Competition and
 Innovation Seminar Series (CEP), Wellbeing Seminar Series (CEP), Urban and Regional
 Economics Seminar Series (CEP), and the Centre for Vocational Education Research Seminar
 Series (CEP).

 Apart from engaging with non-specialists and colleagues in other disciplines, the central goal of
 LSE Economists is to disseminate new research results to our own academic community. Many
 of our colleagues are leaders in their respective fields and become authors of survey pieces.
 For example, UOA members have been authors of 13 articles in the Journal of Economic
 Perspectives or eight in the Annual Review of Economics during the REF period. Steve Machin

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 is one of the editors of Volume 5 of the Handbook of the Economics of Education (2016). Four
 Department members are programme directors of the CEPR, the leading European research
 network in applied economics, and Robin Burgess is President of BREAD, an international
 research network in development economics.

 The book Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist’s Companion by Jorn-Steffen Pischke
 (with Joshua Angrist) is contributing to the methodological training of a large audience of PhD
 students and young researchers. It is also reaching neighbouring disciplines like political
 science, sociology, public health, and epidemiology, bringing methods and toolkits developed in
 economics to a wide academic audience. In 2018, the book was awarded the Eugene Fama
 Prize for Outstanding Contributions to Doctoral Education.

 An important part of the UOA’s engagement with the academic community is to bring prominent
 economists as visitors to the LSE. During the REF period, among the visitors to the Department
 or research centres were: Mary Amiti (NY Fed), David Austen-Smith (Kellogg School of
 Management), Andrew Bernard (Dartmouth), Andrew Clark (PSE), Jordi Gali (UPF), Keith Head
 (UBC), Elhanan Helpman (Harvard), Nobu Kiyotaki (Princeton), Eliana La Ferrara (Bocconi),
 Oliver Linton (Cambridge), Roger Myerson (Chicago), Tuomas Pekkarinen (VATT, Helsinki),
 Robert Shimer (Chicago), David Weinstein (Columbia), and Michael Whinston (MIT).

 Members of the Department are highly active in professional activities. During the REF period,
 they have been editors of the following journals:

    •   Econometrica
    •   Review of Economic Studies
    •   Economic Journal
    •   Quantitative Economics
    •   AEJ: Applied Economics
    •   AEJ: Macroeconomics
    •   Review of Economics and Statistics
    •   European Economic Review
    •   Journal of Monetary Economics
    •   Journal of Industrial Economics
    •   Journal of Development Economics,
    •   Journal of Public Economics
    •   Annual Review of Economics

 Members of the UOA also routinely carry out a large volume of refereeing duties for major
 scholarly journals and funding agencies, far too many to list here. They are routinely involved in
 the organisation of conferences, often in leadership roles of research networks. Most Professors
 in the Departments frequently give keynote lectures.

 The Economics Department took over the running of the LSE journal Economica from the
 School in 2015. The editorial board has since consisted of professors in Economics and from
 related departments of the School and they published the first issue in January 2016. The
 editors have since played a much more active role in soliciting high quality submissions. At the
 same time, the Coase and Phillips Lectures have both moved to an annual format and become
 important events in the Department and prominent pieces in the journal.

 Economica’s impact factor had declined from a peak of 1.29 in 2010 to 0.92 in 2016. The new
 editorial team’s efforts paid off with an increase of the impact factor to 1.48 in 2019. At the same
 time, this stewardship of the journal has created an annual net revenue stream for the
 Department of about £100 – 150k. The plan of the editorial team is to further leverage the new
 prominence of the journal with a conference, special issue, and an associated fundraising
 campaign in 2021, Economica’s centenary.


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Department members have always received high academic honours including Nobel Prizes
 (Nobel Laureate Chris Pissarides is a current Department member). During the REF period
 UOA members received the following prizes and played leading roles in professional bodies:

    •   Winner of the Yrjö Jahnsson Award: Oriana Bandiera (2019)
    •   Winners of the Philip Leverhulme Prize in Economics: Camille Landais (2016), Ben Moll
        and Xavier Jaravel (2019).
    •   Presidents of RES: Charles Bean (2013-15), John Moore (2015-16), Nick Stern (2018-
        19)
    •   Presidents of the EEA: Philippe Aghion (2017), Silvana Tenreyro will become president
        in 2021 and Oriana Bandiera in 2022
    •   President of the Econometric Society: Tim Besley (2018)
    •   Fellows of the Econometric Society: Philippe Aghion, Oriana Bandiera, Tim Besley,
        Francesco Caselli, Richard Layard, Martin Pesendorfer, Michele Piccione, Chris
        Pissarides, Ricardo Reis, Peter Robinson, Nick Stern, John Sutton, and John van
        Reenen
    •   Fellows of the British Academy: Philippe Aghion, Oriana Bandiera, Tim Besley, Robin
        Burgess, Francesco Caselli, Maitreesh Ghatak, Richard Layard, Steve Machin, John
        Moore, Chris Pissarides, Peter Robinson, Nick Stern, John Sutton, Silvana Tenreyro, and
        John van Reenen
    •   Queens Honours: Charles Bean, Knights Bachelor (2014), John van Reenen, OBE
        (2017), John Moore, CBE (2017), Nick Stern, Companion of Honour (2017), Tim Besley,
        Knights Bachelor (2018)

 The Department of Economics is collaborating with colleagues at Sciences Po, Paris, under the
 School’s Academic Partnerships scheme. The Department has received staff from Sciences Po
 for up to one term, hosting visiting faculty members who engage with our students through a
 teaching commitment and interact with our faculty.

 The Department of Economics participates in the European Doctoral Programme (EDP),
 allowing exchanges of research students with Université Catholique de Louvain, Bonn Graduate
 School of Economics, University of Bonn, Tel Aviv University, the European University Institute,
 Florence, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona and the Paris School of Economics, Paris. Visits
 can be for a minimum of a term and maximum of a year.

 The reaction of the UOA to the Covid-19 crisis provides a capsule summary of its research
 strength and its embeddedness in public debate and the policy process. The following is a list of
 working papers and opinion pieces produced on the topic (LSE faculty in bold, PhD students
 underlined):

 Tim Besley and Sascha Dray, The Political Economy of Lockdown: Does Free Media Make a
 Difference?

 Tim Besley and Nicholas Stern, The Economics of Lockdown.

 Swati Dhingra, Protecting informal workers in urban India: the need for a universal job
 guarantee.

 Ethan Ilzetzki and Hugo Reichardt, Ramping up ventilator production: lessons from WWII.

 Ethan Ilzetzki, COVID-19: the economic policy response.

 Xavier Jaravel and Martin O'Connell, High-frequency changes in shopping behaviours,
 promotions and the measurement of inflation: evidence from the Great Lockdown.

 Camille Landais, Emmanuel Saez, and Gabriel Zucman, A progressive European wealth tax to
 fund the European COVID response.

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Giulia Giupponi and Camille Landais, Building effective short-time work schemes for the
 COVID-19 crisis.

 Greg Kaplan, Ben Moll, and Gianluca Violante, Pandemics According to HANK.

 Faheem Ahmed, Ahmed Na'eem, Christopher Pissarides, and Joseph Stiglitz, Why inequality
 could spread COVID-19.

 Christopher Pissarides, Pietro Garibaldi, and Espen R. Moen, Lessons from the economic-
 epidemiological frontier.

 Ricardo Reis, The economics of coronavirus: a reading list.

 Nicholas Stern and Amar Bhattacharya, From rescue to recovery, to transformation and growth:
 building a better world after COVID-19.




                                                                                           Page 18
