Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Anglia Ruskin University

 Unit of Assessment: 13 – Architecture, Built Environment and Planning

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and Structure
 UoA13 comprises 19 FTE staff drawn from the School of Engineering and the Built Environment,
 Faculty of Science and Engineering (18 FTE) and the School of Allied Health, Faculty of Health,
 Education, Medicine & Social Care (1 FTE) at Anglia Ruskin University. Together these staff
 constitute a multi-disciplinary team (architects, construction managers, engineers, facilities
 managers, sociologists, surveyors, town planners, and urban designers) who individually, and in
 groups, research issues pertinent to Future City living. This alignment to one of the Global
 Societal Challenges identified in the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals to
 Transform our World: Goal 11 (UNSDG11) – making cities and human settlements inclusive,
 safe, resilient and sustainable, is strategic for UoA13, and aligns also with the University’s
 Sustainability Strategy. Over the current REF period UoA13 researchers have focused on
 researching the challenges posed to architecture, built environment and planning professions in
 transforming the existing urban built environment into a more resilient and sustainable future
 urban built environment.

 The UoA 13 submission is structured
 around the work of the Future Cities                                     Future Urban Built Environment
 Research Network (FCRN) which
 was established following REF2014
 to provide an academic focus and                                        Product /
                                                                                     People /
                                                                                                  Process /
                                          Transformation    Product                  Product /                    Process
 research infrastructure to support the                                   People
                                                                                      Process
                                                                                                   People

 implementation of the Future Cities
 Research Strategy. The Future                     Innovative                  Product /    Process /
 Cities Research Strategy (Figure 1)                Solutions
                                                                     Product
                                                                                People       People
                                                                                                        Process

 views the built environment as a
 complex system of buildings and                         Baseline
 infrastructure that exists to support                 Performance
                                                                         Product      People       Process

 the needs of society in a resilient
 and sustainable way. However, as
 the needs of society are constantly                                      Existing Urban Built Environment

 changing, so the solutions required
 by architects, built environment and         Figure 1 Towards a sustainable and resilient built
 planning professions need to change                           environment
 to meet changing demands.

 To this end the Future Cities Research Strategy promotes research and development projects
 that seek to:
    1. better understand the current built environment’s performance (models and theories);
    2. develop and test innovative solutions (products, processes and strategies) to improve its
       performance now and in the future for the benefit of society; and
    3. support transformation through effective engagement with end-user stakeholders.

 The FCRN brings together 3 Professors, 2 Readers, 3 Full-time Postdoctoral Researchers, 19
 Senior/Principal Lecturers, 2 Visiting Professors (architecture and building surveying) and two
 Emeritus Professors (town planning and law) in seven themes (smart cities, urban resilience,
 sustainable communities, sustainable technology and manufacturing, building performance,
 adaptive reuse, and quality of life) organised in two research clusters: one focussing on built
 environment resilience; and the other on sustainability. Eighteen members of the FCRN carry
 Significant Responsibility for Research (SRR), as defined by ARU’s Code of Practice, and are
 included in this submission; five are included in ARU’s UoA12 submission. Four members of the
 FCRN do not yet carry SRR and as such have not been returned to REF2021; they are being

                                                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mentored in preparation for the next REF period. The remainder of this statement refers only to
 those 18 FTE members of the FCRN and the one FTE researcher from the School of Allied
 Health, Faculty of Health, Education, Medicine & Social Care (who has worked closely with
 FCRN researchers over the REF period) returned together to UoA13.

 The FCRN is physically located within the Faculty of Science and Engineering on ARU’s
 Chelmsford campus. All FCRN members have a dedicated workspace located in the Marconi
 building; in a space designed to support collaborative team working. In addition to its physical
 location, members of the FCRN also work in close collaboration with researchers from other
 research groups/institutes across the University (e.g. the Global Sustainability Institute returned
 to UoA14; the Medical Technology Research Centre and researchers focussed on Healthy
 Ageing returned to UoA3; on Management returned to UoA17; and on Psychology returned to
 UoA4) and with researchers from other UK (e.g. UCL, University of Strathclyde) and
 international (Technical University of Delft, University of Naples Federico II, University of São
 Paulo) universities at both a project and network level.

 Development of The Future Cities Research Strategy: 2014-2021
 UoA13 has seen substantial growth in research activity over the current REF period as a direct
 result of decisions made following REF2014, where the feedback judged the “overall research
 strategy to be rather generic” and lacking focus.

 Following the publication of results from REF2014 UoA16 Architecture, Town Planning and Built
 Environment, the then Head of School (Jones) of Engineering and the Built Environment (EBE),
 in conjunction with university senior management, instigated a review of research across the
 School to identify research synergies (both within the UoA and between UoAs) that could
 potentially form the basis of a coherent research and impact strategy for architecture, built
 environment and planning (addressing point 1 of REF2014 UoA16 strategic goals - further
 develop our research culture). The review drew evidence from a series of workshops and
 research sandpits from which the Future Cities research theme, and in particular the challenges
 (research, policy and practice) that the UN Sustainable Development Goal 11 posed to the way
 the built environment (both new and existing) was designed, procured, constructed, maintained,
 operated and refurbished emerged. Whilst initially, the Future Cities research theme was
 predominantly focused within EBE, its wider significance across the University was recognised
 and in 2018 Built Environment and Future Cities was adopted as a University-wide research
 theme (ARU Research and Innovation Strategy 2018-2022).

 In 2016 the FCRN was established as the vehicle to operationalise the Future Cities Research
 Strategy. The FCRN used QR funding to employ a permanent fulltime Senior Research Fellow
 (Rajendran) to act as a focus for the work of the FCRN. Rajendran’s role in the FCRN was
 twofold; firstly, to act as a catalyst to generate research ideas and project proposals amongst
 FCRN researchers; and secondly, to generate new areas of work based on her own research
 expertise. The formation of the FCRN addressed point 6 of the REF2014 UoA16 strategic
 goals - establish a centre of excellence for the built environment. Further, as the FCRN
 came under the academic leadership and direct line management of the Head of School of EBE
 it also provided a clear and effective research management process and structure (addressing
 point 4 of the REF2014 UoA16 strategic goals - implement effective research management
 processes and structures) that was fully integrated with, and supported by, the School of EBE
 (see People section for specific details of research management processes). The FCRN also
 provided an external focus and financial/time support to engage local/professional communities
 (e.g. Future City sandpit for Essex County Council; research briefings to RIBA East and ICE)
 and industry (e.g. Ringway Jacobs KTP, Mid and Southeast Essex NHS Trust partnership) in our
 research, dissemination and impact activities (addressing point 5 of the REF2014 UoA16
 strategic goals – engage effectively with our user communities).

 The success of the Future Cities Research Strategy and FCRN is evidenced by the
 improvements seen in key research metrics (Table 1) over the REF period (addressing point 2
 of the REF2014 UoA16 strategic goals - expand our research income generation and point

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3 of the REF2014 UoA16 strategic goals - emphasise postgraduate research) and in the
 range and scope of the research projects undertaken (Table 2).

Table 1: Comparison of external research income, postgraduate activity and staff with SRR
between REF2014 and REF2021
  Assessment        External Research           PhDs/Prof Doc          Staff with SRR (FTE)
     Period               Income                  completions
    REF2014                £207k                      10                           8
    REF2021               £4.79m             17 (10PhD/7 Prof Doc)                19

 Table 2: Brief details of the main projects underpinning the UoA13 submission to REF2021
  Research Project                       Project Structure and Objectives
  Resilience Project Cluster
  LIQUEFACT (2016-2020): a               The project drew together an interdisciplinary team of 42
  €4.9m EU H2020 project (GA             researchers / practitioners from 11 countries across
  700748) coordinated and led by         Europe to research community resilience to earthquake
  Jones and involving Morga,             induced liquefaction disaster events. The results from the
  Pascale, and Wanigarathna from         project generated new academic knowledge and
  the FCRN.                              supported a commercial software tool currently under
                                         development.
  TURNkey (ongoing): a €8m EU            The project draws together an interdisciplinary team from
  H2020 project (GA 821046) led by 21 organisations across Europe who are researching the
  NORSAR (Norway) and involving requirements of a European earthquake, forecasting and
  Jones, Morga, Pascale, Sherratt,       early warning system to support a rapid response to
  and Wanigarathna from the              earthquake events to improve community resilience.
  FCRN.
  WQRGIS/WQR-ANN (2016-2017): The project drew together an interdisciplinary team from
  a £20k UK Royal Academy of             UoA13 and universities/state agencies in São Paulo,
  Engineering project                    Brazil, who researched water system resilience in Brazil.
  (SF1617\1\42) led by Imani.            The results from the project provides input into one of our
                                         Impact Case Studies.
  RVDSS (2017-2018): a £62.8k            The project drew together an interdisciplinary team from
  UK NERC project                        UoA13 and four industry/government agencies who
  (NE/R008973/1) led by                  researched water, transport, energy, and critical
  Hajializadeh and involving Imani,      infrastructure systems resilience and vulnerability
  Rajendran and Jimenez-Bescos           interdependency. The results of the research provide
  from the FCRN                          input into one of our Impact Case Studies.
  RESoURce@Brandia (2018-                The project drew together an interdisciplinary team from
  2019): a £40.1k Research               the FCRN, universities/state agencies in São Paulo,
  England funded project led by          Brazil; a UK City Council and a university in India, to
  Imani                                  research the challenges of incorporating Sustainable
                                         Urban Draining Systems in vulnerability and resilience
                                         planning. The results of the research provide input into
                                         one of our Impact Case Studies.
  HERALD (2019): a £40k British          This project drew together an interdisciplinary team from
  Council Newton Fund - Research UoA13 and the Centre for Urban Studies (CUS) at
  Environment Links Grants               İstanbul Şehir University (Turkey) to research the
  (439675771) led by Rajendran           requirements of a resilience-based approach to Heritage
  and involving Coday, Miraglia,         City development. The results of the research supported
  and Odeleye from the FCRN              research exchange between the UK and Turkey.
  Sustainable Built Environment Cluster
  Knowledge Transfer Partnership         This project drew together an interdisciplinary team from
  (2018): a £194.4k InnovateUK           UoA13, UoA4, and Ringway Jacobs (a major UK
  funded project led by Sherratt         highways contractor) to develop a new approach to
  from the FCRN and involving            safety management to eliminate cable strikes during
                                         maintenance work. The results of the research generated


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Pearson and Zawisza (returned to     new academic knowledge and new operating procedures
  UoA4).                               within the contracting organisation.
  BIM informed BAM for the NHS         This project drew together an interdisciplinary team from
  Estate 2016-2017): a £9.3k Royal     UoA13 and an NHS hospital to research the role of
  Institution of Chartered Surveyors   Building Information Modelling (BIM) in Built Asset
  (RICS) funded project led by         Management (BAM) to improve the sustainable
  Wanigarathna and involving           performance of their estate. The research generated new
  Jones from the FCRN                  academic knowledge and facilities management
                                       guidance to the NHS partner.
  DigiConCo-Op (2020): a £39.7k        This project draws together an interdisciplinary team from
  ESRC Transforming Construction       UoA13 and UoA17 to research requirements to enable
  Network project led by Sherratt      SMEs and micro-SMEs to digitally co-operate and
  from the FCRN and involving          collaborate in the delivery of micro construction projects
  Ivory (returned to UoA17).           in a way that maximises social and economic value.
  Almshouses (various projects         These projects draw together an interdisciplinary team
  2016–2020) funded by The             from UoA13, professional architectural practices; the Delft
  Almshouse Association (£9.5k),       University of Technology (The Netherlands); and the
  RICS (£13.5k) and ARU (£27k –        charitable sector to research the potential of the
  seed funding, sabbatical grant       almshouse model to sustainably increase social housing
  and RIDO) led by Pooley.             provision in the UK and internationally. The results of the
                                       research provide input into one of our Impact Case
                                       Studies.
  Mid and South Essex NHS Trust        The strategic partnership draws together ad-hoc research
  (ongoing): a strategic research      teams from UoA13 as necessary to research issues
  arrangement between ARU and          pertinent to improving the sustainable performance of the
  the Trust. The FCRN engagement       Trusts NHS estate. To date, 3 projects have been
  with the Trust is led by Jones.      initiated: a scoping study of the potential to decarbonise
                                       the Trust’s energy supply; a study to gather lessons from
                                       the rapid reconfiguration of general medical wards into
                                       Covid-19 intensive care wards to inform future healthcare
                                       facilities management planning; and a study of the built
                                       asset requirements of alternative cancer care delivery
                                       models.

 Support for Multi- and Inter-disciplinary research
 The Future Cities Research Strategy sought to establish a social, physical and economic
 environment to foster and enhance collaborative working between members of the FCRN; the
 wider University and international partners. At an institutional level, all the members of the FCRN
 are located in a single, open plan office that shares social and networking amenities, whilst
 providing a level of disciplinarity through the clustering of workplaces. The open plan space
 encourages different disciplinary teams to engage with each other to share their learning and
 experience from research projects and jointly explore the perspectives that their different
 disciplinary backgrounds provide to our research. The sharing of perspectives is also supported
 through regular FCRN and University research sandpits that are arranged on an ad-hoc basis in
 response to emerging research issues and themes that are of interest to Future City living (3
 have been held during the REF2021 period; 2 of which have resulted in university seed funding
 for potential projects) and through Faculty/University workshops/conferences and network
 events.

 At a national /international level, all members of the FCRN are supported (financially and time
 allocation) to actively participate in research networks (e.g. ARCOM - Sherratt, CIB - Jones,
 Sherratt, EuroFM - Jones) and pursue interdisciplinary funded research opportunities (e.g.
 RCUK sandpits and EU development workshops - LIQUEFACT and TURNkey) and doctoral
 student and researcher exchanges through ERASMUS (e.g. with DTU, Denmark).




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Open Access to Publications and Data
 The Future Cities Research Strategy encourages and supports members of the FCRN to provide
 open access not only to their publications, but also to the datasets used to generate these
 publications. All members of the FCRN are required to deposit a copy of any paper accepted for
 publication on the University’s repository. Where journal constraints prohibit the immediate
 placement of a paper into the repository, or where long embargo periods would delay access,
 members of the FCRN are encouraged to apply for University funding to support gold (or
 equivalent) open access (£4,295 - has been used by 3 FCRN researchers during the REF2021
 period).

 In addition to open access to publications, FCRN members are also supported to provide open
 access to their primary research data. The H2020 LIQUEFACT project volunteered to be part of
 the EU open data pilot (2016-2020) which involved developing a detailed data management plan
 and lodging a copy of the projects primary data supporting publications onto an open access
 repository (www.zenodo.org ).

 Supporting Impact
 The Future Cities Research Strategy views impact as a change or benefit to the economy,
 society, culture, public policy or services, the environment or quality of life beyond academia
 achieved through a combination of the dissemination, communication and exploitation of
 research results outside of immediate project team members. To this end, each FCRN project
 proposal is required to explain how their project will address the following:
    • activities to identify any new products, models and/or practices that would result from
         the research and how these would be developed (post-project if necessary) and
         presented to end-users, including addressing areas of commercial confidentiality and
         protection of intellectual property
    • the inclusion of time within the project to write and disseminate practice guidance
         notes that translate research results into new working practices or guidance,
         including production of policy briefings and white papers where appropriate
    • procedures to engage in public dissemination and debate through social, written and
         broadcast media
     • funding to attend industry conferences and trade events.

 For all internally supported projects (QR funds or University Sandpit funding), each project
 proposal is expected to address the above as part of a pathway to impact statement. For
 externally funded projects, the communication, dissemination and exploitation activities follow
 the format required by the funder. Examples of impact activities over the REF2021 period
 include:
     • LIQUEFACT: all academic publications, including primary datasets have been made
          available in open access through www.zenodo.org. Also, UoA13 researchers involved in
          the project (Jones, Morga, Pascale) have given industry briefings; attended public
          engagement events with local communities and schools; presented international keynote
          lectures to both academics and policymakers; written an EU White Paper (LIQUEFACT
          Policy White Paper, 2019); and contributed to regular social media feeds.
     • TURNkey: Jones has a management coordination role (in addition to his research role)
          as the Impact Lead for TURNkey with responsibility to develop the project’s impact
          strategy.
     • WQRGIS/WQR-ANN, RVDSS, RESoURce@Brandia projects developed post-project
          end-user software tools using funding by ARU and provided briefings (Imani) to the
          Institution of Civil Engineers.
     • Almshouse projects have supported a UK press campaign (Pooley) and provided
          evidence through The Almhouse Association to inform UK Government debate (16
          citations in Hansard).
     • Ringway Jacobs KTP is providing training to company staff and briefings for the wider
          construction industry.



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Integrity
 The UoA follows the principles outlined in The European Code of Conduct for Research Integrity
 (2017). All members of UoA13 have successfully completed the Epigeum Research Integrity
 (Concise) course and courses in Research Ethics and GDPR data management. All the UoA’s
 research projects, including PGR projects, have received ethics approval from either the School,
 Faculty or University Research Ethics Panels (level depending on specific project requirements).
 All data and analyses generated from our research projects are internally reviewed within project
 teams, either through a formal peer-review process or through the use of a project expert
 advisory board (e.g. LIQUEFACT, TURNkey) or informally by colleagues as part of the writing
 group (see next section) or weekly research seminar series. All data generated by research
 projects is stored and handled in accordance with GDPR regulations. Less experienced staff are
 mentored in all aspects of research design and methodology by more senior colleagues (Jones,
 Sherratt, Vogiatzaki) and all project proposals are subject to formal internal peer-review before
 they are submitted for funding. Where practicable, all research data is published in open access
 form. All PGR students receive formal research training either through Epigeum or through
 research methods modules. Wider activities supporting the development of good research
 practices are described in the People section of this submission.

 Research and Impact Strategy: 2021 onwards
 The past 6 years have been very successful for UoA13 researchers. From 2021 UoA13 will build
 on this success, focussing on the interactions and interfaces between the physical built
 environment and those who live and work in it.

 Strategic Objective 1 – Enhance the work of the FCRN in: Sustainable Built Environment; and
 Resilient Built Environment (to be achieved by the end of 2023)
 The Future Cities Research Strategy originally envisaged 7 research themes, however over the
 REF2021 period, these themes coalesced around two separate, but interrelated areas:
 Sustainability and Resilience.

 In strengthening the strategic focus of our work in urban resilience, the FCRN will build directly
 on our work on natural disasters (earthquakes and flooding) and extend this to include the
 impacts of climate change on both the built environment and citizens. In particular, we will
 develop strategic research partnerships with UK and international research/industry partners to
 identify the technical, social and economic challenges that natural and manmade disasters place
 on the built environment and identify solutions that can mitigate these challenges and improve
 citizens’ quality of life. Success will be measured with the establishment of a Centre for Built
 Environment Resilience.

 In strengthening the strategic focus on sustainability, the FCRN will consolidate our work around
 adaptation and mitigation of the existing urban environment to support the transition of existing
 built assets to net zero-carbon over their life cycle. In particular, we will focus on strengthening
 existing relationships across ARU (e.g. with the Global Sustainability Institute, the Business
 School and School of Psychology) through joint research bidding and with industry through
 strategic research partnerships. Success will be measured by the number of projects won.

 Strategic Objective 2 – Ensure FCRN research fully engages with the Horizon Europe and UKRI
 programmes
 UoA13 has been very successful in winning H2020 projects and we will seek to build on this
 success through full and effective engagement in Horizon Europe. Resilience is a fundamental
 expectation of the Horizon Europe vision, and also forms part of the civil security for society pillar
 (the same societal challenges that funded the LIQUEFACT and TURNkey projects), whilst
 sustainability is represented through the climate, energy and mobility pillar. The FCRN will build
 on existing networks to coordinate/lead and participate in Horizon Europe projects. The FCRN
 will also increase its bids to UKRI programmes, in particular NERC, EPSRC and Innovate UK.
 Success will be measured by the number of FCRN researchers involved in external funded
 project from 2023.


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strategic Objective 3 – Raise the profile of the FCRN in our local region
 The Oxford-Cambridge ARC covers a region of the UK that is home to over 3.7 million people
 and contributes about £110 billion in Gross Value Added to the UK economy. The Oxford-
 Cambridge ARC Universities Group comprise the 10 universities geographically located in the
 ARC who are supporting sustainable and resilient development through the application of the
 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and the UK government’s 25-year environment
 plan. The FCRN will play a major role in both the management of the Oxford-Cambridge ARC
 Universities Group (Jones is currently a member of the Environment Management Board) and in
 research, dissemination and exploitation activities with ARC organisations and communities.
 Success will be measured through the number of research, dissemination and exploitation
 activities undertaken.

 Strategic Objective 4 – Increase the number of PhD and Professional Doctorate students doing
 research in sustainable and/or resilient built environments
 The Future Cities Research Strategy has provided a clear focus to UoA13’s work over the
 current REF period and this has begun to influence both the subject matter and number of
 research students studying PhDs and/or Professional Doctorates. The FCRN will seek to double
 the number of research students studying sustainable and/or resilient built environment topics
 over the next 5 years.

 Strategic Objective 5 – Strengthen support for impact from past projects
 With regards to our impact strategy, we will continue to develop applications to translate our
 research outputs into practical tools, including working with industrial partners, for use by built
 environment practitioners. The tools, along with training guidance, will be made available
 through the FCRN web site.

 Strategic Objective 6 – Contribute to the implementation of ARU’s Sustainability Strategy
 The FCRN will develop research and knowledge transfer projects in collaboration with key
 industry and research partners to address UN Sustainable Development Goals and we will make
 our research and impact outputs freely available through the FCRN website to the international
 sustainability research and innovation community.

 Research performance over the past 6 years suggests that the Future Cities Research Strategy
 and Future Cities Research Network has provided both a clear research focus and operational
 infrastructure to support the work of UoA13 researchers. The strategic opportunities identified for
 the next 5 years provide confidence that research activity will continue to grow and make a
 significant contribution to the generation of new knowledge and understanding of the challenges
 and solutions/tools needed by built environment professionals to deliver inclusive, safe, resilient
 and sustainable cities.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 The Future Cities Research Strategy, as well as providing a clear research focus for UoA13
 staff, from 2015 also provided the focus for research criteria included in all new academic job
 descriptions. As a consequence, all UoA13 appointments in the REF period strengthened the
 Future Cities research base. Appointments include: two professors (Jones and Vogiatzaki);
 seven lecturer/senior lecturers (Ashagre, Imani, Morga, Oshodi, Pascale, Sherratt (now an
 associate professor) and Zuddas); a Senior Research Fellow in Future Cities (Rajendran –
 Miraglia as maternity cover); and a Research Fellow (Mulder) working on the TURNkey project.
 All of these staff (except Mulder) were appointed to permanent positions within the University
 upon satisfactory completion of their probation period. In addition, REF2014 staff (Du,
 Henjewele, and Foulds – representing 37.5% of our REF2014 submission) are still in post and
 form part of our REF2021 submission (Foulds as part of UoA14). Coday and Odeleye, who were
 in post on REF2014 census date but who were not research active during the previous REF
 period, have been supported to grow their research activity through sabbatical leave and
 targeted research management opportunities (Coday is Director of the Professional Doctorate

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 course; Odeleye is Director of PhD students for the Faculty of Science & Engineering) to the
 point that they both now carry SRR and are included in this submission.

 Along with the growth in staff numbers (138%) over the REF period, there has also been a
 change in the demographic profile of the UoA. The UoA13 submission comprises 60% female
 members (compared to 48.5% - all eligible staff); 31.5% BME (compared to 20% all eligible
 staff); 58% aged 35-44 (compared to 40% all eligible staff), 16% aged 45-54 (compared to
 28.5% all eligible staff) and 29% aged 55-64 (compared to 25.9% all eligible staff).

 All staff have an Academic Work Balance Model (AWBM) agreed through a formal annual Staff
 Appraisal process with their line manager (except for Professors who have tri-annual
 performance reviews) to review both their performance to date and their future career plans. As
 part of this process, all staff update their personal research plans and identify with their
 appraiser the support that they need to achieve these plans. Staff carrying SRR have a stepped
 allocation (13%, 31% or 55% of their workload) in their AWBM to reflect their research
 commitments for the forthcoming year which are further increased for any staff member who
 secures external research funding by an amount equivalent to the proportion of their time paid
 for by the research funding (e.g. a researcher who has 0.2 FTE of their time paid by an external
 grant would receive an additional 20% allocation on their AWBM).

 Additionally, for Early Career Researchers (ECRs) (Ashagre, Morga, Mulder, Oshodi and
 Rajendran), the UoA aligns to the ARU ECR Charter. Staff development support takes the form
 of clear allocation of time for research activities on AWBMs, a minimum of one day per week
 free of scheduled teaching/administrative activities within all semesters, an individual research
 account of £2,000 over a five-year FTE period of ECR status, and the appointment of a research
 mentor drawn from senior researchers in the UoA.

 A variety of support is offered to all academic staff, including financial support for conference
 attendance and travel to enhance researcher networks. UoA13 researchers have taken
 advantage of the central Sabbatical Scheme, and within the assessment period four colleagues
 (Coday, Odeleye, Pooley (twice), Sherratt) have been supported to take sabbaticals. These
 have resulted in activities as diverse as the completion of a PhD (Pooley), travel for international
 networking and the development of collaborative research project bids (Coday), and to
 undertake collaborative research with an overseas university (Sherratt). Application to the
 sabbatical scheme is open to all staff at all stages of their careers.

 A key contributing factor in the development of staff and the enhancement of the research
 culture within the School is the Writing Group established by Sherratt in 2016 and supported by
 Jones (a REF2014 UoA16 Panel member). Initially this group, which is open to all staff, aimed to
 provide time and space for researchers to be actively supported and encouraged to write and
 develop quality publications. Since 2016 its aims have expanded (although its name has not
 changed) to support a wider range of research activities, including developing and writing
 research bids, and identifying routes to impact. General sessions have included writing good
 abstracts and responding to reviewers’ comments and concerns, peer reviewing colleagues’
 papers, as well as writing convincing research proposals and designing pathways to impact.
 Informal sessions have involved senior researchers (Jones and Sherratt) working on a one-to-
 one basis with research colleagues on specific publications and research proposals, as well as
 providing guidance on their individual research careers. The success of the group can be seen
 through the number of journal papers published (146) and external research bids won (11) by
 less experienced researchers. In addition to the writing group, UoA13 researchers have also
 taken advantage of the Writing Retreats offered in Faculty. Two 1 week-long residential writing
 retreats have been held annually since 2014 and to date 3 UoA13 staff (Imani (three times),
 Rajendran, Odeleye) have attended within the REF2021 period.

 In addition to UoA13 and Faculty support for research, ARU’s Research and Innovation
 Development Office (RIDO) provides a comprehensive range of face-to-face and virtual staff
 training for research activities. RIDO activities include over 60 researcher development

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 workshops and online courses delivered by both external experts and senior research
 colleagues at ARU (Coday, Jones and Sherratt all regularly deliver training) available annually.
 The courses are organised around the 10 themes identified in the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework and are available for any researcher to attend. UoA13 researchers
 attended 77 courses/workshops during the REF2021 period. As well as regular staff
 development activities, RIDO also supports bid development and project management of
 externally funded projects. This support includes one-to-one meetings with research colleagues
 to identify potential research opportunities; coordination and facilitation of research sandpits that
 bring together researchers across ARU with external stakeholders to identify and develop
 research bids (2 UoA13 researchers have received funding as a result of attending RIDO
 sandpits – Rajendran, Pascale (twice)); and post-project and project management support for
 large successful bids (LIQUEFACT, TURNKey).

 Research Students
 UoA13 continues to grow its PGR student activity, although not as quickly as envisaged in our
 REF2014 submission; due in part to the relatively high proportion of ECR staff (26%) and shift of
 research focus as a result of the Future Cities Research Strategy, which has taken time to
 mature. This said, UoA13 currently has 57 PGR (32 PhD and 25 Prof Doc) students registered
 (an increase of 113% from 2014) with 17 (10 PhD and 7 Prof Doc) successful completions
 during the REF2021 period.

 Table 3: PhD and Prof Doc completions 2013-20
                     Year              PhDs awarded               Prof Docs awarded
                   2013-14                    0                           0
                   2014-15                    1                           1
                   2015-16                    1                           0
                   2016-17                    4                           2
                   2017-18                    2                           3
                   2018-19                    0                           0
                   2019-20                    2                           1
                     Total                   10                           7

 The UoA employs a number of strategists to recruit PGR students.

 The FCRN website provides details of our research aims and objectives
 (https://aru.ac.uk/science-and-engineering/research/institutes-and-groups/future-cities) and
 provides links to the Engineering and the Built Environment PhD page (which provides generic
 details about studying for a PhD at ARU) and to the research project opportunities page that
 provides topic specific details for prospective PhD students; including ‘oven ready’ research
 projects that the UoA are actively looking to support. These PhD opportunities are also listed on
 www.findaphd.com.

 ARU run an annual VC’s PhD Studentship competition, and in 2020 a UoA13 researcher
 (Sherratt in conjunction with Ivory (returned to UoA17)) was awarded a full-time VC PhD
 Scholarship to recruit a student to research the impacts of Industry 4.0 and complexity on
 construction project management practices for Future Cities.

 All PhD students are supported by the ARU Doctoral School where they undertake a range of
 formal research training (Epigeum research skills and personal development courses) as part of
 their PhD journey and have the opportunity to attend University/Faculty wide research lectures
 and seminars and engage in social activities. The ARU Doctoral School, in collaboration with the
 Faculty, also provides the research administrative infrastructure to support our PhD students
 including: management of the formal documentation (via the ProgressPlatform system) and
 project management of key milestones (e.g. formal registration, annual progression, transfer
 from MPhil to PhD, and final viva exam arrangements) required for a student to progress through
 their studies. Finally, in addition to supporting students through their research journey, the ARU


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Doctoral School provides training and support to PhD supervisors, who are also required to
 complete a number of Epigeum courses.

 The UoA supplements the support provided by the ARU Doctoral School/Faculty through:
    • a weekly research seminar series (organised by Rajendran) at which PhD students and
       researchers working on major FCRN projects present their work
    • encouragement to support PhD students to present their work (either as posters or
       presentations) at the annual Faculty Research Conference and at international PGR
       seminar series (e.g. ARCOM, New Scientist Conference)
    • commitment to fully support each PGR student to attend one international conference (in
       addition to PGR seminar sessions) during their programme (e.g. at CIB conferences). All
       PhD students can access a £500 grant for conference attendance
    • engage socially with the wider Faculty PGR student community, led by the Faculty
       Director of Research Students (Odeleye), who sits within UoA13.

 Taken together, the central and UoA13 activities seek to enhance a sense of collegiality within
 the PhD cohort.

 The UoA provides each student with a supervisory team of three, able to deliver specialist
 subject support to the student (the first supervisor must have at least one successful completion)
 and enabling less experienced research staff to gain supervisory experience. Contact time for
 PGR students includes a minimum of once-monthly meetings for full-time, and every two months
 for part-time PGR students (which, conducted online, have been increased in frequency during
 the Covid-19 pandemic, to support both academic progress and well-being). These are
 supplemented by additional supervisory meetings as required. To help students prepare for their
 viva, each student experiences a personal mock viva led by an experienced researcher who is
 external to their project.

 Each PhD student’s progress is formally assessed through an annual monitoring process. PhD
 students are supported by their supervisory teams to prepare the documentation needed for
 their Annual Monitoring Report and for the viva-voce-style Annual Monitoring meeting. Each PhD
 student presents their progress to a panel comprising three experienced researchers, two drawn
 from the UoA in which the student is based and one from another UoA in the University.
 Wherever possible, the same panel members are retained throughout the student’s journey to
 ensure continuity. Where this is not possible, new panel members have access to previous
 annual monitoring reports. Approximately midway through the research journey, PhD students
 undertake a formal transfer from MPhil/PhD to PhD (only in very exceptional circumstances are
 students enrolled directly onto a PhD programme) which involves the submission of a transfer
 report and a viva-voce examination. Again, supervisory teams support the students in the
 preparation of their documentation and for the viva-voce examination.

 The UoA prepares our PhD students for their future careers through their inclusion in staff
 research training events and activities, and through the provision of appropriate associate
 lecturing opportunities. During the current REF period, 4 of our PhD students have taken up
 postdoctoral or lecturing appointments after leaving ARU (in the UK and China); taken research
 roles in other universities (in the UK) or in industry (for an SME). Students employed as
 Associate Lecturers receive formal teaching training through a dedicated ‘Learning and
 Teaching in Practice’ course or, if the lecturing commitment is substantial enough (e.g. it spans
 more than one trimester) are enrolled on ARU’s PG Cert course. Students who intend to go into
 industry have access to University training including ‘working with business’, ‘management and
 leadership’ and ‘commercialising research outputs’.

 The Director for the Professional Doctorate (DProf) programme is a member of UoA13 (Coday).
 The DProf provides the opportunity for practitioners to undertake doctoral study with the
 intention of innovating practice and enabling real-world change. The DProf course is split into 2
 stages. At Stage I, DProf students study four 30 credit modules (Advanced Professional
 Practice, Theoretical Perspectives of Advanced Professional Practice, Advanced Research

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Design, and Advanced Data Collection and Analysis) that allow them to define their research
 context, formalise their research objectives and develop their research proposal. Each module is
 led by a UoA13 researcher (Coday, Odeleye, Henjewele). At Stage II, DProf students gather and
 analyse the primary data needed to address their research questions and complete a DProf
 thesis which they defend through a viva-voce examination. Again, in addition to the central
 support provided by the Doctoral School/Faculty, UoA13 researchers support 6 annual two-day
 workshops where DProf students come together to share their experiences, receive formal
 presentations by experienced UoA researchers and former DProf students, make presentations
 of their work, and meet face-to-face with their supervisory teams (DProf students are all part-
 time, and many live a long way from Chelmsford so most routine supervisory meetings are
 virtual, and were even before the Covid-19 pandemic).

 Equality and diversity
 UoA13 embeds the University guidelines on equality and diversity in all its practices. All UoA13
 research staff have completed the University’s mandatory equality and diversity training
 programme. UoA13 researchers (Imani, Odeleye) actively engaged in the Athena Swann
 process which culminated in the Faculty of Science & Engineering achieving a Bronze award in
 2019.

 In further support of inclusivity in the work environment, UoA13 staff are encouraged to utilise
 the University’s flexible working policy which has options for condensed hours and frequent
 homeworking. This has been specifically relevant over the Covid-19 pandemic period. In support
 of homeworking, the UoA facilitated access to remote working through the provision of additional
 IT support (including financial support for staff to upgrade home broadband facilities where
 necessary) and virtual data collection facilities.

 The UoA also supports the re-integration of staff returning from long-term sick leave or parental
 leave. One UoA13 researcher was supported through an extended period of homeworking and
 additional management support on his return from major surgery. Another received financial
 support (£4,000) through the parental return to work scheme to allow them to accelerate re-
 engagement with their research activities. Staff on maternity leave also make use of the Keep in
 Touch days to remain engaged with their research activities (3 researchers have made use of
 KIT days) during the REF2021 period.

 We actively support staff with young children by, for example, allowing staff to undertake
 fieldwork accompanied by their children, providing suitable childcare arrangements are in place
 (e.g. one researcher did fieldwork in Italy using family members to provide childcare).

 Finally, our commitment to equality and diversity can be seen through the gender and ethnicity
 profile of UoA13 researchers, of whom 60% are female (2 holding senior research grades); and
 31.5% are from a BME ethnicity group.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 External research income has increased significantly during the REF2021 period, growing from
 approximately £61k in 2013/14 to £707k in 2019/20, with a total income over the REF2021
 period of approximately £4.79m. Whilst this increase has been due primarily to the award of two
 very large H2020 projects (LIQUEFACT £1.8m and TURNkey £400,000), both led by Jones (and
 including Morga, Pascale, Sherratt and Wanigarathna as Co-Investigators), it has also included
 income from other smaller projects from prestigious bodies such as NERC (Imani), and Innovate
 UK (Sherratt), the Royal Academy of Engineering (Imani) and the Royal Institution of Chartered
 Surveyors (Wanigarathna, Pooley). Table 2 gives more details of externally funded projects won
 during the REF2021 period.

 In addition to external research income, UoA13 researchers have also benefited from internal
 QR funding. Each year, the University distributes its QR funds to the UoAs that secured them as

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a consequence of REF2014. UoA13 has received approximately £600k which has been
 distributed (in part) to UoA13 researchers to support their work. Since 2017, UoA13 researchers
 have been required to write competitive bids to access this funding, which have been reviewed
 using a similar approach to that used by RCUK/InnovateUK/EU funding bodies (senior
 researchers have been excluded from this bidding process as they have acted as peer
 reviewers). Five UoA13 researchers have received QR funding (Imani, Odeleye, Pooley,
 Pascale, Rajendran, Wanigarathna), three of whom have subsequently attracted external
 funding (Imani, Pooley, Wanigarathna) in this way. QR funds have also been used to support
 staff engagement with international research networks (e.g. CIB – Jones, Sherratt; ARCOM –
 Sherratt, Wanigarathna;) to support conference attendance (for staff and doctoral students); and
 professional body briefings (ICE, RICS, RIBA East).

 Internal funding has also been used to pump-prime research ideas and collaborations within the
 UoA, across Faculties, and with external partners in industry and academia. For example, sand-
 pit seed-funding was used (£27k) used to initiate our Almshouse and older living research
 (Pooley and Pascale) and £10k (Research England) was used to support work in the area of
 Infrastructure Resilience, specifically enhancing the ongoing dissemination and impact (Imani) of
 this work through the delivery of international workshops and events in Brazil and India (although
 the India event was postponed due to Covid-19 restrictions).

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 The majority of UoA13 researchers (HEMS-based colleague Achour is the exception) occupy a
 large Open Plan office space (366m2) and smaller (40m2) dedicated work area located on the
 third floor of the Marconi Building on ARU’s Chelmsford campus. Each researcher has a
 dedicated workspace provided with IT systems and secure storage. In addition, researchers
 have access to a dedicated breakout space; team working space; and social facilities on this
 floor and access to pooled meeting and seminar rooms across the Chelmsford campus. UoA13
 researchers also have access to communal office and meeting space on the Cambridge campus
 to support their multidisciplinary work with researchers based there). Researchers have access
 to a substantial library and catering facilities on both campuses.

 Although much of the research done by UoA13 researchers is desk-based, a small number of
 researchers needs access to specialist laboratories (Du, Jones, Imani, Morga) or real-world
 buildings (Coday, Sherratt, Vogiatzaki). UoA13 researchers have access to a range of civil
 engineering laboratories (structures, geotechnical, hydraulics) that are equipped with the
 facilities required to support their personal research and that of their PhD students. Access to
 external built assets is arranged on an ad hoc basis to support, for example, built asset
 monitoring (Coday) and construction health and safety (Sherratt). Access to a broader range of
 facilities is enabled as and when required through collaborations.

 The UoA’s PhD students have dedicated research space (66m2) located on the first and second
 floor of the Marconi building, Chelmsford campus. Each PhD student has a dedicated workspace
 with access to IT systems and secure storage. PhD students also have access to specialist IT,
 either at their dedicated workspace or in specialist laboratories.

 In addition to the generally available IT facilities (e.g. Microsoft Office Suite, AutoCAD, Microsoft
 Visio, SPSS, NVivo) UoA13 researchers also have access to specialist research software (e.g.
 Matlab, Energy Plus, ANSYS, Design Builder) and high-specification PCs able to run such
 simulations and other packages. Specialist equipment is also purchased when needed as part of
 externally funded projects (e.g. building monitoring equipment).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration with the research base
 UoA13 researchers play an active role in collaborating and supporting the research base.



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The vast majority of UoA13 research is multidisciplinary, involving collaboration with researchers
 and industry/government practitioners across the region, the UK and the world (Table 2). Major
 collaborative projects during the REF2021 period include:
     • LIQUEFACT (7 research partners; 4 industry/government partners across 5 countries);
     • TURNkey (10 research partners; 11 industry/government partners across 8 countries);
        and
     • RESoURce@Brandia (3 research partners; 3 industry/government partners across 3
        countries).

 Further details of wider UoA13 project collaborations can be found in Table 2 above.

 UoA13 researchers have close collaborative links to a number of external national and
 international research groups and networks. The UoA has a strong relationship with the
 Association of Researchers in Construction Management (ARCOM), led by representation on
 the ARCOM Committee (Sherratt was recently Secretary) and through regular attendance at the
 ARCOM annual conference from both researchers (Sherratt, Henjewele, Wanigarathna) and our
 PGR (PhD and DProf) students. UoA13 also has a strong relationship with CIB (International
 Council for Research and Innovation in the Built Environment) commissions:
      • W55 (Construction Industry Economics) – Oshodi and Wanigarathna are members
      • W70 (Facilities Management) - Jones was a past Co-coordinator of (2014-2017) and
           with Waginarathna is a current member
      • W86 (Building Pathology) - Jones is a current member
      • W92 (Procurement Systems) - Henjewele is a member
      • W99 (Safety and Health in Construction) – Sherratt is currently joint co-co-ordinator
      • W111 (Public Private Partnerships) – Henjewele is a member
      • W116 (Smart and Sustainable Built Environments) - Pascale and Rajendran are
           members
      • W123 (People in Construction) - Oshodi and Sherratt are members.

 Through these collaborations, UoA13 has facilitated a number of researcher and PhD student
 exchanges during the REF2021 period (e.g. Istanbul Sahir University, Turkey; DTU, Denmark;
 University of Naples Federico II, Italy, University of Colorado Boulder, USA).

 Contribution to the research base
 UoA13 researchers have made an active contribution to developing the architecture, built
 environment and planning research base during the REF2021 period through:
     • Membership of the EPSRC Peer Review College (Jones)
     • Membership of INNOVATE UK (Future Leaders) College (Jones)
     • UK (EPSRC) project peer review (Jones)
     • EU (H2020) project peer review (Morga, Miraglia)
     • International Peer Review Colleges (Jones - Swedish Research Council)
     • RICS project peer review (Jones)
     • British Council – Newton Fund (Morga)
     • External PhD and Engineering Doctorate examinations in the UK (e.g. UCL, UWE,
        University of Birmingham, University of Reading)
     • External PhD examinations around the world (e.g. TU Delft, Chalmers University, DTU,
        University of Cape Town, University of Queensland, ETH Zürich)
     • Membership of Journal editorial boards
           o ICE Proceedings of Management and Law (Sherratt)
           o Facilities and Journal of Building Pathology and Adaptation (Jones)
           o International Disaster Resilience in the Built Environment (Achour)
           o Disaster Medicine and Public Health Preparedness (Achour)
           o Founder and editor-in-chief of archi-DOCT: The e-journal of doctoral research in
             architecture (Vogiatzaki)
           o Journal of Sustainability (Imani)
           o Journal of Construction Business and Management (Oshodi)

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           o International Journal of Disaster Risk Reduction (Morga)
     •   Peer reviewing of journal papers (Achour, Du, Henjewele, Jones, Odeleye, Oshodi,
         Miraglia, Morga, Pascale, Rajendran, Sherratt, Vogiatzaki, Wanigarathna, Zuddas)

 UoA13 researchers have also delivered invited Keynote Lectures to international research
 conferences and professional bodies during the REF2021 period, including at the:
    • Cyber Security and Resilience Conference in London in 2019 (Imani)
    • CIB W099/TG59 conference in Cape Town in 2017 (Sherratt)
    • Industry-focused Envirosafe Health, Safety and Environmental Conference in Accra in
        2018 (Sherratt)
    • UK’s Canal and River Trust Annual Health, Safety and Wellbeing Conference for all staff
        and volunteers in 2019 (Sherratt)
    • 7ICEGE International Conference in Rome, 2020 (Jones)
    • QuakeCoRE Annual Conference in New Zealand, 2020 (Jones)

 In addition to the above, UoA13 supports all its researchers to attend as many conferences as
 they can. If conference funding is not secured through specific research projects, this is provided
 by the UoA through QR or general staff development (not research-specific) funding. In the
 REF2021 period the UoA has supported the following conference presentations: Imani (7
 International), Sherratt (10 International, 5 UK), Pooley (2 International, 1 UK), Morga (3
 International), Wanigarathna (1 UK), Jones (1 International).

 Finally, UoA13 researchers have also been successful in terms of paper prizes, with Pascale
 being awarded the Emerald Award for her paper in Facilities in 2015, and Imani, Jones and
 Sherratt having papers selected for special issues following conference presentations.

 Collaboration and Contribution to economy and society
 The work of UoA13 researchers makes a direct contribution to economy and society. Their
 research focusses on the challenges professionals face in delivering the changes needed in the
 built environment to achieve UNSDG11 (making cities and human settlements inclusive, safe,
 resilient and sustainable). UoA13 researchers have explored resilience and sustainability in real-
 world contexts, developing greater understandings of necessary transitions, and the tools to help
 enable such transitions to be made. The multidisciplinary nature of our research, along with the
 use of participatory research methodologies (e.g. LIQUEFACT, TURNkey, HERALD,
 Almshouse) involves societal representatives as fundamental actors within our work, and not
 research subjects to be studied or acted upon. This creates a space in which we co-create our
 findings, maintaining a two-way dialogue that leads to robust and impactful research, notably a
 better understanding of the potential non-technical barriers that may impact uptake of the
 outputs of our research. In adopting this approach, our research makes a positive contribution to
 economy and society, making our Future Cities resilient and sustainable for all.




                                                                                            Page 14
