Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Oxford Brookes University

 Unit of Assessment: 5

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Unit Context and Strategic Goals
 Our submission comprises 43.06 FTE; 37.8 from the Department of Biological and Medical
 Sciences (DBMS) in the Faculty of Health and Life Sciences (FHLS) and 5.26 from the Department
 of Social Sciences (DSS) in the Faculty of Humanities and Social Science (FHSS), and thus overall
 > 90% of eligible academic staff. This represents an increase of 47% FTE compared to REF2014
 (25.6 FTE) reflecting our aim to increase staff and activity in our REF2014 strategy. This is further
 evidenced by the increase in our PhD completions from 35 to 81 compared to the last REF. We
 have therefore built a strong, diverse and sustainable environment for research and teaching
 excellence across the biological sciences with economic and societal impact to help deliver the
 UKRI strategic prospectus. This has been achieved by focussing on five strategic goals during this
 REF period.

 First, to strengthen and sustain the synergistic benefits from the rich diversity of our research
 portfolio, researchers with complementary research interests and expertise, across all career
 stages, are clustered into four linked themes: Ecology and Evolution, Genetics and Genomics,
 Biomedical Science, and Cell and Developmental Biology. This allows us to address a broad
 range of questions in biological sciences while ensuring strength and critical mass in these key
 areas and embedding collaborative approaches capturing the benefits of joint student supervision,
 joint grant applications and higher impact outputs (see 1.2.3).

 Second, we built on our existing research strengths to support researchers across these four
 themes, providing platforms for collaboration and building expertise and capacity in two growing
 and unifying areas of biological science – bioimaging and genomics. To achieve our goal we
 established two new research Centres: The Oxford Brookes Centre for Bioimaging (CfB) and
 the Centre for Functional Genomics (CfG) (see 1.2.4).

 Third, we have strategically funded our research to support areas of excellence recognised in
 REF2014 and with successful grant capture, and to nurture and promote researchers with great
 potential. This included providing world-class labs and other facilities (see 3.2), as well as access
 to all necessary specialist equipment. The allocation of funded studentships and central research
 funds (CRF) was prioritised to sustain areas of excellence, underpin promising new research, and
 support early career researchers (ECRs) (see 1.2.2).

 Fourth, we have developed structures to increase the commercial and societal impact of our
 research. Central to our approach to impact has been our commitment to work in partnership with
 our Research and Business Development Office (RBDO) and the Faculty Innovation Team (FIT)
 headed by Meredith. Our researchers are also encouraged to work closely with our Research
 Engagement Officer to ensure our achievements are publicised through press releases and social
 media. We have established the BioInnovation Hub (BioH), a bioincubator for Oxford Brookes
 University (OBU) spinouts and external companies, hosting several biotech companies since
 2015, including Oxford Expression Technologies (OET), which is part of our REF2021 Impact
 Cases portfolio (see 1.3).

 Fifth, to build and sustain excellence, capacity and critical mass, we have recruited, promoted and
 retained ECRs in all four research themes and the two Centres, while continuing to mentor and
 develop other staff to nurture and sustain experience in all areas. We ensure that with all
 recruitment and staff development we promote diversity and equality of opportunity (see 2.1-2.3)
 as described in the Institutional Environmental Statement (section 3).

 1.2 Mechanisms for Implementation of Strategy
 1.2.1 Development and Management


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research in this UoA is led by a Research Lead (RL; McGregor), a university role for a Senior
 Professor. The RL is a member of the Faculty and University Research and Knowledge Exchange
 Committees and chairs an inclusive cross-faculty research management team comprising 50%
 women, 10% BAME, with representatives from each theme and Centre, and career levels from
 doctoral students to Professors. This team provides an interface between researchers in DBMS
 and DSS to enhance interactions within and between themes and Centres as well as to plan and
 implement research strategy. For example, this forum recognised cross-faculty interests and
 needs in genomics and so developed and launched our CfG (see 1.2.4.b). Research is supported
 by Faculty Research Office teams supporting research administration as well as the FHLS and
 FHSS Associate Deans for Research and Knowledge Exchange and postgraduate (PG) tutors. All
 members of the UoA have ownership of the strategy as it is developed through research sessions
 at consultation meetings and away days, including technical, support and contract research staff,
 and doctoral students. There is also an annual networking event of flash-talks, enabling
 awareness of one another’s research and facilitating collaborations.

 1.2.2 Implementation of strategic funding of research
 We have targeted internal funding (QR and Royalty funding from IP licensing) to support our
 strategic aims. In this REF period we have funded a total of 46 PhD studentships (c.£2,000,000
 2015-2019). PhD studentships are routinely prioritised to small teams of supervisors preferably
 combining staff at different career stages (e.g. M. Kittelmann/Bermudez, Sunter/Vaughan,
 McGregor/Nunes, Gerth/Thompson, Kanda/Nekaris). We have targeted start-up funding for
 new projects that represent collaborations within and between research themes and our two
 Centres (e.g. Schoenauer/McGregor, Pink/Carter, Ragge/CfG, Solana/CfG, Newbury/CfG,
 Gerth/CfG, Kanda/Nekaris/CfG), for example, totalling £45,000 in 2019-20.

 During this REF period, we have taken advantage of the c.£21,500,000 reconstruction of the
 Sinclair Building to replace our laboratories and provide specialist-use research space (see 3.2).
 The new researcher-led, architect-designed large multi-user laboratories and offices, built to the
 highest current specification, facilitate collaboration and interaction. An example of this is our new
 dedicated specialist facilities for invertebrate research to support growing strength in this area,
 now represented by ten research groups compared to three in REF2014. At the same time, an
 adjacent building was internally reconstructed (c.£2,600,000) to co-localise the laboratories and
 equipment of the CfB, and the Tonge laboratories were fully refurbished internally for the BioH
 (c.£160,000).

 1.2.3 Establishment of Research Themes
 To realise our strategic aim to better encourage and support collaborative research, we have
 organised research into four overlapping complementary themes: Cell and Developmental
 Biology, Ecology and Evolution, Genetics and Genomics and Biomedicine. This was partly
 catalysed by our need to respond to advances in sequencing and data analysis by expanding our
 expertise within the new research grouping of Genetics and Genomics through targeted staff
 recruitment. This grouping of our researchers was also designed to align our expertise with
 strategic priorities of UKRI, including BBSRC (Animal Health, Data Driven Biology, Synthetic
 Biology, Systems Approaches to the Biosciences, and the Replacement, Refinement and
 Reduction (3Rs) in research using animals), MRC (Global Health and Precision Medicine,
 Regenerative Medicine, and Antimicrobial Resistance, and NERC (Managing Environmental
 Change).

 1.2.3.a Cell and Developmental Biology
 Our Cell and Developmental Biology grouping encompasses researchers studying protozoans,
 plants and animals, underpinned by equipment and resources provided by our two Centres.
 Across this grouping we have research excellence in complementary specialist areas including
 cell signalling and communication (Carter, M. Kittelmann), developmental biology (Jennings,
 McGregor, Schoenauer), and parasitology (Sunter, Vaughan). Moreover, we have built on the
 legacy of the late Chris Hawes in the area of plant cell biology (Evans, Graumann,
 Kriechbaumer, McKenna, Runions), for example, through the promotion of Runions to


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Professor, the appointments of Kriechbaumer and McKenna, and establishment of the CfB (see
 1.2.4.a).

 The effectiveness of the strategic grouping of researchers at different career stages in this theme
 to promote collaboration is evidenced by publications co-authored by, for example, Kriechbaumer
 and M. Kittelmann (Nature Communications, 2019), Vaughan and Sunter (J. Cell Biology,
 2020), McKenna, Hawes and Runions (PNAS USA 2019), as well as a recent joint BBSRC grant
 awarded to M. Kittelmann and McGregor.

 1.2.3.b Genetics and Genomics
 Since REF2014, we have brought together a team in Genetics and Genomics, including five ECRs,
 spanning gene mapping (Newbury, Ragge), genetic diversity (Jones), genome evolution
 (Kanda), single cell analysis (Solana), functional genomics (Lees), gene regulation (S.
 Kittelmann), transcriptomics (Hens), and Poolman continues genome-scale metabolic
 modelling, following the retirement of Fell. This allows us to apply a systems, data-driven,
 approach to biosciences (BBSRC), and to address global health issues supporting the
 development of precision medicine (MRC). At the global level, this team collaborates with over 30
 world leading institutes (LMB, Sanger, Quadram, CRG Barcelona, Humboldt University, National
 Cancer Institute (USA), Max Planck) including partners in developing nations such as Indonesia
 (Jones, Kanda), Chile and Brazil (Newbury). The strategic expansion of these networks
 demonstrates expertise developed since REF2014 and provides a strong basis for the future.

 Outputs from this theme include the pioneering single cell analysis from Solana (Science, 2018),
 which was designated as the Breakthrough of the year by the journal Science, and pattern
 recognition algorithms which contribute to the ELIXIR framework from Lees (Nucleic Acids
 Research, 2015). The application of these methods promote research excellence and impact
 research strategies nationally and globally. These new methods are complemented by a data-
 driven approach supported by the CfG, which allows us to generate, house and analyse large
 bioinformatic datasets, providing further avenues for interdisciplinary collaboration and potential
 for translational research. Newbury’s investigation of medical datasets through Genomics
 England, has identified risk variants in human neurodevelopmental disease (Molecular Psychiatry,
 2018) providing overlaps with the Biomedical Science theme and clear applications to
 personalised medicine.

 1.2.3.c Biomedicine
 Our Biomedicine grouping is a multidisciplinary team with complementary expertise that spans
 biochemistry to cell biology and physiology including: neurobiology (Bermudez), microbiology
 (King, Hong) membrane transport proteins (Meredith), radiation biology (Kadhim), cell division
 (Bolanos-Garcia), cell surface glycans in cancer (Brooks), extracellular vesicles (Pink), fetal
 growth and development (Forhead), and cardiorespiratory physiology (Moosavi). Strengthening
 this grouping and aligning to the UKRI strategic priorities ‘bioscience for an integrated
 understanding of health’ (BBSRC) and ‘multimorbidities’ (MRC) we have recruited two
 investigators with specialties in aging (Potter) and metabolic disease (Gathercole) since
 REF2014.

 Outputs from this theme evidence the success of our strategy in Biomedicine to take advantage
 of internal synergy (Brooks and Kadhim, Cancer Letters, 2016; Forhead and Meredith, Journal
 of Physiology, 2017; Thyroid 2020), as well as building external collaborations with exceptional
 external partners, as evidenced by outputs from Gathercole (PNAS USA, 2014) and Potter
 (Nature Communications, 2016).

 In line with UK strategy, we are actively exploring and promoting the translational and
 commercialisation potential of our work. In a clinical trial, Moosavi demonstrated that in patients
 with heart failure who inhaled furosemide, a repurposed diuretic, leads to a clinically relevant
 improvement in breathlessness (Clinical Trial Identifier: ISRCTN14593637 and NCT04130815).
 In 2019, Meredith was awarded funding through Innovate UK’s Innovation to Commercialisation
 of University Research (ICURe) to market-validate a technology enabling injection-only

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pharmaceutical drugs to be formulated into pills for oral delivery, based on his work into intestinal
 peptide transporters. Following promising results, internal HEIF Proof-of-Concept and MRC
 Confidence in Concepts funding has been awarded to develop the technology in order to apply for
 spinout funding. Pink and Brooks with Carter also won ICURe funding, which led to the
 establishment of a new spin out company (see 4.3).

 1.2.3.d Ecology and Evolution
 The Ecology and Evolution theme comprises diverse expertise in biogeography and ecology
 (Shreeve), evolutionary genetics (Arif, Breuker, Nunes), wildlife trade (Nijman), primatology
 (Campera, Donati, Nekaris, Svensson), and conservation (Cheyne, Thompson). Members of
 this grouping are based in DSS and DBMS, providing a truly multidisciplinary research setting.
 Since REF2014, staff numbers have more than doubled and research priorities strengthened
 through promotions (Cheyne, Donati, Shreeve, Svensson). Strategic new appointments were
 made to foster collaborations within the theme (Arif, Campera, Gerth, Tan), and Arif was made
 Scientific Director of the CfG to stimulate collaborations between DSS and DBMS and between
 Ecology and Evolution and other research themes. The success of this strategy to foster internal
 and external collaboration is illustrated, for example, by outputs from Campera, Nekaris and
 Nijman (Current Biology 2020), Breuker (PNAS USA, 2017), Nunes (PNAS USA 2019), and
 Nunes and Arif (Molecular Biology and Evolution 2020). Researchers in this theme have also
 attracted funding from a wide range of external organisations including, NERC (Nunes), the Royal
 Society (Gerth), National Geographic (Nekaris, Tan), and the Starr Foundation (Tan). Outputs
 and external collaborations have contributed to practical community-involving conservation
 measures for declining species (Nekaris), revised conservation prioritisation and strategies on
 Mediterranean archipelagos (Shreeve) and increasing evidence-based management of game
 conservancies in east Africa (Thompson).

 1.2.4 Establishment of Research Centres
 The Centres for Bioimaging and Functional Genomics were strategic developments to invest in
 our strengths in these areas and to support research in our four themes academically and
 commercially.

 1.2.4.a The Oxford Brookes Centre for Bioimaging (CfB)
 Our advanced light and electron microscopy facilities have been important for research in this UoA
 for the past 25 years. Hawes (decd) built a highly successful plant cell biology grouping with an
 emphasis on advanced bioimaging. A BBSRC strategic review of bioimaging in 2018 highlighted
 the importance of bioimaging as a dominant set of technologies for analysis of molecules, cells
 and tissues. Therefore, continuing from the success of Hawes, the bioimaging facilities have now
 been awarded Centre status under the new Director Vaughan, who has 25 years bioimaging
 expertise. The CfB is a flagship strategic research component for OBU, which has invested in this
 Centre heavily with the construction of a custom building 4 years ago (c.£2,600,000). During this
 REF period we have strategically hired four Research Fellows (RFs) with advanced bioimaging
 expertise (Kriechbaumer, McKenna – confocal; Sunter – confocal and widefield; M. Kittelmann
 – electron microscopy). Moreover, Graumann and Kriechbaumer have both been promoted from
 RFs to Senior Lectureships.

 The Centre is fully embedded in our PhD programme and supports 35 doctoral students. In
 recognition of our bioimaging expertise, it is a Zeisslabs@location partner and also partners RMC
 Boeckler microscopy equipment, supporting industry funded projects. The CfB has a strong
 collaboration with the Harwell Central Laser Facility (CLF) with RCUK-funded access (see 4.1.2).

 There has been an increase in successful externally funded research with a bioimaging element
 to c.£3,500,000 during this REF period including parasitology (Vaughan, Sunter), plant science
 (Evans, Runions, Graumann, Kriechbaumer), cancer cell biology (Carter, Pink, Brooks,
 Bolanos-Garcia); radiation biology (Kadhim); virology (King) and developmental biology
 (McGregor, Santos-Nunes). This research base has an excellent international reputation with
 field-leading collaborators from all over the world (see 4.1.2).


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2.4.b The Centre for Functional Genomics (CfG)
 This Centre provides research and teaching excellence for the interdisciplinary study of genomes
 and gene expression through the generation and analysis of sequencing data. The CfG is led by
 McGregor with a scientific director (Arif) supported by two RFs (Hens, S. Kittelmann) funded by
 strategic investment from CRF. The CfG provides in-Faculty and cross-university opportunities
 building on current collaborations, especially with the primatologists in this Unit, fostering new
 collaborations and consultancy with external researchers from academia and industry. It also
 provides training for researchers at all levels in bioinformatics to up-skill our staff and students in
 this developing area and opportunities for individuals to participate in its current research projects
 to enhance their skills through active research. The Centre has a broad and multidisciplinary
 research base in relevant areas including bioinformatics (Arif, Lees, Poolman, Kanda, Hens, S.
 Kittelmann) evolutionary genomics (McGregor, Breuker, Solana, Nunes), biological
 anthropology (Nekaris, Nijman, Donati), conservation genetics (Shreeve, Gerth, Thompson),
 biomedical genomics (Carter, Pink, Ragge, Newbury, Bermudez, Bolanos-Garcia Jones),
 microbial genomics (King, Jeon-Hong), and plant genomics (Kriechbaumer, Graumann).
 Researchers associated with this Centre have won funding from NERC, Leverhulme, BBSRC,
 Horizon 2020 and the Royal Society, and published 18 papers since the CfG was launched in
 2019.

 1.3 Implementation of Impact and Dissemination Strategy
 1.3.1 Management of Impact and Dissemination
 To deliver our strategy on impact, we work with the Faculty and University Research Office (RO)
 to realise the commercial and societal impact of our research. Building on past successes in the
 commercial licensing of antibodies generated by Groome (see Impact Case Studies; ICSs), we
 have responded strategically to broaden engagement in research impact.

 At the research grant application stage, staff are supported by a mentor and the RO team, who
 advise on impact statements. We use an annual review of rolling three-year research plans,
 developed by all staff, to advise on strategies to enhance impact. These annual reviews are linked
 to personal development review and may result in the allocation of workload plan time for
 knowledge exchange (KE) and innovation. Support is available for staff from the FIT established
 to encourage engagement with KE and with the University Business Developers. Support includes
 expert advice on patents, licensing, spinouts or establishing charities (e.g. Loris conservation
 charity fund) for economic or societal benefit. The FIT-RBDO partnership has strengthened
 industry links by co-organising events with Innovate UK and promoting participation in VentureFest
 Oxford, OBN (Oxford Biosciences Network), BioTuesday and the Oxford Academic Health
 Sciences Network. This strategy has led to funding from Innovate UK (Carter, Meredith), internal
 HEIF investment (Carter, Ragge, Meredith, Bolanos-Garcia) and MRC (Meredith) during this
 REF period. These projects are for commercial applications of novel technologies in diagnostic
 and therapeutics. The success of this strategy is illustrated through our REF2021 ICSs, where the
 joint work of Nekaris and RBDO established a University Loris conservation fund and secured
 external funding from zoos and wildlife conservation societies worldwide, which have aided
 establishing the Little FireFace project in Java. A further example, not included as an ICS, is the
 joint work of Ragge, Faculty RO, RBDO and the West Midlands Regional Genetics Service to
 commercialise a customised 350 eye gene panel for clinical use to diagnose genes in eye
 development disorders. This partnership helped to secure the Baillie Gifford Professorial Chair in
 developmental/eye genetics (Ragge), worth c.£4,000,000.

 1.3.2 Establishment of the Bioinnovation Hub (BioH)
 Central to our strategy for impact is the BioH. This hub was established in 2017 and its aim to
 provide a centre, linked to the CfB and CfG and across the research themes, supporting impact
 through translational activities. This includes fostering links between university research and
 industry, and providing IP-secure lab space and technical support for commercially-sensitive
 projects (King, Groome, Bolanos, Carter) as well as a platform for student experience in industry.

 The BioH also hosts local biotech companies through rental of research and office space. They
 engage with Unit researchers and students through projects, work experience and specialist

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 teaching. This has proved to be successful; for example, OET, based in the BioH collaborates with
 researchers within the UoA funding contract research projects, provides sandwich year
 placements and has funded PhD studentships, including a current iCASE. Orbit Discovery joined
 the BioH in 2017 and successfully grew their company until moving to larger premises; during the
 period at the BioH they hosted student projects and work experience and contributed to
 bioinnovation-related academic activities. Two new start-ups have since joined the BioH.
 Commercially important antibodies developed by Groome are held and produced in the BioH,
 generating income supporting our research, and there is regular interaction between the BioH staff
 and Groome to continue to develop applications for these and to supply as contracted. It is
 planned that the BioH will house further spin-out companies, the first established by Carter,
 Brooks and Pink for breast cancer diagnostics. This success contributed to OBU being awarded
 an EPSRC ‘Inclusion Matters’ funded ‘Woman and Spinouts’ project run by King and Manfredi
 (UoA17 ICS, Centre for Diversity Policy Research and Practice). This builds on the great success
 of King with OET (see ICS).

 1.3.3 Impact Case Studies
 During this period, our Unit, in partnership with RBDO, has continued to support the development
 of the Groome and King ICSs (as well as Nekaris - see 1.3.1). The King case study is an example
 of how our UoA and RBDO work closely to secure the commercial success of the spin-out
 company OET, led by King. OET has become a centre of excellence for baculovirus technology,
 drug discovery and vaccine development, thus ultimately improving medical treatments globally.
 To enable OET’s success, our UoA has provided access to the BioH and other university facilities
 like bioimaging, bioinformatics, management of patent portfolio and collaborations on projects
 such as an Innovate UK Newton grant, PhD studentships and three other Innovate UK grants,
 including a contract under the global vaccines initiative to undertake pre-clinical vaccine studies
 for Crimean Congo Haemorrhagic Fever Virus (PHE Porton, Oxford Jenner Institute and OBU as
 collaborators) and a recent grant to support a partnership with Vaxine Pty Ltd to develop a vaccine
 for COVID-19.

 Through managing Groome’s patent portfolio with RBDO and maintaining the collaborative work
 that characterises our Unit’s approach to academic and translational research, we have increased
 the reach and significance of Groome’s novel monoclonal antibodies to Inhibin B and anti-
 Mullerian hormone (AMH) and the assay protocols have achieved a worldwide impact in fertility
 and reproductive health and ovarian cancer, leading to two new independent ICSs (Inhibin B and
 AMH). These have provided the university with a royalty income of over £15,000,000 during the
 REF period; indicative of cumulative sales in excess of US$315,000,000 from the testing of
 millions of women globally.

 1.3.4 Outreach and Dissemination
 Dissemination has been embedded through the REF period. Initially this focussed heavily on
 outreach and public engagement (PE), with the UoA leading the Science Bazaar, our annual
 showcase event for people of all ages and families, which is a key plank of OBU’s strategy for
 widening participation, particularly school children from deprived areas. Researchers also
 participate in a range of external activities, for instance a BBSRC funded microscopy outreach to
 the visually impaired (see 4.4). This commitment continues and CRF has been made available for
 research students and staff to develop PE projects. We support a wide range of activities, for
 example the annual Slow Loris Outreach week since 2012 with worldwide activities focused on
 raising awareness of the plight of Asian lorises (see 4.4).

 Central to our strategy to increase dissemination of our research and commercial achievements
 and activities is the partnership between our PIs and researchers with the Faculty Research
 engagement officer and the University Press Office. Through this partnership we secure
 dissemination through the web, social media and OBU press releases. The success of this
 approach and our commitment to disseminate research is illustrated by, for example, McGregor’s
 interviews with BBC radio outlets and on BBC Future about spider genome evolution in 2017, and
 Nekaris and Nijman on Slow Loris conservation, and online wildlife trade across various media


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 outlets in 2020, as well as the increased contribution to OBU News Releases from 0% in 2014 to
 providing 38% of OBU news stories in 2020.

 1.3.5 Implementation of strategy for open access, data sharing and accessibility
 Our strategy for Open Access and data sharing has been to require the use of the University Open
 Access RADAR (Research And Digital Assets Repository) repository and to apply for central funds
 for open access publishing where appropriate. Staff have been supported in this in several ways;
 by the University RADAR team and by the RL during annual review process, where publication
 strategies are considered. RADAR also provides a facility for uploading data and images; however
 images generated in bioimaging and other large data sets are shared through public image
 repositories like Omero. Genomic data from the Unit is submitted to public Open Access
 repositories, and many papers are preloaded to prepublication platforms like bioRxiv. The role of
 RADAR is to share the intellectual product of OBU freely as appropriate internally and with the
 global academic and public community. Data can be assigned a DOI to aid its discovery and
 citation and recorded on the UK Research Data Discovery Service to enable its retrieval and
 usage.

 1.4 Future Strategy
 In the next REF period we aim to build on our success through retention of current RFs in
 permanent positions, further strategic recruitment of RFs and doctoral students, and nurturing of
 collaborative, impactful research through our Centres. This will allow us to both continue to
 enhance current areas of research excellence and further build capacity and quality in others.

 We will enhance research capacity and impact in two areas through recruitment of new RFs and
 targeted University/Faculty QR funds. First we aim to build on our existing expertise in Biomedicine
 and take further advantage of our extensive local network (University of Oxford, MRC Harwell,
 Oxford Academic Health Partners) as well as other world leading national and international
 institutes (University of Cambridge, King’s College London, NASA). This strategy has already
 been actively promoted with internal funding through Groome PhD studentships (Gathercole,
 Moosavi, Forhead), BBSRC DTP studentships (Kadhim) and CRF Research Excellence Awards
 (Potter, Gathercole). However, we will now aim to develop our research in basic and translational
 aspects of regeneration, neurobiology, physiology and the genetics of disorders as this
 complements our strengths in Cell and Developmental Biology and Genetics and Genomics as
 well as the CfG. We envisage that this will enhance the impact of our research at the nexus of
 Biomedicine, and Genetic and Genomics, including the work of Ragge and Newbury on eye
 development diseases and speech, respectively.

 Second we aim to further build Ecology and Evolution with a research programme in Conservation
 Genomics that integrates the work of Nekaris, Nijman, Donati, Thompson, Tan on primates and
 other vertebrates, with the work of Arif, Breuker, Gerth, Shreeve, on invertebrates, enhanced by
 a CRF Research Excellence award to Shreeve and the genetics expertise of Kanda, Nunes,
 Newbury, all underpinned by the CfG. For example, we have already received a CRF studentship
 and funding for genomic sequencing for a Slow Loris Genome project to Kanda, Nekaris. We
 foresee that this combination of field biology and genomic expertise and the external
 collaborations/partnerships of these researchers will greatly impact policy and practice in
 conservation, and in combating the illegal trade of endangered animals. We also envisage that
 developing integration of genetic, ecological and biogeographic studies of invertebrates, with
 strong international links, will contribute to the conservation of declining invertebrate taxa in the
 UK and mainland Europe.

 We will continue to build our impact and links with industry (4.3) as well as supporting innovation
 through the BioH and supporting our spin-out companies. We will invest in identifying application
 and impact from our research, provide staff time and training for innovation and fund pathways to
 impact through HEIF and Faculty funds. We will continue to develop access to our facilities and
 expertise for external partners, taking advantage of our position in the Oxford Cambridge ARC,
 within the Oxford and Thames Valley ARC Universities Group Life Science Innovation Network,


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 membership of Oxford Academic Health Partners, and to lead industry engagement events on our
 campus. Examples of our successes to date are provided (see 4.3).

 2. People
 2.1 Staffing strategy
 To address our goals of maintaining excellence and building further capacity in our four research
 themes and two Centres we have strategically recruited new staff. Central to this strategy is to
 appoint RFs, initially from royalty/QR income transitioning to departmental funding, with a clear
 plan to develop appointees for permanent academic positions as well as making direct
 appointments. We have recruited eleven RFs in this REF period; three funded by our new David
 Fell RF Programme (see 2.2), one CRF Vice Chancellor’s Fellow and seven supported by
 central/faculty research funds, including royalty income. These RFs were strategically recruited to
 Cell and Developmental Biology/CfB (M. Kittelmann, Kriechbaumer, McKenna, Schoenauer,
 Sunter), Genetics and Genomics/CfG (Hens, S. Kittelmann, Solana) and Ecology and Evolution
 (Campera, Cheyne, Svensson). These appointments also further strengthened our excellence
 in bioimaging and in evolutionary developmental biology as well as supporting our previously
 recognised research strengths in plant cell biology, parasitology and primatology. In this REF
 period we also recruited three permanent staff in each of the Genetics and Genomics (Newbury,
 Lees, Kanda), Biomedicine (Gathercole, Hong, Potter) and Ecology and Evolution (Arif, Gerth,
 Tan) themes. All appointments were made consistent with OBU recruitment policies and practices
 to ensure fairness and transparency and avoid bias in shortlisting or appointment by gender or
 ethnicity.

 Our strategy also allows succession planning, ensures continuity of excellence in our areas of
 strength and continual leadership development in our Unit. Since the last REF five staff have been
 promoted to full Professor (Brooks, Carter, McGregor, Runions, Vaughan), while Moosavi and
 Newbury have been promoted to Reader and Newbury is Deputy Director of the CfG. These
 promotions evidence our UoA’s successful recruitment and retention strategy as, for example,
 Runions and Vaughan were recruited as ECRs and are now full professors, while the latter is
 also Director of the CfB (see section 3 of the Institutional statement). In addition, PhD students in
 the McGregor, Evans, Nijman and Fell labs have progressed to RF (Schoenauer, Campera),
 Senior RF (Poolman), Lecturer (Svensson) and Senior Lecturer (Arif, Graumann,
 Kriechbaumer) positions. Moreover, succession planning meant Kriechbaumer, Graumann and
 Runions were in permanent posts to continue the legacy of plant cell biology research left by
 Hawes. We have also reviewed and re-aligned our UG and PG programme portfolio with our
 research expertise. This includes a new MRes programme in Primatology and Conservation
 (Nijman) and a new MSc degree in Medical Genetics and Genomics (Biomedicine theme/CfG).

 2.2 Staff development
 All staff have annual personal development reviews with the RL linked to their 3-year rolling
 research plan developed in the light of our UoA strategy and used to support career and research
 progression. The annual reviews identify research and career development priorities and goals,
 and inform the allocation of hours for research in alignment with Unit strategy and defined OBU
 workload plan research bands. The University operates a transparent workload planning model,
 with generous research allocations for new staff giving time to build research.

 All new academic appointments are supported with a robust and well-tested development
 programme: ‘Your First Three Years’. This programme supports the development of skills required
 for research, including supervisor training, research team leadership and management, project
 and finance management, writing grants, IP and business aspects. These courses are also
 available to existing staff. In addition to this, staff at all levels participate in OBU’s research
 mentoring scheme and are encouraged to participate in Aurora, Springboard and OBU in-house
 programmes to develop further leadership skills. Staff (Gathercole, Potter, Moosavi,
 Kriechbaumer, Bolanos Garcia, Carter, Forhead, Jones, Breuker, Newbury) have won CRF
 Research Excellence awards designed to fund strategic enhancements to their research linked to
 career development. Melling and Kenny won equivalent awards in the first round of awards for
 post-doctoral researchers in 2019 to support first steps to independence in research.

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We have implemented measures to promote grant funding success. The RL holds annual
 meetings with academic staff to discuss their grant application strategy. Staff receive a monthly
 Faculty newsletter including grant opportunities and deadlines. Staff are encouraged to present
 their grant applications at a weekly ‘Grants Lab’ for peer feedback (junior research staff and PhD
 students also attend, creating a vital learning experience). Prior to submission all grants are peer
 reviewed by colleagues, and if the grants are rejected the RL and applicant discuss feedback and
 its use to improve future grant applications. This strategy has helped to increased grant capture
 over the REF period to over £8,000,000.

 Conference and networking are an integral part of staff development and funding is available that
 ensures all academic staff can maintain a presence in their respective fields (for example to cover
 child care as well as conference attendance). Several of our staff’s ongoing national/international
 collaborations can be traced back to interactions made possible by this funding (for example:
 Carter now has a BBSRC grant with Simpson (University College Dublin), and McGregor has
 NERC and Leverhulme grants with Sumner-Rooney (University of Oxford).

 Postdoctoral researchers are also supported by access to training programmes and staff
 developmental funds. This has helped to ensure the success of postdocs while they are hosted at
 OBU and in their research careers thereafter. This is evidenced by postdocs going on to win
 prestigious fellowships including Marie Curie (Almudi) and JSPS (Tanaka) awards, and securing
 independent positions including at Goettingen University, the Universidad Autónoma de Madrid,
 and University of Barcelona. Graumann, Kriechbaumer, Schoenauer, McKenna, M.
 Kittelmann, S. Kittelmann were recruited as RFs after very successful postdocs at OBU. We
 have also attracted stellar postdocs with fellowships from EMBO, DFG and Newton in this REF
 period.

 Our strategy to support and develop our RFs with the intent of appointing them to permanent
 academic positions (done previously with great success, see for example 2.1 and below) has been
 formalised by David Fell RFs (awarded to M. Kittelmann, Solana, Sunter). This scheme recruits
 and develops the most promising ECRs and prepares them for academic positions. This scheme
 is a 3+2 year model to enable independent researchers to establish their research with a rigorous
 3-year review and in the final two years there is a focus on their development and appointment as
 lecturers at the end of their Fellowships with Fellows undertaking limited teaching and gaining
 FHEA status. The early success and future promise of this scheme is evidenced by our RFs
 winning substantial external research funding from BBSRC, MRC, Leverhulme, the Royal Society
 and JSPS.

 For academic staff, the University has clear promotion routes and runs roadshows each year to
 explain details and encourage applications. There are examples of staff benefitting from this
 strategy and evidencing its success at all career stages: Runions and Vaughan (then part time),
 recruited as RFs reaching Senior Lectureships for REF2014 are now Professors. Newbury and
 Donati joined as Senior Lecturers and have been promoted to Reader; Kriechbaumer joined as
 a PDRA, won a Vice Chancellors’ RF in 2017 and was promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2020 and
 is Deputy Director of the Bioimaging Centre; Graumann was a Leverhulme Fellow and is now a
 Senior Lecturer; Nunes and Svensson were previously PDRAs and are now Senior Lecturer and
 Lecturer, respectively.

 We continue to support our staff at all levels with significant resource to promote research success.
 Our RFs are supported through the allocation of PhD studentships (seven awarded since 2017)
 and internal research funding (totalling c.£100,000 since 2017). Established staff are also
 supported with internal funding and studentships, and our more recent strategy is to focus support
 on collaborative projects between multiple staff. This strategy has led numerous collaborative
 publications and successful grant applications (see 1.2.3 for examples in each research theme).

 2.3 Support and promotion of equality, diversity and inclusivity


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We achieved Silver Athena Swan Awards in 2014 and 2018 with our Fellowship scheme to support
 career progression of research students/postdocs into permanent academic appointment, which
 has since been adopted by the wider university, flagged as good practice. The Charter principles
 supporting university policies such as parental, carers, paternity and maternity leave, flexible
 working, are embedded in the UoA. The Institution holds a HR Excellence in Research award,
 with good practice from this filtered down to all support staff (including those supporting this Unit).
 OBU is committed to the promotion of race equality as part of our equality, diversity and inclusion
 agenda and is implementing a Race Equality Strategy including all UoA staff undertaking
 unconscious bias training. In addition, OBU has developed its policy for staff inclusion into
 REF2021 through broad and open consultation at faculty and UoA levels.

 The inclusive approach at OBU has been applied over many years and has resulted in our UoA5
 submission having a vibrant balance of gender and ethnicity, with no discrimination of any staff
 with protected characteristics. Our recent Equality Impact Assessment shows no significant
 difference in outputs selected for REF2021 by gender or disability, and although there were on
 average fewer selected outputs for LGB and BAME staff, there was no bias identified in eligible
 staff selected for submission and all outputs submitted were chosen based on their scientific
 excellence and impact, verified by two Department staff and an external assessor. There was also
 no significant difference between full and part-time staff. Flexibility of contract to permit part-time
 working is frequently offered to support staff with parental or other caring responsibilities. To
 support staff following family leave, we provide enhanced workload time for research on return as
 well as either a PhD student or postdoctoral support (Graumann, Kriechbaumer, Nunes).

 We celebrate not only our diversity, but also our achievements. We have several research and
 impact recognition pathways in place such as CRF Research Excellence Awards, ACE awards,
 and the Brookes People Awards. Departmental “good news” letters as well as Faculty Research
 Newsletters frequently publicise individual and group achievements.

 2.4 Research student recruitment
 An active cohort of research students is essential for a vibrant research environment, so we
 strategically prioritise fully funding ~5-10 internal studentships per year from QR and royalty
 income streams. The latter, known as the Nigel Groome Studentships, recognise that the royalties
 stemming from Groome’s research (see ICSs) should support future generations of scientists.
 We are also a key member of the Oxford Interdisciplinary Biosciences Doctoral Training
 Partnership (Oxford DTP, see below). Several other income sources, including Research Councils
 (regular and iCASE Oxford DTP studentships), industry, and self-funding (full- and part-time)
 students all support a healthy and diverse postgraduate student research body, averaging 20 FTE
 per annum. Recruitment follows the university policy for equality and diversity and we widely
 advertise every studentship on multiple web platforms to maximise our reach. All candidates are
 interviewed by a panel of 2-3 academics (including at least one PG tutor) and all Unit staff involved
 in shortlisting or interviewing undertake unconscious bias, and recruitment and selection training.
 Our application/selection process is recorded systematically within the Faculties, allowing us to
 monitor the fairness of our recruitment/selection. These processes strengthen the talent and
 diversity of our student cohort, which over the past REF period has had a 60:40 women:men
 gender balance and ~20% BAME. Indeed, the gender ratio and the ethnicity of our students does
 not differ significantly from the benchmark for the sector.

 2.5 Research student training
 We have designed our PhD programme (including training, supervision and community) to
 maximise the support and potential of the individual, while enhancing the cohort identity and
 providing opportunities for cross-faculty interactions (for both personal growth and potential cross-
 disciplinary work).

 All research students are members of the University Graduate College and the Biosciences
 Doctoral Training Programme. Students are given a designated PG tutor who is part of a team of
 tutors always available for pastoral care and practical assistance. These tutors also meet formally


                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 each year with PhD students to review progress and to address any potential issues. These
 processes help to imbue a sense of support and community for each student.

 Supervisory teams consist of Director of Studies, second supervisor and further supervisors where
 necessary, who are often external to the University. All supervisors are required to attend a
 supervisor training programme and additional staff development sessions include topics such as
 ‘Cultural awareness and working with International students' and 'Listening to students’ stories:
 impact on their identity’, which are designed to improve integration and understanding in a
 culturally diverse setting. All research students undertake 70h of training and professional
 development per year pro rata based on an annual training needs analysis carried out with their
 supervisors. Training comprises Departmental and University-wide courses, and includes an
 annual Graduate College exhibition, and introductory training in teaching. Topic-specific training,
 including statistical analysis, bioinformatics, and bioimaging is available as needed. Students
 receive funding to attend and present at external conferences; (including international) to develop
 presentation skills, all research students present a talk and a poster at an annual postgraduate
 symposium, chaired by RFs and contract researchers), and a formal presentation in the weekly
 seminar series, organised and hosted by research students, who obtain external sponsorship.
 This process, placing students at the centre of the seminar series, gives them the opportunity to
 gain leadership and organizational skills as well as introducing and networking with high-profile
 academics.

 The success of our PhD training and supervision is evidenced by recent students obtaining
 positions at other organisations in the UK and abroad, including the Francis Crick Institute (Burrell),
 Johns Hopkins University (Hagen), The Quadram Institute (Singh), University College London
 (Leite), Cambridge University (Livraghi), the University of Heidelburg (Holzem), State University
 of New York at Buffalo (Poindexter), University of KwaZulu Natal (Ehlers-Smith) and the National
 Cancer Institute, USA (Bonatto Paese).

 2.6 Doctoral Training Partnership
 Since 2015 OBU has been an active partner of the Oxford Interdisciplinary Bioscience DTP,
 (renewed for 5 years in 2019) together with Oxford University, Harwell, Diamond Light, Pirbright
 Institute, and The Rosalind Franklin Institute. It was awarded a multimillion-pound grant from the
 BBSRC to offer comprehensive training to a new generation of multi-disciplinary scientists.
 Students recruited to the DTP benefit from training in key research skills, including bioinformatics,
 mathematics, programming, bioimaging and data analysis. Students also acquire translational
 skills, including presentation, networking, management and entrepreneurship. These students
 select two 3-month ‘rotations’ in labs across the partnership, then choose the lab for their PhD.
 Students benefit from a 12-week ‘placement’, chosen to complement their future career
 aspirations; examples include work with learned societies, science think tanks, start-up biotech
 companies, and industry giants such as Amazon. Students graduating from this programme
 therefore have an enhanced skillset and greater potential to generate impact in future years.

 OBU plays a full role in the programme, assisting in its management, contributing to training and
 offering rotations and projects across the partnership. OBU registered ten students over 2015-
 2019, who were all recruited in alignment with BBSRC EDI regulations, along with another ten for
 the 2020-2025 period. OBU has also been awarded four additional iCASE studentships (to King,
 Jones, Solana, Carter) in which students are recruited to specific projects that are supported by
 an industrial partner. It is a testament to our research environment that over the first four intakes
 of students we have had seven Oxford University-registered DTP students who have elected to
 do rotations in OBU labs. Of these, two elected to remain at OBU for the rest of their PhD and one
 is continuing at Oxford University in a close collaboration with a second supervisor at OBU. The
 OBU- and Oxford University -registered DTP and iCASE students enhance the research output of
 the Unit and help to foster a truly interdisciplinary and collaborative environment.

 Our investment in the DTP is well aligned with our strategic research goals. Much of our work is
 within the remit of the BBSRC, and as such most of our Unit staff routinely offer projects to the
 students on the programme. Through this DTP funding there has been a particular benefit to our

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 areas of strategic importance, including cell biology and developmental biology, which have
 benefitted by increased interactions with academics across the partnership. This has directly led
 to new collaborations between academics at OBU and other partners across the DTP, in some
 cases leading to collaborative research publications (e.g. Pain et al., 2019, Nature
 Communications).

 2.7 Student/Staff integration
 We view our PhD students as a vital part of a wider and vibrant community who contribute
 significantly to our research outputs. Indeed, together with our postdoctoral researchers they are
 the life force of our research capability and are valued as such. They are integrated into the fabric
 of our departments and work closely with our staff at all levels. They have a voice on appropriate
 decision-making bodies (including the CfB and CfG committees, Faculty Research and Knowledge
 Exchange, and Research Degrees committees), they integrate with staff in delivering public
 outreach programmes, and they join staff as equals at away days. Our strategy is to continue to
 integrate our PhD students in this way, as the close collaboration imbues an additional layer of
 community, reinforcing the sense of belonging at all levels and allowing staff and students to
 deliver on their research goals.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Income
 In this REF period we have secured over £8,000,000 in external funding from diverse sources
 including Research Councils (BBSRC, STFC, MRC, NERC), the Royal Society, European
 Commission (Framework projects), various charities (Leverhulme Trust, British Heart Foundation,
 Cancer & Polio Research Fund, VICTA, Society for Reproduction and Fertility, CRUK), Mexican
 Government, fellowships from JSPS, EMBO, DFG (German Research Foundation) and Innovate
 UK. In addition, Ragge has attracted over £4,000,000 in funding from corporate and private
 donations to sustainably support her research on eye abnormalities. Our strategy has been to
 continue to increase and diversify research funding supported by our RO publicising opportunities
 and supporting applications. Our success in attracting funding from a range of sources reflects our
 broad research base and vindicates our policy to recruit and promote ECRs (e.g. Solana, MRC
 and M. Kittelmann, BBSRC) as well as the strategic allocation of pilot funding and PhD
 studentships to prime longer-term projects (e.g. Carter, BBSRC, Vaughan, BBSRC; McGregor,
 NERC).

 Our researchers also have access to considerable funds (currently c.£600,000 per annum) from
 royalty income generated from IP on previous research, which along with QR funding is reinvested
 in the Groome PhD studentship scheme and also to support Research Fellowships.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 Through a recent £21,500,000 investment in Life Sciences at OBU, including an award of
 £4,100,000 HEFCE funds for new facilities in the biosciences, UoA5 has exceptionally well-
 equipped lab space with a state-of-the-art suite of control temperature/humidity rooms, growth and
 tissue culture facilities, and open plan office and shared social space, to meet the needs of
 research. Equipment was also extensively renewed (c.£300,000 initial spend) and there is an
 annual equipment round so researchers can request equipment (c.£200,000 per annum
 available). All researchers, including doctoral students have dedicated PCs with an appropriate
 specification, as needed linked to a dedicated server (e.g. metabolic modelling, bioimaging);
 Access to university and cloud storage and resources is freely available and we fund access to
 Oxford University servers for applications requiring big data. All equipment is communal to ensure
 good access to equipment for research is achieved. Centralised services for laboratory support
 and a team of support staff is provided covering technical support, grant management, financial
 reporting, safety, IT, personnel recruitment.

 A dedicated building for the CfB houses the microscopes, associated equipment and research
 groups with bioimaging as their core activity. Vaughan, Kriechbaumer, Graumann, Sunter,
 Runions, Gathercole and McKenna occupy high specification, purpose designed labs and
 offices to enable collaboration, sharing of expertise and ease of use of the facilities. The Unit has

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 dedicated expert microscopists who give technical support, hands-on, training and advice on our
 range of bioimaging equipment from light and confocal microscopy to electron microscopy e.g.
 SEM, TEM, SBF-SEM, and the processing of image data e.g. assembly of 3-D tomography images
 and techniques for sample preparation e.g. fixation, sectioning, high pressure freezing.
 Considerable CRF investment has been made with two new confocal scanning laser microscopes
 and a new TEM during this REF period.

 Since 2015 our dedicated Cat2 Facility in the Tonge Building has undergone two phases of
 refurbishment to provide facilities suitable for supporting research and innovation activities,
 including the BioH, in the short to medium term. We have also benefited from CRF investment to
 provide facilities to support innovation e.g. a freeze dryer funded in the 2016 round to aid protein
 work. Note that HSS staff in this UoA have access to their own dedicated research space including
 shared laboratory space for analysis of field samples as well as wet laboratories and computing
 for genomics.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 Collaboration is integral to our research strategy and culture as evidenced by our publications and
 grants data; all but one of our submitted outputs include at least one collaborating author. 27% of
 our papers include internal collaborations and over 60% include an international collaborator. Of
 the 103 live funding projects in our current database, 41 (40%) include external partners and 63%
 of these partners are International.

 4.1.1 Strategic support of collaboration and partnership
 Researchers are encouraged to develop collaborative research programmes through CRF
 Research Excellence Awards (https://www.brookes.ac.uk/about-brookes/at-a-glance/research-
 excellence/) which may be used to foster collaborations across departments or externally (UK, EU
 and international being given equal importance). For example, Jones used an award in 2017 to
 establish a partnership with Universidad de Concepción, Chile to study the decline of bees, Kanda
 and Bolanos-Garcia used their 2019 award to support a Mexican visiting fellow. Partnerships
 through industry are supported through the iCASE DTP studentships and engagement with the
 BioH. More formal Unit-wide collaborations include the Oxford DTP and Groome studentships,
 which drive research collaboration through the students’ jointly supervised research programmes.
 Almost half of current studentships include joint supervisory groups (including all those recruited
 for 2020 and advertised for 2021) and almost one third of our BBSRC DTP students have an
 industrial partner, for example Solana and Oxford Nanopore Technologies.

 Since REF2014, development of interdisciplinary research has been supported through
 development of cross Faculty networks. Staff contribute to the Children and Young People’s
 (Newbury) and Healthy Aging Networks (Potter). CfG researchers work on cross-faculty projects
 linking      biological     anthropology       and     biology     (Arif,   Kanda,       Nekaris).
 New collaborative opportunities are supported internally by events such as away days, and
 internal seminar programmes, and virtually through internal newsletters and dedicated twitter
 feeds. Initiatives such as these afford a better awareness of cross-departmental research and help
 researchers to recognise new collaborative opportunities.

 4.1.2 Participation in national networks and collaborations
 Links with external partners are encouraged and fostered through local, National and International
 networks such as the Oxford Academic Health Partners (https://www.oxfordahsc.org.uk/), which
 includes OBU, the Oxford University NHS Foundation Trust (OUHT), Oxford Health Foundation
 Trust, Oxford Academic Health Science Centre and Oxford University. Moosavi has collaborated
 with OUHT staff in a British Heart Foundation project on inhaled drug treatment for chronic
 obstructive pulmonary disease. In developing a clinical diagnostic for eye abnormalities, Ragge
 has led a HEIF-funded multidisciplinary team with numerous external stakeholders, including the
 West Midlands Regional Genetic Lab.



                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Researchers in the CfB have strong collaboration with the Central Laser Facility (CLF) at Harwell
 with access grants totalling approximately £400K (Hawes (decd), Kriechbaumer, Vaughan,
 Sunter, Carter, M. Kittelmann, McGregor). This includes two consortium program access grants
 (The Plant Cell Initiative I and II), four direct access grants and RCUK funded access from the
 BBSRC (M. Kittelmann, McGregor), and NERC and Leverhulme (McGregor) in collaboration
 with colleagues at the Oxford University Museum of Natural History. CLF provides access to
 microscopy not widely available in the UK and links OBU with a centre of national expertise in
 microscopy complementing our partnerships with Zeiss and RMC Boeckler (see 1.2.4.a). The
 broader impact is exemplified by Kriechbaumer being invited as a speaker to the CLF-organised
 African Laser Centre student workshop and ALC Workshop on Laser Tissue Interaction and Laser
 Imaging, in Stellenbosch.


 4.1.3 Participation in international networks and collaborations
 Our research strategy encourages participation in international networks and promotes and
 supports collaboration with colleagues around the world. Evans and Graumann are members of
 the Impact of Nuclear Domains On Gene Expression and Plant Traits (INDEPTH) COST action
 including five working groups and over 120 researchers from across Europe and America.
 Newbury studies speech and language development on Robinson Crusoe Island, which was
 funded by an ESRC Newton Award, and in Brazil, which is funded by a British Academy award;
 Poolman is involved in EU funded projects to adapt photosynthesis to climate change (AccliPhot
 II with Heinrich Heine University and six other partners) and to tackle antimicrobial resistance with
 Copenhagen University and eight others. McGregor successfully led a large international
 collaboration with the i5K consortium (based at the Baylor College of Medicine) to sequence and
 analyse arachnid genomes (Schwager et al., BMC Biology, 2017).

 Our International collaborations have been supported by Global Challenge Research Funds
 (GCRF) and Newton Awards (Vaughan, Sunter, Bermudez, King, Bolanos-Garcia, Carter,
 Newbury). Vaughan and Sunter are involved in a collaborative project with the University of
 Ghana, the Food and Agricultural Organisation of the UN and the Ghanaian tsetse fly control unit
 to undertake research of African trypanosomiasis in Europe and Africa. Newbury piloted a reading
 intervention programme in Chile leading to work with DFID and GCRF funding to extend this
 programme to Brazil. International research networks have been used to increase the reach of
 impact, influence economy and drive policy change as exemplified by the Nocturnal Primate
 Research Group (Nekaris, Donati, Nijman, Svensson, Campera). This provides an international
 forum for coordination of research on nocturnal primates, with a network of collaborative links with
 academic institutions, conservation NGOs, enforcement agencies, wildlife societies, zoological
 museums and zoos. Its field studies help to determine the distribution and status of some of the
 most neglected species and to indicate the condition of declining habitats. Research has resulted
 in policy change including the implementation of wildlife trade regulations through the Convention
 on International Trade in Endangered Species. Further international collaboration, initially
 supported by iDiv, German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research. Halle-Lepizig, established
 a European network (including Shreeve) developing European-scale Lepidopteran data sets to
 improve the evidence-base for prioritising conservation efforts for rapidly declining taxa.

 4.2 Contributions to the research base
 We contribute to and engage with the research base in several ways, from our involvement with
 funders, publication and conferences, as well as through the training and courses that we provide.
 McGregor and Runions are members of the BBSRC Pool of Experts, King has been a member
 of the BBSRC Fellowships Committee and UKRI Future Leaders, and McGregor is a panel
 member for the French National Research Agency. Potter is a member of the BBSRC Aging
 Mouse Resources and NC3Rs Rodent Age working groups, and Pink serves on the International
 Society for Extracellular Vesicles Blood Extracellular Vesicle Advisory Team.

 In addition, academics in this area serve as editors on over 20 journals (including Nucleus, PLoS
 One, Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution, Frontiers in Zoology, British Journal of Pharmacology,
 Genetics and Genomics, Scientific Reports, Mammalian Genome, Folia Primatologica, Zoology,

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Journal of Applied Ecology, Endangered Species Research, Journal of Anthropological Sciences).
 Our staff also serve as members of the committees of learned societies including the Society for
 Experimental Biology (Evans, Graumann), Society for Endocrinology (Gathercole), and Royal
 Microscopical Society (Brooks). In addition, McGregor has served on the committee of the British
 Society for Developmental Biology since 2015. In 2018, he helped to organise the 70th anniversary
 meeting, which attracted over 600 delegates. In 2019, the annual Population Genetics Group
 meeting was organised by Kanda, McGregor, Nunes, Arif and held at OBU (>200 delegates).
 The NPRG have hosted several large international conferences at OBU, including Evolution of
 Nocturnal Behaviour in Humans and other Primates in 2015 (~200 delegates), the 8th European
 Federation of Primatology Congress in 2019 (~400 delegates). In 2019, Ragge hosted the
 Genetics of Ocular Development conference. This event was complemented by the publication of
 a special issue of the journal Human Genetics, which Ragge edited. Moreover, the hosting of the
 UK Extracellular Vesicle Forum at OBU led to the foundation of the UK society for Extracellular
 Vesicles (https://www.ukev.org.uk/), of which Carter is President and Pink is a board member.

 Many of our staff host visiting researchers and run summer schools and courses for researchers
 in the UK and from abroad. Nekaris, Donati, Nijman have accommodated four visiting fellows
 since REF2014 each for one or two years, from Universities in China, Denmark and Mexico.
 Furthermore, the CfB has provided training for several African researchers and Newbury has
 organised training for Chilean researchers in genomic technologies and bioinformatic analyses.
 Through these training opportunities we build relationships with primary stakeholders in key areas.
 Going forward this model is being adapted by our other research groups and the CfG has launched
 a programme to provide training in genomics and bioinformatics.

 Our staff host two summer schools at OBU and participate in several others. Breuker, McGregor
 and S. Kittelmann have hosted a biennial Eco-Evo-Devo summer school since 2012, which has
 trained over 60 external and internal postgraduate students. The CfB also offers a microscopy
 summer school, has held Zeiss/RMC external workshops, and hosts the Royal Microscopy Society
 Summer School. In addition, Kriechbaumer, Runions, and McKenna have all served as lecturers
 on the prestigious Gatsby Plant Summer School.

 4.3 Contributions to Industry and Economy
 OBU is ranked in the top 10 UK universities for IP-related income almost entirely resulting from
 licensing of our inhibin and activin antibodies (ICSs: Groome). Building on this legacy, we made
 a strategic decision to strengthen our interactions with industry. We have encouraged staff to
 attend development courses on IP and KE, and our RBDO works closely with the FIT headed by
 Meredith. We established the BioH as a bioincubator for OBU spinouts and external companies.
 We are supported by an IP and Commercialisation manager and business developer, who steered
 two successful applications to the Innovate UK ICURe programme (Meredith, Carter). Several
 research     groups     have     established    or   expanded    their   industry    links   (e.g.
 Carter/Brooks/Kriechbaumer with Porton Biopharma Ltd, Carter with Merck). Brooks, Carter,
 Pink were awarded £210,000 from Innovate UK to cofound a spinout company. Poolman has
 succeeded Fell on the Management Board of the BBSRC Network in Industrial Biotechnology and
 Bioenergy CCnet, where his role is to oversee systems approaches and run genome scale,
 metabolic modelling workshops for novel strain design.

 4.4 Contributions to Society
 All staff and research students are encouraged to participate in public engagement activities. To
 promote this OBU’s first ever Research and Science Communications Senior Lecturer was
 appointed (initially Osterrieder), who coordinated all outreach activities. Osterrieder left OBU in
 2019 and Nekaris was appointed to lead this with assistance (0.5 FTE) from Beaman, former PhD
 student and a postdoc in DBMS. Outreach activities include the annual Brookes Science Bazaar,
 with over 3000 attendees in 2019, interdisciplinary partnerships between sciences and humanities,
 the ‘Amazing Acts’ Festival at the Pegasus Theatre and ‘CSI Oxfordshire’ at local schools. Online
 public engagement training workshops for researchers across OBU have been developed and
 these are also run for the Society of Experimental Biology and the Royal Microscopical Society.
 Runions has a weekly science spot on BBC Radio Oxford as Dr Molecule explaining “current hot

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 topics” to a general audience. Hawes and Hughes were funded by BBSRC for an innovative
 activity to bring microscopy to the visually impaired. Kanda coordinates Soapbox Science annually
 in Oxford. Nekaris conducts considerable outreach and social and mainstream media work
 around primate conservation particularly the global “Little Fireface” campaign and for eleven years
 the Slow Loris Outreach Week (Nekaris, Nijman). Our researchers took part in the European
 Researchers Night Curiosity Carnival held across Oxford. Staff also run a range of outreach
 activities with school children. For example, McGregor, S. Kittelmann, Schoenauer, Nunes have
 taken their “Arthropods up close” activity to six schools and other organisations as well as events
 at the Oxford Natural History Museum and Cowley Road Carnival.




                                                                                            Page 16
