Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Newcastle University

 Unit of Assessment: 19 Politics and International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Unit context

 Politics at Newcastle has a long-standing reputation for delivering outstanding research on political
 participation, security and social justice, and for embracing interdisciplinarity as an organic feature
 of our research culture. During this REF cycle, we have achieved a major advancement in the
 discipline by significantly expanding our research capacity, consolidating our established areas
 of excellence and investing in emerging areas of pioneering research. Key elements of our
 transformation include:

    •   a significant staff growth from 24.6FTE to 34.1FTE (39% increase);
    •   strategic investment in outstanding ECRs aimed at enhancing the sustainability of our
        research culture (79% of new appointments);
    • a major shift in our gender composition (from 19% to 40% female colleagues);
    • impressive career progression (16 promotions);
    • a nearly 4-fold increase in external research funding;
    • a 6-fold increase in internal research and impact investment;
    • a significant rise in the proportion of research outputs in top 10 academic journals;
    • closer collaboration with over 3,000 diverse non-academic partners and beneficiaries at
        the international, national and local levels;
    • major investment in infrastructure (£60m refurbishment of the Henry Daysh Building to
        which we moved in January 2020).
 Our exceptionally strong performance is the outcome of our uniquely collegiate, supportive
 and vibrant research culture.

 Structure

 We are a discrete unit in the School of Geography, Politics and Sociology (GPS) within the Faculty
 of Humanities and Social Sciences (HaSS). Our approach to research and impact rests on four
 pillars:

 1. We value theoretical and methodological pluralism and support our staff and PGR students in
 pursuing interdisciplinary research agendas. Pluralism and interdisciplinarity are an essential part
 of our identity which informs all our activities – from training research students to engaging with
 non-academic partners.

 2. While we address a wide range of research questions, we are particularly committed to
 advancing research on political participation, security and social justice (broadly understood and
 applied to a wide range of political, socio-economic and environmental issues in international,
 national and sub-national contexts).

 3. We share a fundamental commitment to advancing equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) which
 underpins everything we do – from our research focus on inequalities related to sex and gender
 (Luhiste, Repo, Siow, Turner, Wright), ethnicity and race (Aguilar, McGahern, Ram, Routley, Siow,
 Turner), socio-economic class (Fontana), health (Kniess) and global inequalities (Fontana, Long,
 Langan, Routley, Walton) to our practices in recruitment, staffing and research support.

 4. We believe that ‘research impact at the social, cultural and creative level, is just as important
 as creating change in the economic and political spheres, and raising awareness and changing
 thinking are as valid as changing policy’ (GPS Research Impact Manifesto, January 2020).



                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our concern with political participation, security and social justice is mirrored in the research focus
 of our three Research Clusters which act as overarching support communities for all staff and
 PGR students:

    •   The Governance and Political Organisations (GPO) Cluster has a well-deserved
        reputation for delivering outstanding research on political participation, with a particular
        strength in electoral studies (Aguilar, Burlacu, Clark, Popa, Siow), parties (Luhiste,
        Randall), interest groups (Maloney) and environmental politics (Barr, Clough, Elstub Rietig,
        Swaffield, Zito).

    •   The International Politics (IP) Cluster produces cutting-edge research on security and
        global justice and is internationally recognised for excellence in critical development
        (Fontana, Langan, Routley), critical security (Feklyunina, Grayson, Mawdsley, Wright),
        migration (Skleparis, Turner), political geography (McGahern, Ram) and popular culture
        (Davies, Philpott).

    •   Since REF 2014, we have broadened our Political Philosophy Cluster into a Political
        Theory (PT) Cluster, which harnesses our reputation for exceptional research in
        normative, critical, feminist, and democratic theory, to make world-leading contributions in
        economic ethics (Kniess, Repo, Walton), environmental justice (Bell, Long), civil and social
        rights (Bell, Jones, Kniess, Walton), deliberation (O’Flynn, Elstub), and ethics in
        international relations (Behr, Kniess, Walton).

 While all colleagues and PGRs are members of at least one Cluster, we welcome overlapping
 membership to support crosscutting research interests and evolving research agendas (hence we
 have made a strategic decision not to assign individual publications to Research Clusters in our
 REF Output Submission). The Clusters provide a nurturing environment to discuss work-in-
 progress, including funding proposals, pre-submission and ‘revise and resubmit’ manuscripts, and
 methodological challenges, as well as offer a programme of research events, tailored training and
 professional development. To boost emerging areas of excellence, we have supplemented
 Clusters with smaller and more flexible Research Groups which are initiated from the bottom-up
 to pursue closer collaboration among colleagues from different Clusters:

    •   The Gender and Politics Group has already earned an international reputation for world-
        leading research on gender in political representation and recruitment (Luhiste, Siow), the
        biopolitics of gender (Repo), and gender and IR (Turner, Wright).

    •   The Quantitative Research in Politics Group, which closely collaborates with the
        Durham-Newcastle based North-East Research Development Workshop (NERD), has
        gained international recognition for experimental quantitative methods (Aguilar, Clough)
        and innovative studies of public opinion, social media and social attitudes (Burlacu,
        Luhiste, Popa, Siow).

    •   In the next REF cycle, we intend to establish an Environmental Politics Group and an
        Ethnographic Research Group that will build on our rapidly growing excellence in these
        areas.

 Beyond Politics, we closely collaborate with multi-disciplinary NU Centres of Research Excellence
 (NUCoREs): Climate and Environmental Resilience (Elstub, Zito), Data (Aguilar, Clough, Luhiste,
 Popa), Energy (Zito), Heritage (Feklyunina, Routley), and Latin American and Caribbean Studies
 (Aguilar, Davies, Fontana). Our staff are embedded in a diverse range of Faculty- and University-
 wide multi-disciplinary research groups and networks, such as ‘Eastern European and Russian
 Research Group’ (Feklyunina), ‘Ethnographic Methods Reading Group’ (McGahern), ‘Gender
 Research Group’ (Luhiste, Repo, Siow, Turner, Wright), ‘International Studies in Forced Migration
 Research Group’ (Philpott, Skleparis), ‘Military, War and Security Research Group’ (Grayson,
 Mawdsley, Wright), ‘Postcolonial Research Group’ (Routley), and ‘Youth Research Network’


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Maloney, Rainsford). Zito co-directs the NU Jean Monnet Centre (co-hosted by Politics and the
 Law School).

 As an indication of our commitment to research integrity, staff and PGRs are required to submit
 an ethics application to the Faculty Ethics Committee in relation to any research project (whether
 externally funded or not) that involves fieldwork or collection of data. We provide secure and
 dedicated storage in the department for sensitive data. Similarly, we encourage staff and PGRs
 to deposit copies of all accepted research outputs in ePrints (NU Open Access Repository) and
 all datasets in NU Open Data Repository. Walton serves on the University Research Ethics
 Committee, which enables us to inform and learn from the University’s approach to research
 integrity.

 Our approach to supporting research is underpinned by our firm commitment to transparency and
 EDI. The Politics Research Director is a member of the School Research Committee which acts
 as a forum for developing school research strategy. All committee meetings are attended by the
 School EDI Director who ensures our strategic planning and research support decisions (e.g. on
 internal investment or research leaves), are EDI-focused. At the unit level, the Politics Research
 Director works closely with the Politics Research Strategy Group (RSG) which is responsible for
 developing and implementing Politics Research and Impact Strategy. The RSG includes Politics
 EDI Lead, Research Cluster Coordinators, Impact Director, PGR Director, an ECR representative
 and Head of Politics. We ensure the RSG is gender balanced (50/50) and represents different
 constituencies from across the unit. We also made a strategic decision to include the Politics EDI
 Lead as a member of our REF Output Selection Committee (which also includes representatives
 of our three Research Clusters, Politics Research Director, Head of Politics and Head of School).
 The REF leadership team completed REF-focussed EDI training.

 Research and Impact Strategy

 Following the release of REF2014 results, we established three working groups (‘Research
 Environment’, ‘Impact’ and ‘Outputs’) that analysed best practice elsewhere and collectively
 developed an ambitious Research and Impact Strategy. Our overall goal is to nurture a vibrant
 culture of research excellence that encourages highly ambitious and innovative research,
 while preserving our long-established values of collegiality and ensuring our working
 environment supports the wellbeing of all staff and PGR students. Our strategy has focused
 on the following:

    1. Consolidating existing areas of outstanding research and investing in emerging
       areas of excellence.

        Key achievements: we have made 15 strategic appointments across our three Research
        Clusters that have significantly strengthened our well-established excellence in political
        participation, security and social justice. We have used these appointments to establish
        Newcastle as a major research centre for studies of Gender (currently 5 staff),
        Environmental Politics (6 staff), Quantitative Research (7 staff) and Ethnographic
        Research (6 staff). We have further consolidated our position in the discipline by having a
        remarkably wide range of regional specialisms (African, Australian, Chinese, European,
        North and Latin American, Middle Eastern, Southeast Asian, and Russian and Eurasian
        politics).

    2. Placing EDI considerations at the heart of our approaches to research support,
       staffing and overall management of the unit.

        Key achievements: we have made particularly significant progress in addressing gender
        inequality. We increased the proportion of female staff from 19% in 2013/14 to 40% in
        2019/20, supported 8 promotions by female colleagues, and successfully applied for an
        Athena SWAN Bronze award (as a school in 2017). We have made considerable progress
        in countering the culture of ableism: we have initiated inclusive and open conversations

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       among staff and PGRs on mental health, improved disability access, and enhanced
       research support for staff with mobility challenges. While our racial diversity among staff
       remains limited, we are working hard to increase it (see Section 2). We have noticeably
       increased the proportion of our PGRs from BAME backgrounds from 25% in 2013/14 to
       37% in 2019/20. We are deeply committed to supporting a greater number of PGRs from
       BAME backgrounds in transitioning to lecturer positions. Newcastle University has recently
       developed its Action Plan to work towards the Race Equality Charter and we are keen to
       actively participate in this process. We have made a major contribution to advancing EDI
       in the discipline by leading the development of EDI approaches in key professional
       associations (Grayson in BISA and Wright in UACES and ISA). Our research and
       leadership have shaped NU’s understanding of and response to long-term differential
       impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic on research, wellbeing and career progression of staff
       and PGRs (Luhiste’s role as Acting EDI Director for HaSS Faculty, Feb-July 2020).

    3. Supporting colleagues in producing world-leading research and pursuing ambitious
       publication strategies; significantly increasing the number of publications in most widely
       read and influential academic outlets.

       Key achievements: we have published 473 research outputs, including 14 monographs,
       9 edited books, 42 articles in the top 10 journals in the InCites reports for Political Science
       and IR (17% of our articles) and 84 articles in top-quartile journals (34% of our articles).
       Our REF2021 submission includes a significantly higher proportion of articles published in
       the top 10 and first quartile journals compared to REF2014:

                                             REF2014                     REF2021
        Proportion of submitted journal
        articles in top 10 journals         9%                           28%
        Proportion of submitted journal
        articles in first quartile journals 41%                          48%

       At the same time, we recognise that outstanding research can be published in a diverse
       range of venues, and we continue to publish in more specialised outlets (as reflected in
       our REF Output Submission). We are exceptionally strong in interdisciplinary
       research: 43% of outputs in our REF2021 submission are flagged up as interdisciplinary;
       we have participated in major externally funded interdisciplinary projects (AHRC, RCUK
       GCRF, FP7, Horizon2020) and co-authored publications with scholars in Architecture
       (Ram), Environmental Sciences (Fontana, Long), Geography (Behr, Fontana, Repo), Law
       (Zito), Museum and Heritage Studies (Zito) and Sociology (Barr, Swaffield) among other
       disciplines. Our interdisciplinary strength is further evident in the impressive spread of our
       research topics, as demonstrated in the analysis of our journal articles captured in Scopus
       (2014-20) by the web-based analytics SciVal:




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




    4. Significantly increasing our external research funding, diversifying our funding
       sources and supporting all staff in developing funding proposals of the highest calibre.

       Key achievements: we have increased our external research funding from £309k during
       REF2014 to over £1.1 million in REF2021; diversified our funders from 9 to 23; and
       achieved a significantly more even distribution of funding success across the department
       (major grants in all three clusters, 73% of staff holding at least 1 external award, 57 awards
       in total).

    5. Strengthening our relationships with a more diverse range of non-academic
       partners and beneficiaries at all stages of the research lifecycle.

       Key achievements: we have closely engaged with over 3,000 non-academic bodies and
       organisations, including more than 1,500 NGOs in the Global South. The impact of our
       research ranges from evaluating a major change in the electoral process (Clark’s research
       influencing the evaluation methodology used by the UK Electoral Commission in voter
       identification pilots) to creative impact (Davies’s research changing cultural attitudes
       through co-producing an audio play with a Newcastle-based theatre company). Our three
       Impact Case Studies showcase the diversity of our impact in terms of the focus of our
       research (building on outstanding research across all three of our Research Clusters), the
       range of our non-academic partners and beneficiaries (from NGOs in the Global South to
       the UN to the UK Parliament), and patterns of engagement (from co-producing position
       papers and policy proposals to contributing to parliamentary enquiries).

    6. Supporting staff in bidding for consultancy projects and in co-producing research with
       non-academic partners.

       Key achievements: We have won 9 bids for consultancy projects (e.g. Long’s and
       Clough’s collaboration with the network ‘UK Stakeholders for Sustainable Development’
       on developing a Sustainable Development Goals framework for London commissioned by
       the Greater London Authority and the London Sustainable Development Commission). We
       have co-produced over 40 reports, position papers and policy proposals with non-
       academic partners (e.g. Rainsford’s report on ‘The Role of Family in Social Mobility’, co-
       produced with Youth Employment UK).



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     7. Integrating engagement with non-academic partners and beneficiaries in all areas of our
        work – from teaching to relationships with our alumni.

        Key achievements: We have cultivated the culture of engagement among our
        postgraduate students (Elstub co-authoring a report, commissioned by NESTA, on the
        potential of mini-publics to promote evidence uptake in social policy with PGR and MA
        students). At the UG level, we have developed an innovative module in ‘Community
        Research’ (Bell and Clough): our students have undertaken group research projects with
        almost 40 partner organisations from the voluntary sector in the North East of England
        (e.g. assessing the value of community to homeless people in partnership with South
        Shields-based ‘Emmaus’ in 2019/20). Some of these projects have developed into longer-
        term interdisciplinary collaboration with non-academic partners and have generated
        significant material impact (Bell’s collaboration with McLaughlin in Sociology at NU and
        ‘Carers Northumberland’ to improve access to toilet facilities for people with disabilities and
        their carers). We have nurtured relationships with our alumni by inviting them to our
        research events and seeking their insight into our engagement and impact strategies.
        Examples include Ambassador Clare Hutchinson (NATO Secretary General’s Special
        Representative for Women, Peace and Security), Stuart Mackintosh (Washington DC-
        based think tank ‘Group of Thirty’) and Andrew Campion (Canadian Ministry of Defence).

     8. Recruiting outstanding PGR students and preparing them for successful academic and
        non-academic careers.

        Key achievements: we have recruited outstanding PGRs from 27 countries; supervised
        55 PGRs to completion (42.53 FTE), including 13 PhD projects funded by Research
        Councils and 25 interdisciplinary projects with co-supervisors from other departments. Our
        PGRs have won prestigious awards, published 19 peer-reviewed academic articles and
        secured employment in academic (8 in the UK and 7 internationally) and professional roles.

     9. Make a major contribution to future development of the discipline by taking leading
        roles in key professional organisations and international networks, editing major journals
        and organising high-profile research events.

        Key achievements: we have played leading roles in 6 professional associations and in 21
        major research networks; edited 10 journals; and organised 54 conferences and
        workshops.

 Our success in achieving this major transformation has been facilitated by a distinct culture of
 collegiality and inclusion that we had fostered over nearly two decades. All staff contributed to
 developing our Research and Impact Strategy, as well as to producing this REF Research
 Environment Statement (through participating in brainstorming sessions, providing written
 feedback and discussing drafts at our annual Research Away Days). This inclusive participatory
 approach ensures the sustainability of the changes discussed above.

 Forward-Looking Research and Impact Strategy

 Going forward, we will build on our significant recent successes to achieve the following strategic
 objectives:

 •   Strengthen our position as a major centre of excellence in political participation, security
     and social justice. Consolidate our emerging position as a leading centre of excellence in the
     study of Gender and Politics; Environmental Politics; and Quantitative and Ethnographic
     Research. We have recently secured university investment in 4 new open-ended teaching and
     research lectureships, with the aim of hiring new colleagues in spring 2021.

 •   Support all colleagues and PGR students in addressing long-term research and career
     challenges stemming from the Covid-19 pandemic (through adjustments to our workload

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     model, virtual peer-support ‘community circles’, targeted internal investment in research
     support, explicit recognition of the impact of COVID-19 in the promotion process).

 •   Continue advancing EDI through EDI-focused research, research support, recruitment and
     staffing practices, and closer collaboration with a more diverse range of researchers from the
     Global South. Apply for the Athena SWAN Silver Award and fundamentally transform the
     gender composition of the unit leadership by supporting our female colleagues in their well-
     deserved progression to professorial positions.

 •   Strengthen support for delivering outstanding research monographs. Invest in ‘monograph
     workshops’ at the conception and pre-submission stages with the aim of increasing our
     success rate with the most influential presses.

 •   Increase our research income further by supporting engagement with the full range of funders
     from research councils to foundations. Use internal investment to strengthen collaboration with
     non-UK partners to open up new funding opportunities.

 •   Support all staff and PGR students in pursuing close engagement with non-academic partners
     and beneficiaries leading to impact.

 •   Continue to attract outstanding PGRs and expand our successful postdoctoral recruitment
     programme. Our recently established role of Postdoctoral Coordinator (Fontana) has delivered
     its first results (BA Postdoctoral Fellowship secured by Jude, 2020-23).

 •   Consolidate our exceptionally strong position in the discipline by regularly hosting major
     conferences, leading disciplinary associations and editing high-profile journals. Going forward,
     we recently added British Politics (Randall), Journal of Experimental Political Science (Aguilar),
     Parliamentary Affairs (Clark) and Political Research Exchange (O’Flynn) to our already
     impressive editorship portfolio (see Section 4).

 2. People

 Staffing strategy

 Since REF2014, we have grown from 24.6 to 34.1 staff FTE as a result of a major strategic
 university investment. We have consolidated our research excellence in political participation,
 security and social justice by making 15 outstanding appointments across our three Research
 Clusters:

     •   GPO Cluster: we have significantly strengthened our expertise in political and voting
         behaviour by appointing Aguilar, Burlacu, Luhiste, Popa and Siow.

     •   IP Cluster: we have augmented our well-established excellence in security (Wright) and
         political geography (Ram) and made outstanding appointments in contentious politics
         (Fontana), global governance (Rietig), migration (Skleparis, Turner) and political economy
         (Langan).

     •   PT Cluster: we have consolidated our research leadership in analytical political philosophy
         (Kniess) while strengthening our excellence in deliberative democracy (Elstub) and
         feminist theory (Repo).

 This growth (39%) has allowed us to significantly reduce our SSRs (from 22 in 2013/14 to 17 in
 2019/20) and spread administrative roles more evenly across the department. We took the
 strategic decision to enhance the sustainability of our research environment by prioritising the
 appointment of outstanding ECRs and supporting them to become world-leading researchers
 (79% of appointments). At the same time, we have successfully supported (through mentoring,

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strategic allocation of administrative roles and research support) both new and previously
 employed staff in timely career progression. We have secured 16 promotions, including 2
 promotions to Chair (Bell, Grayson), 3 to Reader (Clark, Elstub, Philpott), and 11 to SL (Barr,
 Clough, Feklyunina, Luhiste, McGahern, Popa, Repo, Rietig, Routley, Walton and Wright). All
 ECRs at the time of REF2014 have since achieved promotion. Our success at retaining staff is
 evident in a small (compared to the sector) number of leavers: 1 colleague retired (Babb), 3 moved
 to positions overseas (Gills, David and Ovadia), 2 – to more senior positions in the UK (Chisholm
 and Coward) and only 3 (Gerver, Liu and Sajuria) to comparable positions in the UK. Our Category
 A staff include 8 Lecturers, 17 SLs, 3 Readers, 5 Professors, 1 Emeritus Professor and 1
 Postdoctoral Fellow. Based on the outstanding performance of our mid-career and ECR staff, we
 expect a significant number of promotions to readership and professorial positions over the next
 REF cycle.

 Compared to REF 2014, we have hosted a significantly larger number of postdoctoral researchers
 (8 compared to 1 during REF2014), including 3 Postdoctoral Fellows (Marie Sklodowska-Curie
 Fellowship, Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship and Newcastle Excellence Academy
 Fellowship), 4 RAs on externally-funded projects and 1 RA on an internally-funded project. In line
 with ‘The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers’, we provide postdoctoral
 researchers with full access to our research and impact support, including internal funding, and
 enable them to gain teaching experience. We have extended our offer of full research support
 (including full access to internal funding and a regular semester-long study leave) to staff on both
 open-ended and fixed-term ‘Teaching and Scholarship’ contracts. We recognize that fixed-term
 Lecturers may view their positions as a steppingstone to an open-ended ‘Research and Teaching’
 lectureship. To support them in their career development, we have placed an upper limit on their
 workload at 85% (including 200 hours of protected research time).

 Both postdoctoral researchers and staff on ‘Teaching and Scholarship’ contracts have made a
 valuable contribution to the vitality of our research environment which has ranged from presenting
 their research at departmental and Cluster events to organising conferences and workshops (e.g.
 the workshop on ‘Violent (and not-so-violent) Extremism and Hate’ co-organised by Kirke in 2019).
 Our postdoctoral researchers and fixed-term lecturers have successfully progressed to open-
 ended lectureships (Caygill at Nottingham Trent; Kirke at Glasgow Caledonian; Middleton at
 Surrey) and prestigious postdoctoral fellowships (Canzutti to a postdoctoral position at KCL; Jude
 to a BA Postdoctoral Fellowship at Newcastle; Ketola to an ESRC Postdoctoral Fellowship at KCL
 and Khoban to a postdoctoral fellowship in Sweden).

 The key elements of our inclusive research and impact support are:

    •   A research induction for all new staff, including meetings with Head of Politics, Politics
        Research Director, School Research Manager and professional services staff at the
        School Research Support Office.

    •   ECR support: a peer mentor and a senior mentor for the first two years; reduction of
        teaching to an equivalent of a single module per academic year and no major
        administrative roles in the first three years; a semester-long research leave in the third
        year; participation in doctoral co-supervisory teams with experienced colleagues at the
        earliest opportunity.

    •   An optional Mentoring Programme beyond the ECR stage with a focus on addressing
        particular challenges or achieving particular objectives (e.g. preparing for promotion,
        adjusting to return from parental or sick leave).

    •   Annual Performance and Development Reviews (PDR) with a senior colleague. We
        prioritise the developmental aspect of these meetings by focusing on long-term strategies,
        challenges, and career progression. PDRs are complemented by annual Personal
        Research Plan (PRP) meetings with the Research Director that focus on research and


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        engagement strategies and are instrumental in identifying training needs or additional
        support.

    •   Peer Review of Outputs and Funding Proposals: We encourage all staff and PGRs to
        submit their manuscripts and proposal drafts to either Research Clusters or Research
        Groups. Colleagues frequently share work-in-progress with those outside their area of
        specialism, which helps to ensure outputs and proposals convey their broader relevance
        to the discipline as a whole and are accessibly written.

    •   Research training and professional development: our staff have completed a wide
        range of training courses offered by NU, such as ‘Principal Investigator Development
        Programme’, ‘Getting Those Grants’, PGR Supervisory workshops, Coaching and
        Mentoring for Women, and Head of Subject Leadership course. We have also supported
        staff in accessing more specialised training both at Newcastle and beyond, including a
        workshop on Social Media Data Analysis for members of the Quantitative Research in
        Politics Research Group (Newcastle), Feklyunina’s training in Q-methodology (Tampere
        University) and McGahern’s training in geospatial data mapping (UCL). We have
        supported staff in undertaking ‘Aurora: Advance HE for women in HE leadership’.

    •   Engagement and Impact support: regular individual meetings with Politics Impact
        Director to discuss individual pathways to impact; consistent focus on engagement during
        annual PDR and PRP meetings; support with applications for secondments, fellowships
        and consultancy work. Our staff have benefitted from NU’s bespoke programme of
        engagement training, including a series of ESRC Impact Acceleration Account Capacity
        Building Workshops (working with policy makers, digital engagement, etc). We have
        proactively encouraged intra-departmental collaboration and apprenticeship-type learning,
        with more experienced staff supporting ECRs in building relations with non-academic
        partners (e.g. O’Flynn’s, Elstub’s and Luhiste’s report on ‘Shaping the Future Together: A
        New Deliberative Approach’ co-produced with the Northern Health and Social Care Trust).
        When a promising engagement opportunity arises at short notice, we provide teaching
        relief. Engagement and impact achievements are part of NU promotion criteria, which has
        allowed us to support colleagues in gaining well-deserved recognition for their
        contributions to societal benefits.

    •   A transparent workload model: 40% of protected research time (2 days a week),
        protected engagement time (30 hours, increasing to 130 hours for staff with more proactive
        engagement agenda, and to 290 hours for potential Impact Case Studies). We work-load
        editing journals, serving on executive committees of professional associations and
        organising major conferences. We have increased the frequency of semester-long study
        leaves from one in every 4 to one in every 3 years (a more generous provision compared
        to most other departments in NU), with the length extended to two semesters after a major
        administrative role (e.g. Head of Politics or Research Director). We undertake careful
        strategic planning (including a possibility of shadowing) of major administrative roles by
        ensuring they are consistent with colleagues’ career plans and personal circumstances. In
        our 2018 staff survey 84.4% of respondents across the School described the workload
        allocation as very or quite clear and transparent.

    •   A vibrant programme of research events: we have hosted four well-attended seminar
        series (our flagship Politics Series; Gender and Politics Series; Political Theory Series; and
        PGR-run ‘New Voices’ Series which hosts outstanding ECRs) with over 90 seminars. We
        have reinvigorated our successful ‘Impact Lunches’ series (conversations with external
        scholars and practitioners about their engagement experiences). We have introduced two
        innovative series of ‘work-in-progress’ events: ‘Research Conversations’ (monthly informal
        events focusing on research process, such as insights from successful funding
        applications, emerging research projects or general career challenges) and ‘Impact
        Afternoons’ (a biannual platform for one or two colleagues to present and gain feedback
        on their pathways to impact). In addition, we hold biannual ‘Research Afternoons’ (a panel

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        of 5-6 colleagues discussing their evolving research interests) and annual Research Away
        Days (focusing on particular aspects of our Research and Impact Strategy).

 Research students

 We have (co)supervised 55 PGRs to completion (42.53FTE). Our ability to attract candidates of
 the highest calibre allowed us to benefit from NU’s participation in the ESRC-funded NINE Doctoral
 Training Partnership (DTP), and the AHRC-funded Northern Bridge Consortium DTP – both
 partnerships include Durham, Newcastle, Northumbria, Queen’s University Belfast, Sunderland,
 Teesside and Ulster. During this REF cycle, 13 of our PhD graduates have held Research
 Council awards. Our strength in interdisciplinary research has resulted in many staff co-
 supervising students with colleagues in other disciplines from English Literature to Public Health
 and Marine Science (25 PGR graduates). Our PGRs come from a wide range of socio-economic,
 cultural and ethnic backgrounds, with the proportion of BAME students rising from 25% in 2013/14
 to 37% in 2019/20. Overall, we have recruited PGRs from 27 countries. Around 10% of our
 students have declared some disability and receive tailored support (e.g. specialised software;
 wheelchair access). 38% of our PGR graduates are female, with a significant increase from 25%
 in 2013/14 to 50% in 2019/20.

 Our PGR applicants are subject to a rigorous selection process, including a video interview and
 the requirement of proposal approval by at least two members of staff. The supervisory teams are
 composed of two or more staff, including an experienced supervisor with a track record of at least
 two successful completions. All students have at least 10 supervisory meetings per year. We
 supportively monitor PGRs’ progress: they are required to submit a well-developed research
 project proposal for approval within 3 months of registration and an Annual Progress Review is
 undertaken by a panel of two colleagues not involved in supervising the project. Students are
 required to complete the Faculty Research Training Programme that covers transferable research
 skills, qualitative and quantitative methods, and a course in the ‘Nature of Explanation and
 Enquiry’. We conduct regular assessment of their research training needs and, if required,
 students have access to more specialist research training (e.g. NVivo). Our PGRs run a regular
 writing group that involves commenting on draft chapters, sharing the difficulties of writing and
 discussing techniques to move forward. At the writing-up stage, they are encouraged to participate
 in the Prato Writing and Publishing Workshop, an intensive residential programme in Italy run in
 collaboration with Monash University. On submission, we offer students a mock PhD viva, followed
 by a briefing session with examiners and the supervisory team. We facilitate PGRs’ professional
 development by regular in-house workshops on such topics as networking, academic publishing
 and applying for jobs. We frequently ask our external seminar speakers to also participate in these
 professional development events.

 PGRs make a major contribution to and greatly benefit from our vibrant research culture. They
 actively participate in our seminar series, ‘Research Conversations’ and ‘Impact Lunches’, and
 run the ‘New Voices’ seminar series. As Research Cluster members, they play an active role in
 developing the Clusters’ activities, including by co-organising conferences and workshops (e.g. IP
 Cluster conference on ‘Soft Power of Hard States’ in 2014 co-organised by Theys; PT Cluster
 workshop on Adam Smith in May 2020 organised by Hickey). PGRs are encouraged to present
 their work-in-progress at specialised and disciplinary conferences, and we support them in
 developing their first academic publications and establishing relationships with non-academic
 partners or beneficiaries. During this REF cycle, our PGRs have published 19 articles in peer-
 reviewed academic journals, co-edited a major book on ‘LGBTQ+ Activism in Central and Eastern
 Europe’ (Buyantueva, Palgrave) and produced policy reports (e.g. Johnson for the Public Policy
 Institute for Wales; Saeed for the Arab Center for Research and Policy Studies in Doha). They
 have contributed to a parliamentary enquiry (Caygill giving evidence to the Public Audit Committee
 of the Scottish Parliament) and secured PSA/House of Commons Committee Office Placements
 (Caygill, Hickey), an internship in the House of Commons Petitions Committee (Caygill) and an
 internship at UNESCO's Division of Ethics of Science and Technology on Climate Change
 (Nelson). Our PGRs have served on the BISA Postgraduate Network Committee (Wheeler),
 UACES Student Forum (Wambach), the Council of Fellows of the Royal Geographical Society and

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institute of British Geographers (Foster), the Atlantic Council of the UK (Campion) and the World
 Affairs Council, US (Mackintosh).

 The outstanding quality of our PGR training has been recognised by prestigious staff and student
 awards: Behr received a University’s Teaching Excellence Award for PGR supervision (2014),
 while Wambach received the UACES Best Thesis Prize (2019). Our PGRs have secured
 prestigious academic positions in the UK and internationally, including Cardiff University
 (Johnson), Goldsmiths (Kaker), King’s College London (Foster), LSE (Armstrong), Newcastle
 University (Carrick) , Nottingham Trent University (Caygill, Eckersley), University of York
 (McFadden), European University Cyprus (Bakola), University of Groningen (O’Doherty),
 Tsinghua University (Shangguan), University of the South Pacific (Theys), University of Sulaimani,
 Iraq (Mistaffa), and University of West Indies Cave Hill (Brathwaite). Others have secured
 prominent positions outside academia: in the Department of National Defence, Canada
 (Campion), Marine Scotland (Jones), Natural England (Korda), the Ministry of Energy,
 Luxembourg (Thomas), Care Quality Commission (Wambach), Polish Economic Institute
 (Wincewicz), International Institute for Sustainable Development (Nelson) and ‘The Group of 30’
 think tank, Washington DC (Mackintosh).

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 Our progress in advancing EDI is supported by the School EDI Committee. Politics staff have
 made a major contribution to its work: 5 colleagues have served on the Committee, including
 Luhiste as the School EDI Director in 2017-20. The committee regularly surveys all staff to identify
 issues of concern (such as experiences of inequalities related to race, disability, age or gender),
 revises our policies and monitors our progress in addressing those issues. We hold an annual
 School EDI Day which brings together academic and professional services staff to discuss
 particular issues (such as reporting mechanisms for sexual harassment and bullying). At the unit
 level, the Politics EDI Lead supports individual colleagues and coordinates our collective initiatives
 to promote equality. Our staff actively contribute to University-wide EDI networks, such as NU
 Women, Rainbow Network, NU Disability Interest Group and Parents’ Network. In February-July
 2020, Luhiste in her role of HaSS Faculty Acting EDI Director designed and analysed a staff survey
 that challenged the prevailing view that the Covid-19 pandemic had mostly affected lab-based
 research.

 We have made the most significant progress in addressing gender inequality. The proportion of
 our female staff increased from 19% in 2013/14 to 40% in 2019/20 as a result of the strategic
 appointment of 8 outstanding colleagues. All our postdoctoral researchers during this REF cycle
 were female. We have supported 8 female colleagues in securing promotion to SL (currently 9
 female SLs compared to 1 in REF2014) and taking up leadership roles at the department and
 Faculty (see below). Our female colleagues have secured 40% of our funding awards and account
 for 50% of our publications in top 10 academic journals. Publications by our female staff constitute
 50% of our REF2021 Output Submission. Our progress is recognised by an Athena SWAN Bronze
 award (2017), and we will apply for a Silver Award in 2022. Our key priorities are to reduce the
 gender pay gap and to support our female colleagues in their progression to professorial level and
 leadership roles. Given the outstanding research achievements of our current ECR and mid-career
 female staff, we expect a number of promotions to professorial level in the next REF cycle.

 We are internationally diverse, with staff from 14 countries (57% of colleagues come from outside
 the UK). While we have increased racial diversity among our PGRs (as discussed in the previous
 sub-section), our racial diversity at the staff level remains limited, reflecting wider disparities within
 the discipline. We will review our recruitment strategies to address under recruitment of BAME
 PGRs and staff and strengthen support for postdoctoral researchers from minority groups and the
 Global South as they search for academic employment. We intend to strengthen our relationships
 with colleagues in the Global South, including through co-authored publications and collaborative
 projects, and will enhance recruitment of staff, students, and postdoctoral researchers from a
 wider geographical area by reviewing recruitment procedures in line with EDI best practice.


                                                                                                   Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our key EDI-focussed practices include:

 Recruitment: we pay close attention to the wording of adverts and to protected characteristics
 and periods of leave when shortlisting. Recruitment panels are gender balanced and members
 undertake unconscious bias training. Interviews take place over two days and include informal
 small group discussions, with one group comprising PGR, UG and MA students. While allowing
 us to appoint the strongest candidates, this process also gives candidates an opportunity to make
 a more informed decision about our department, university and the city. We offer candidates a
 video interview if they have caring commitments, disability or cannot travel to the UK. When
 interviewing candidates with small children, we cover travelling expenses for partner/family
 member and provide space for breastfeeding. We recruited 3 outstanding colleagues immediately
 after their maternity leave.

 Promoting staff and student wellbeing: our staff attended a school-led Mental Health First Aid
 course in 2018; a mental health roundtable for PGR students (an open conversation among staff
 and PGR students on mental health challenges and support mechanisms) occurred in 2019. We
 intend to hold both of these events on a regular basis. We have embraced NU’s initiative of ‘Quiet
 Fridays’ (no emails to colleagues or meetings). As a result of an innovative EDI consultation (led
 by Luhiste), our building has become significantly more accessible: offices can be expanded in
 size to allow wheelchair access; it boasts a quiet room (e.g. for breastfeeding), gender neutral
 toilet facilities and baby/adult changing facilities.

 Flexible working: staff have an opportunity to reduce their hours (e.g. on return from parental or
 sick leave) or agree on a flexible work pattern when commuting to Newcastle. During this REF
 cycle, 1 colleague has chosen the first option while 5 staff have chosen the second option.

 Family-friendly practices: we seek to schedule all research events and administrative meetings
 within ‘family friendly’ core hours (10-4pm). On return from parental leave (6 colleagues during
 this REF cycle), we support staff through mentoring and teaching relief. 3 colleagues have
 benefited from NU’s ‘Returner’s Support Programme’ introduced in 2017 (up to £10k) by
 employing research assistants, undertaking methods training and receiving teaching support.

 Role models: female staff have increasingly taken up research leadership roles, including the
 roles of Research Director (Feklyunina), Impact Director (Mawdsley), School EDI Director and
 HaSS Acting EDI Director (Luhiste) and Research Cluster Heads (Burlacu, Mawdsley,
 Routley).The allocation of administrative roles is carefully considered in mentoring discussions to
 ensure this happens at an appropriate time for promotion and does not impede research progress.
 We ensure a 50/50 gender split in seminar speakers, and in general invite seminar speakers
 mindful of achieving diversity, inclusiveness, and methodological pluralism.

 PGR support: from the time of application and throughout their studies, we encourage PGRs to
 make full use of all appropriate university support services. PGR students have access to School
 Hardship Fund (up to £1k).

 Imbedding EDI in our research-led teaching and teaching-led research: regularly revising our
 teaching modules to ensure our reading lists include a diverse range of scholars from different
 racial and gender groups, including scholars from the Global South; an open conversation among
 staff and students about racial discrimination (through individual modules, our seminar series,
 Politics Society events, etc); a compulsory UG module on ‘Equality, Diversity and Inclusion‘
 (Walton); identifying and sharing best practice across the school on imbedding EDI in both our
 curriculum and teaching practices (Clough, 2019-20). NUSU’s new ‘Decolonising NCL’ initiative
 also offers an opportunity to engage with its stakeholders and review our curriculum.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 We have achieved a nearly 4-fold increase in external funding from £309k in REF2014 to
 £1,135,605 in REF2021. We held a significantly larger number of individual grants rising from 11

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to 57 (44 grants through NU and additional 13 grants through external organisations such as
 universities, professional organisations or charities). Crucially, this success does not concentrate
 on several ‘stars’ but is distributed across the department, with 73% of colleagues receiving at
 least one external award (either through NU or external organisations). We have diversified our
 funding sources (from 9 to 23 funders). In addition to major funders such as AHRC, ESRC, RCUK,
 the Leverhulme Trust, the British Academy, and the European Commission, we have secured
 funding from the Academy of Finland (Repo), the Electoral Commission (Clark), Flemish Research
 Foundation (Maloney), Society for Applied Philosophy (Walton), BISA (Wright), UACES (Wright),
 the Great Britain Sasakawa Foundation (Elstub) and the Gerda Henkel Foundation (Ram). We
 have achieved impressive success in bidding for consultancy work, funded by the Involve
 Foundation (Elstub), the National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts (NESTA)
 (Elstub), City of Edinburgh Council (Elstub), Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission (O’Flynn,
 Elstub and Luhiste), the Scottish Government (Long) and the Greater London Authority (Clough
 and Long).

 Our rapidly growing collective ability to secure competitive funding is also reflected in the
 distribution of major grants across all three Research Clusters:

    •   The GPO Cluster has hosted two EU-funded projects: ‘Critical Heritages of Europe:
        performing and representing identities’ (Zito as Co-I, Horizon 2020, 2016-19) and ‘Cultural
        Pathways to Economic Self-Sufficiency and Entrepreneurship: Family Values and Youth
        Unemployment in Europe’ (Maloney as Co-I, FP7, 2014-18).

    •   The IP Cluster has hosted ‘Climate Smart Cities: Responsible Policies for governing
        Artificial Intelligence in Transitions to Low Carbon Societies’ (Rietig as PI, the British
        Academy, January 2020-23), ‘Critical Theory Meets Classical realism: Crisis, Modernity
        and the Return of Humanity’ (Behr as PI, the Leverhulme Trust, 2013-16), ‘From Military
        to Market: the Global Political Economy of Race and Gender in Private Military and Security
        Company Labour Chains’ (Chisholm as PI, ESRC, 2016-18) and ‘Screening Violence: A
        Transnational Study of Post-Conflict Imaginaries’ (Philpott as Co-I, AHRC, 2018-22).

    •     The PT Cluster has hosted ‘Biopolitics and Democracy in Global Governance’ (Repo as
          Co-I, Academy of Finland, 2015-19) and ‘Living Deltas Hub’ (Long as Co-I, RCUK GCRF,
          2019-24).
 All our impact case studies have been supported by external funding, including the ESRC Impact
 Accelerator Account and consultancy bids.

 As an indication of our exceptionally strong upward trajectory, we have already secured £1.4
 million of external funding for the next REF cycle (thus, already exceeding our total external
 income over REF2021). In addition to ongoing research projects (Long, Philpott, Rietig), the
 awarded income includes:

    •  ‘Global Asylum Governance and the European Union’s Role’ (Turner as Co-I, Horizon
       2020, 2020-23).
   • ‘National Recovery and Resilience: Learning from Elections during a Pandemic’ (Clark as
       Co-I, ESRC, 2020-21)
   • ‘Playing with Fire: Using Forum Theatre to Research Social Conflict in the Aftermath of
       2019 Bolivian Wildland Fires’ (Fontana as PI, AHRC GCRF, 2020-21),
   • ‘The Commodification of Feminist Activism’ (Repo as PI, Kone Foundation, 2020-23),
   • ‘Translating Ferro / Transforming Knowledges of Architecture, Design and Labour’ (Davies
       as Co-I, AHRC, 2020-23).
 We have achieved this remarkable success by pursuing a strategy that included:

 (i) A 6-fold increase in internal research and impact investment compared to REF2014 (over
 £814k in total), which has enabled us to undertake pilot projects, acquire new research skills,



                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 expand research networks and more effectively engage with non-academic partners and
 beneficiaries:

    •   £81k in the form of school-funded ‘Small Bid’ grants (up to £1k), faculty-funded bid
        preparation grants (up to £10k) and research grants (up to 4k);
    •   £263k for an internally funded postdoctoral research fellowship, a PhD scholarship (both
        through the NU Research Excellence Academy) and 2 internally funded RA positions;
    •   £96k of ‘Impact and Engagement’ funding. This school-funded scheme is open to all staff,
        and it has proved crucial in establishing new relationships, producing and disseminating
        engagement materials (e.g. policy reports) and co-organising engagement events with
        non-academic partners.
    •   Over £349k in school-funded annual Individual Research Support Allowance for all staff
        (£2.3k in 2019/20 compared to £1.3k in 2012/13). In line with our EDI commitments, this
        scheme is exceptionally flexible. In addition to fieldwork and conference expenses, staff
        can use their allowances on research assistance, purchase of books or IT equipment, or
        bringing visiting researchers to Newcastle. This flexibility is particularly helpful to staff with
        limited travel possibilities related to health or caring responsibilities.
    •   Over £25k for our seminar series and activities of our Research Clusters and Research
        Groups.
    •   We have provided our PGRs with access to the Conference Travel/Fieldwork Fund (up to
        £750 per year). On submission, we cover the printing and binding of PhD theses.

 (ii) Upgrading support infrastructure. We have substantially increased the annual funding for
 each Research Cluster (from £500 to £2.5k) and established annual funding for Research Groups
 at £2k. At the department level, we have established new administrative roles of Impact Director
 and Postdoctoral Coordinator. At the school level, we have benefited from a significant growth in
 the support provided by the School Research Office (from 3 FTE to 7.56 FTE), which assists us
 with identifying suitable funders, costing and project financial management. We are further
 supported by professional services staff in the Faculty Research Office, including Research Impact
 Officer, ESRC Impact Acceleration Account Impact Officer and Research Funding and Business
 Funding Managers. At the university level, we are supported by the EU and International Research
 Funding Team.

 Beyond the department, we benefit from access to the NU Culture Lab’s professional film-making
 resources which are particularly beneficial for the growing number of colleagues who use film-
 making as part of their research or in engaging with non-academic audiences. The NU Open Lab,
 based in the School of Computing, offers access to innovative digital technologies. The NU award-
 winning Library houses an ever-growing number of monographs, academic journals and
 databases. During the Covid-19 pandemic, it has invested significant resources in expanding
 digital access. We also benefitted from our membership of the Chatham House with access to its
 vast specialist collection of resources in International Politics.

 In January 2020 we moved into the newly refurbished Henry Daysh Building (£60m investment).
 Politics occupies an entire floor, including 46 individual staff offices (thus, providing us with an
 opportunity to grow and to host visiting researchers), printing and copying facilities, 7 meeting
 rooms with state-of-the-art multi-media equipment, 6 collaboration rooms, a large seminar room,
 communal space for interaction among staff and students, and a spacious staff room. Our PGRs
 benefit from sole occupancy desk space, a computer and access to a photocopier. While they are
 currently located in a different building, they will join us after the refurbishment is complete.

 (iii) Perfecting support mechanisms. We have significantly strengthened proposal peer-review
 by encouraging colleagues to share their drafts earlier (during conception and development). Staff
 discuss their initial ideas at bi-weekly drop-in sessions with School and Faculty Research
 Managers and have access to the Faculty library of successful applications. We discuss individual
 funding-generation strategies at annual PDR and PRP meetings and through mentoring. We have
 proactively encouraged female staff and ECRs to apply for internal ‘Small Bids’ with an aim of
 supporting their overall research agendas and enabling them to develop stronger external

                                                                                                  Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 applications. This strategy has helped us achieve a 248% rise in the number of submitted
 applications for external funding (from 64 to 159). It has also substantially improved their quality.
 For example, Rietig’s BA/Wolfson Fellowship was one of only 6 successful awards in 2019 and
 was the only successful application in Politics or IR.

 This strategy has allowed us to achieve a dramatic rise in external funding and equipped us with
 in-house expertise that we can now use to target more ambitious and diverse funding schemes.
 Our ability to react swiftly to a changing and challenging funding environment is evidenced by
 Clark’s (Co-I) ESRC Covid-19 rapid response award.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 We view collaboration as essential in producing world-leading research and generating societal
 impact. This is reflected in our research outputs: over this REF cycle, 57% of our publications are
 co-authored (according to the SciVal analytics, 23.5% of our articles captured by Scopus are co-
 authored with colleagues based outside the UK). Overall, we have collaborated with colleagues
 from 133 universities in 40 countries.

 While we have traditionally close links with leading universities in the Global North, including
 Australian National University, University of Copenhagen, University of Helsinki, University of
 Mannheim, Virginia Tech, Yale University and York University (Canada), we have successfully
 sought to develop stronger and more equitable relationships with scholars in the Global
 South. For example, Philpott’s long-standing collaboration with Gadjah Mada University in
 Indonesia has led to an AHRC-funded project with participation of researchers from Indonesia and
 Colombia. Long’s collaborative work on sustainable development with scholars and NGOs in
 South Asia has been pivotal to Newcastle’s successful bid to host an RCUK-funded
 interdisciplinary Research Hub ‘Living Deltas’ (GCRF, £15mln in total). Bringing together
 researchers from over 20 universities (including AIT Bangkok, Thailand; BUET, Bangladesh; An
 Giang University, Vietnam; and Jadavpur University, India), the Hub aims to tackle the problem of
 degradation in Asia’s three major deltas – the Red River, the Mekong and the Ganges-
 Brahmaputra-Meghna. Davies’s collaboration with the Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de
 Janeiro (Brazil) paved the way to the signing of a formal Memorandum of Understanding in 2014,
 which resulted in frequent exchange visits by staff and PGR students and several collaborative
 workshops.

 Collaboration is central to our research aimed at addressing the most pressing political and socio-
 economic challenges. For example, Maloney’s work in collaboration with world-leading experts in
 economics, psychology and sociology from the University of Economics (Prague), the universities
 of Aarhus, Barcelona, Bern, Catania, Granada Heidelberg, Mannheim and Vienna, Central
 European University, and Koç University in Istanbul (as part of an EU-funded FP7 project) has
 produced multi-faceted analysis of factors behind and impacts of youth unemployment. Another
 example is Zito’s collaboration with leading experts in Law, Geophysics, Biological Modelling, Civil
 and Environmental Engineering, Earth Sciences, Technology Policy and Transport Studies from
 IIT Bombay, Cambridge, Durham, Hull, Keele, Stanford and Strathclyde universities as part of the
 ReFINE Consortium (‘Researching Fracking in Europe’, funded by NERC, Environment Agency
 and the EU). This interdisciplinary project has produced policy-relevant assessment of risks
 associated with shale gas and oil exploitation using fracking. Zito’s long-standing collaboration on
 energy policy with Pittsburgh University has led to his successful application for a Jean Monnet
 Network grant ‘Transatlantic Perspectives on Energy and Cities’ that also involves Sciences Po
 Lyon and Jean Monnet University in St. Etienne.

 Our collaborative projects have made a major contribution to the research base by developing
 unique resources. Popa’s collaboration with scholars from Amsterdam, LSE, Mannheim, Munich,
 Thessaloniki and Hertie School, has resulted in the production of major resources for electoral
 studies – two post-election voter surveys conducted in all EU member states after the 2014 and
 2019 European Parliament elections (EES Voter Study) as well as a dataset analysing the
 manifestos of the parties competing in these elections (EES Euromanifesto Study). Aguilar’s work

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with experts from Brigham Young University (USA), Central European University, Diego Portales
 University (Santiago de Chile) and University of Cologne has led to the production of a ‘Global
 Populism Database’ (as part of the New Populism project in collaboration with The Guardian) – a
 major dataset that measures populist discourse of state leaders in 40 countries between 2000-18.

 We have a well-established reputation for outstanding interdisciplinary research. In addition to
 participation in major interdisciplinary projects, we have an impressive track-record of co-authoring
 publications with scholars from other disciplines and sub-disciplines (see Section 1), of doctoral
 co-supervision in interdisciplinary teams (see Section 3) and of publishing in the most prestigious
 interdisciplinary journals, including Economy and Society, Environment and Planning A, Journal
 of Urban Design, International Political Sociology, Political Geography, and World Development.
 We have flagged up 43% publications in our REF output submission as interdisciplinary. This
 prominence of interdisciplinary research stems from our consistent emphasis on interdisciplinarity
 in recruiting new staff, providing internal investment, enabling innovative research training and
 inviting visiting researchers from other disciplines. Our location in an interdisciplinary School also
 enables links to be built between subject areas like McGahern’s Ethnography reading group.

 As a civic university we are committed to engaging with non-academic partners and
 beneficiaries. Beyond our REF Impact Case Studies, we have engaged with an impressive range
 of partners and beneficiaries at the international, national and local levels:

    •   Internationally, our research has shaped positions of international negotiating teams at
        the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in 2016-18 (Rietig); has
        influenced the understanding of the private sector development (PSD) in developing
        countries by the European Parliament Development Committee (Langan); and informed
        approaches to gender mainstreaming in NATO (Wright). We have co-authored studies
        commissioned by the European Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs (Mawdsley)
        and the European Institute for Gender Equality (Wright) and presented our research
        findings to the European Commission (Zito) and the European Parliamentary Research
        Service (Luhiste, Popa). We have also collaborated extensively with the European Centre
        of Excellence for Countering Hybrid Threats (Feklyunina) and the Quaker Council for
        European Affairs (Wright).

    •   Nationally, our research has informed 22 parliamentary enquiries (Clark, Clough,
        Elstub, Feklyunina, Langan, Long, Rainsford, Wright). During the Covid-19 pandemic, our
        research contributed to the Women and Equalities Committee's inquiry ‘Unequal impact?
        Coronavirus and BAME people’ (Skleparis, 07/2020). We collaborated with the network
        ‘UK Stakeholders for Sustainable Development’ to develop a Sustainable Development
        Goals framework for London commissioned by the Greater London Authority and the
        London Sustainable Development Commission (Clough and Long, 2020). Our staff have
        held prestigious secondments and fellowships, including House of Commons Fellowships
        (Clark, Elstub), Academic Fellowship at the Scottish Parliament (Elstub), Innovation
        Fellowship at Youth Employment UK (Rainsford) and ESRC BEIS Industrial Strategy
        Council Secondment (Rainsford).

    •   Locally, we collaborated with Carers Northumberland (a charity dedicated to improving
        the lives of carers), Northumberland County Council and Newcastle City Council to
        improve access to toilet facilities in Northumberland and Newcastle (Bell). We co-produced
        an audio play with a theatre company Cap-a-Pie (Davies), and worked with Newcastle-
        based charity West End Refugee Service (WERS) to produce a series of short films about
        the journeys of several refugees from statelessness to making their homes in Newcastle
        (Philpott). The latter received a nomination for Outstanding Contribution to the Local
        Community in the 2014 Times Higher Education Awards.

 We have made an extraordinarily strong contribution to the vitality and sustainability of the wider
 discipline. Our staff have served in executive roles in 6 major professional associations,
 including PSA (Clark as trustee and member of the T&L Committee; Clark, Coward and Grayson

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as members of Publications Sub-Committee), BISA (Grayson as trustee and Honorary Secretary),
 ISA (Wright as Chair of the Commission on the Status of Women), UACES (Mawdsley as trustee
 and Treasurer; Wright as EDI officer), International Society of Political Psychology (Aguilar as
 Governing Council member) and British Society for Middle Eastern Studies (Turner as Council
 member).

 We have convened or served on executive committees in 21 major networks and specialist
 groups:

    •   5 BISA Working Groups: Africa in International Studies (Routley), European Security
        (Mawdsley), Gendering IR (Wright), Learning and Teaching (Barr), Russian and Eurasian
        Security (Feklyunina).

    •   5 PSA Specialist Groups: Art and Politics (Grayson), Greek Politics (Skleparis),
        Participatory and Deliberative Democracy (O'Flynn), Teaching Quantitative Methods
        Network (Clough), TEF Working Group (Barr).

    •   3 UACES networks: CSDP Strategy (Mawdsley), Gendering EU Studies (Wright), EU-
        Africa Research (Langan).

    •   2 ISA Groups: Global Development (Davies), Environmental Studies (Rietig).

    •   5 international networks: Economic Ethics Research Network (Walton), European
        Parliament Election Study (Popa), Evidence and Governance in Politics (Aguilar),
        Leverhulme-funded ‘Classical Realism Meets Critical Theory’ (Behr), Popular Culture and
        World Politics (Davies, Grayson and Philpott).

    •   1 regional network (Durham, Northumbria, Newcastle): Researching Africa (Routley).

 We have edited 10 academic journals:

    •    British Journal of Politics and International Relations (Clark as Editor, 2009-15);
    •    Contemporary Political Theory (Repo as Editor, 2018-present);
    •    Critical Studies on Security (Grayson as Editor, 2013-present);
    •    Environmental Politics (Zito as Editor, 2011-21);
    •    European Security (Mawdsley as Editor, 2015-present);
    •    International Environmental Agreements: Politics, Law, Economics (Rietig as Book Review
         Editor, 2014-present)
     • Politics (Coward and Grayson as Editors; Barr, Clough, Feklyunina, McGahern, Routley,
         Walton as Associate Editors; 2012-18);
     • Representation: Journal of Representative Democracy (Elstub, Luhiste, Popa as Editors,
         2017-present);
     • Refugee Review (Turner as Assistant Editor, 2018-20);
     • Research and Politics (Aguilar as Associate Editor, 2018-present).
 We have also edited ECPR Press (O’Flynn), European Journal for Political Research Political
 Data Yearbook (Clark), Palgrave Series on Global Political Thinkers (Behr) and Routledge Series
 on Popular Culture and World Politics (Davis, Grayson, and Philpott). Our colleagues sit on
 editorial boards of 16 academic journals.

 We have organised 54 conferences and workshops, including the 2019 Annual Conference of
 the Association for Social and Political Philosophy. We secured the hosting of the 2020 Annual
 BISA Conference - this has been rescheduled to 2022 due to Covid-19. We have chaired sections
 at 21 major disciplinary conferences, including ECPR, ISA and EISA. Our staff have held 16
 visiting fellowships in 9 countries and given 174 invited talks in 26 countries. We have
 reviewed manuscripts for 228 journals, and assessed funding proposals for AHRC (Grayson),
 ESRC (Behr, Clark, Clough, Elstub, Feklyunina, Fontana, Rietig, Zito), NERC (Zito), British

                                                                                         Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Academy (Rietig), British Council (McGahern), Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland
 (Clark), Leverhulme Trust (Clark) and Independent Social Research Foundation (Davies, Repo).
 Beyond the UK, we have reviewed funding proposals for ERC (Elstub, Fontana, Rietig), European
 Commission (Mawdsley, Walton), and major funding bodies in 16 countries: Austria (Fontana,
 Rietig), Belgium (Clark, Elstub), Canada (Clark, Grayson, O'Flynn, Wright, Zito), Czech Republic
 (Grayson), Chile (Fontana), Finland (Maloney), Germany (Behr, Philpott), Ireland (Long), Israel
 (O'Flynn), Italy (Zito), Japan (Behr), Poland (Bell, Feklyunina), Portugal (Maloney), Switzerland
 (O'Flynn), the Netherlands (Elstub, Maloney, O'Flynn) and the US (Feklyunina).

 Our outstanding research has been internationally recognised by prestigious prizes and awards
 across all three Research Clusters and at all career stages:

    •   GPO: Maloney was elected Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences (2019) as ‘an
        internationally-renowned scholar in the areas of civil society organisations, social capital
        and political participation’. Popa received the ‘Best Conference Paper Award’ of the
        ‘Information Technology and Politics’ Section of APSA (2016). Zito was awarded an
        ‘Outstanding Author Contribution in the Emerald Literati Network Awards for Excellence’
        (2016).

    •   IP: Feklyunina received the ‘Robert H. Donaldson Award’ for the best conference paper of
        the ‘Post-Communist Systems in International Relations’ Section of the ISA (2017). Rietig
        received the ‘Oran R. Young Prize’ for the best early-career paper at the Conference of
        the Earth System Governance Network (2017). Wright’s co-authored monograph on
        NATO, Gender and the Military received an official honourable mention by the BISA Susan
        Strange Book Prize award panel (2020).

    •   PT: Repo’s monograph on The Biopolitics of Gender was awarded the ISA Feminist Theory
        and Gender Studies Book Prize (2017).

 The fact that our female colleagues and ECRs have received more than half of these awards is
 both a testimony to our commitment to advancing the EDI agenda and an indication of the long-
 term sustainability of our research environment.




                                                                                            Page 18
