Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Northampton

 Unit of Assessment: History (UoA28)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 History at the University of Northampton is a small department, yet its research is vibrant, diverse
 and far-reaching. Research in History is led by Professor McCormack, with all members of the
 subject group research active and contributing positively to its research direction. History forms
 part of the Humanities subject area of the Faculty of Arts, Science and Technology (FAST),
 following a restructure in 2019. Since 2014 there have been changes to staffing but the size of the
 team, and the core areas of specialisms, have remained the same. This continuity has allowed us
 to develop and build upon our existing strengths in British Social and Cultural History and War,
 Empire and Security while investing in new areas such as the histories of heritage, empires and
 the medieval period.

 1.1 Structure of research

 The research activity of the University of Northampton’s historians has focussed around two broad
 themes:

    1. British Social and Cultural History. Since 2008, the department has invested in the
       areas of heritage and medicine and expanded the chronological parameters from the
       medieval period to the twentieth century. These themes include specialisms in the histories
       of gender, the body, emotions, crime, material culture and consumption.


    2. War, Empire and Security. This builds on our existing strengths in the modern histories
       of military intelligence and on extremist ideology. Activity on the latter theme is outward-
       facing, addressing contemporary issues around political extremism. It is also linked to the
       University of Northampton’s Searchlight archive of fascist and anti-fascist materials.
       History provides the academic lead and the archivist for this collection, and regularly bases
       research, teaching and Continuing Professional Development (CPD) on its collections.
       Since 2008, additional staff have developed research interests in the social and cultural
       history of war, and the department has sought to enhance its research and teaching in the
       areas of race and empire.


 1.2 Research objectives

 Since 2014 we have developed a strong team of researchers, working collaboratively within an
 active research environment, enabling staff to produce world-class publications and meaningful
 impacts. We have built on the achievement of REF 2014 by focusing on the following objectives:

    1. To focus activities around clearly defined research strengths.
       We have deliberately focused our research activity around the two themes above, in the
       interests of maintaining critical mass and enhancing our international reputation in these
       areas. Where we have modified these themes to reflect our changing priorities, we have
       ensured that they remain sustainable through strategic investment in new staff. We have
       recruited PGR students to these areas, in order to ensure that PGR students experience
       a relevant research environment and that supervision teams have appropriate expertise.

    2. Grow research capacity through collaborative and multidisciplinary research.
       Historians at the University of Northampton have worked with scholars from other
       disciplines through direct collaboration and participation in interdisciplinary networks. At
       the University of Northampton, for example, historians took a leading role in the
       interdisciplinary Brexit Research Network, which hosted numerous events and an
       academic conference. Moss convenes the Gender Research Group, which brings together

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        scholars working on gender from across the university. The subject area of Humanities at
        the University of Northampton comprises History with English and Creative Writing, and
        we work closely with our literature colleagues. Jackson has worked with English
        colleagues involved in the ‘Challenging Precarity’ global network, with whom he received
        joint funding from Santander. We jointly supervise five PGR students with English, and
        contribute to PGR supervision in the areas of Media, Education, Art History and Leather
        Technology.


    3. Developed external networks.
       Members of the department have contributed to the running of scholarly societies, such as
       the British Society for Eighteenth-Century Studies and the Army Records Society. We have
       edited publications, have contributed to international research networks such as the
       International Association for Comparative Fascist Studies, and have presented at
       conferences around the globe (see section 4). We have also appointed Dr Paul Stocker as
       a Visiting Research Fellow who has worked closely with the Searchlight Archive and our
       specialists on Antifascism.

    4. Focused on research income.
       The department has maintained its culture of regular bidding for research funding, assisted
       by the university’s Research and Innovation Funding Support and internal processes of
       peer review for grant writing. This REF cycle has proved to be a challenging for securing
       income from research councils, especially as a post-92 university, but we obtained two
       AHRC grants in 2017 for projects entitled ‘Secret Soldiers: The Intelligence Corps in the
       First World War’ (GBP19,785) and ‘“Now Walks Like Others?”: Health, medicine and
       Disability in Northampton during the First World War’ (GBP19,837). We also participated
       in a successful EU Horizon 2020 bid, entitled ‘SPACEX’. Members of the department have
       also secured grants, CPD income and paid fellowships from a variety of other sources (see
       section 3).

    5. Enhanced engagement with the wider public.
       In this period members of the department have engaged wider audiences with their
       research. They have made numerous appearances in the media, particularly Jackson who
       has been a regular expert commentator on contemporary far right issues for the BBC, Sky
       and other news channels. Other colleagues have made regular appearances on national
       and local radio. We have been active in regional history and heritage organisations such
       as the Northamptonshire Heritage Forum and East Midlands History and Heritage. We
       have contributed to the activities of archives and museums, such as Northampton Museum
       and Art Gallery, the Military Intelligence Museum and the National Leather Collection. We
       regularly give public lectures and talks to local history groups (see section 4).

 Beyond 2021, we plan to develop our research further, underpinned by university and faculty
 research plans. We will focus on the following priorities, which we share with the university’s
 research plan for 2020-25:

    1. Internationalisation.
       We have taken a strategic decision to broaden the international scope of our research.
       This will enhance our ability to contribute to our wider discipline and will enhance our
       research-led teaching offer. In particular, we appreciate the urgency of the wider historical
       profession’s drive to decolonise our curriculum, through the study of race, empire and world
       history. Future staffing appointments will be directed towards this objective.

    2. Equality and inclusion.
       We will aim to use our research to advance issues of equality, inclusion and social mobility.
       Our historical research on gender, sexuality, disability and race will further historical
       understanding in these areas. Our research practices will be consistent with this goal and
       research will be carried out according to the highest ethical standards.

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    3. Supporting postgraduates and research-active staff.
       History will continue to grow its community of postgraduate researchers (PGR) by
       recruiting more full-time and funded students, in addition to growing its existing cohort of
       mostly part-time and self-funded students. It will develop the supervisory skills of its staff
       through engagement with the Graduate School’s training programmes, and will give all
       History colleagues opportunities to grow their supervisory experience through inclusion in
       supervisory teams. We will continue to develop colleagues, supporting their ambitions for
       promotion at the University of Northampton. Specifically, we will provide opportunities for
       Lecturers to progress to Senior Lecturers, and for Senior Lecturers to progress to Professor
       via the Associate Professor scheme. These colleagues will be supported by senior staff in
       mentoring roles.

    4. Income growth.
       We will increase our external research income and diversify its sources. History will
       continue to bid for grant income, with enhanced support from peers, Personal
       Development reviewers, and the university’s Research and Innovation Funding Support.
       We will also seek to supplement income from grant awarding bodies by seeking alternative
       funding sources, such as the provision of research-led CPD and consultancy.

    5. Impact and collaboration.
       We will enhance our social impact by focusing on public engagement. The University of
       Northampton is the first UK member of the Ashoka U network of socially-impactful
       universities. It has an institution-wide Changemaker Challenge that focuses on ‘Culture,
       Heritage and Environment’, and History will continue to take a leading role on this theme.
       We will seek to enhance our work with regional organisations such as the
       Northamptonshire Heritage Forum, the Northamptonshire Record Society, Nenescape and
       East Midlands Heritage and History. We will work with museums, archives and heritage
       sites, collaborating on exhibitions and serving on advisory committees and boards of
       trustees.

 1.3 Open research

 Historians at the University of Northampton are encouraged to publish in the most appropriate
 venue for their publications, giving due consideration to copyright restrictions and opportunities for
 open access, making use of creative common licences where appropriate. The university has
 provided central funding and administrative support to assist researchers to make articles, book
 chapters and monographs open access where possible.

 University of Northampton Historians have been involved in wider discussions within the discipline
 about the implementation of open access, responding in their capacities as journal editors to the
 Royal Historical Society consultation on Plan ‘S’. We have also been involved in initiatives to make
 research data publicly available: Nielsen has had discussions with The National Archives on
 incorporating her dataset of British military pensioners into their online catalogue.

 1.4 Research integrity

 Historians support a culture of research integrity. It works within the University of Northampton’s
 Research Integrity Policy, which seeks to: maintain the highest standards of rigour and integrity in
 all aspects of research; ensure that research is conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal
 and professional frameworks, obligations and standards; support a research environment that is
 underpinned by a culture of integrity and based on good governance, best practice and support
 for the development of researchers; use transparent, robust and fair processes to deal with
 allegations of research misconduct should they arise; and work together to strengthen the integrity
 of research and to reviewing progress regularly and openly.



                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 History engages with the university’s processes for providing ethical approval for research by staff
 and postgraduates. Ethical considerations are taken very seriously in all areas of our work, but
 particularly in areas such as medical history and contemporary histories involving live subjects.
 History has a trained specialist in research integrity: Rothery is a university Academic Integrity
 Officer with particular responsibility for PhD-level misconduct across the university.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Since REF2014 staffing within the History unit has been relatively stable, submitting 8 staff in 2014
 compared to 9 staff for this REF cycle. Of those submitted to REF2014, 6 are still working in the
 department, demonstrating our effective processes for internal promotion with several History staff
 achieving promotions over the REF period. Gray was promoted from Senior Lecturer to Subject
 Leader; McCormack from Senior Lecturer to Associate Professor to Professor and Head of the
 Graduate School; Jackson and Rothery from Senior Lecturer to Associate Professor; and
 Reinke-Williams and Nielsen from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer.

 Staff recruitment decisions are informed by a range of priorities. We seek to appoint staff who are
 suitably qualified while having strong potential for future development both as a researcher and a
 teacher, have obtained a PhD (or close to completion), have a robust publication record and have
 an ambitious research plan. Additionally, we seek to appoint to subject areas that will develop our
 research strengths and contribute to the development of our research-led curriculum. Following
 the departure of Berridge and Stobart in 2016, the department received approval from the faculty
 for two replacement posts: Cooper was appointed at Senior Lecturer level, an experienced
 researcher who was able to replace Berridge’s expertise in the area of colonial history and
 additionally contribute to the history of war; Nielsen, an early career researcher (ECR) was
 appointed as a Lecturer, to develop a new strand in public history and heritage. In 2019,
 McCormack was seconded 0.5 to become the Head of the Graduate School, and Moss was
 appointed on a 0.5 contract, which was an opportunity to develop our research in the areas of
 medieval and gender history. Nielsen and Moss were initially appointed on fixed-term contracts,
 both were then moved on to permanent contracts. Seven of the current 10 staff were made
 permanent in this way. This has proved to be an effective strategy for staff recruitment within a
 challenging financial context and demonstrates our commitment to the development and retention
 of ECRs.

 New staff and ECRs have a period of probation, during which time they receive additional
 mentoring, and their workload is protected while they develop into their role. The importance of
 providing support for ECRs has been recognised across the institution with the Graduate School
 offering 40 sessions annually targeted at this group (e.g. ‘Designing Research with Impact in Mind’
 and ‘Making External Partnerships Work for You’) alongside their other workshops held for
 researchers at all levels of development.

 All members of History have ‘Teaching and Research’ contracts, which grant workload hours for
 research in addition to the standard hours for scholarly activity within teaching-focused contracts.
 Further to this, teaching workloads are deliberately organised to provide time for research: for
 example, at least one day a week free from campus commitments, or lighter loads in a term to
 allow them to focus on research projects.

 All staff have regular Personal Development Review (PDR) meetings with their line manager.
 These PDR meetings have a mentoring function where staff set a minimum of one research
 objective for the upcoming year, which are reviewed mid-year and assessed at its end. Feeding
 into the PDR process, all members of the department have research meetings with the research
 leader to discuss their research plans, objectives and future REF contribution.

 Staff are encouraged to undertake the University of Northampton’s postgraduate supervisor training.
 This training is supported through workload allocation. Junior colleagues are given experience of

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supervision, usually as a second supervisor in the first instance. This support has resulted in all staff
 submitted to the unit attending supervisor training over the period, creating a strong base for
 supervision within History. Our experience and knowledge of PGR processes enables us to contribute
 to supervision and directorship of studies in other discipline areas.

 History staff take advantage of the range of staff development opportunities offered by the
 university. In addition to PGR supervisor and examiner training, the Graduate School offers an
 annual programme of development workshops focusing on areas such as academic writing,
 publication and career development. The Research Innovation and Funding Support team offer
 training in bid writing and project management. The faculty supports History with its research
 development budget, enabling historians to access staff development beyond UoN.

 The University of Northampton runs an Associate Professor scheme, whereby Senior Lecturers
 can take on the role of Associate Professor and develop themselves as potential Professors. This
 scheme is modelled on the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.
 Associate Professors are appointed in recognition of their contribution in the areas of Research,
 Professional Practice/Enterprise, or Teaching and Learning. Associate Professors receive a
 mentor in their subject areas (either at the University of Northampton or beyond) and have access
 to a programme of development events, which also serve to provide professional development for
 existing Professors. These development opportunities enable Associate Professors to develop
 their curriculum vitae in line with the appointment criteria for Professors, and their progress is
 monitored through the PDR process. There are regular opportunities to apply for promotion to full
 Professor. McCormack was promoted to Professor via this route in 2016, and Jackson and
 Rothery joined the scheme in 2020.

 The university has a process for appointing Visiting Professors and Fellows, who contribute to the
 research activity of the department. Visiting Professors and Fellows work alongside colleagues in
 the department with related research interests, participate in departmental events such as
 conferences and research seminars, and can contribute to PGR supervision. During this cycle we
 hosted Dr Joanna Ilmakunnas (2012-14) from the University of Turku in Finland, a specialist in
 eighteenth-century material culture and consumption; and Dr Paul Stocker (2019-present), an
 independent scholar based in London who is an expert on the contemporary far right.

 2.2 Research students

 History at the University of Northampton has a vibrant and growing postgraduate community,
 which is a testament to our thriving research environment. Our research student community has
 grown with 13 current PGRs based in History, up from 8 in 2014. We have had 8 completions
 since 2014. Our PGR students are typically home students that are part-time and self-funding. In
 a challenging PGR funding climate, we have been able to recruit students because of the
 university’s postgraduate offer to part-time students.

 We are active in the co-supervision of other subject areas, contributing to the supervision of 9
 students across the wider university, up from 2 in 2014. We assist with the supervision of an
 AHRC-funded PhD student in Leather Technology studying the history of leather processing, and
 with four students in English who are funded by Algerian and Saudi government schemes.

 The critical mass of active researchers in History enables us to provide balanced supervisory
 teams with appropriate expertise to History students. Our research specialisms provide a pool of
 colleagues with relevant expertise, which enable us to provide students with highly qualified
 supervision and examining teams. The university’s regulations require that supervision teams
 include at least one colleague with PGR completions, and an experienced Director of Studies.
 Colleagues who are new to supervision are required to complete the Graduate School’s training
 in research degree supervision, and History aims to give new supervisors experience as second
 supervisors in the first instance, to ensure that they are mentored by experienced colleagues.



                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGRs at the University of Northampton are well supported during their programme. After a
 probationary period, key development milestones (initial project approval, ethical approval and
 transfer) ensure that progress is carefully monitored. Supervision is regular, logged and tailored
 to individual needs. An annual progress review provides an auditable quality check of both the
 researcher’s work and the support provided by the supervisory team and ensures that
 development needs are being identified and met.

 PGRs are based centrally in the Graduate School, rather than in individual subject areas. They
 benefit from a dedicated workspace including spaces designed with the researcher at its core.
 Social and meeting spaces are also provided to foster community with other PGRs across all
 disciplinary areas. Students receive effective representation from the Graduate School’s body of
 student representatives, who sit on every committee concerned with Level 8 studies and
 coordinate via the Research Students Committee. The University of Northampton performs
 exceptionally well in the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey, coming first nationally for
 overall satisfaction in 2020, and regularly featuring in the top ten across all categories. Breaking
 this down into subject areas History performs admirably, with 100% of PGRs satisfied with their
 experience of our research degree programmes.

 History provides a rich research environment for our PGRs. PGRs (as well as colleagues,
 undergraduates, MA students and members of the public) are encouraged to attend History’s own
 monthly seminar series, which provides a forum for visiting speakers, University of Northampton
 researchers and PhD transfer presentations. History regularly hosts conferences and workshops,
 where PhD students are actively involved in the organisation. These include the 2014 conference
 to mark the 50th anniversary of the Antifascist magazine Searchlight, and the 2017 postgraduate
 conference on ‘Post-war Far Right and Anti-Fascist Cultures’. Our PGR students have also
 presented conference papers at the University of Northampton and beyond. Jones has delivered
 sessions on conducting far right research at doctoral training partnership conferences.

 The Graduate School provides an annual programme of development events, competitions and
 an annual university-wide research conference. In addition, History PGR students receive
 discipline-specific training via the Level 7 module HISM041 ‘History Research Methods’, and are
 encouraged to engage with training offered at external institutions such as the Institute for
 Historical Research and The National Archives. Our PGRs are involved in the activities of History
 Lab, and a current student sits on its committee as Publicity Officer. The University of
 Northampton’s policy is that all PGR students are entitled to teaching experience and training, and
 its C@N-DO course is an accredited route to Associate Fellowship of the Higher Education
 Academy.

 History students benefit from the university’s annual allowance for all PGR students (GBP500 for
 FT, GBP300 for PT), to assist with the costs of research expenses, the university also runs a range
 of competitive bursaries to meet larger one-off costs such as the Chancellors fund, Dr Mike Daniel
 Research Degree Scholarship, Sir John Lowther Scholarship for Arts students, T D Lewis
 Scholarship, The Leathersellers’ Company Scholarship, and the Santander Travel fund.

 2.3 Equality and diversity

 We are committed to the values of equality and diversity, and welcome colleagues and students
 of all genders, sexualities, races, ages, faiths and disabilities. At the beginning of 2014 the
 department had an eight to one male/female ratio. We proactively sought to increase the gender
 diversity of the department with three new female members of staff appointed in 2015 and 2019.
 Specialist office equipment has been provided in response to occupational health assessments,
 and staff have also been supported through periods of sick leave, parental leave and support for
 gender transition. Such periods of leave and any other special circumstances are taken into
 account when staff are considered for ‘Teaching and Research’ employment contracts (which give
 additional hours for research based on research activity) to ensure that no staff members are
 disadvantaged for taking leave.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff at the University of Northampton benefit from a supportive and flexible working environment.
 The new Waterside Campus involves ‘new ways of working’ where staff work flexibly in a range
 of locations, and homeworking is positively encouraged. Timetabling decisions at the departmental
 level take into account individuals’ personal circumstances and ensure that fractional staff have
 an appropriate schedule. Teaching workloads are managed to ensure that time on campus is not
 excessive, and to enable quieter periods for research. External research income has been used
 to provide teaching buyout for researchers: this funding is typically used to employ a PGR or ECR,
 which in turn provides them with valuable teaching experience. All staff receive regular training in
 equality and diversity and unconscious bias through online and face-to-face courses.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research funding and strategies for generating income

 History has won more than GBP43,000 in research grants from 2014 – 2020. This includes two
 grants from the AHRC ‘Everyday Lives in War’ Centre, participation in an EU Horizon 2020 project
 ‘SPACEX’, a Symposium Grant from the Royal Historical Society and small grants from
 organisations such as the Being Human Festival and the Georgian Papers Programme. We have
 also participated in initiatives such as the National Lottery funded Nenescape (see section 4) which
 brought income to the wider university.

 The current funding environment has proved to be a challenging one for History and as such we
 have diversified our sources of research income to ensure the sustainability of our research.
 Jackson and Jones have successfully developed CPD packages on political extremism and
 racism for police services and local government organisations, and Jackson provides consultancy
 for criminal prosecutions: these together have generated a total of GBP44,000. They have also
 worked with Gale Cengage to develop a commercial digital resource based upon the Searchlight
 Archive, for which the university receives annual royalty payments: the first of these (2019) was
 GBP1,880.

 Members of History are supported in their funding by the cross-university service the ‘Research
 and Innovation Funding Support Office’ (RIFS). This team specialises in providing support for all
 aspects of funding applications providing support on bid writing, signposting to opportunities and
 how to meet funder requirements. Income generation is discussed at periodic PDR and individual
 research meetings, and colleagues peer review draft applications prior to submission.

 3.2 Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact

 The University of Northampton has recently invested substantially in its facilities, having completed
 the move to the purpose-built Waterside Campus in 2018 at a total cost of GBP330,000,000. The
 campus has been heralded as the cutting edge of university infrastructure, winning the 2019 Royal
 Institute for Chartered Surveyors’ ‘Design Through Innovation’ award. While it is not possible to
 attribute a precise portion of this investment to History, the department has benefitted from the
 new working environment with state-of-the-art IT infrastructure, new office space and a new
 Learning Hub, that contains our physical library, teaching, research and study spaces for staff
 across all faculties and professional services staff. The new workspaces facilitate scholarly
 dialogue and the exchange of research knowledge between disciplines creating a more
 interdisciplinary environment.

 The PGR workspace in the Senate Building is a dedicated area for researchers and is well used
 by staff and PGR students alike. The university has also made a significant financial investment
 in relocating the Fowler Collection to the new library, and the Searchlight Archive to a new
 purpose-built archive in the Newton Building, signalling that these collections have a long term
 future at the university.

 3.3 Operational and scholarly infrastructure supporting research and impact


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 History staff have access to a library on campus, which forms part of the innovative ‘learning
 commons’ in the Creative Hub building alongside their office space and teaching rooms. Around
 80% of the library’s collection is online, including the full range of scholarly journals and key
 databases such as Early English Books Online, Eighteenth-Century Collections Online, British
 Newspapers and Historical Abstracts.

 The university hosts two important archives. The Fowler Collection comprises around 3,000 items,
 including rare books dating from the seventeenth century, and record society volumes covering
 regional and national history from the medieval period to the twentieth century.

 The Searchlight Archive is an internationally significant collection of Fascist and Antifascist
 materials, including the records of the magazine Searchlight and its related organisations. This
 material is housed in a dedicated archive, for which History provides the academic lead (Jackson)
 and archivist (Jones), and which is accessed by scholars from across the globe. The archive is
 open to academic and other researchers and, as of 2020, the archive had hosted 546 visits with
 145 unique visitors, ranging from Austria, Norway, Canada, Australia and the USA. The
 Searchlight Archive is the focus of much departmental activity, including research by staff and
 PGRs, conferences and workshops, undergraduate and postgraduate teaching, external CPD and
 public engagement. Postgraduate students have also served as assistants at the archive. The
 wider impact generated by our work on the archive is the subject of one of our REF Impact case
 studies, entitled ‘Searchlight Archive: Understanding the Extreme Right’: this encompasses a
 range of activities that stem from work on the archive, including CPD, consultancy, media work
 and developing commercial teaching resources.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Effectiveness of research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 As a small History department, colleagues commonly develop research collaborations with
 historians beyond the University of Northampton. Beach and Nielsen worked closely with
 colleagues at the University of Hertfordshire on their ‘Everyday Lives in War’ First World War
 Engagement Centre. University of Northampton historians have collaborated on projects with
 historians at other institutions, which have led to co-authored publications: these include
 McCormack with Kevin Linch (Leeds), Reinke-Williams with William Farrell (Leicester) and
 Rothery with Henry French (Exeter) and Jon Stobart (Manchester Metropolitan University). They
 also participate in external networks, such as McCormack’s involvement with the AHRC-funded
 network ‘Passions of War’. Nielsen and Reinke-Williams co-convene seminars at the Institute
 for Historical Research.

 All staff are members of scholarly societies, such as the Royal Historical Society, the Social History
 Society and the Society for Army Historical Research. Colleagues also contribute to running them:
 McCormack sat on the executive committee of the British Society for Eighteenth-Century Studies
 (2011-20) and will serve as its Vice President from 2021, and Beach was Honorary Secretary of
 the Army Records Society (2016). Our involvement with the Royal Historical Society included
 hosting a symposium on ‘Masculinity and the Body in Britain, 1500-1900’ in 2015, when we also
 hosted their committee: some papers from the symposium were subsequently published in
 Transactions of the Royal Historical Society 26 (2016).

 UoN historians regularly comment on contemporary issues in the media. Jackson and Jones are
 sought-after commentators on far-right issues appearing on BBC TV, Breakfast news, BBC Radio,
 Al-Jazeera, Canadian Broadcasting Corporation and the British Forces Broadcasting Service.
 Gray appears on ITV’s Secrets from the Clink and McCormack has been interviewed for LBC
 and TalkRadio. Beach has consulted on BBC1’s Crimson Field and Radio 4’s Home Front and
 Tommies. Reinke-Williams consulted for a channel 5 documentary on the 1666 Plague. As well
 as writing for academic publications, we contribute journalism to a range of outlets: for example,
 Moss has written for Times Higher Education, History Today and Avidly.


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We work closely with museums and heritage sites engaging with as broad a constituency as
 possible. Rothery’s work on aristocracy has led to close relationships with country houses such
 as Kelmarsh, Lamport Hall and Stoneleigh Abbey. Beach has advised for the Military Intelligence
 Museum, providing content for a new interactive display on the First World War. McCormack has
 twice won funding from the Being Human Festival to stage two series of public engagement
 workshops at the National leather Collection called ‘Leather at Lunchtime’ (2017) and ‘The Origins
 of Leather’ (2018).

 History staff contribute to the running and governance of heritage organisations. McCormack is
 a Trustee of the Northamptonshire Record Society, has sat on panels to advise Northampton
 Museum and Art Gallery on its refurbishment and its blue plaque scheme, and acts as a historical
 adviser for Nenescape. This project is funded by a GBP2,800,000 grant from the National Lottery
 Landscape Partnership Scheme, and funds a range of historical and ecological projects across
 the Nene Valley. McCormack has taken a key role in the ‘Artcodes’ project at Rushden, which
 aims to increase use of a converted railway line called the Greenway, and draw attention to the
 town’s history. The project focused on the development of a smartphone app, ‘All Aboard for
 Rushden!’, which enabled users to scan pictures in order to access historical content, including
 short films produced by Film Northants in collaboration with a local school.

 History staff have taken on many wider roles including editing journals, editing books and taking
 part in assessing grant applications, which recognises their wider contribution to the discipline.
 Staff regularly edit journals: McCormack edited Journal for Eighteenth-Century Studies (2015-
 20); Cooper edited Journal of War & Culture Studies and now edits French Cultural Studies;
 Rothery edits Family and Community History (2020-present); Jackson edits the ‘Modern
 Ideologies and Faith’ section of Religion Compass (2009-); and Moss was an editorial fellow for
 History Workshop Online (2020). Jackson edits the Bloomsbury book series ‘A Modern History of
 Politics and Violence’ (2009-present) and McCormack sat on the editorial board of Culture,
 Society, Masculinities. Staff regularly act as referees for journals, performing this service for over
 20 journals in the UK and abroad. Staff are readers for presses such as Oxford University Press,
 Yale University Press, Manchester University Press, Ashgate, Bloomsbury, Palgrave and
 Routledge. Staff have assessed grant applications to the Austrian Science Fund (Beach),
 European Commission (Jackson), the Pasold Trust (Reinke-Williams), the Leverhulme Trust and
 the Research Foundation Flanders (McCormack).

 In recognition of their standing in the discipline, University of Northampton historians have been
 awarded a number of fellowships. McCormack was made a fellow of the Georgian Papers
 Programme (2019), Beach was awarded a Geraldine Grace and Maurice Alvin McWatters Visiting
 Fellowship from Queen’s University, Ontario (2014), and Jackson was made a Senior Fellow of
 the Centre for the Analysis of the Radical Right (2018). Five members of the department are
 Fellows of the Royal Historical Society, and all hold Fellowships of the Higher Education Academy.
 They regularly receive invitations to speak at conferences and seminars, giving over 20 invited or
 keynote talks over this cycle. Highlights include Beach being invited and funded to speak at the
 Australian War Memorial (2016) and delivering the keynote at the University of Ostrava, Czech
 Republic (2019); McCormack giving an invited lecture at ‘Getting Dressed in the Eighteenth
 Century’ workshop at the University of Liverpool (2019); and Moss was an invited presenter at the
 Times Higher Education THE Live conference in 2019.




                                                                                                Page 9
