Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Roehampton
 Unit of Assessment: 33A - Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies:
 Dance
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Centre for Dance Research (CDR) critically interrogates dance practices, cultures and works,
 developing scholarly, practical and public understanding of diverse forms of dance and
 choreography. On the census date, CDR membership comprised all 17 Dance staff with significant
 responsibility for research (14.2 FTE), alongside two postdoctoral researchers (1.5 FTE) and all
 Dance doctoral students (19 FTE).

 Our aims over the assessment period, articulated in the CDR Research Strategy (2015), have
 been to:
      i. shape the future of international dance research through our unique multidisciplinary
         breadth and excellence;
     ii. continue to advance fundamental knowledge and creative insight in dance through practice
         (choreography and performance) and theory; and
    iii. foster resultant change for the better in culture and society.

 We have realised this vision by focusing activity around four core themes: (A) dance, culture and
 society; (B) dance analysis and history; (C) philosophy and dance; and (D) dance, health and
 wellbeing. CDR researchers have enabled interdisciplinary exchange and understanding, bringing
 dance into sustained dialogue with a wide range of other fields, including anthropology, history,
 musicology, philosophy, politics, psychotherapy, health humanities, neuroscience, visual arts, and
 performance studies. We have continued to value individual researchers and their generation of
 world-leading outputs, whilst also facilitating collaborative research. We have developed and
 sustained a thriving body of postgraduate research students and have influenced wider dance
 cultures and society by helping to shape the policies of arts organisations, contributing to the
 development of professional creative practice, broadening public understanding of dance and
 choreography, and promoting individual wellbeing and integrated health. CDR activities also
 enrich Roehampton’s undergraduate and postgraduate dance programmes, with our research
 informing dance and dance studies teaching at all levels.

 More specifically, since 2014, we have continued to probe the relations of dance, culture and
 society through anthropological and political research, investigating dance as a cultural practice
 that embodies values and relations of power. Senior researchers (Buckland, David, Grau,
 Meduri and Prickett) have worked alongside new faculty (Chao, Rosa, McLelland) to challenge
 the Eurocentrism of dance studies and broaden its focus to include popular, folk, social and ritual
 practices as well as theatre dance. This is evidenced in articles and essays on diverse topics
 including diasporic community dance and multiculturalism in the UK; theories of evolution; social
 justice; archives; and intangible cultural heritage in global perspective. Research by new staff on
 the movement practices of China, Taiwan and Brazil (Chao, Kolb, McLelland, Rosa) has
 complemented existing expertise in South Asian dance (David, Meduri). David’s co-edited
 volume Dance Ethnography and Global Perspectives: Identity, Embodiment and Culture
 (2014, highlighted as a priority in REF2014) extends interrogation of methodology, whilst Rosa’s
 monograph Brazilian Bodies and their Choreographies of Identification: Swing Nation
 (2015) explores aesthetic principles of dance practice across the black Atlantic and their role in
 constructing Brazil as an imagined community. Our involvement in two Performances of the
 Popular (PoP) Moves conferences – Popular Dance: Curating, Collecting and Reflecting (24th
 October 2015, with University of Chichester, Kingston University and Royal Holloway, University
 of London) and Moving Beyond Coloniality (22nd-24th November 2019) – has contributed to the
 diversification of practices explored in dance research. In particular, the second of these
 conferences and the TECHNE workshop UNDER/STAND: An Action Dialogue on Race (hosted
 by CDR in February 2019) have, alongside CDR publications, fed the wider sector’s efforts to
 challenge the hegemony of Western and colonialist perspectives in the academy.



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have extended our work in dance analysis through choreomusical research (for example,
 Jordan’s monograph Mark Morris: Musician-Choreographer [2015], highlighted as a future
 priority in REF2014) and through critical interrogation of ballet works and practices (articles and
 essays by Morris and Tomic-Vajagic). Close analysis plays an important role in CDR’s political,
 philosophical and historical research too (work by Kolb, McLelland, Prickett, Rosa and Pakes),
 maintaining the centrality of dance itself even within an interdisciplinary approach. Our
 researchers’ interest in dance history spans nineteenth-century social dance practice (Buckland),
 South Asian dance (David, Meduri), ballet (Morris, Tomic-Vajagic, McLelland), modern and
 contemporary dance from Europe, America and the Global South (Kolb, Prickett, Rosa, Pakes),
 as well as meta-reflection on the place of history in contemporary dance studies (Hammond) and
 on historical scholarship’s assumptions and values (Morris’s co-edited second edition of
 Rethinking Dance History: Issues and Methodologies [2017]). We have also interrogated
 dance’s role in wider political history, for example, through Prickett’s British Academy/Leverhulme
 Trust-funded research and associated international research and PhD symposia on Cold War
 Politics and the Modern Arts (co-sponsored with the Society for Dance Research, 2019).

 Through the assessment period, CDR has continued to foster work in philosophy and dance,
 interrogating the nature, values and assumptions of dance practices in various cultural contexts
 and historical moments. We maintain expertise in different, complementary philosophical
 approaches, including analytic, continental and feminist philosophy as well as contemporary
 critical theory. Our researchers (chiefly Pakes, Protopapa and Allegranti, joined more recently
 by Conibere and Kolb) have published a range of articles and essays on philosophical issues, as
 well as a monograph on the metaphysics of dance works (Pakes’s Choreography Invisible:
 The Disappearing Work of Dance [2020]) and a co-authored book on The Practice of
 Dramaturgy: Actions in Performance (Protopapa). We have raised the profile of dance within
 philosophical communities, for example through involvement with the American Society for
 Aesthetics and Performance Philosophy (co-organising conferences, roundtable discussions and
 other events; writing for the Routledge Companion to Performance Philosophy [2020]).
 Philosophical investigation of dance-making processes continues through CDR’s artistic research,
 which probes the capacities of choreographic thinking (Protopapa’s live work Disputatio I, III, III)
 and more-than-human relating (Allegranti’s films I Can’t Find Myself and Political Signatures,
 Allegranti’s performance work I’ve lost you only to discover that I have gone missing; and
 Conibere’s performance work Do-Re-Me). Meanwhile, the existential dimension of somatic
 experience has been interrogated through Claid’s ‘Falling’ project and co-authored choreographic
 film A Long Side (2016), investigating ageing, memory and community.

 These projects overlap with CDR’s new focus on dance, health and wellbeing as a core field of
 enquiry. Our research leadership in Dance for Parkinson’s is demonstrated in articles, essays and
 the monograph Dancing with Parkinson’s (2019) by Houston, as well as the extensive impact
 activities highlighted in the Dance for Parkinson’s: evidencing, developing and embedding dance
 initiatives for people with Parkinson’s Disease internationally Impact Case Study. Meanwhile,
 choreography with/for the rare young onset dementia community (Allegranti) complements other
 research into the psychotherapeutic applications of somatic practice (Claid), as evidenced in
 outputs and impact activities detailed in the Impact Case Study Dancing with Ageing, Illness and
 Loss through dialogic artistic research. A one-day international, interdisciplinary symposium on
 Embodied Research Methodologies (2014) enabled dissemination of dance therapeutic insights
 beyond disciplinary boundaries.

 By paralleling investigation of these four core research themes, our research promotes the
 continuing reflexive development of dance studies as a field. During the assessment period, CDR
 researchers have contributed to numerous key anthologies and collections, maintaining our
 presence at the forefront of research debates: for example, the Bloomsbury Companion to
 Dance Studies (2019); Oxford Handbooks of Dance and Reenactment (2018) and Creative
 Process in Music (2018); the Routledge Companion to Performance Philosophy (2020);
 Performing Process: Sharing Dance and Choreographic Practice (2018); and Victorian
 Culture and the Evolution of Disciplines (2020). Through editing work, CDR researchers have
 encouraged other scholars to develop both original research and timely reflection on existing

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 literature and practice: for example, in the edited volumes The Routledge Companion to Dance
 Studies ([2019] Allegranti, Houston, Prickett) and Dance Fields: Staking a Claim for Dance
 Studies in the Twenty-First Century ([2020] David), as well as journal editorial work. Our role
 in hosting and co-organising the international Dance Fields conference (April 2017) also
 demonstrates our commitment to critical reflection and advocacy to develop the field of dance
 research.

 Since 2014, work in each of these areas has been enabled by targeting internal research funds
 appropriately, allocating research workload allowance strategically in line with University policy,
 and deploying our research leave rota to facilitate the initiation and timely completion of projects.
 In total, CDR researchers have published (from January 2014 to December 2020) 4 monographs,
 1 co-authored book, 6 substantial creative / practice-as-research outputs, 4 co-edited anthologies,
 53 essay contributions to edited volumes and 37 articles for leading journals. These include, in
 Dance Studies: Dance Research; Dance Research Journal; Performance Research; Dance
 Chronicle; Journal of Dance and Somatic Practices; Dance, Movement and Spiritualities; and
 Contemporary Theatre Review. They also include, in other fields: Journal of Ritual Studies;
 Traditiones; Comparito; Midwest Studies in Philosophy; Taiwan Journal of Anthropology; Journal
 of Chinese Ritual, Theatre and Folklore; Emotion, Space and Society; Atlantic Studies; Arts and
 Health and Cogent Medicine. This range evidences the breadth and depth of our researchers’
 interdisciplinary engagements and the way CDR has supported interdisciplinary research through
 strategic investment in their work. Additional dividends beyond 2020 are anticipated as a further
 monograph (Hammond’s Dancing with History), alongside several articles and essays, are in
 press or close to completion.

 Our established expertise and fields of enquiry have attracted international scholars to the culture
 of CDR. We have provided a base for affiliated international researchers working on diverse
 projects, such as post-doctoral fellow Corinne Plancke whose research on Dance Performances
 in Post-Genocidal Rwanda was based here (2014-15). We have welcomed several Fulbright-
 sponsored researchers from the USA through the assessment period, all of whom drew on CDR
 resources to develop their research and collaborated with CDR staff during three-to-six-month
 residencies: these include philosopher of dance Renee Conroy (Purdue, Calumet) and
 dance/performance scholar Jessica Berson (Yale University). Other visiting researchers from
 Slovenia, Greece, Poland, USA, Taiwan and South Asia have enriched our research culture. The
 same is true of senior scholars visiting to teach on the Erasmus-funded Choreomundus
 International Masters programme in Dance Knowledge, Practice, and Heritage, of which
 Roehampton is a partner institution. Through this route, fully-funded researchers from the USA,
 Greece and Norway (for example) have collaborated with CDR in developing work on dance, ritual
 practices, intangible cultural heritage and politics. We have thereby realised a further aim
 articulated as a goal at the time of our REF2014 submission: to intensify strategic research links
 with international scholars as part of the expansion of our postdoctoral culture.

 During the assessment period, we have advanced open access to dance research. From April
 2016, accepted author manuscripts of our journal articles and conference papers have been
 available through the ‘green’ open access route. Colleagues have published in Open Access
 journals such as the Journal of Embodied Research (Allegranti) and made practice-led outputs
 accessible through artist-researchers’ websites or sharing sites Vimeo and YouTube (Allegranti,
 Claid, Morris, Salzer). Open Access presents a number of challenges for dance research,
 including the difficulty of making some forms of research freely accessible without changing the
 nature of the output (e.g., live performance), and the commercial fragility of small, specialist
 publishers and scholarly societies who have been instrumental in promoting dance research to
 date. We have found innovative ways to share our research whilst being sensitive to this
 disciplinary ecosystem, as evidenced by efforts to make AAMs of book chapters as well as articles
 available where possible, and initiatives integrating fair use of copyrighted materials within open
 access outputs, such as the AAM of Jordan’s 2020 Dance Research article, which links to musical
 score and audio-visual examples.



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Alongside production and dissemination of research outputs, and hosting and co-hosting of
 innovative international conferences, CDR has maintained an ongoing seminar series. With
 eight to twelve events per year, this remains a prestigious platform for invited national and
 international researchers, alongside CDR staff. Seminars facilitate the interchange of ideas,
 offering a platform for dissemination of research, discussion and debate, and are open to the wider
 public as well as scholars and postgraduate students. In 2018 and 2019, the series included a
 new collaboration with Independent Dance (London) on their Crossing Borders talks. This strategic
 initiative has enabled knowledge exchange between our researchers, practicing dance artists
 outside the academy and postgraduate students (from Roehampton and London Contemporary
 Dance School). In 2020-21, the collaboration extends to include Sadler’s Wells Theatre and
 students from Trinity Laban. Other recent initiatives, like Meduri’s launch from India of the online
 Global Talking Dance Forum (affiliated with CDR) and David’s involvement in a Sampad webinar
 about intercultural dialogue in dance extend our public engagement specifically to South Asian
 dance, for a broad academic and professional public.

 These initiatives exemplify our drive towards more significant research impact on non-academic
 audiences, in line with a further goal identified at the time of REF2014 to widen the dissemination
 of our research while proactively creating opportunities for impact at national and international
 levels. Achievements on this front are showcased in the two new Impact Case Studies Dance for
 Parkinson’s (Houston, McGill) and Dancing with Ageing (Allegranti, Claid), which demonstrate
 both reach across national and international communities and depth of impact on individuals and
 organisations. More generally, we have continued to value both orders of impact - wide and deep
 – through fostering collaboration and exchange with non-academic partners. We have helped
 shape the policies and strategies of dance and arts organisations, through roles on the boards of
 dance companies and charities: for example, David has been a board trustee of South Asian
 Dance organisation Akademi, whilst Protopapa has been influential on the board of Independent
 Dance. We have also influenced professional creative practice in dance in other ways, through
 choreographic, dramaturgical and choreomusical interventions, including; Protopapa’s
 dramaturgy workshops in seven European countries and commissioned involvement in Siobhan
 Davies’s production material / rearranged / to / be; Jordan’s collaborations with choreographers
 Mark Morris, Shobana Jeyasingh and Richard Alston, and residency with the San Francisco Ballet
 (2014); Tomic-Vajagic’s collaborations with the Forsythe Company, Tate n Lyle, Igor and Morena,
 and Hamish McPherson (2016-2020). In addition, we have developed public understanding of
 dance and choreography via media appearances, talks and published writing in non-academic
 contexts: for example, Buckland and David have appeared on BBC Radio 4 Woman’s Hour;
 David and Hammond have given talks at The British Library and Victoria and Albert Museum
 respectively, while Jordan and Morris have contributed essays to the programme notes of Royal
 Ballet performances and Tomic-Vajagic to the programme of the Forsythe Company’s Catalogue
 (First Edition).

 Building on our research successes over the last six years, we aim to enhance our world-leading
 position in the field of dance research through major scholarly publications, performances,
 seminars, conferences and engagement, effectively shared with organisations and publics beyond
 the university sector. Ensuring the distinctiveness of dance research at Roehampton remains a
 strategic priority, following the phased transition to emeritus status of esteemed research leaders
 (Jordan, Buckland, Claid) and staff departures in 2020/21. We will do so by advancing our
 interdisciplinary research culture, taking advantage of institutional opportunities to develop
 intellectual affinities through the integration of organisational units across the Arts, whilst at the
 same time leveraging our reputation for excellence to develop more extensive collaboration with
 universities and non-academic partners, including dance organisations. Central to our ambitions
 is a commitment to articulating and demonstrating the value of the arts, and specifically Dance
 research, in diverse international creative ecologies. Our integrated strategic goals to support this
 vision for the next period include the following:

    •   Grow research income to develop further collaborative projects that address societal and
        cultural opportunities, in order to amplify our international reputation, and increase our
        capacities for research and knowledge exchange;

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   Foster new partnerships, and build on existing relationships, with professional companies,
        arts organisations and public bodies, matching their research and knowledge exchange
        priorities to the interests and expertise of CDR members;
    •   Develop a new generation of dance researchers by continuing to recruit PGR students,
        increasing the number of funded PhD opportunities, supporting PGR students towards
        timely completion and facilitating their transition to postdoctoral work in HE and the arts
        sector;
    •   Advance inclusive research cultures, that support and enable diversity in the arts more
        broadly, including supporting BAME dance researchers, particularly in the transition from
        UG and PGT study to PGR and postdoctoral work.

 2. People

 Staffing investment between 2014 and 2020 enabled CDR to sustain and extend its unique
 multidisciplinary breadth and excellence, central to our strategic aim of shaping the future of
 international dance research. We have recruited staff across the core themes which have been
 the focus of activities and at a range of levels from early-career researcher to Professor. New
 members of staff have strengthened the research base in dance, culture and society, alongside
 dance analysis and history (Chao, Kolb, Rosa), whilst expertise in philosophy and dance has
 been extended through both ECR/artist-researcher appointments (Conibere), and professorial
 appointments (Kolb) to facilitate clear succession planning in research leadership for CDR. All
 new research staff were appointed on permanent contracts, as are all returned staff. Two
 postdoctoral researchers have been fixed-term appointments associated with two time-limited
 externally funded projects (Plancke, Jones). This has fostered stability in the research team, as
 well as providing a secure and supportive base for individuals’ research career development. The
 success of these strategies is evidenced by the number and range of outputs, impacts and
 engagement activities developed by CDR staff.

 In addition, the work of existing research staff has been enabled and rewarded through a
 promotion process which values achievements in research and impact, alongside teaching and
 administration and operates equitably for part-time staff. Promotions since January 2014 have
 included one Professor (David), two Readers (Protopapa and Prickett) and one Senior Lecturer
 (Tomic-Vajagic). These include the promotion of two members of staff who were ECRs at the
 time of REF2014 and are now well-respected researchers in the field (Protopapa, Tomic-
 Vajagic), demonstrating how CDR has recognised and developed the work of ECRs. A further
 ECR (Stanger) was appointed in September 2013, but left CDR to take up a post elsewhere in
 2016, as did one Reader (Ellis) in 2015. Two further CDR researchers successfully completed
 PhDs at Roehampton in 2019, and – in line with institutional policies – were supported (in 2019-
 20) through Professional Development Allowances (McLelland, Salzer) which provide dedicated
 workload allocation of up to 30% to support the transition to a research career. This has allowed
 them time and release from other duties to develop their work in the immediate post-PhD period,
 with the intention to support their transition to staff with a significant responsibility for research
 within a two-year period. Investment in ECRs is crucial to the continuing vitality and sustainability
 of CDR, especially as a number of senior staff have transitioned from part-time to Emeritus status,
 signalling a profound generational shift within CDR, intellectually and practically. Both new
 appointments and promotions within the cycle have enabled effective succession planning through
 appropriate redistribution of leadership roles. More generally, CDR seeks to integrate ECRs into
 its research activities by providing a supportive framework for developing sole-authored work as
 well as collaborative projects: this includes the provision of opportunities to seek feedback on
 research (via CDR seminars and mentor meetings). Within doctoral supervisory teams, early
 career researchers are mentored by more experienced Directors of Studies who have previously
 supervised to completion. Fourteen of our seventeen research staff are now qualified to direct
 MPhil/PhD projects, four having gained Director of Studies status during the assessment period.
 All supervisors have undergone mandatory SEDA-accredited training CDR’s PhD Supervisors’
 Forum, which meets regularly and reports to the Research Advisory Group (see below).



                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All staff with significant responsibility for research have been allocated dedicated time via a
 comprehensive workload model with allowances of between 30% and 40% for research and
 impact activities. Research time has been used to develop outputs, collaborative projects,
 outreach and knowledge exchange with (for example) dance companies, arts organisations and
 charities and to pursue external grant income. Other workload has also been managed flexibly to
 enable completion of longer-form or time-sensitive projects, and to facilitate research-related
 travel, such as through redistributing teaching to enable researchers to meet production schedules
 for artistic work and monograph deadline, to fulfil international engagements and to accommodate
 personal circumstances. This flexibility has been particularly important for part-time staff, including
 those with caring responsibilities, to enable continued productivity and career development. A
 sabbatical rota has further supported staff by granting research leave for one term every three
 years. During this assessment period, fourteen members of Dance staff have benefited from
 research leave which has been instrumental in the completion of outputs, development of new
 initiatives and extension of impact activity, particularly international activity (on the part of Claid
 and Houston, for example – see Impact Case Studies). All staff have access to CDR funds to
 help defray research costs, including production costs for artist-researchers and conference
 attendance expenses. CDR operates a mentoring system which supports all staff to develop their
 work and helps ensure the rigour and integrity of CDR research. The mentoring framework is also
 key to supporting individuals’ career development, providing a space to identify opportunities and
 articulate evolving research identities. Senior CDR members mentor less experienced colleagues,
 offering advice on work produced and on the achievement of research career goals. Senior
 researchers also benefit from peer mentoring, guidance and feedback. Staff develop five-year
 individual research plans which are updated annually and reviewed by mentors to ensure that
 appropriate support is available for researchers to develop their profiles and portfolios. Mentors
 also advise on the pursuit of external funding opportunities, the development of external
 partnerships and the maximisation of opportunities for impact. In addition, they discuss
 confidentially with mentees the particular challenges they face (which might include those related
 to part-time working, caring responsibilities, equality issues and wellbeing), and feed back in
 general terms to the Research and Knowledge Exchange Lead and the Dance Research Advisory
 Group (DRAG) to inform strategies for staff support.

 All research mentors are members of DRAG, which met termly during the assessment period to
 discuss strategy. This group helps ensure that a culture of integrity underpins our research through
 regularly reviewing the quality of the research environment and support for the wellbeing of CDR
 staff and students. The Group serves also as a forum for sharing best research practice. Our
 Ethics Officer is a member of the group and mediates between the University’s Ethics Committee
 and CDR, ensuring both are aware of – and in a position to tackle – the range of ethical issues
 arising in dance research. Reflection on such issues is also key for a number of staff working in
 anthropology, ethnography, philosophy and artistic research, who are well placed to ensure that
 CDR fosters equal relationships and attention to difference in engagement with research
 participants.

 Ensuring equal opportunities is fundamental to our recruitment and practice in relation to research
 staff and students. All dance staff with significant responsibility for research are women, so our
 professoriate is all-female too. CDR researchers are active in the Athena SWAN Charter process
 (David, Houston) and during the assessment period one member of CDR staff benefitted from
 the Charter’s provision regarding accelerated research sabbatical following a period of parental
 leave. Nine different nationalities are represented amongst CDR staff, with recent appointments
 widening our international profile to include Taiwanese, German and Brazilian scholars and
 contributing to efforts to diversify dance studies more broadly. Three CDR researchers (18%) self-
 identify as BAME. In addition to CDR’s compliance with University anti-discrimination policies, we
 have been involved in sustained reflection on issues of race in research and in relation to the
 curriculum. All research staff participate in ongoing University-level initiatives to increase
 engagement of BAME students, which feeds into strategies for recruitment and retention of PGR
 students and research staff. The process for the selection of outputs for REF2021 was conducted
 alongside robust equality and diversity analyses to capture any potential adverse effects on staff
 with protected characteristics. The Dance unit comprises 100% female academic staff, and as

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 such all outputs selected are attributed to female staff. 9% of outputs are authored by staff who
 declared a disability and 15% are attributed to BAME authors, while 9% are attributed to LGBTQ+
 staff. We have striven for an inclusive submission by authors of all career levels, with 35% of the
 submitted outputs produced by Professors, 32% to Readers and 24% to Senior Lecturers.

 Staff and students engage reflectively with issues of diversity, equality and identity through CDR’s
 research strengths in dance politics, anthropology and performance studies. Staff are working at
 the forefront of contemporary debates about decolonising the academy, which helps shape
 understanding of challenges both internally and within the wider field. For example, Rosa has
 published extensively on dance in the Global South, organised the Moving Beyond Coloniality
 conference and is involved in the Contemporary Dance and Whiteness project led by researchers
 from other HEIs. The TECHNE workshop UNDER/STAND: An Action Dialogue on Race,
 organised by Tomic-Vajagic and hosted by CDR in February 2019, brought staff and PGR
 students (from Roehampton and beyond) into dialogue with expertise in conflict mediation, social
 justice and performance (in a workshop led by Dana Caspersen and Akeim Toussaint Buck).
 Innovative research that considers non-western dance forms (from Taiwan, Brazil, China, South
 Asia, as well as intercultural practices in the UK) promotes a broad acknowledgment of the interest
 and value of movement practices beyond hegemonic Western theatre dance forms. This
 strengthens awareness of equality issues within CDR and impacts the wider sector through our
 researchers’ engagements outside of the University.

 CDR’s inclusive culture supports our continued role as a leader in the discipline in terms of the
 number and diversity of topics investigated by its research students. During the assessment
 period, our doctoral programme has sustained a community of between 20 and 30 students a
 year, with 22 PhD students successfully completing programmes between July 2013 and July
 2020, and a further two students completing PhDs by published works. Our inclusive and
 international PGR culture has maintained a rich, intellectually curious and culturally diverse
 community, mirroring the wider ethos of CDR research. During the assessment period we have
 attracted students from Brazil, Chile, Cyprus, Greece, India, Portugal, South Africa, Spain, the
 USA and the UK, with 18% of PGR students self-identifying as BAME. The PGR student body
 also covers a wide age demographic: some students join at the beginning of their careers, others
 are already established artists or professionals, in some cases embarking on PhD work as a
 second career. PGR recruitment is facilitated through open competition for all funded opportunities
 and in accordance with University Equality and Diversity policy, and PGRs are only recruited
 where projects align to staff expertise and research strategy. Much of our success in recruiting
 doctoral students is built on our international reputation, but it also stems from progression routes
 we have established from masters to doctoral programmes. Our taught postgraduate programmes
 capitalise on staff research strengths, provide a rigorous and versatile basis for higher level study.
 This is evidenced by students who have progressed from a Roehampton MA degree to a
 Roehampton PhD (De Lucas Olmos, Dulin, Fort, Freeman-Sergeant, Heighway, McLean,
 McLelland, Williams), and then to postdoctoral research.

 Integral to the sustainability and further expansion of our PGR community is membership of the
 continuing AHRC doctoral training partnership consortium (TECHNE) with other institutions in the
 South East. Seven TECHNE scholarship awards have supported our PhD students (Roy,
 Metcalfe, Conolly, Kleiman, Fort, Peragine, Ruddock), and a Collaborative Doctoral Award bid
 with Sadler’s Wells Theatre was successful in 2020 (Hughes). This builds on an earlier
 collaborative PhD with Independent Dance, supported by a Vice-Chancellor’s scholarship
 (Recchia). Five further VC’s PhD scholarships have been awarded during the assessment period
 (Alexandra, De Lucas Olmos, McLean, Rodrigues, and Gorringe). We maintain a commitment to
 recruiting and aligning excellent students with staff research strengths and growth areas. Because
 Roehampton supervisory teams include a Director of Studies and either one or two co-supervisors,
 we are also able to supervise PGR research in collaboration with other departments and
 universities (such as Drama and Social Sciences at Roehampton, and Music at Yale University).
 This augments interdisciplinary research exchange at both staff and student levels.



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All dance research students participate in the University’s Research Student Development
 Programme (RSDP), which is enriched by specialist subject training provided by dance staff. In
 addition, CDR supports research students through its programme of research seminars,
 workshops, research-led performances and dedicated dance MPhil/PhD seminars (normally two
 per academic year). The latter help develop students’ presentation techniques, from an initial short
 introductory presentation to a conference-length paper when upgrading from MPhil to PhD. Our
 students have also organised and presented at the university-wide, student-led annual conference
 overseen by the Graduate School. In addition, CDR supports students’ own dance-focused
 initiatives, such as the PGR symposia On feet (2014), Open Space Technology Event (2016), the
 Un-Symposium preceding the Dance Fields conference (2017) and an online forum Hope Circle
 to promote well-being and resilience amongst the research student community (2020). These
 activities enable skill development and prepare for future careers. The University’s SEDA-
 accredited course for PGRs, An Introduction to Learning and Teaching, alongside CDR-level
 opportunities for paid academic mentoring of undergraduates, equips students with teaching skills.
 Supervisors also offer guidance on submitting peer-reviewed conference abstracts and papers,
 which has enabled successful conference presentations and publications by our students in
 various national and international arenas. Among these are the International Council for
 Traditional Music’s Study Group on Ethnochoreology, the Society of Dance History Scholars and
 Congress on Research in Dance; the Dance Studies Association and PoP Moves. Programmes
 are tailored according to individual student needs, with attention being drawn to sessions offered
 by other departments as well as by external institutions such as Independent Dance / Siobhan
 Davies Studios and Chisenhale Dance Space. RSDP and CDR provision is flexible to
 accommodate students with other (including caring) responsibilities: an increasing number of
 sessions are available online and the pacing of students’ engagement is carefully considered by
 supervisory teams on a case-by-case basis. Student progress is monitored through regular
 documented supervision meetings and annual reviews, as well as via the doctoral milestones of
 project confirmation and upgrade from MPhil to PhD, and appropriate support offered for student
 personal circumstances, such as during, and on return, from periods of intermission or parental
 leave. The Research Degrees Convenor for dance is a member of the Dance Research Advisory
 Group, for which research student issues are a standing agenda item, allowing for the monitoring
 of PGR provision and further strategic integration with the University’s wider research initiatives.
 Since March 2020, we have added further levels of support to all PGRs to help them through the
 pandemic. This has included funded extensions, extra academic and pastoral support when
 required, and the revision of research topics where necessary.

 Our PhD students have been awarded numerous competitive prizes, bursaries and fellowships
 including the Selma Jeanne Cohen Award, a prestigious international dance award (Vaghi 2014);
 runner-up prize in Dance Chronicle’s Founding Editors’ Awards (de Lucas Olmos, 2019-20);
 awards from Universities’ China Committee in London and Santander Travel and Mobility fund to
 enable take-up of an international placement at the Theatre Academy in Shanghai (McLelland); a
 competitive three-year Anglo-Austrian Society Award for Doctoral Studies (Dulin); a scholarship
 award from the CAPES Foundation, Brazil (Dias); a national scholarship from Brazil (Dornelles);
 and a scholarship award from Programa Formación de Capital Humano Avanzado Conicyt Becas,
 Chile (Torres). Our graduating students have an exceptional track record, having been appointed
 to posts at the universities of Ghana, Alabama, Calgary, Nicosia, Helsinki, Malta, Valladolid,
 Birmingham, Roehampton, Wolverhampton and Brunel, as well as the Juilliard School (New York)
 and the Research Institute for Humanity and Nature (Japan). This is a powerful demonstration of
 CDR’s contribution to the sustainability of the dance research field internationally.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 CDR research across our four focus themes has been supported by income from research
 councils, EU sources, and UK charities and trusts. In addition, Arts Council England has funded
 artistic research, enabling practice-led outputs and associated impact activities. We have
 benefitted from dedicated support for bidding from CDR’s Research Facilitator (2014-2018) and
 Research Development Officer (2018-2020). The Dance Research Advisory Group has monitored
 bidding activity and success and provided a forum to explore possible new funding streams.

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 More specifically, research in dance, culture and society has been extended thanks to European
 funding for fellowships that have facilitated CDR’s development of international collaborations: Dr
 Carine Plancke’s Marie Curie Intra-European Fellowship (£87,646) funded her research on dance
 in post-genocide Rwanda at Roehampton (2014-2015). Meduri’s visiting fellowship at the Freie
 University International Research Centre in Berlin (2014) was supported by the Verflechtungen
 von TheaterKulturen (£14,786). Research in dance analysis and history has been enabled through
 British Academy/Leverhulme grants for Jordan’s work on choreomusical analysis (£3,302) and
 Prickett’s ‘Dancing National Ideologies’ project (£9,554); both have led directly to outputs included
 in the current unit submission. The AHRC funded a CDR-hosted project, led by Dr Jean Johnson-
 Jones, to analyse and document Jane Dudley’s Harmonica Breakdown (1938) (£37,767).
 Meanwhile, work on dance, health and wellbeing has been funded by UK charities via Houston’s
 ‘Dance for Parkinson’s’ work (BUPA Foundation), also developed through collaboration with
 English National Ballet (£10,406). We have also been able to grow our research student cohort
 and support their development via PGR funding, including significant AHRC investment (more
 than £300,000) via the TECHNE doctoral awards scheme. This has been supplemented with
 awards from the AHRC’s International Placement Scheme and Universities’ China Commission
 (McLelland), plus other external bodies who have supported our students directly (see above). We
 have run AHRC-funded TECHNE events, such as UNDER|STAND organised by Tomic-Vajagic.
 Funded studentships and PGR activities have helped us sustain and revitalise the wider field of
 Dance research.

 Moving forward, growing research income is a strategic priority for CDR, dovetailing with the
 University’s strategic aim to expand and diversify research and knowledge exchange funding. Our
 focus from 2014 to 2020 has been on developing quality outputs and the impact of our research,
 both being financed largely from University resource in terms of staff time and targeted support to
 cover research expenses. Through 2019-20 we have developed a more comprehensive CDR
 bidding strategy, identifying further grant writing support aligned with opportunities to diversify
 sources of income for 2020-21 and beyond. Recent bidding successes have included grants from
 the Chiang Ching-Kuo Foundation for International Scholarly Exchange (Chao), Arts Council
 England awards (Allegranti and Conibere) and funded international research fellowships (David,
 Kolb) which will support research straddling the end of this assessment period and the start of the
 next. CDR is also a partner with colleagues in Antwerp in the Research Network CoDa / Cultures
 of Dance (funded by FWO – Research Foundation – Flanders), a five-year project starting in
 January 2020, which will consolidate and extend international links and collaborative ventures.
 We will also build on existing partnerships between CDR and professional companies, arts
 organisations and public bodies, to explore possibilities for mutually beneficial funded research.
 In this, the precedent of collaborative research and impact work conducted by, for example,
 Allegranti, Houston and Jordan will be invaluable in developing new initiatives.

 With regard to infrastructure, the Dance Research Advisory Group (whose Chair, the RKE Lead,
 sits on the University Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee) coordinates and oversees
 the full range of CDR activities, including the work of individual research staff and students; the
 programme of research seminars, conferences and other events; invitations to, and support for,
 visiting scholars and research students and the development of strategic initiatives (on open
 access, for example) and bidding. From 2020/21, this group has been integrated into a School of
 Arts Research Advisory Group, which will be important in facilitating future interdisciplinary
 collaborations within Roehampton. A Dance researchers’ forum will continue to discuss and
 develop subject-specific strategic initiatives. Research Development and Impact Officers work
 closely with researchers and the Research and Knowledge Exchange Lead to support bidding,
 impact and knowledge exchange.

 In terms of facilities, we have an exceptional collection of dance and dance-related materials,
 gathered over many years and located in our new University library. This includes books, print and
 e-journals, audio-visual materials (dance on DVD and online platforms, music on CD and online
 platforms) and musical scores, all of which are used extensively by CDR researchers. The Library
 also houses specialist archives of considerable historical interest, based on donations, including

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Ann Hutchinson Guest Archive and Collection; the Monica Collingwood Collection and the
 Naseem Khan Collection. These materials inform our research, but also attract external
 researchers and international scholars. Recently, externally-funded associate research students
 from Brazil, China and Poland have been able to draw on these resources as well as on staff
 expertise.

 Our artist-researchers utilise five dedicated dance studio spaces within Roehampton’s campus,
 plus a Mac Lab equipped with high-specification Apple Macs. The Michaelis dance studio is fitted
 with a lighting rig designed to allow for choreographic and digital media laboratory exploration in
 small groups, with the possibility of these experiments being relocated and reproduced in other
 performance environments. The Michaelis Theatre offers a well-equipped performance arena for
 small to mid-scale dance performance. It is used by artist-researchers and PGRs for rehearsal
 and presentation of research-in-progress, as well as final performance work. State-of-the-art
 portable technology – including digital cameras and accessories, MacBook Pro laptops and iPads
 – not only facilitates on-site artistic research that explores real time interaction between video,
 sound and live dance but are also employed off-site in the high-quality documentation required of
 ethnographic research.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 CDR members’ collaborations have taken various forms and operate at different scales – local,
 national and international – and are supported through the CDR infrastructures and processes
 already outlined. Researchers have worked with other academics within and beyond CDR, and
 across disciplines, to develop co-authored outputs (particularly Allegranti, Claid, Houston,
 Jordan, McGill, Pakes, Protopapa and Salzer). They have also co-organised research events, in
 addition to Roehampton conferences: for example, Pakes for the American Society for Aesthetics
 Pacific Division in California, USA (2014, 2015) and Kolb for Dance Europe Now! in Salzburg
 (2020). Our researchers have given 64 keynote presentations and other invited talks between
 2014 and 2020, in locations as diverse as Limerick, Prague, Toronto, San Marcos, Izmir, Malmö,
 Göteborg, Belgrade and Chennai. Some collaborations on co-authored outputs or events provide
 a basis for developing a wider research project and grant bid (for example: Allegranti’s work with
 Halstead in Norway; Kolb’s Salzburg collaboration; Rosa’s work with Brazilian dance scholars).
 Such collaborations are key to our plans to develop new directions for our research and grow
 income in the next five years.

 We also collaborate extensively with individuals and organisations outside of HE. Our artist-
 researchers (Allegranti, Claid, Conibere, Protopapa, Salzer) work with professional artists,
 including dancers, choreographers and filmmakers, to develop live performances, screendances,
 and publications, which mutually inform one another’s creative and critical practice. They have
 also engaged in advocacy work aimed at increasing artistic leadership and representation in UK
 dance, through the collaboration of Conibere and Protopapa in Joe Moran’s Artist-Curator-
 Leader project. Other researchers have worked in dialogue with artists, companies and dance
 schools as an integral aspect of their research (such as Jordan with Mark Morris and Richard
 Alston; Tomic-Vajagic with the Forsythe Company; Morris with the Royal Ballet School).

 These activities and relationships enable application of our research, through dialogue with other
 arts professionals. CDR staff also play important roles in organisations seeking to enhance and
 promote professional dance. Several staff chair or are otherwise members of the boards of dance
 companies and associated organisations: Prickett (Chair, Board of Directors, Sonia Sabri
 Company); David (Chair, Pagrav Dance Company); Morris (Chair, Board of Directors, Akram
 Khan Charity Trust). They are also involved in organisations, charities and networks with a wider
 remit for developing dance activity in specific domains: Buckland was an Academic Panel
 member for the Blackpool Museum Project: Since 2015, David has been a board member of
 Akademi, the Academy of South Asian Dance and has also served on the Advisory Board for
 Youth Dance England: Children & Young People’s Dance: Houston is Chair of the Board of
 Directors and Trustees of People Dancing: the Foundation for Community Dance, Chair of the
 Steering Group of the Dance for Parkinson's Network UK, and a member of the Practice and

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strategy Group, Dance for Parkinson's Partnership, UK. Each role enables CDR research to
 inform organisational strategy and, more generally, have a positive impact on the wider ecology
 of the arts.

 Our contribution to the research base in dance and dance studies is also wide-ranging. We
 support the vitality of the discipline through involvement in subject associations and learned
 societies. These have included the Congress of Research on Dance (Prickett); the Society for
 Dance Research (Hammond, Kolb, Morris, Prickett, Protopapa) and the Dance Studies
 Association (Rosa). We advocate the importance and interest of dance in other disciplinary
 contexts too, taking on organisational or committee roles in other subject associations: for
 example, Pakes as co-Chair of the American Society for Aesthetics Pacific Division in 2014 and
 2015, committee member for the British Society of Aesthetics annual conferences in 2016 and
 2017, and co-Director of the Philosophy of Art conference at the Inter-University Centre Dubrovnik
 in 2020; Allegranti as member of the Association for Dance Movement Psychotherapy-UK
 Council for Psychotherapy professional education training group and ethics committee
 establishing UK policy for dance movement psychotherapy (DMP), 2004-2017.

 The wider recognition of high-quality dance research is also promoted by our work for prize-giving
 bodies and award committees. At the national level, David was Chair of the short-listing panel for
 the Akademi choreographic competition, UTKARSH, in 2014 and 2015, and a consultant and
 selection panel member for Kingston Arts Ignition festival 2014. Internationally, Pakes was a
 member of the award committee for the Selma Jeanne Cohen prize in Dance Aesthetics in 2016
 and 2020, whilst Morris was a judge on the panel for Dance Chronicle’s new scholar award in
 2018. Our researchers are also often asked to be referees or assessors for promotion and tenure
 applications at UK universities and overseas: for example, the professorship committees for
 Wesleyan University (2014); Royal Holloway University of London (2017); University of Texas
 Austin (2017); University of the Arts HZT, Berlin (2017) and Victoria College of Arts, University of
 Melbourne (2018).

 We help to ensure research quality by reviewing manuscripts for various book publishers,
 including Anthem Press; Ashgate; Bloomsbury; Gestalt Therapy Book Series Istituto di Gestalt
 HCC Italy; Human Kinetics; Oxford University Press; Palgrave Macmillan; Temple University
 Press; Routledge; University of Michigan Press; and the University of Wisconsin Press. We also
 contribute to the development of other scholars’ work through supportive peer review of journal
 articles, within dance (e.g. for Research in Dance Education; Dance Research; Dance Research
 Journal and Dance Chronicle) and other disciplines (recently Art & Health; Body & Society; Body,
 Movement and Dance in Psychotherapy; Czech Sociological Review; British Journal of Aesthetics;
 Journal of American Philosophical Association; Modernity-Modernism; Open Cultural Studies
 Journal; Scottish Journal of Performance; Studies in Costume and Performance; South Asian
 Popular Culture; and International Journal of Asian Studies). Staff also bolster the longer-term
 sustainability of the research base through involvement in examining PhDs both in the UK (at the
 universities of Aberdeen, Cambridge, Cardiff Metropolitan, Chichester, the Courtauld Institute,
 Coventry, De Montfort, Durham, Exeter, King’s College London, Southampton, St. Andrew’s,
 Surrey and Warwick) and overseas (at Macquarie, Sydney, Melbourne and Queensland
 Universities in Australia; the University of Auckland, New Zealand; Dublin City University and
 University of Limerick in Ireland; and the Norwegian University of Science and Technology,
 Trondheim).

 Our researchers support other scholars’ work by enabling its dissemination within scholarly and
 larger public communities through co-production of edited collections and conferences/symposia
 already mentioned, as well as translation of academic work in other languages into English (Pakes
 for Oxford University Press and Paris 8 Danse) and editorial and advisory board membership for
 key journals and book series in the discipline including: The International Journal of Screendance
 (Tomić-Vajagić); Dance Research (Kolb as Reviews editor and member of the Editorial Board);
 Dance Research Journal (Prickett as Reviews editor and on the editorial board, Jordan and
 Buckland on the Advisory Board); Research in Dance Education (Pakes on the editorial board
 and Associate Editor until 2016). Researchers also promote the value of dance research in other

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contexts by serving on the editorial and advisory boards of interdisciplinary journals: Folk Music
 Journal; Folklore and Dance; Movement and Spiritualties (Buckland); South Asian Popular
 Culture; South Asia Research; Eurasian Journal of Music and Dance (David) and Body,
 Movement and Dance in Psychotherapy (Allegranti).

 Our researchers regularly review grant proposals in dance and other related areas. Four
 colleagues (Houston, Pakes, Prickett since 2016; Kolb since 2017) are members of the AHRC
 Peer Review College. Other expert review of grant proposals has included work for the Stroke
 Association/British Heart Foundation Clinical Study Awards Project Grants; the Alzheimer’s
 Society; Wenner-Gren Foundation, USA; National Science Centre, Poland; FWF, Austrian
 Science Fund; Volkswagen Stiftung; and the European Research Council. Jordan was a member
 of the Steering Group for the AHRC Centre for Musical Performance as Creative Practice, hosted
 by the University of Cambridge in association with Oxford University, Kings College and Royal
 Holloway; David has been a consultant for the heritage Lottery project ‘Garuda: Celebrating Ram
 Gopal’ (2016) and is on the academic advisory board for the AHRC-funded project ‘Social
 Distance, Ritual Congregation’, at Manchester Metropolitan University (2020); and Prickett was a
 member of the Steering Group of the AHRC funded Breakdown Harmonica project. By ensuring
 that public funds are spent on high quality research, these activities contribute to the wider
 development of the field.

 CDR researchers contribute to the economy and society through their involvement in
 professional arts practice, including research in our new core field of enquiry: dance, health and
 wellbeing. Specific beneficiaries include People with Parkinson’s and young onset dementia, as
 well as individuals experiencing the challenges of ageing and increased physical vulnerability.
 Elsewhere, our work develops public understanding of dance and informs critical discourse
 through engagement activities. Media appearances during the assessment period include radio
 interviews for Radio 4 Woman’s Hour (Buckland, David), Irish Radio (Morris) and the Austrian
 Broadcasting Corporation’s FM4 (Kolb), whilst television work includes appearances on BBC1
 (David, programme on British Hinduism) and Sky Arts (Jordan, programme on Mark Morris). Our
 researchers give talks to non-academic audiences, such as David’s on Ram Gopal for the British
 Library (2018), Hammond’s contribution to the Victoria & Albert Museum’s adult education
 programme in History of Performance (2018), Jordan’s Insight Talks on Ashton, Balanchine and
 Robbins for the Royal Opera House (2017-18) and Pakes’s contribution to the Forum for
 Philosophy event on Dance at King’s College London (2018). The continuing availability of such
 talks as online videos or podcasts, following their livestreaming, significantly increases reach.
 Researchers also write material for the printed programmes of dance events and the websites of
 prominent choreographers (Jordan and Morris for programmes of the Royal Opera House,
 London; Jordan for the website of Richard Alston). They also frequently facilitate or otherwise
 participate in post-performance panel discussions (particularly Conibere, David, Kolb, Prickett,
 Salzer and Tomic-Vajagic). All these activities help develop public understanding of dance
 practices, and enhance the dance experiences of the wider public, even whilst some target specific
 groups of beneficiaries.

 Looking forward, a key aim, in line with the University’s Research and Knowledge Exchange
 strategy, is to further grow the range of areas in which CDR research has demonstrable impact,
 building on our excellent track record in this regard and on our existing involvement in developing
 fields such as dance and health. We will further address global challenges, such as healthy ageing,
 youth engagement and environmental sustainability, through interdisciplinary and collaborative
 research that explores and involves different types of dance activity. This requires driving forward
 the research dimension of existing partnerships and collaborations, both internally, with other
 research units, and externally with (for example) Dance for Parkinson’s, Dementia care
 organisations and professional dance companies and institutions, both nationally and
 internationally. New and expanded projects will build on our proven commitment to (and track
 record of) dance advocacy. Crucial and central to this mission is our commitment to understanding
 the benefits of dance for integrated health, its role in the expression of identity and in cultural
 dialogue, and its capacity to creatively envisage future possibilities and relations.


                                                                                             Page 12
