Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution:
University of Essex
Unit of Assessment:
10 – Mathematical Sciences
1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

a) Overview

The Department of Mathematical Sciences (DMS) is currently undergoing an exciting phase of
positive transformation. Substantial recent investment has supported an ambitious growth strategy,
enabling the Department to achieve its primary goal of having a REF submission to UoA 10 for the
first time. These developments have been accompanied by a commensurate increase in research
income (46% increase from 2014 to 2020), including over £1.6M for industry- and government-
funded projects. As recognition of this successful growth, in 2018 the Department moved to new,
purpose-built accommodation within the University’s flagship new £18M ‘STEM Centre’, which
provides cutting-edge facilities and an ideal working environment for interdisciplinary research and
collaboration. All research submitted to UoA 10 for the University of Essex is produced by
members of the Department, which currently comprises 33 academic staff (32 ASER staff, one of
whom is submitted to UoA 2), 2 senior research officers, 2 Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP)
associates, 7 professional services and support staff, 28 PhD students, 243 Masters and 353 UG
students who, as a community, deliver on the University’s dual-intensive mission of ‘Excellence in
Research’, and ‘Excellence in Education’.

The Department’s vision is to deliver fundamental research across the areas of pure and applied
mathematics, actuarial mathematics, optimisation, data science, and statistical methodology, whilst
also leading novel interdisciplinary research and working with industry and external stakeholders to
deliver real world impact. Research activity is organised across two groups, ‘Data Science’ and
‘Mathematics’, each containing key themes (Data Science: Actuarial Mathematics; Data Science
and Statistical Learning; Operational Research; Statistical Methodology. Mathematics: Algebra,
Discrete Mathematics and Geometry; Analysis and Mathematical Physics; Mathematical
Applications). Extensive interaction between themes and groups provides greater breadth of
research, while engagement with high profile institutional research centres hosted at Essex, such
as the Institute for Social and Economic Research (ISER), the Institute for Analytics and Data
Science (IADS), and the UK Data Archive (UKDA), enable much wider interdisciplinary
collaboration. Successful engagement with industry and external stakeholders, including
companies such as Hutchinson Ports, Mondaq, MSXi, Ocado, Profusion, and Strike, has led to
direct impacts of DMS research in the real world.

b) Research Strategy

Historical context (pre-2014)

Mathematics was one of the founding departments of the University of Essex. The department was
reinvigorated when a long-term strategic plan to develop mathematical sciences at Essex was
initiated in the early 2000s. This was focused on developing research strengths in both
fundamental mathematics with wider interdisciplinary applications, and on the emerging discipline
of data science. The strategic plan was highly successful, with key appointments such as Codling,
Harrison, Lausen and Williams joining existing colleagues (Higgins, Penman, Salhi, and
Vernitski). Despite this success, the Department remained relatively small and hence staff were
submitted to other UoAs (7 staff to UoA 11 and one to UoA 19 for REF 2014). In 2013, the
University approved a growth plan for the period 2014-20 in order to achieve the key strategic
objective of building a viable research base for a full REF submission to UoA 10.

Strategy and objectives (2014-20)

The DMS research strategy throughout the 2014-20 period combined ambitious growth with
supporting and developing new and existing staff, enabling them to improve the quality and impact

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
of their research, and to increase grant income. The objectives supporting this research strategy,
the related outcomes and achievements of the 2014-20 period, and the operational mechanisms in
place to ensure continued delivery, include:

Objective 1: Increase the number of academic staff and submit to REF UoA 10 for the first
time. To enable a DMS UoA 10 REF 2021 submission, a highly ambitious growth plan was
initiated in 2013, supported by substantial investment from the University. This led to significant
and sustained recruitment of new staff (21 academics appointed since 2013), quadrupling the
number submitted since 2014 (REF 2021: 31 staff in UoA 10, and one in UoA 2).

Objective 2: Support and development of new and existing staff. With rapid growth, a key
strategic focus was to make sure that all academic staff (new and existing) were fully supported
with their research and wider professional development in order to fulfil their potential. Evidence of
the wider success of this approach within the REF period includes 8 academic staff achieving
permanency and 11 staff achieving promotion (of whom 5 were promoted to Professor) (Section
2).

Objective 3: Improve the depth, breadth, and quality of research. The rapid growth of the
department during this period meant that it was possible to develop both the strength in depth of
existing research groups, themes and specialisms (for example Algebra, Discrete Mathematics
and Geometry or Data Science and Statistical Learning), whilst also increasing the breadth of
research within the department by creating new groups and themes in strategically focused areas
(for example in Actuarial Mathematics or Analysis and Mathematical Physics).

Objective 4: Increase and diversify grant income. A key strategic objective was to increase both
overall grant income and to widen the diversity of grant-holders and funding streams within the
department. This strategy was successful with (for the period 2014-20) 12 large research grants
(>£50k) awarded or held by 12 academic staff (compared to 7 large grants held by 4 staff in the
period 2008-2014), with headline income totalling £3.8M received from a diverse range of funders
including UKRI (NERC, BBSRC, ESRC, EPSRC), Leverhulme Trust, NIHR, Innovate UK, and
learned societies (Section 3).

Objective 5: Increase engagement with industry, stakeholders, and the public to maximise
impact. To maximise the impact of DMS research, a key strategic objective was to expand and
develop the number of industrial partnerships and collaborators. Between 2014 and 2020 the
department received six KTP awards (totaling £1,118,430) in collaboration with companies
Mondaq (twice), MSXi, Ocado, and Profusion (twice) compared with one (Hutchinson Ports) in the
previous REF cycle (Section 4). In addition, the Department received £457,552 to work with Essex
and Suffolk County Councils in the Catalyst Project (awarded in 2015). The number of academic
staff involved in directly funded industry engagement or collaboration has increased from 3 (2008-
2014) to 8 (2014-20).

Objective 6: Improve department facilities and infrastructure. Dramatic and sustained growth
over the 2014-20 period created a strategic need for new departmental space This was provided in
2018 when the department moved into the entire top floor of the STEM Centre, providing an ideal
working environment for trans-disciplinary research and collaboration (Section 3).

Implementation of the departmental research strategy is led by the Department Steering Group
(DSG, including the Head of Department (HoD), Director of Research (DoR), Director of Impact
(DoI), and Postgraduate Director). Their work is supported by the DMS Research Management
Group (which includes lead and early career academics from each of the main groups and
themes). Central support is provided via the Research and Enterprise Office (REO) who have a
dedicated grant support team, dedicated KTP team, as well as individual staff with roles specifically
focused on supporting Knowledge Exchange (KE) and impact activities in mathematical sciences.
Faculty support is provided by the Deputy Dean for Research (DDR) (Science and Health), a role
currently undertaken by Codling on a secondment from the department. Further support and
guidance on DMS research strategy are provided by the Essex Mathematical Sciences Advisory

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Board, which includes national and international external experts and advisors from both academia
and industry, and meets at least once per year.

Future plans and objectives (2021 onwards)

Strategic growth and transformation over the 2014-20 REF period have enabled the department to
achieve its aim of conducting world-leading research with maximum impact, while simultaneously
fostering a collegiate and intellectually stimulating working environment, supported by significant
and sustained investments in people, infrastructure and facilities. Moving into the next REF period,
the Department will continue to expand the breadth and depth of its research base and wider
interdisciplinary and industry collaborations in order to take a leading role in research that tackles
major contemporary and future societal and scientific challenges. The central aims described in
Objectives 1-6 from the period 2014-20 will be retained but refocused to suit the developing needs
of the department, institution, and wider environment. In particular, specific new plans and
objectives include:

      (Future Objective 1) Further new appointments, including leadership roles within the
       Data Science research group to strengthen links to cross-University data driven research in
       Health and Life Sciences, Social Sciences and Humanities.
      (Future Objective 2) Expansion of the Mathematics research group with new
       appointments to broaden the breadth of research across the department, and of its
       interdisciplinary applications and societal impact, and to strengthen existing themes.
      (Future Objective 3) A new research group focused on Mathematics Education, to be
       created and led by Vernitski and including Saker (Professor of Mathematics Education at
       Essex).
      (Future Objective 4) A specific COVID-19 plan to ensure all academic staff are supported
       during and after the current pandemic period. This will include focused support on the large
       cohort of early career academics recently appointed, to ensure they fulfil their potential and
       that future research leaders are identified and supported.
      (Future Objective 5) Securing involvement in one or more DTCs/DTPs either as lead or
       in collaboration with partner institutions is a key ongoing objective, together with increasing
       the number of PhD students from other sources.
      (Future Objective 6) Increase research income, with an emphasis on increasing DMS
       contributions to large cross- and inter- institutional research consortia.
      (Future Objective 7) To increase and further develop working relationships with
       industry and wider society to deliver real world impacts of DMS research.

c) Structure

Research activity is structured across two main groups reflecting the department’s dual focus on
both data science and fundamental mathematics: Data Science (with four themes), and
Mathematics (with three themes).

Data Science (17 current members, and one submitted to UoA 2):

The Data Science group is immersed in an outstanding environment for research and delivering
impact, exemplified by the group achieving 7 Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) awards in this
REF period. The group is linked to several renowned national data institutes hosted at the
University of Essex including the UKDA, the ESRC-funded Business and Local Government Data
Research Centre (BLG DRC), the ESRC-funded ISER, IADS, and the National Institute for Health
Research (NIHR) East of England Research Design Service. Staff in each of the four themes
regularly collaborate, facilitated by a weekly research group seminar series. The Actuarial
Mathematics theme consists of four early career researchers (Fadina, Hu, Liu and Wong), and
an established and internationally recognised expert on actuarial and financial modelling
(Vrontos). Theme members conduct multidisciplinary research in the broad areas of actuarial
science and finance, including predictability, asset-liability management, risk management and risk
theory, mathematical finance, financial data science and applied probability in actuarial science

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and queueing systems. Applications include prediction of financial and macroeconomic series,
equity premium, recession indicators, Bayesian methods for mortality modelling and forecasting,
optimal insurance pricing, optimal risk transfer and robust insurance mechanisms, term-structure
models, affine stochastic processes, Gaussian processes, extreme value theory and ruin theory.
The Data Science and Statistical Learning theme includes early career academics (Bailey,
Gutierrez-Roig, Hadjiantoni, Mahmoud), established academics (Harrison), and an
internationally recognised leader of the data science community (Lausen). Theme members work
on a range of data science methodologies covering artificial intelligence, statistical learning,
computational statistics, epidemiology, bioinformatics and environmental statistics. Specific
methodological developments include ensemble methods, deep learning and their applications,
resampling based assessments of uncertainties of models in clinical research, numerical
algorithms for the estimation of multivariate models for the analysis of functional data,
dimensionality reduction machine learning algorithms for the analysis of text data, statistical
analysis of telemetry data, and algorithms for urban dynamics and computational social science.
The theme has direct collaborations and partnerships with the health sector, digital industry and
government. The Operational Research (OR) theme includes two early career academics
(Amanatidis, Meng), a mid-career academic (Yang), and an internationally acknowledged expert
in nature-inspired heuristics (Salhi). Theme members conduct multidisciplinary research in the
broad areas of OR and mathematical modelling including linear and nonlinear programming,
combinatorial optimisation, deterministic and stochastic dynamic programming, algorithm
(heuristics) design and analysis (including the novel Plant Propagation Algorithm (PPA, developed
by Salhi), implementation of algorithms, data analytics and applications in portfolio selection,
labour scheduling, green distribution, and predictive modelling. The Statistical Methodology
theme consists of Rabhi and Bao (submitted to UoA 2), early career academics, and Dai, an
established expert on the interface between Monte Carlo techniques and Bayesian analysis;
Perperoglou was also a member of the theme until 2019. Theme members work on a broad range
of statistics and applied probability topics, including Bayesian statistics, longitudinal and survival
analysis, causal inference and applied probability. New methodological development includes
computationally intensive Bayesian Modelling, exact Monte Carlo simulation such as Monte Carlo
(or Bayesian) Fusion methods, nonparametric estimation for bivariate survival functions,
semiparametric and nonparametric methods for length-biased and censored data.

Mathematics (14 current members):

The Mathematics group has expertise across many areas of pure and applied mathematics,
ranging from algebra to mathematical biology. Colleagues work closely together across themes,
including shared PhD students and joint grant applications over the 2014-20 period. The growth of
research activities in the group is evidenced through the recent appointment of two (postdoctoral)
Senior Research Officers funded through Leverhulme Trust grants. A weekly seminar series
encourages further inter- and intra-group discussions and collaborations. The Algebra, Discrete
Mathematics and Geometry theme comprises early career academics (Claridge, Litterick,
Martinez-Garcia), established research active mid-career academics (Penman, Vernitski,
Williams), and an internationally recognised authority in semigroup theory and Premio Peano
prize-winning author of popular science books (Higgins). The recent departmental growth strategy
has enabled an expansion in the theme’s scope, doubling its size from a core base of expertise in
semigroup theory, combinatorial group theory, graph theory and combinatorics to now include
researchers who work in algebraic geometry, finite group theory, and applications of finite field
theory to network coding. The Analysis and Mathematical Physics theme comprises two early
career academics (Akman, Papamikos), and an established mid-career academic (Grahovski).
Theme members work on a broad range of topics in Analysis and Mathematical Physics, including
discrete and continuous integrable systems, Lie groups, Lie algebras and symmetries, analysis of
PDEs, Harmonic analysis and Potential theory, algebraic methods in differential equations, and
geometric analysis. The Mathematical Applications theme comprises early to mid-career
academics (Antonopoulos, Savostyanov) and senior academics internationally recognised in
their fields of expertise (Codling, Susanto); Noferini was also a member of the theme until 2019.
Theme members work on topics ranging from numerical mathematics and applications of linear
algebra, through dynamical systems and nonlinear waves, to mathematical biology. Specific topics

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
include complex systems, network analysis, network inference, random walk theory, collective
behaviour, population dynamics, pattern formation, dynamical systems, soliton theory and
nonlinear waves, nonlinear and atomic optics, spinor Bose-Einstein condensates, fluid mechanics,
numerical mathematics, low-rank tensor product approximations, linear and multilinear algebra,
matrix analysis, and the design of efficient numerical algorithms.

Interdisciplinary research

The department has continued to grow strong research links to computer science, life sciences,
health and social care, medicine, business, local government and humanities during 2014 to 2020
(Section 4). With the future research objectives on Doctoral Training Centres (Future Objective
5), cross- and inter- institutional research consortia (Future Objective 6) and working with
industries and for society (Future Objective 7) the department continues to have a strong agenda
on interdisciplinary research.

d) Research Impact

Maximising the impact of DMS research has been a central aim of the departmental research
strategy (Objective 5) throughout the 2014-20 REF period; specific strategic mechanisms include:

      Embedding an impact agenda within the department. A key aim has been educating
       and supporting academic staff on how to deliver impact from their research, and this is now
       embedded within the research culture of the department (Section 2a).
      Faculty and REO support. Central support for impact work is provided through a
       dedicated team within the REO, including roles that are specifically focused on supporting
       Mathematical Sciences staff and projects with KE activities, as well as specific support for
       research impact and REF impact case studies (Section 2a).
      Internal and external funding. Specific impact activities are supported through both
       internal and external funding mechanisms. Internal funding acts as a pump-priming
       mechanism for staff to develop external funding bids such as KTPs, Innovate UK, and other
       impact related funding (e.g. HEFCE). Over the 2014-20 REF period DMS academics
       received over £1.6M for industry and government related research (Sections 3 and 4).
      Wider engagement and knowledge exchange with industry, stakeholders, and the
       public. Increasing direct engagement with industry partners has been crucial in delivering
       the impact strategy. A range of activities have been undertaken over the 2014-20 period
       including regular impact workshops, and hosting and attending high profile public
       engagement events (Section 2a).

The three impact case studies selected for this submission are exemplars of the success of the
departmental impact strategy over the 2014-20 REF period. All three cases are based on
underlying DMS research that was developed through initial internal impact support for key staff
involved, followed by external funding mechanisms (KTP, HEFCE), alongside direct industry
engagement and collaboration, leading to realisation of impact. Moving forwards, a number of
other projects have been following the same impact development strategy, with ongoing direct
industrial collaboration through externally funded projects (Sections 3 and 4), which should
directly lead to impacts in the next REF cycle.

e) Open Research, Integrity and Ethics

Open research is embedded in the shared philosophy of the department. Opportunities to discuss
the department research strategy and policies are available to all staff at departmental meetings,
research away days, and at Research Committee for those involved. Minutes and
recommendations from these meetings are circulated to ensure an open research environment.
Open access publishing (of both outputs and data) is promoted and encouraged through a range of
mechanisms. All output publications (not just those submitted for REF) are published through the
University’s Research Information System (RIS). From 2014 to 2021, 329 articles were deposited
in the University’s Institutional Repository, among which 205 were Green open access and 83 Gold

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
open access. The University also provides a central block grant for Gold Open Access publishing
of specific outputs linked to UKRI-funded projects, and has an increasing number of read-and-
publish agreements with publishers such as Wiley and Sage. Many staff members, including all
members of the Mathematics group, post preprints on the ArXiv repository. The department also
follows the UKRI Concordat on Open Research Data, and several members have published open
access data sets (e.g. Codling’s cow tracking movement data sets) or submitted R packages to
CRAN (e.g. propOverlap & OTE). Mahmoud leads the University activities in relation to
reproducibility as part of the UK Reproducibility Network (UKRN), liaising with other institutional
leads and the steering group of the UKRN to facilitate the delivery of its aims.

The University conforms to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, and has developed the
University Code of Good Research Practice, which is provided to all staff as part of training and
induction. This includes explicit reference to the Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE)
recommendations on publication and authorship; the department is committed to ensuring all
contributors, including PhD students, gain appropriate recognition and are included in research
outputs. Overall oversight of research integrity is provided by REO’s Research Governance and
Planning Manager, who ensures compliance with the code as well as other external legislation and
funders’ requirements across all projects within the department. The department has a robust
ethics procedure managed by the departmental Ethics Officer and by the central University Ethics
Committee and its three Ethics Sub-Committees (ESC); Codling, as DDR (Science and Health) is
the current chair of ESC 1.

2. People

a) Staffing strategy and staff development

The transformative success of the department can be attributed to the specific objectives relating
to staffing and staff development within our wider research strategy: investing in and increasing the
number of staff within the department, by appointing the right balance of early career and
established academics (Objective 1); supporting all staff within the department, enabling them to
develop and achieve their potential in delivering the highest quality research and impact
(Objective 2).

Staffing strategy

The departmental staffing strategy balances the need to facilitate excellent research and impact,
whilst also supporting excellent research-led teaching and postgraduate supervision. The
department Senior Management Team (including the HoD, DoR, DoI, PG Director, and a
representative of the department Athena SWAN committee), working with the department
Research Committee, recommend areas for new appointments based on both the strategic needs
of each research group and theme, and the need to support teaching. Examples of strategic
growth areas over this REF period include the creation of the Actuarial Mathematics research
theme (6 new staff, one of whom has since left Essex) and the Analysis and Mathematical
Physics theme (3 new staff). The wider strategic context around staffing is also considered when
planning new appointments. For example, in 2013 the department identified that most existing staff
were established mid-career or senior academics, and hence a key focus during this period has
been to appoint early career academics to ensure continuation and succession within the
department. In total, 21 new academics have been appointed since 2013, 19 of whom were
appointed at the Lecturer level. An additional strategic focus throughout this period, identified as
part of our Athena SWAN review and planning, was to improve the gender balance of the
department. This has been highly successful with the number of staff identifying as female
increasing from none at the start of 2013 to six in 2020 (with one promoted to Senior Lecturer in
this period).

Recruitment

Once a position has been advertised, a broad panel (comprising members of the Senior

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Management team, research theme leaders, and including at least two staff identifying as female)
identifies candidates to be shortlisted. Shortlisted candidates deliver a research seminar and
lecture to the whole department before being interviewed by a panel of 5 academics, including at
least two staff identifying as female. For senior staff appointments (SL and above) successful
applications are also reviewed externally to assess the candidate, while for Professorial posts a
separate recruitment process chaired by the Vice Chancellor is implemented.

Staff development and support

The department strategy and policies around staff development are focused on enabling staff to
maximise their potential, progress in their career, be rewarded for high performance, and to
promote a collegiate and vibrant research environment (Objective 2). The University has recently
initiated a new Researcher Development Framework (RDF) for academic staff at all stages of their
career based on the Vitae Researcher Development Framework. Central to the Department’s aim
to facilitate and deliver ‘Excellence in Research’ is providing staff with sufficient time to undertake
research and impact activities. The increase in the number of academic staff within the department
as part of the growth strategy (Objective 1) has had the follow-on benefit of allowing a reduction in
both teaching load (from a typical load of 3 modules per FTE in 2014 to 2 modules per FTE or less
in 2020) and administrative burden on staff. A transparent Workload Allocation Model (WAM),
which includes a specific protected allowance for research time, is used by the HoD to allocate
teaching and administrative duties. Each academic is provided £1500 annually to support their
research and impact activities. Further direct support to staff is also provided via departmental PhD
scholarships (9 awarded within DMS in the period 2014-20) and Faculty interdisciplinary PhD
scholarships (8 awarded to DMS in this period, including co-supervised projects).

All academic staff are assigned a formal academic mentor within the department; informal
mentoring and support is provided by each research theme leader. Staff also have access to
institutional mentoring schemes such as the Essex Peer Support Network, and cross-institutional
schemes such as the recently formed Eastern Academic Research Consortium (Arc) mentoring
scheme, involving the Universities of East Anglia, Essex and Kent. Annual Performance
Development Reviews (PDR) are held between the HoD and each individual academic to evaluate
training needs, set research objectives, and discuss their career development aims, including
applications for permanency or promotion. Promotion (and permanency) applications are evaluated
as part of the Annual Review process in two stages: first via the department Senior Staff
Committee, where feedback is provided to improve applications, and secondly via the University’s
Academic Staffing Committee which makes a final decision. During this REF reporting period, 5
DMS staff have been promoted from Senior Lecturer (SL) or Reader to Professor, 3 from SL to
Reader, and 3 from L to SL. Of these, 4 staff had also achieved permanency in the same time
period, highlighting their rapid progression.

New appointments and early career academics

All new academics undergo a three-year ‘Pathway to Ppermanency’ period designed to ensure a
successful transition to a permanent role. All the support mechanisms described in the previous
section are available to pathway to permanency staff, who receive prioritisation for reduced
teaching (typically 1.5 modules per year rather than 2) and administrative loads, and for
departmental PhD scholarships. All new staff are assigned a ‘Pathway to Permanency’ supervisor
(in addition to their academic mentor), and together they develop an individual-specific plan for
research, education, leadership and training targets, which is subsequently reviewed and approved
by the HoD and Faculty Dean. Progression is assessed in a supportive manner via 18 and 36
month reviews. Each year, pathway to permanency staff can opt to apply for early permanency
through the standard Annual Review process. Significant mandatory and optional training is
available via the University’s Occupational Development section to prepare new staff for their roles.
All new academic staff are required to attain Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (FHEA) via
the University’s CADENZA programme. During this REF period, all 8 DMS staff (including 2 staff
who identify as female) who applied for permanency achieved it successfully (with one achieving
early permanency). Reflecting the success of these individuals and the contribution they have

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
made, 4 (including one who identifies as female) have subsequently achieved promotion to SL or
Reader, two of whom are also now undertaking key leadership roles within the department (Dai:
DoR; Yang: PG Director).

As integral members of the department, postdoctoral research staff and research associates have
access to the same central training resources as academic staff, and also undergo the standard
PDR and Annual Review Processes (but evaluated by their line manager rather than the HoD).
Given the fixed-term nature of their roles, specific support is given centrally and via line managers
for ongoing career development and employability to ensure that staff are able to progress into
independent research careers. During this REF period 4 postdoctoral staff and 10 KTP associates
have been employed within DMS.

Support for impact and exchanges between academia and industry

A key element of the overall research strategy for this period has been embedding an impact
agenda into the culture of the department (Objective 5; Section 1e). The DoI has overall oversight
and leads on the delivery of the impact strategy. Academic staff are encouraged and incentivised
to undertake impact work through specific time allocations in the department workload model
(WAM), in addition to teaching buy-out enabled through external income. Regular impact meetings
and workshops are led by the DoI to support departmental impact activities, as well as providing
specific support to individual projects. Central support for impact work is provided through a
dedicated team within the REO, including roles that are specifically focused on supporting
Mathematical Sciences staff and projects with KE activities. Further direct support for impact
activities is provided through internal funding mechanisms (Section 3) that act as a pump-priming
mechanism for projects to develop external funding bids. Supported by the REO, who
communicate upcoming funding calls and assist in applications, academic staff are encouraged to
apply for KTPs, Innovate UK, and other impact related funding (e.g. HEFCE) (Section 3). The
2012-16 BBSRC grant awarded to Codling (Cow Tracking Project) included a 3-month placement
for the postdoctoral researcher with Omnisense Ltd (Cambridge) in 2016. A range of further
engagement activities have been undertaken over this period including an informal ‘Maths
Breakfast’ with local business leaders, regular impact workshops hosted within the department for
industry partners and other stakeholders, and hosting and attending high profile public
engagement events (Section 4).

Research Leave

All academic staff (ASER) accrue research leave entitlement at the rate of one term of leave for
every 6 terms worked (equivalent to 2 full years). Staff involved in senior management roles (HoD,
Dean, Deputy Dean, etc.) accrue leave at twice the standard rate, to be used at the end of their
term of office. Staff can apply to take up to a maximum of three terms of leave (one full year) in a
single sabbatical. Applications are reviewed and prioritised by the HoD and Research Committee
in a transparent process. Throughout the current REF period, 14 DMS staff have taken a total of 33
terms of leave (eight staff for a full year; four staff for two terms; one for one term).

Recognition and Reward

Staff bringing in external grant income are directly rewarded in two ways: firstly, additional research
time in the WAM is allocated (teaching buy-out) based on the proportion of salary the grant covers;
secondly, the University runs a Education and Research Incentive Scheme where a proportion of
the grant indirect costs (for UKRI grants) are returned directly to the investigator and can be taken
either as additional salary or to supplement their research. At the institutional level, research and
impact are supported and championed through a range of high-profile awards and events,
including the annual ‘Celebrating Excellence in Research and Impact Awards’, where Yang
recently won ‘Best Research Impact in Enterprise and Innovation 2020’.




                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
b) Research students

Recruitment of research students

Research students are recruited from a range of backgrounds, including from within the
department. The department does not currently hold any DTC or DTP awards, although several
staff have co-supervised students on other DTCs in which Essex participates. Most students are
either funded through departmental PhD scholarships (9 awarded within DMS in the period 2014-
20) and Faculty interdisciplinary PhD scholarships (3 awarded directly to DMS in this period, with a
further 5 co-supervised by DMS academics) or are self-funded (or via national governments).

Monitoring and support mechanisms

The Postgraduate Director has overall oversight of all progress monitoring and training activities for
research students, in order to ensure successful completion (37 students successfully obtained
their PhD in this REF period) and that students can transition into employment. All students have a
main supervisor who acts as mentor during their studies; the department also strongly encourages
co-supervision (more than 15 students in this period), particularly across research groups or for
interdisciplinary projects. Student progress is monitored through formal Supervisory Board
meetings (every 6 months) and measured against formal published milestones; training needs are
also identified at each board meeting. A confirmation board is held after 12 months, where the
student is formally confirmed onto the PhD degree, after ratification by the departmental Research
Student Progress Board and the central Graduate School. Peer-support mechanisms are also
encouraged within the department and students have self-organised schemes to share
experiences and good practices, small workshops, and reading groups within their areas of study.

Skills development and future career

The University Graduate School has overall responsibility for PG research student training at the
institutional level and has developed a comprehensive development programme (Proficio) that
offers training in both scientific and generic research skills and professional development. As part
of the Proficio programme, all DMS research students are provided with £3500 (£1000 of which is
provided by the department) which they have full control over spending on their own training
courses, workshops, and external conferences. Students identify training needs throughout their
PhD, and this training log is reviewed by their Supervisory Boards. The department has created
bespoke ‘R’ and ‘Matlab’ Proficio training (open to all students across the University). Students
also use their Proficio funds to attend external courses such as ‘Academy for PhD Training in
Statistics’ or the MAGIC network, as well as attending and presenting at national and international
conferences (>50 occasions in the 2014-20 period). Research students are expected to attend and
participate in the weekly research group seminars and the networking session afterwards; all final
year PhD students give a department seminar on the findings of their research. Throughout their
PhD, students are encouraged to think widely about their employability and future career aims, and
the department actively promotes wider research networks and opportunities, and provides tailored
career advice from supervisors and senior colleagues. All PG students are offered GTA/GLA
teaching opportunities and are provided with training and support that enables them to run or
support successful sessions. After graduating, PG students have excellent career prospects (at
least 10 recent PhD graduates now hold permanent academic positions), exemplified by
Mahmoud and Bailey who are now both members of academic staff in the department.

c) Equality and diversity

Evidence of commitment to equality and diversity

The University of Essex recognises the value of diversity and is committed to equality of
opportunity, with clear policies supporting these aims for all staff and students at the institutional
level. The department has embedded these policies, and the principles behind them, into strategic
planning over this period and this has directly led to a number of clear successes:

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

      The number of academic staff identifying as female has increased from zero (2013) to six
       (2020).
      The most senior academic identifying as female (Yang) achieved permanency and
       promotion to SL in this REF period, and has been undertaking a senior leadership role (PG
       Director).
      The department has been awarded the Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2018 (and is
       preparing to apply for the Silver Award).
      The department is a registered Supporter of the London Mathematics Society Good
       Practice Scheme.
      From 2017/18 to the start of the pandemic in 2020, the Department hosted 36 speakers
       identifying as male and 36 speakers identifying as female, matching ongoing commitments
       on gender balance made within the DMS Athena SWAN Bronze application.

DMS is a very international department with staff from diverse ethnicities, nations and cultural
backgrounds (68% white and 32% other ethnic background). Equal opportunities in career
progression and promotions, submission of funding applications, access to internal funds,
recruitment for departmental leadership roles, conference attendance, sabbaticals, and training is
given to all staff, including part-time and fixed term staff. Gender and distribution of workload
across departmental committees and outreach activities is monitored to ensure equality of
workload. The department has a dedicated Inclusivity and Disability (I&D) Officer who supports all
staff and students to ensure everyone has equal opportunity to conduct research productively. The
I&D Officer gives inclusivity-centred talks at all induction events (for both staff and students), and
liaises with the University on behalf of students and staff with protected characteristics. Every
member of staff is required to complete training on equality and diversity within six months of
starting their roles (and every 3 years for existing staff). The department has an open and
transparent workload model, which can be adjusted to support staff returning from periods of leave,
those with disabilities, medical issues, and/or caring roles. Staff with specific needs or disabilities
are also supported with adjustments to their work environment (desk, chair, computer, etc.) where
appropriate. Departmental funding is also available to staff with additional needs around
conference attendance or other research requirements (e.g. because of caring responsibilities).
The wellbeing of all staff is a priority and the department promotes flexible working arrangements
and has implemented a ‘core working’ period (10am-3pm) where all meetings are scheduled to
help staff with work/life balance.

Equality and Diversity in REF submission

The department REF Research Management Group (RMG) includes a representative of the
Athena SWAN committee, the I&D Officer, as well as a senior female academic (Yang) in her role
as PG Director. The RMG scrutinised the preparation of the departmental REF submission to
ensure that due regard to equality and diversity issues was paid at all stages. The selection of the
output portfolio is balanced across all research groups to ensure adherence to the equality and
diversity policies as set out in the University Code of Practice. During recruitment of new staff
throughout this REF period, marketing materials always explicitly encourage applicants with
protected characteristics to apply (especially from groups that are underrepresented in
mathematical sciences), and every effort is made to have diversity as one of the criteria for
appointing interview and selection panels.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

a) Income

Strategy to increase and diversify income

During the 2014-20 REF period the department has increased its focus on attracting external
funding with two complementary aims (Objective 4): i) increase total external income; and
ii) diversify income streams (in terms of funding sources and individuals holding grants). New

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
department policies were developed during this period to achieve these strategic aims:

      All staff are expected to be involved in developing a grant proposal each year as either PI
       or co-I. Progress is discussed during the annual PDR process, and necessary support
       provided.
      All newly appointed staff are expected to submit two substantial grant proposals (typically
       >£150K) during their 3-year pathway to permanency period. Direct support for grant-writing
       is provided to such staff, who are also encouraged to be co-I on grants led by established
       staff.
      Additional time buy-out and workload reduction is provided to staff holding external grants
       in the department WAM.
      Systematic internal review of all applications is undertaken by the department Research
       Committee before submission.

Additional central support is provided by the REO who communicate upcoming funding calls from
research councils, industry and other major research funders, and assist in finalising applications.
The University provides various internal grants on a competitive basis for piloting new work,
developing research grant applications, supporting workshops and other follow-on impact activities,
and to buy-out staff time. These include Challenge Labs, Eastern Arc fund, Global Challenges
Research Fund, Impact Acceleration Account funding, and Innovation Vouchers, ranging from £5k
to £25k. The department has focused on these internal sources as a strategic ‘pump-priming’
mechanism to develop successful external grants (£110,000 total internal funding over 8 awards,
including two awards totalling £21,000 to staff identifying as female), particularly those linked to
industry partnerships. Specific internal awards (>£5k) during this period include £14,007 awarded
to Yang, which directly led to the Ocado KTP; £10K for a consortium involving Dai, the social care
company Provide, and the local NHS Dental Network, which led to Healthcare Impact Partnerships
applications; £10K for a consortium involving Harrison and Public Health England; £10K for a
consortium involving Meng and the NHS; £7.5K for a consortium involving Bao, Harrison and
Rabhi with Essex County Council; £25K for a GCRF project involving Mahmoud, Harrison and
Lausen with Egyptian health researchers; as well as a number of smaller awards (<£5k) for other
pilot work or impact-related activities.

External income success

The departmental objectives around external income (Objective 4) were successfully achieved
with an increase in total external income to more than £3m in 2014-20 across 13 large awards,
including £1.118m of industry income (Objective 5). This compares to total external income of
£1,330,000 in 2008-13 across 7 large awards (>£50k). Importantly, income was diversified with
more staff winning grant awards (10 staff with external income in 2014-20, including 1 female staff;
4 in 2008-13) and from a wider range of sources (7 funding bodies in 2014-20; 4 in 2008-13).
Specific highlights of awards in this period include:

      Six large KTP grant awards in the Data Science research group: Mondaq
       (£190,521+£159,900, 2016-22, PI: Lausen); MSXi KTP (£192,440, 2017-20, PI: Salhi);
       Ocado KTP (£184,632, 2018-20, PI: Yang); Profusion KTP (£214,992 + £175,945, 2015-
       22, PI: Lausen).
      Catalyst Project funded by HEFCE (£2.2m, co-Is: Dai, Vrontos) and the BIAS: Responsible
       AI for labor market equality project funded by the ESRC UK-Canada AI Initiative scheme
       (£0.5m, Essex-PI: Dai). Supporting role in the Business and Local Government Data
       Research Centre, University of Essex (ESRC, headline figure £5m + £1.2m, 2014-22
       named researchers: Lausen, Salhi).
      2 large Leverhulme Trust grants led by the Mathematics research group: ‘Machine learning
       for recognising tangled 3D objects’ (£196,267, 2020-23, PI: Vernitski) and ‘Searching for
       gems in the landscape of cyclically presented groups’ (£177,486, 2018-2021, PI: Williams).
      Two large interdisciplinary UKRI grants supported by the Mathematics research group:
       ‘Spatially encoded telecoms and quantum technologies using spin-enabled all-optical
       switching’ (EPSRC, £675,876, 2015-19, co-I: Susanto); ‘Novel Animal-Mounted Sensor

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Technology to Improve Efficiency and Sustainability’ (NERC, £252,625, 2017-18, co-I:
       Codling).
      Numerous small grants for conferences, workshops, exchange visits, etc., from learned
       societies including LMS and IMA.

b) Facilities and infrastructure

STEM Centre

The transformative growth of the department over the 2014-20 period necessitated new
departmental space for staff and students (Objective 6). The STEM Centre includes laboratories,
computing facilities, event space, a science café, and meeting rooms, and hence provides an ideal
working environment for inter-disciplinary research and collaboration. The building has achieved a
‘Very Good’ BREEAM sustainability rating and is designed to be as inclusive as possible, including
step-free access for all floors. The top floor of the building provides DMS staff and students brand
new office space (adapted for individual staff needs), PhD student desks and computers, social
meeting space, and associated support facilities. The department has already taken advantage of
the facilities, hosting external industry impact partners, and for research seminars and
conferences.

High-Performance Computing

The University provides High-Performance Computing (HPC) support via CERES, a computational
cluster built using the Rocks Clustering Solution with CentOS Linux. For computational purposes,
the cluster has 1008 64-bit processing cores using a mix of Intel E5-2698, Gold 5115, & Gold 6152
CPUs on a number of dedicated servers each with between 512Gb & 1.5Tb RAM. Storage is
provided by a set of storage nodes providing 440Tb of storage. Each computational node has
hundreds of open-source software packages and libraries installed plus proprietary packages such
as MATLAB, Gaussian, Amber, NAG, and GAP. A technician provides support for all DMS staff
and research students. The HPC cluster is used by staff across both DMS research groups; direct
outputs and ongoing research include: Bao, Dai and Harrison in their interdisciplinary research
analysing 3D-HiC data using Hidden Markov Random Fields; Dai’s research in Monte Carlo
Fusion and Bayesian Fusion; Lausen’s research on developing new tree based classification
ensembles and deep learning; Vrontos’s research in financial data science models; Williams’
research in proving that certain groups defined in terms of group presentations are infinite and
hyperbolic.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

a) Academic collaborations and wider contribution to the discipline

Collaborations and networks

DMS is an institutional member of the European Association for Data Science (EuADS) and DMS
staff have engaged in a number of exchange visits as part of institutional partnerships via the
Young European Research Universities Network (YERUN) and the Young University for the Future
of Europe (YUFE) alliance. All staff are allocated time within the department Workload Model, and
an annual budget of £1500, to undertake networking and wider scholarship within the discipline.
Regular weekly seminars for each of the research groups enables external academics to visit the
department, while DMS staff organise and contribute to a wide range of external workshops,
conferences, and networking events (details in next section). These supporting mechanisms have
enabled DMS staff to develop a number of ‘productive’ collaborations.

Notable collaborations include Akman's work with Tatiana Toro (University of Washington) on the
solvability of Dirichlet problem for linear elliptic PDEs on rough domains; Antonopoulos’s work
with Athanasios Fokas (Cambridge) on the dynamical complexity in the C. elegans neural
network; Codling’s work with Mark Lewis (Alberta) on novel random walk models of animal

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
movement applied to grizzly and polar bears, and with Iain Couzin (Konstanz) on models of
animal collective navigation; Dai’s work with Professor Gareth Roberts (Warwick) on Bayesian
Fusion; Grahovski’s work with Alexander Mikhailov (Leeds) on noncommutative discrete
integrability, and with Vladimir Gerdjikov (Sofia) on multi-component integrable systems and the
theory of spinor Bose-Einstein condensates; Lausen’s work with Peter Flach (Bristol) on data
science in Europe and on founding the European Association for Data Science (EuADS) in 2015;
Martinez-Garcia's work with Cristiano Spotti (Aarhus) and Patricio Gallardo (UC Riverside) on
the extension of the moduli continuity method to log K-stable pairs, as well as his work with Ivan
Cheltsov (Edinburgh) on the study of K-stability of polarised Fano varieties and log pairs on
surfaces; Susanto’s work with Panayotis Kevrekidis (UMass Amherst) on nonlinear waves in
various physical settings and phenomena; Williams’ work with William Bogley (Oregon State
University) studying new families of cyclically presented groups. During this period DMS staff have
also published with, or had projects funded with, academics from more than 35 countries across all
regions of the globe.

Our international collaborations have been supported by a range of domestic and international
organisations: University of Essex International Visiting Scholar Fund; British Council; Heilbronn
Institute for Mathematical Research; International Centre for Mathematical Sciences; London
Mathematical Society; Newton Fund; CONFAP-q; Academy of Finland; Institut Henri Poincare;
Bielefelder Nachwuchsfonds; Carl-Zeiss Stiftung; German Research Foundation (DFG); Hausdorff
Research Institute for Mathematics; Humboldt Fellowship; COST; American Institute of
Mathematics; Institute for Computational and Experimental Research in Mathematics.

Interdisciplinary research and collaborations

The department has a long history of research applying mathematical and data science
approaches to the wider life sciences. Bailey is a co-founder of the interdisciplinary ANIMATE
(ANImal Movement AT Essex) research group, which links researchers across the University, with
partner organisations such as CEFAS. Codling is co-lead on the ‘Cow Tracking Project’, an
ongoing interdisciplinary collaboration with Writtle University College and the dairy industry (funded
by BBSRC and NERC); he also regularly publishes with Essex colleagues from Life Sciences and
Psychology on topics including fisheries, plankton dynamics, coral reef systems, and human crowd
behaviour. Antonopoulos regularly collaborates with psychologists at Essex on modelling of brain
function. Bao, Dai, Harrison and Lausen all work with biologists and clinicians to develop
statistical analysis methods within the field of genomics. Related research also crosses over into
the fields of social sciences, with Bao and Mahmoud sharing a common interest in Genome-Wide
Association Studies and the application of causal inference to health. Members of the Actuarial
Sciences theme (Fadina, Hu, Liu, Vrontos and Wong) regularly collaborate with colleagues in the
Essex Business School (EBS) and with economists, as well as external collaborators.

Organisation of meetings, workshops, and conferences

The department typically hosts two or three seminars each week: Data Science, Mathematics, and
an additional specific seminar for PGR students. Early in 2020, the seminars were moved online
and organised by Mahmoud and Martinez-Garcia, who is one of the two main organisers of the
ZAG seminars, the first and largest online algebraic geometry seminar series (1,200 participants).
The department also hosts regular academic meetings and workshops. DMS have been co-
organisers of the EGL (Essex-Greenwich-London) annual conference on ‘Algorithms and
Applicable Mathematics’ since 2012. DMS staff have also organised ‘North British Semigroups and
Applications Network’ (2015); ‘European conference on Data Analysis’ (2015); ‘Mathematical
Ecology: Theory & Applications’ (2016); Third Eastern ARC conference on ‘Topological Solitons
and Quantum Fluids’ (2017); Meeting of the British Classification Society (2019); CoDiMa
workshop ‘Tools for Discrete Computational Mathematics’ (2020); ‘Trends and directions of
Approximate Dynamic Programming: solving the curse of dimensionality’ (2015). Several further
events organised by DMS staff were funded but delayed by the COVID-19 pandemic including
‘Mathematics of the Eastern Arc conference series’, a two-day meeting on ‘Integrability and
Analysis of PDEs’, a workshop on ‘Algebraic Geometry and Geometric Invariant Theory Days’, 3rd

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
IMA conference on Discrete Mathematics (taking place 2022).

DMS staff also play central roles in organising national and international conferences outside of
Essex: 13 staff have been on organising committees (or equivalent) for over 35 international
conferences in the mathematical sciences over this REF period. DMS staff have also developed a
range of training opportunities for UK and international PGR students: Akman: Graduate
students conference on ‘Geometric and Harmonic Analysis’ (Connecticut, 2019); Antonopoulos:
Essex PhD summer school and Proficio courses: ‘Modelling and Analysis of Complex Systems’
(2016, 2017, 2018) and ‘Mathematics for Researchers’ (2018, 2019); Codling: organiser of ‘META
training workshop: Mathematical Modelling in Movement Ecology’, Essex (2016); Fadina: co-
organiser of the ‘First Research School in Financial Mathematics’, Nigeria (2018); Harrison: co-
chair of the Research Data Alliance/CODATA Summer Schools in Data Science and Cloud
Computing in the Developing World Working Group which led to the CODATA-RDA schools in
Research Data Science (2016 onwards). The schools have been described as ‘best practice’ by
the OECD; Papamikos: co-organiser of 1st Early Career South East Mathematical Physics
Seminar, Kent (2014); Vrontos: short courses in ‘Time Series and Forecasting in R’ (2018) and
‘Financial Modelling in Matlab’ (2017) for PhD students and practitioners.

b) Indications of wider influence and recognition

Leadership within the discipline

Lausen is a past president of the International Federation of Classification Societies (IFCS) (2020-
2021; president 2018-2019, president elect 2016-2017), a former president of the Data Science
Society (GfKl) (2013-2019, vice-president 1995-2001, 2004-2013) and the founding vice-president
of European Association for Data Science (EuADS) 2015-2018. Susanto is an elected member of
the ‘World Class Professors’ programme (among only c.40 members from Indonesian
academicians working abroad) by the Ministry of Research, Technology, and Higher Education,
Indonesia since 2016. Penman is editor of the British Combinatorial Bulletin and Newsletter.

Elected Fellowships

Codling and Higgins are elected Fellows of the Institute of Mathematics and its Applications
(FIMA); Antonopoulos is an elected member (MIMA). Codling is also an elected Fellow of the
Royal Society of Biology (FRSB), and was an Invited Fellow at the Isaac Newton Institute in
Cambridge (Stochastic Dynamics in Biology Programme, 2016). Litterick is a Humboldt Fellow.

Keynote talks

DMS staff have accepted invitations for plenary and conference talks at over 100 national and
international conferences during this period. Selected international keynote talks include Codling
(International Society for Applied Ethology, Vitoria, Spain, 2014; Models in Population Dynamics &
Ecology, Torino, Italy, 2014; 39th Annual Larval Fish conference, Vienna, Austria, 2015), Harrison
(Biological Big Bytes, Nanning, China, 2015), Lausen (ECDA2017, Wroclaw, Poland; 60th
conference of the South African Statistical Association, Johannesburg, South Africa, 2018;
IFCS2019, Thessaloniki, Greece) and Martinez-Garcia (‘Positivity in algebraic and complex
geometry’, International Centre for the Mathematical Sciences, UK, 2017). DMS staff have also
given over 120 research seminars at Universities around the world since 2014.

Editorial positions

Journal editorial roles within DMS include: Antonopoulos: Guest associate editor (AE) in
Biophysics, Frontiers in Physics, AE for International Transactions on Data Science, Engineering
and Technology; Codling: AE for Movement Ecology, Methods in Ecology and Evolution, and
Ecological Complexity; guest specialist subject editor for Ecological Applications; Grahovski: guest
editor for Application of Mathematics in Technical and Natural Sciences – IX, AIP conference
proceedings 1895 (2017); Harrison: editorial boards for Briefings in Bioinformatics (including

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Special Issue on COVID-19), BMC Bioinformatics, CODATA Data Science Journal, Journal of
Integrative Bioinformatics; Lausen: editor of the Archives of Data Science Series A, AE of
Behaviormetrika, member of editorial board of Advances Data Analysis and Classification (ADAC)
and Methods of Information in Medicine; Meng: Complexity; Susanto: editor for Optical and
Quantum Electronics, Communication in Biomathematical Sciences, editorial advisory board for
Sustinere, and Indonesian Journal of Science and Technology; Williams: Cogent Mathematics and
Statistics.

Grant panels

Codling is a NERC Peer Review College member (typically attending one grant panel per year).
Harrison has been part of BBSRC grant panel C (2014), BBSRC ‘Tools and Resources
Development Fund 2’ (2014), and the German Federal Ministry of Education of Research (BMBF)
‘e:Bio 3’ (2015). Grahovski sat on an EPSRC Fellowship interview panel (2020).

Advisory boards and committees

Harrison is on the Advisory board for Nottingham Arabidopsis Stock Centre and Penman is a
member of the British Combinatorial Committee.

Refereeing activities

DMS staff review for international research funders including Austria (Science Fund FWF),
Bulgaria (Science Foundation), Chile (FONDEYCT), European Commission, Finland (Academy of
Science), Germany (BMFT and DFG), Human Frontier Science Program, Ireland (Research
Council for Science, Engineering and Technology, IRCSET), Netherlands (Organisation for
Scientific Research, NWO), Russia (Science Foundation), South Africa (National Research
Foundation), Turkey (Scientific and Technological Research Council of TUBITAK), and US
(National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration). DMS staff also review for UK funders,
including BBSRC, EPSRC, ESRC, Leverhulme Trust, MRC, NERC, NIHR, Royal Society, plus the
International Centre for Mathematical Sciences.

DMS staff review for over 130 journals, including European Journal of Operational Research,
Inventiones Mathematicae, Journal of the American Statistical Society, Journal Physics A, Memoirs
of the AMS, PLoS Computational Biology, Sbornik Mathematics, Scandinavian Actuarial Journal,
SIAM Journal of Scientific Computing, as well as the AMS’s Mathematical Reviews and the
European Mathematical Society’s Zentrallblatt Math.

c) Engagement with research users and beneficiaries

Engagement with industry and research users has been a key priority of the department over the
REF period (Objective 4). Codling collaborates and regularly publishes with CEFAS (Centre for
Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture Science, Lowestoft), with Omnisense Ltd (Cambridge)
and with the wider dairy industry in the ongoing Cow Tracking Project (BBSRC, 2012-16, and
NERC, 2017-18). ‘Project Beeswax’ is an ongoing collaboration between Salhi and Simul Systems
(Wickford, Essex), using operational research approaches to optimise the placement of beehives in
commercial orchards. Salhi has also led a KTP with the Port of Felixstowe (Hutchinson Ports),
addressing the problem of labour scheduling, and with MSXi, developing a predictive, self-learning
model for automotive warranty expenditure. Hadjiantoni and Gutierrez-Roig have recently been
awarded a KTP with the estate agent Strike, which will develop an AI-driven recommender system
that fuses heterogeneous data streams and utilises knowledge graphs as well as other machine-
learning methods. Since 2014, Lausen has led successful and ongoing KTPs with Profusion and
Mondaq, using optimal tree ensembles (OTE) and other statistical learning methods to help
develop their business models. Yang is also leading a KTP project with Ocado, which addressed
issues of green distribution and optimum routing to reduce emissions in last mile delivery. DMS
staff also received funding from HEFCE for the Catalyst Project, a collaboration with Essex
County Council, Suffolk County Council, and Essex Police to develop new statistical

                                                                                         Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
approaches to deliver improved public services. These research activities have motived new
methodology research topics in both mathematics and data science.

d) Contribution to wider society and public

DMS has developed an active research outreach programme including visits to local schools,
careers fairs, and public engagement events (typically 20-30 visits each year, reaching hundreds of
students, teachers and members of the public), including an annual schools ‘Winsten’ day
(supported by an endowment from former DMS Professor Chris Winsten), and regular attendance
at local ‘Café Scientifique’ and ‘Pint of Science’ evenings. Four DMS staff are STEM ambassadors
(Bailey, Claridge, Codling, Litterick), co-organising and running a series of Mathematics
Masterclasses for local schools with the Royal Institution of Great Britain since 2019, and
presenting on mathematics research topics at the local ‘Big Bang at Essex’ fair (annually since
2015). From 2014-15, Codling was invited to become BBSRC ‘Schools Regional Champion’ for
the East of England, and undertook a range of interactive activities that demonstrated the
importance of mathematics within life sciences research. This included a popular ‘Maths of Cows’
exhibit presented at the National Big Bang fair (NEC, Birmingham, 2014, at the invitation of the
IMA, and in 2015), at the ‘IMA@50 Festival of Mathematics and its Applications’ (Manchester,
2014), at the ‘What’s Your Angle?’ London Mathematical Society anniversary event (London
Science Museum, 2015), and at various other national and regional events. Codling also has a
long-running collaboration with the London Science Museum, undertaking a 5-week ‘Live Science’
residency in 2014 and a ‘Halloween Lates’ event in 2019, that used emergency evacuation and
‘Zombie Horde’ interactive experiments to explain the mathematics behind human crowd
behaviour. Further engagement work in this period includes ‘Science on Film’ at the Francis Crick
Institute (2019) and ‘SET for Britain’ at the Houses of Parliament (2014).

Higgins (winner of the Premio Peano prize in Italy in 2013) has published eight popular science
books, including ‘Very Short Introductions to Algebra’ and ‘Professor Higgins's Problem Collection’
(published by OUP in 2015 and 2017 respectively). He was invited to give the London
Mathematical Society Popular Lecture Series in 2019 and writes a regular column in the Australian
Mathematical Gazette. Vernitski published an influential mathematics education study on growth
mindsets of learners which produced a flurry of activity in social networks; these findings were
subsequently popularised in articles in The Conversation, and have now reached more than a
hundred thousand readers. Susanto wrote a popular science book titled Tuhan Pasti Ahli
Matematika (‘God Must be an Expert in Maths’), published in Indonesia in 2015; the book sold-out
and featured extensively in national social media. He has also featured in several newspapers and
magazines for his mathematical engagement activities (The Jakarta Post, 2017; Hidayatullah,
2017; Koran Tempo, 2018). He was one of only three invited speakers at the national Science
Communication seminars (2017) with the topic ‘Building a Science-based Society’ by the Ministry
of Research, Technology, and Higher Education, Indonesia, which featured on multiple news
media. More recently, he has appeared in several television news items in Indonesia, talking about
COVID epidemic modelling. Codling appeared on Duck Quacks Don’t Echo (Sky One, UK, 2016)
to discuss collective decision-making and the ‘wisdom of crowds’, and in the documentary Human
and Disaster (KBS1, South Korea, 2014) to discuss the mechanisms behind human crowd
behaviour in emergency situations.




                                                                                           Page 16
