Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Lincoln

 Unit of Assessment: 8 - Chemistry

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and Structure
 This is the first submission to Unit of Assessment by the University of Lincoln. It is based on the
 new School of Chemistry, founded as a recent venture at Lincoln in April 2014 – the first new
 School in Chemistry to be established de novo in the UK for several decades. The new School
 represents a major investment in chemistry and a significant intervention for a
 region hitherto identified as a ‘cold-spot’ for the influence of Higher Education. The development
 has enabled the University to re-profile its academic footprint towards STEM and to engage with
 key international, national and local priorities - Greater Lincolnshire hosts one of the UK’s four
 key Chemical Industry Clusters centred around the Humber Estuary and its industrial strategy
 identifies Manufacturing, Agri-food, Low Carbon and, Health and Care as priority sectors for the
 future. New chemistries provide impetus for progress in these areas.

 The School was founded to introduce chemistry as a central enabling science to
 Lincoln and generate leading research that facilitates interventions with
 impact that address regional, national and international priorities. As a consequence, the ethos
 for chemistry at Lincoln firmly reflects the University’s on-going commitment to producing
 ‘purposeful research with impact’ and these principles guided the successful delivery of the
 HEFCE Catalyst project ‘Driving Economic Growth through Employer-Engaged STEM Provision’
 - a £24.3m project, including a funding injection of £6.8m, to establish the new Schools of
 Chemistry and Mathematics. The establishment of Chemistry at Lincoln has been highly
 successful and the standing of its taught programmes (e.g. No. 3 Guardian University Guide
 Subject Table for Chemistry 2021), with sector-leading graduate prospects and student
 experience, has driven remarkable success and from a first student intake in
 2014, over 350 students currently study chemistry at Lincoln. This now provides a sustainable
 basis for the subject at Lincoln. In the period, we have focussed on
 building research capability in chemistry to drive all aspects of the new School and, reflecting the
 University’s forward-looking strategy, we are ambitious to grow the discipline from
 this foundation.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our developmental strategy for chemistry was centred on building fundamental research themes
 that have synergy with our commercial and social contexts. Research capabilities at
 Lincoln have grown strongly and our strategy converges into three chemistry-led research
 groups. In parallel, we have engaged successfully with industry to establish the
 application of our research and have pursued wider engagement with the University’s
 interdisciplinary themes, particularly Sustainability, Health and Wellbeing, Rurality and
 Heritage. The new School has grown rapidly, and 14.2 FTE staff are included in this
 submission.

 Unit Structure
 In the census period, strategic investment to build staffing and infrastructure has been
 focussed at the Chemistry-Materials and Chemistry-Biology interfaces supported by cross-
 cutting support in Analytical Methodologies. This has fostered distinctive fundamental chemistry
 in concert with innovative approaches to enable its application for societal and commercial
 needs. Three research groups are centred around our enabling chemistry themes. The
 groups operate on an inclusive basis offering staff opportunities flexibility and opportunity
 to engage broadly to pursue their areas of interest.

 The Advanced Functional Materials Group pursues insight into the design and development
 of materials across length-scale hierarchies to address future applications:
     • supramolecular and nanoscience methodologies for electronic and
          optical sensor applications (Adriaenssens, Baron, Gil-Ramirez, Gonzalez-Rodriguez)
     • insight into molecular surface modification of materials for heterogenous catalysis,
          especially development of energy-efficient chemical transformation and valorisation of
          waste streams (Chutia, Floris, Iqbal, Munshi, J. Zhang)
     • engineering crystalline order and nano-scale domains for materials with interdisciplinary
          application, e.g. pharmaceutical
          products, conservation (Blagden, Colston, Lloyd, Munshi, Scowen, Wuttke)
     • structuring materials for energy capture, transduction and storage (Floris, Roy,
          He, Scowen)
 More broadly, chemistry introduced a University-wide interdisciplinary discussion forum - the
 Materials Platform – to promote broad engagement with researchers across the institution
 (particularly, Schools of Mathematics and Physics, Engineering, Life Sciences, Architecture, Art
 and Design, Conservation). As a consequence, significant strategic investment has been
 leveraged (e.g. the ERDF/GLLEP-funded centre ‘The Bridge’ – see below) and the group’s wider
 engagement has generated significant inter-disciplinary outputs. Alongside the academics return
 to this unit, Floris is returned to Physics (UoA 8) for his innovative development of modelling
 methods for surface science, and Colston, particularly for application of nano
 materials conservation, is returned to Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory (UoA 32).
 Blagden from Lincoln’s School of Pharmacy is returned in this UoA through his long-
 standing participation with this group. The group provides an exciting base for future
 developments aligned to the University’s interdisciplinary theme in Sustainability especially with
 the Humber region set for major growth in sustainable energy generation and processing.

 The Chem-Bio Interface Group pursues insight into the design and development of bio-active
 molecules and their fate in organisms and the biosphere:
    • development of organic synthetic and molecular transformation methodologies for natural
        product synthesis, targeted molecular synthesis and new synthetic organic
        methodologies (Adriaenssens, Lear, Gathergood)
    • biological macromolecules (peptide and protein) for next generation antibiotics and anti-
        microbial applications (Lear, Taylor, Prior)
    • use of biological and green chemistry alternatives in product development and their fate
        in the environment (Gathergood, J. Zhang)
    • formulation strategies for the development of pharmaceutical materials (Blagden, Lloyd,
        Munshi, Scowen,)
 The focus of this research group is the transformation of (particularly organic) molecular
 species. This group interacts strongly with Lincoln’s Schools of Pharmacy and Life Sciences, co-

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 located in our shared research facilities, providing coherent pathways linking drug discovery
 and formulation to development and trialling. For example, Prior has contributed significantly
 to outputs relating to development of novel anti-microbials (returned in UoA 3 by Taylor). This
 group provides an exciting base for future developments with Lincoln’s new School of Medicine
 and the University’s interdisciplinary theme in Health and Wellbeing.

 The Novel Analytical Methodologies Group address cutting-edge challenges requiring design
 and innovation of analytical techniques for complex materials, challenging measurement
 scenarios and changing societal contexts (e.g. novel psycho-active substances)
     • Application of sensor systems to specific forensic and security-relevant analytes
         including forensic toxicology, explosives, drugs of abuse, trace analysis (Baron,
         Gonzalez-Rodriguez, Gil-Ramirez)
     • Development of omic methodologies for challenging biological, environmental analytes
         (Gill, Thakker)
     • Development of structural and spectroscopic methods for structure determination, in-
         situ analysis, process analysis and materials transformation
         (Iqbal, Lloyd, Munshi, Prior, Scowen)
     • Translation of characterisation methods for heritage materials and the built
         environment (Colston, Iqbal, Scowen)
 This group is highly active in interdisciplinary contexts providing solutions to industrial problems
 and bringing molecular interpretation to interdisciplinary research contexts (e.g. geosciences,
 forensic sciences, history and heritage). As an example, new methods for forensic analysis of
 novel psychoactive substances (Baron, Gonzalez-Rodriguez) contributes
 to Impact Case Study 1.

 1.2 Achievement of Research Strategy
 As this is the first REF submission by the University of Lincoln to UoA 8, we do not have a REF
 2014 research or impact strategy to compare with. Instead, this section reviews the strategy
 followed to embed chemistry research at Lincoln, the central objective in the founding of the
 School of Chemistry.

 Our overall aim is to develop fundamental chemistry research of relevance to regional, national
 and international priorities that can be summarised in a mission statement that describes
 the advancement of the discipline of chemistry through
 research that is contextualised by, and brings benefits to, social and
 commercial contexts and enables progress for chemistry and its adjacent disciplines.

 To achieve this aim, we have pursued the following strategic objectives in the REF period:

    1. To create a vibrant chemistry research community at the University that advances
       the core discipline of chemistry across chemistry-biology and chemistry-materials
       interfaces facilitated by the development of innovative (analytical) methodologies broadly
       across chemistry and applicable to interdisciplinary contexts.

 The establishment of the School of Chemistry and construction of new research environments
 has transformed the landscape at Lincoln. In parallel, realisation of our staff recruitment strategy
 has created three Research Groups resulting in outstanding research outputs in leading
 journals (Nature Group, ACS, RSC, Wiley). We have become able to provide a modern research
 facility for chemists joining Lincoln and foster a supportive environment
 to develop academic research careers. We have graduated the first Chemistry PhDs at
 Lincoln and are building a vibrant research community with an international
 perspective, incorporating staff and students from across our
 programmes and engaging widely with Universities across the world. Alongside this,
 researchers in chemistry are active in co-supervision of PhDs across other disciplines
 (e.g. Pharmacy, History & Heritage, Psychology). Our work to commercialise research methods
 has met with considerable success and the School now has an active CRO arm (see below)
 supporting regional, national and international industries.

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    2. To establish a modern research environment with innovative, integrated workflows
       and efficient and sustainable operating structures

 This approach has been met with considerable success. The University is now equipped with
 modern chemistry facilities for research and the substantial investment in laboratories and
 instrumentation has yielded a number of facilities with advanced cutting-edge capabilities. For
 example, our integrated thermo-analytical system interface with GC-MS, quad-MS and FT-IR for
 evolved gas analysis, our Raman spectroscopic systems offer near-IR mapping and our X-ray
 diffraction facilities have controlled environment, micro-diffraction and high resolution. The
 facilities have attracted visiting scientists from across the world, and we continue to work
 with manufacturing partners to showcase the capabilities of instrumentation and collaborate on
 development projects, e.g. our work with Bruker on the use of In-Situ X-Ray (ISX)
 Stage for single in-situ structure determination. Furthermore, the engagement of
 experienced instrument specialists has considerably expanded the scope for research at
 Lincoln, e.g. extending the research methods used for our Impact Case Studies
 (particularly Gonzalez-Rodriguez’s work in hydrometallurgy and waste recovery, ICS2). We host
 and support researchers from 10 Schools across the University and, alongside the research
 returned to chemistry, this has contributed significantly to research returned under other UoAs.

    3. To engage with regional, national and international communities and offer
       opportunities for staff and students to engage widely with internationally-
       leading collaborators and networks.

 We have now successfully established wide networks in regional, national and international
 chemistry and these have led to significant high profile outputs as well as enriching the
 chemistry research culture at Lincoln. At local level, the founding of chemistry at Lincoln was
 widely supported by regional industry (several of these interactions led to subsequent R&D
 studies with our commercial CRO - the CATCH consortium of Chemical Industries in the Humber
 Estuary was a primary sponsor of the HEFCE Catalyst bid and continues to partner with
 us. Alongside regional industry engagement, we have developed valuable links with regional
 academic institutions, and these have yielded significant research success.
 For example, Sharma continued links with the Moses group at Nottingham after joining Lincoln in
 2013, yielding a number of RSC and ACS publications led to an
 EPSRC New Investigator Award in 2016. Adriaenssens engages with the Avestro group in York
 in development of electrochemical sensors devised under an RS grant award alongside co-
 supervision of research student with the Ball group in Nottingham yielding a recent JACS
 publication.

 At national level, examples of our success with this strategy include Chutia’s collaborations
 with UK Catalysis Hub, Harwell and UCL that have led to high profile Nature group and
 ACS publications and recent success with securing ISIS-STFC co-funded studentship. His on-
 going collaboration with Chemistry and Chemical Engineering at UCL has delivered a number
 of high profile papers in ACS and Wiley journals and has led to a recent EPSRC NIA award. Gil-
 Ramirez’s engagement with the Anderson group at Oxford yielded a JACS
 publication. Lloyd continues to co-supervise PhDs with Heriot-Watt University supporting student
 visits to use specialist facilities at Lincoln.

 We continue to raise our profile internationally through this strategy. For example, Blagden co-
 led the EU Crystallize COST Action CM1402 group (including hosting the 2017 meeting at
 Lincoln for participants from 27 countries). Adriaenssen has secured RS-funding to foster
 collaboration with the Raston group in at Flinders University (Australia) and his engagement
 the Bowman-James (University of Kansas) yielded a student exchange in 2020. Gathergood has
 linked the University with the Erasmus Mundus programme in Green Chemistry at
 Talinn (Estonia) for research exchange and generated outputs with a number of European
 groups. Lear remains highly active with collaborators in Japan and has hosted a visiting
 academic from Osaka in advance of student exchange; his collaborations with

                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Tohoku University have yielded a number of high-profile outputs in JACS and
 Angewandte Chemie.

 1.3 Achievement of Impact Strategy
 The University had several applied chemistry projects in train before the new School
 was opened and these continued through the current census period. Two of these form the
 impact case studies in this submission: (i) the development and deployment of methods for
 identification of Novel Psychoactive Substances that supported prosecutions relating to
 contravention of Trading Standards in advance of the root-and-branch change in legal
 classification of illicit drug substances in 2017 (ICS 1); and (ii) the development of technologies
 for extracting precious metals from fuel ash residues that has positioned a local company to
 expand significantly and engage in international oil-producer markets, e.g. Venezuela, Saudi
 Arabia (ICS2).

 At inception of the School of Chemistry in 2014, we engaged in systematic consultation with
 industry to position a set of objectives for the impact of research in the new School alongside
 creating employer-engaged curricula. These yielded the following objectives to promote
 the impact of chemistry at Lincoln:

    1. Identify and pursue commercial opportunities with experienced industry-facing
       specialists able to translate the needs of the user and formulate projects
       using relevant research capabilities in the University.

    2. Establish a team of scientists focussed on industry R&D
       project delivery and capable of contributing to the research environment with
       specialist expertise and through sustainable income streams.

    3. Establish a track-record of successfully accomplished R&D projects in
       industry and create a diverse portfolio of case studies for future reference.

    4. Escalate impact through successful working relationships with
       organisations facilitating scale-up of initial projects to future larger-scale collaborative
       studies. A diverse project portfolio thereby creates a pipeline of R&D programmes to
       drive future impact.

 Central to our response to these objectives was the formation of a ‘Contract Research
 Organisation’ (CRO) function – initially branded as JBL Science. These activities have
 been directed by Scowen as Head of School with Gill (ex. Roslin Institute) and Riess (ex. British
 Steel, Smith and Nephew) recruited for project design, delivery and management. Latterly, as
 this CRO approach has evolved to ‘The Bridge’ and the group has expanded with Eaton (ex. U
 Porto, Seville) and Roebuck (ex. National Nuclear Lab, Warwick) joining recently. This approach
 has met with considerable success and yielded ca. £350k revenue from some 150 projects to
 date with SME, national and multinational companies. These funds provide for contingency costs
 for research infrastructure, particularly instrumentation, and are reinvested for maintenance and
 development of the chemistry facilities. Our work with Luxus Ltd on the evolved gas speciation
 from recycled plastics provides a good example of the escalation of impact. From an initial small-
 scale study though JBL Science, the School helped develop a £1m IUK programme for
 deodorising plastic waste.

 The Joseph Banks Laboratories is placed as an anchor institution for the Lincoln Science and
 Innovation Park. Our synergistic relationship with LSIP, facilitated by our CRO approach,
 has played a part in encouraging companies to locate R&D functions in the LSIP’s Boole
 Technology Centre opened in 2018. Collaborative R&D programmes have been undertaken
 with four companies based here (GSAe, Arden Biosciences, Nutrapharma and B-
 hive) and the long-standing relationship with GSAe forms the basis of ICS2.



                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.4 Research Strategy for the Next 5 Years
 The next phase of development of the School of Chemistry is predicated on expanding our
 research capability. It is clear that there is considerable scope for expanding our research
 intensity within the established environment. To achieve this, we will pursue the following
 Strategic Objectives for Research and its Impact in the period 2021-2027:

    1. Promote a research culture proactively celebrating diversity and ensuring equality of
       opportunity though delivery of our EDI Objectives and Athena SWAN Bronze Award
       Action Plan.

    2. Make strategic appointments of academic staffing to our three groupings which will be
       supported by the continuing growth of the School of Chemistry, realisation of business
       plans for strategic initiatives such as The Bridge (see below) and building diversified
       research income streams. We will seek to double numbers of academic staff with
       research responsibilities from 14.2 to 30 FTE in this period.

    3. Extend academic research teams to provide greater scope for research delivery. We will
       target external funding sources (and, where appropriate deploy strategic internal
       matching funds) to achieve growth of research staffing to approach 2 per member
       of research-responsible academics – while ambitious, expansion of this order has been
       achieved in other parts of the University in the current REF period (e.g. Lincoln Institute
       of Agri-food Technology).

    4. To achieve strong growth in our research effort through diversification of funding streams
       supporting fundamental themes (research councils, international bi-lateral academic
       partnerships, EU consortia) and their future application (generating innovation funding,
       industry sponsorship, spin-out, IP exploitation). We will seek
       to quadruple our annual research funding income to exceed £1m per annum as our
       academic groups mature and enhance their standing. While we are building from a
       modest base here, annual income is accelerating and income for 2019-20 represents ca.
       50% of the total returned in the census period.

    5. To increase the research student cohort by re-investment of enhanced funding streams
       and by initiating/partnering with doctoral training consortia. This remains a challenging
       agenda for a relatively new School although we have grown the research student cohort
       through recent access to the University’s EPSRC-Funded Doctoral Training Partnership
       funding and with industry- and collaborator-sponsored support.

    6. To develop strategic partnerships with academic institutions to foster research
       collaboration for staff and student mobility and to develop opportunities for research
       training. We will continue to add international partners through collaborative
       networks and present meaningful opportunities for research staff and student exchange.
       We target a level of 1-2 student exchange collaborations per member of academic staff.
       Similarly, we will pursue opportunities for extra-mural and collaborative research degree
       programmes with overseas partners.

    7. Extend the support infrastructure for research through sustainable investment. Our
       business planning for multi-user instrumentation includes maintenance and contingency
       funding throughout its lifetime while the University’s initiative ‘Financing the
       Future’ references replacement of major capital assets, such as high-value
       instrumentation, on a 10-year cycle. Furthermore, the University now
       accesses UKRI infrastructure funding sources - e.g. UKRI World Class
       Laboratory scheme supported a recent upgrade to single crystal diffraction facilities –
       and we will engage with strategic deployment of such initiatives to develop our research
       facilities.



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.5 Impact Strategy for the Next 5 Years
 Impactful application of chemistry is central to the founding mission of the
 School. To achieve this purpose, we propose to build on commercial engagements initiated in
 the current period and pursue the following objectives

    1. Translate ‘platform’ technologies arising from fundamental research to emerging strategic
       needs. An immediate opportunity emerges in sustainable energy with Greater
       Lincolnshire and the Humber region – the UK’s ‘Energy Estuary’ – and we will seek
       to target opportunities for application of our energy research in partnership with industry
       and academic collaborators.

    2. Evaluate potential IP from discoveries from our growing research portfolio and pursue
       suitable pathways for commercialisation

    3. Evolve our CRO approach providing applied research for industry. These will be primarily
       fulfilled through delivery of outputs for ERDF-GLLEP funded programmes associated
       with ‘The Bridge’ (see below) and JBL Science. For the latter, we will focus our
       footprint to bio-, agri and food sectors. In parallel, we will utilise the infrastructure for
       reporting developed for the Bridge to as a resource for systematic documentation of
       research impact.

    4. Facilitate targeted development of research solutions and methodologies to provide
       specific solutions informed by sector needs and, thereby, enhance the
       profile of chemistry in interdisciplinary applications. This will be driven by targeted re-
       investment of commercial revenues and is explicitly supported under The Bridge’s
       ERDF objectives. We anticipate that such interactions will provide of the order of 5-10
       mature projects yielding impactful application studies in the 2021-27 period.

 The University has secured European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and Greater
 Lincolnshire Local Enterprise Partnerships (GLLEP) funding for a £6.4m project for a new facility
 for advanced engineering materials - ‘The Bridge’ - a collaborative initiative between School of
 Chemistry and Engineering. Reflecting the University’s ‘local-to-global’ principle, The Bridge will
 support the discovery of solutions to problems identified by regional industries that can be
 translated across the world. The has been conceived over a 3-year consultation with an industry
 consortium combining multinational industry partners, e.g. Siemens Energy, Dynex
 Semiconductor, Teledyne e2v, Praxair Semiconductors alongside local SMEs covering a diverse
 range of materials, e.g. biofuels, vehicle catalyst, polymer manufacture, coatings and
 formulation, and active in international supply chains. Consequently, it identifies research
 challenges of relevance to our locality – i.e. materials engineering relevant to our locale,
 particularly energy, formulation and electronic supply chains - with future global significance. We
 see The Bridge as the future centrepiece for driving research impact at the Chemistry-Materials-
 Energy interface and offering a coherent forum for industry-academia liaison. The Bridge will be
 accommodated in a new facility, housing specialist laboratories for instrumentation (electron and
 atomic force microscopy; thermal analysis, tribology and rheology) and purpose-built
 accommodation facilitating industry interaction (a training and exhibition centre, and
 a collaborative ‘innovation’ centre promoting business-to-business engagement alongside
 University support).

 Alongside The Bridge, we will continue to expand utilisation of our research capabilities in the
 context of the regional (major) agri-food sector in collaboration with the Lincoln Institute of Agri-
 Food Technology and National Centre for Food Manufacturing, e.g. building on pump-priming
 HEIF-funding to explore opportunities for valorisation of Food Waste (£65k), and these will be
 specifically promoted under JBL Science branding working in collaboration with the Chem-Bio
 Interface Research Group and other University departments e.g. the National Centre for Food
 Manufacturing and the Lincoln Institute of Agri-Food Technology.



                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.6 Approach to Interdisciplinary Research
 The integrated strategy for research at the chemistry-materials and chemistry-biology
 interfaces lends itself to interdisciplinary implementation of research. The School has been at the
 heart of establishing an open forum for materials science research - the Materials Platform
 - engaging researchers across Chemistry, Maths and Physics, Engineering, Architecture and
 Conservation Science. A primary outcome of this initiative has been ‘The Bridge’ (see above).
 We will seek to replicate this approach to address emerging research opportunities in energy.

 Similarly, at the Chemistry-Biology interface interactions between chemistry academics and
 colleagues in the Schools of Life Sciences (SoLS) and Pharmacy (SoC) have resulted
 in several collaborative projects including co-supervisions of PhD programmes (see Section 2.3),
 European project collaborations (ERC, Montelegre-Zapata (SoLS) and Gonzalez-Rodriguez and
 regional level projects (e.g valorisation of waste: Kyne/Flint, BBSRC; extraction of protein from
 agricultural streams, Taylor, Flint (SoLS), Scowen. The development of consortia
 for multidisciplinary bidding has also been facilitated at this interface for development
 of antibiotic agents [e.g. AAS Lear/Dixon (SoLS) with Newcastle University and The Crick
 Institute] and soil science [e.g. ESPRC-NSF Gonzalez-Rodriguez/Goddard (SoLS) with Yale
 University (US)].

 The University’s reputation for interdisciplinary research in forensic science has led to a number
 of international collaborations (e.g. Gonzalez-Rodriguez, Baron in Spain, Brazil and
 Netherlands) that have developed analytical technologies implemented in the field. Where
 appropriate, outputs have been flagged as interdisciplinary research in Forensic Science
 although other outputs not selected for return are cited in ICS 1. We will pursue future
 opportunities in this field, guided by the School’s growing staff base of forensic practitioners and
 their connections with national and international professional networks, to create ‘next-
 generation’ methods in forensic science supported by chemistry innovation.

 1.7 Progress towards Open Research Environment
 All outputs submitted to this UoA are open access and these are funded through a number
 of avenues and academics are provided with resources to support open access costs.

 Academics routinely collaborate in deposition of open-source research data e.g. deposition of X-
 ray structures with the CCDC Crystal Structure database. The School has initiated the
 development of an open database of its spectroscopic data for Novel Psychoactive Substances.
 Although returned to UoA 9, the School of Chemistry supports Floris’s work on code
 development of Quantum Expresso – an integrated suite of Open-Source computer codes for
 electronic-structure calculations and materials modelling at the nanoscale.

 1.8 Support for Research Integrity
 We are fully aligned to the University’s infrastructure for assurance in research integrity
 and all research in the School is mandated to comply with the University-wide
 Ethical Approval process. This is administered at local level with a School of Chemistry Ethics
 Working Group (chaired by Lear).

 Considerable progress has been made in establishing QA systems for validity of research
 results in the instrumentation facilities of the Joseph Banks Laboratories. Instrument
 scientists have devised QA systems for calibration and maintenance of equipment, standard
 operating systems for training and routine instrumental experiments, and secure storage of
 primary data. In addition, user training records and equipment access are managed under these
 systems. Project proposals using the pooled resources are reviewed by instrument specialists
 allowing methods to be optimised and experimentation to be efficiently scheduled. This
 approach is consistent with our CRO-approach to commercial work and allows efficient
 interchange of resources for the diverse calls that are made on the research facilities, enabling
 an inclusive pan-University utilisation of advanced research instrumentation and laboratory
 facilities.


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy
 This submission includes 14.2 FTE academic staff. Prior to 2014, research in chemistry at
 Lincoln was focussed towards applications of analytical science in forensic contexts. Selective
 return of staff in REF14 was limited to one early-career chemist (Sharma, UoA 3) and one
 established staff member to conservation (Colston, UoA 34). The current assessment
 period has coincided with our recruitment of an essentially new group of academics.
 Seventeen new chemistry academic appointments were made to the School since it opened in
 2014 (one Professor as Head of School, one as Deputy Head of School; 13 to Lectureships), of
 which four were replacement posts. Three instrument scientist positions and four commercial
 positions were established. Additionally, five technical positions aligned to the School were
 established, including three with doctoral qualifications.

 Our recruitment strategy targets staff that establish critical mass in our research
 groups. A pleasing outcome of our recruitment processes has been appointments of high-calibre
 staff with diverse and international backgrounds (e.g. staff qualifications include degrees
 awarded at leading Universities in US, China, Germany, India, Japan, Spain, Italy, South
 Africa). Of the staff submitted to the UoA, approximately one-third are international.

 The staffing profile of the School has been systematically developed though the
 REF period: Scowen [UNL, Bradford (UK), 2014-present]; Lear [Tohoku (Japan), US
 (Singapore); 2015-present]; Adriaenssens [UC Davis (US), ICIQ (Spain) 2015-present];
 Kyne [Strathclyde (UK), UPMC (France) - 2015-2018]; Munshi [Bradford (UK), 2016-
 present]; Turyanska [Nottm (UK), 2015-2020]; Gil-Ramirez [Manchester, Oxford (UK), ICIQ
 (Spain), 2016- present]; Zhang, W – [Oxford (UK), US (Singapore), 2016- 2018];
 Johnson [Warwick (UK), Utah (US), 2017-2019]; Wuttke [Munich (Germany), IKER (Spain),
 2016-present]; Zhang, J – US (Singapore), Peking (China), 2017-present]; Chutia [UCL (UK),
 Tohoku (Japan), 2017-present]; Floris [Berlin (Germany), Minnesota(US), Kings (UK), 2017-
 present]; Lloyd – Heriott-Watt, Cambridge (UK), Stellenbosch (SA) – 2018-
 present], Gathergood [U Talinn (Estonia), DCU (Ireland), 2019-present]; He [UCL (UK), 2019-
 present]; Roy [Cambridge (UK); Uppsala (Sweden), Arizona State (US), 2020-present].

 Academic appointments have been dominated by early career appointments with nearly half of
 the staff profile in this submission in the age group 25-44 and a further third of the group
 between 45-55. In this period, two academics progressed to Senior Lecturer
 (Sharma, Adriaenssens), one was prompted to Associate Professor (Lear) while two others
 transitioned from Reader/Principal Lecturer titles to Associate Professor (Baron, Gonzalez-
 Rodriguez) as the University restructured its academic role profiles. Wuttke was appointed to a
 prestigious IKER Basque Research Chair in BCMaterials in 2019 but retains a fractional
 appointment (0.2 FTE) to continue work with the AFM Group and support the internationalisation
 agenda of the School.

 We created specialist Instrument Scientists roles to establish the research environment adding
 experience in NMR, X-ray diffraction, thermal analysis, spectroscopy and mass spectrometry as
 new instrumentation was commissioned. Graded in parallel with academic positions,
 these research roles fulfil a three-fold purpose: (i) provide expertise/experience in advanced
 instrumental methods supporting research; (ii) give specialist training for researchers and, (iii)
 support maintenance and development of the research environment. The appointees to these
 positions all have significant post-doctoral track records and experience with international
 groups: Prior [Missouri (US), Soton (UK), 2016-current]; Nauha [New York (UAE), Jyväskylä
 (Finland), 2016-2018]; Sarmad – Nottm (UK) 2017-2019]; Iqbal [Cardiff (UK) 2018-current],
 Thakker [Birmingham(UK), UHI(UK) - 2019-current.

 2.2 Staff Development
 All research staff complete an annual Individual Research Plan (IRP) and undertake
 complimentary Academic Development Appraisals (ADAs). The IRP details publications,

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 grant income, research supervision and esteem factors for the past year and outlines research
 and bidding intentions for the next period. All academic researchers have an explicit annual time
 allocation for research as part of their workload. Early Career Researchers receive an extra
 allocation for research development and time is made available for all staff for specific research
 duties, for example, Gonzalez-Rodriguez and Baron have benefitted from University support to
 develop impact case studies.

 We have particularly supported early career staff for study visits [Kyne (University of Gronigen,
 Girona, 2018), Adriaenssens (Flinders University, Australia, 2019), Lear (Tohoku, Tokyo, Osaka
 2015, 2016, 2019), Wuttke (Ludwig-Maximillans Univeristat Munich , UC Berkeley 2017,
 2018) Gil-Ramirez (Oxford, 2018), Turyanska (Riken, Shanghai, 2017,
 2018). In some cases, visits have been leveraged with external awards [Kyne, COST
 action; Adrienssens, Royal Society; Gil-Ramirez, Royal Society of Chemistry; Turyanska, Lear,
 JSPS - Japan Society for Promotion of Science).

 Flexible working arrangements for more regular research visits (e.g. weekly off-site lab
 visits) have been established with several collaborating institutions (Sharma, Nottingham 2014-
 16; He, UCL 2020-, Zhang, Imperial 2020-) alongside joint appointments (Turyanska, 80:20 with
 School of Physics, Nottingham 2016-19) and Wuttke (IKBasque / Uni Bilbao, 20:80, 2019-
 current).

 PhD studentship support for early-career staff has been provided by the School to support first
 grant applications, e.g. the EPSRC New Investigator Award Scheme. Staff are routinely
 allocated 2-4 Masters research students per annum through MChem and PG-r programmes and
 many host international exchange students, particularly through a number of EU Erasmus
 collaborations (e.g. Modena, Cordoba, Malaga, Paris). These have resulted in collaborative
 research outputs for Gonzalez-Rodriguez, Baron, Johnson and Kyne.

 Early career staff are supported with School funds covering research costs. Access to research
 facilities is managed on a project-by-project basis and therefore is not restricted by an
 individual’s funding position. Support in this way has led to significant outputs for
 researchers, e.g. Adrienssens work on chiral amplification of polyurethane polymers and Gil-
 Ramirez’s work on supramolecular magnets, both leading to publications in JACS.

 The University’s Research Infrastructure Fund supported Kyne to develop methods for
 valorisation of agricultural waste with academics in Schools of Life Sciences and Engineering
 (£40k). Three subsequent BBSRC NIBs awards (£5-10k) resulted from this. Gonzalez-Rodriguez
 received studentship funding from the University that led to two Knowledge Transfer Partnership
 (KTP) awards and outputs described in ICS 2. Adriaenssens was supported to develop synthetic
 methodologies for Alzheimer drug candidates with the School of Pharmacy staff
 (£20k). Additionally, specialist equipment for new appointees has been procured/upgraded
 through investments of School funds (see Infrastructure and Facilities below).

 2.3 Support for PGR Students
 The School of Chemistry administers research degrees in Chemistry (PhD/MPhil/MSc by
 Research), Analytical Chemistry (PhD/MPhil/MSc by Research) and Forensic Science
 (PhD/MPhil/MSc by Research). To date, in the census period, 13 students completed their
 research degrees and a further 13 students are enrolled to PG-r programmes in the School of
 Chemistry. Additionally, staff are active in co-supervision of interdisciplinary PhD programmes
 with other Schools: Pharmacy (4); Life Sciences (2), History (2) and Psychology (2). The
 University Alliance Collaborative Doctoral Training Centre supported a collaborative doctoral
 programme between Chemistry (Croxton, Gill) and Psychology (Pennington) utilising innovative
 application of mass spectral methods to evaluate stress in infants.

 Support for research students is led by the School’s PG Research Coordinator (Munshi) and
 student progress is monitored by a monthly PG-r Progress Panel that provide recommendation


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to the College of Science Research Degrees Board for formal approval of progression
 (e.g. MPhil to PhD transfer) and award.

 Student experience is addressed formally through an elected representative at the School’s
 Postgraduate Subject Committee and quarterly ‘Town Hall’ meetings with School management.
 In addition, the PG-r Coordinator provides further pastoral support alongside the supervisory
 team. Data from PRES2018 indicates that PGR students are generally happy with their time at
 Lincoln: the School-based data of 100% for overall satisfaction compares favourably with sector
 average of 80.4%, as do the good ratings for supervisory support, research skills and personnel
 development. Students are required to complete training needs analysis annually and
 engage with training from University’s Doctoral School. Specialist training through the School’s
 M-level short courses (7.5 credit equivalent at Level 7) in Advanced Topics (for cutting-edge
 research developments) and Advanced Methods (advanced instrumental methods) courses.
 Similarly, students are encouraged to engage with the School’s M-level module in Personal and
 Professional Development. One-to-one engagement with the School’s Instrument Scientists
 allows students to extend experience and advance their formal training levels through their
 projects.

 The School has established a vibrant research seminar programme inviting academics
 from leading UK and international universities – seminar speakers have included Trauner
 (Munich), Yamashita (Tohoku), Schofied (Oxford), Faul (Bristol), Acher (Paris Descartes),
 Proctor (Manchester), Wirth (Cardiff), Smith (York), Waldmann (MPI-Dortmund), Beeby
 (Durham), Clark (Yorks), Hunter (Cambridge). Proactive participation of research students with
 these events is an expectation.

 2.4 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Within the current REF cycle, the University’s Institutional Athena SWAN Bronze Award
 was retained and the School of Chemistry successfully secured a Bronze award in 2019.

 The UoA return comprises staff dominated by males (93%) and with BAME representation
 of 42%. Senior staff (professor, readers, principal lecturers) submitted are 17% female and
 17% BAME. In the period, staff promotions to senior roles have a 50% gender balance across
 the School.

 The School of Chemistry EDI Committee works closely with the Eleanor Glanville Centre (the
 University's Centre for EDI policy research, led by Colston) in delivery of the School’s
 Athena SWAN Actions Plan. Explicit interventions for research are: active promotion of balance
 in research role-models (e.g. gender balance in research leadership roles, seminar speakers,
 external examiners); enhancement of mentoring support for PDRA (particularly females)
 transition to academic careers; diversifying opportunities for collaborative working for developing
 research ideas. The School is pro-active in providing flexible working arrangements for
 academics and developing balanced workloads using the University’s workload procedures.

 Furthermore, the School has embraced University initiatives to address the disproportionate
 impact of maternity and caring responsibilities (seven staff members took maternity/paternity
 leave in the census period). This has included deployment of the Academic Returner’s Fund
 (AR2F) for two academics (Sharma, Croxton) to enable staff to sustain their research before,
 during and after leave of absence (£15k). The School hosted two Research Fellows through the
 back2science programme aimed at mentoring researchers returning after longer career breaks.
 One fellow securing an academic position at the University. We have hosted research
 student (supervised by N Blagden) funded by British Council’s Higher Education Scholarship
 Palestine and hosted a Syrian national as Fellow from the Council for At-Risk Academics
 (CARA), who subsequently secured a research position in the School.

 In the REF period, the University secured £125k in grants from the South Nottingham Centre
 Fund to enhance accessibility in JBL (above DDA compliance levels), including safety
 equipment and specialised laboratory furniture and workstations.

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. Research Income
 The School was founded with HEFCE Catalyst funding (£7.8m). As a new School, no previous
 research income was recorded and this has grown to ca. £700k in the census
 period with ca. 20% from Research Councils. While modest, our income profile is
 accelerating and the income in 2019-20 accounts for 50% of this total.

 The School has received the following major awards in the census period. Sharma received an
 EPSRC award through its First Grant Scheme (£120k) exploring new approaches to heterocyclic
 scaffolds with potential in drug synthesis under our chemistry under our Chem-Bio theme. The
 School of Chemistry augmented this award with a full PhD studentship to run
 alongside the programme. Gonzalez-Rodriguez (PI) and Baron secured two successful
 Knowledge Transfer Partnership awards from IUK with GSAE Ltd valorising fuel ash waste for
 precious metal content (£180k+£140k). These form the basis of Impact Case 2. Gonzalez-
 Rodriguez (PI) and Gil-Ramirez were recently supported for development of pesticide sensors
 (£17k, Ceres Agri-Tech). Baron was co-I in collaboration with Lincoln Institute for Agri-Tech
 and Anglian Water for MRes studentships (40k). Munshi (PI) and Scowen were awarded a
 Innovate UK grant (£240k) for a project developing novel methods for deodorising waste plastic
 with a consortium led by Luxus Ltd involving hyphenation of thermal analytical methods with
 chromatographic evolved gas analysis. Colston (PI) and Scowen received a British Council -
 Newton award (£240k) for nanotechnology in cultural heritage in collaboration with Damietta
 University (Egypt) and Colston received a separate award from British Council (£42k) related to
 this topic. In addition to monetary income, Chutia secured high-performance computational time
 worth £108k (EPSRC RAP) and £229k neutron-source beam time (ISIS/STFC) supporting his
 work with the UK Catalysis Hub.

 We have encouraged early career staff to pursue start-up awards to develop bidding
 experience with considerable success: Royal Society small equipment (Adriaenssens £20k,
 Johnson £20k, Sharma £20k) and collaboration [Adriaenssens (£6k, Flinders University,
 Australia), Zhang (£15k, Peking University), Johnson (£20k, China Central Normal University)];
 Royal Society of Chemistry (Gil-Ramirez, Kyne, Johnson, Zhang £5k each, Roy, £10k) and
 BBSRC Bioinnovation Fund (Kyne, £15k)] .

 PG-r sponsorship funding has been secured from industry sponsors: Dupont (£16k, Scowen,
 Munshi); GSK (£15k, Blagden, Scowen), RB (£8k, Baron); GSK (£8k, Baron); AZ (£15k,
 Blagden, Scowen), Juhel Nigeria Ltd (£54k Scowen, Munshi), Yara International ASA
 (£20k, Gathergood, Scowen). Alongside these we have received full scholarship funding
 from Brunei Govt, Kaduna State Govt, (Munshi, Scowen), Thai Police (Gonzalez-Rodriguez).

 Revenues from industrial R&D collaboration through our CRO has yielded ca. £350k to date.
 The Bridge project is supported with an ERDF revenue award (£200k, Scowen) within a total
 project value of £6.3m.


 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities
 The School has led the installation of major capital facilities investment for the College of
 Science and a high-quality research infrastructure is now in place in the University’s Joseph
 Banks Laboratories. Reflecting our positioning of chemistry as an enabling science, the
 facility supports research across the University and provides an interdisciplinary platform for
 scientific research across a wide range of disciplines. Primary use of these facilities resides with
 Schools of Chemistry, Life Sciences and Pharmacy although increasing utilisation by Schools of
 Engineering, Geography, Maths and Physics, Psychology and the Lincoln Institute of Agri-Food
 Technology and National Centre for Food Manufacturing has led to significant outputs. The
 facilities have hosted over 350 research projects since 2015.



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The research instrumentation commissioned between 2015-18 includes: NMR (500MHz
 including broad band solution and solid state probes, £650k), X-Ray Diffraction (dual-source
 SCD, multi-stage PXRD, £490k), Mass Spectrometry-Chromatography (GC- triple quadrupole,
 LC-Orbitrap, LC-triple quadrupole, £385k), Vibrational (NIR-MIR-FIR, FT-Raman, Vis/NIR-
 Raman, £254k) and Electronic Spectroscopy (UV-vis, fluorescence, £99k) , Elemental Analysis
 (ICP-OES, £47k ), Thermal Analysis (STA-MS, STA-IR, Thermomicroscopy, £108k),
 Nanoscience (DLS, Zeta-potential, Nano-sight, £63k). Opportunities for ‘packaging’ at
 procurement yielded significant benefits in costs and partnerships with established with
 Bruker and Thermo Fischer continue to yield on-going benefits: technical training, flexible
 maintenance support and collaborative development projects. These facilities were combined in
 the JBL Labs with existing instrumentation (GC-MS, LC-UV, electrochemistry and SEM).

 Laboratories are assigned to research function, e.g. synthesis, crystallisation, formulation,
 nanoscience, promoting inter-disciplinary use. Specialist preparative equipment
 includes nanoscience and formulation (spray/freeze drying, milling/mixing,
 dissolution, £175k), crystallisation robotics (£56k), molecular synthesis (glove box and solvent
 purification, £34k), peptide synthesis, £34k), forensic trace analysis and elemental sample
 preparation (microwave digestion and specialist fume extraction).

 Further investment to support new staff [e.g. Isothermal Calorimetry, £45k; Circular
 Dichroism upgrade, £36k ; microwave synthesis, £20k, electrochemistry, £44k] and for grant-
 funded research [GCMS-thermoanalytical equipment, (IUK,£90k), photochemistry and spectro-
 electrochemistry, (RS, £35k)] . Single crystal facilities have been recently upgraded with
 new CMOS detector (£60k, UKRI-WCL). Further investment for materials characterisation will
 be commissioned in 2022 for The Bridge including TEM and dual-beam SEM, Atomic Force
 Microscopy, Tribology and Rheology (ERDF, £1.5m total)

 In addition, chemistry facilities were upgraded in 2015 (£1.5m) in the Janet Layne-
 Claypon teaching laboratories including 24 double-aperture fume hoods and an analytical suite
 with FT-IR, UV/fluorescence spectroscopy, GC-MS and HPLC and graphite-furnace AAS.

 Combined these resources provide a powerful modern environment to support chemistry
 research at Lincoln.

 3.3 Organisational infrastructure
 The research activity of the School is guided by three working groups (Research Outputs,
 Impact and PG-r Progress Panel) that report formally into the School’s quarterly Academic
 Committee, chaired by the Head of School, and onwards to the College of Science Board of
 Studies. Additionally, these working groups inform standing agenda at monthly academic staff
 meetings. The groups are led by the School’s Research Director, the School’s Impact Champion
 and the School’s PG-r Coordinator. Each report to College Research Committee, the
 University’s Impact Champion Forum and the College of Science Research Degrees Board.

 The School’s research direction is informed by a myriad of industry interactions and academic
 collaborations (see below) and is reviewed annually at ‘away-day’ events involving all staff in the
 School. These school-level committees interface to College of Science’s Research Committee
 and College Research Degrees Board, and ultimately to the University’s Academic Board.

 Consultancies and professional services
 Our CRO function serves as the focal point for consultancy and contract professional services,
 extending both the reach and impact of our research. Alongside this, academics participate in
 collaborative consultancy with industry and this has led to extended studies in areas of novel
 psychoactive substances (with Trading Standards, Baron), precious metal recovery (Gonzalez-
 Rodriguez), forming the basis of our Impact Cases and in conservation science (Colston). The
 School also provides broad support for its spin-out company, Metnano, a joint venture between
 Lincoln and the BHR Group for metallic nanoparticle products. Our scientists have


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 provided consultancy for product development and QA systems (Baron, Reiss), while our
 CRO provides on-going QC services for production batches.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research Collaborations, networks and partnerships
 Significant international collaborations have resulted in joint publications and on-going research
 collaborations including Catalan Institute of Research and Advanced Studies (Gil-
 Ramirez, Adriaenssens), University of Malaga (Gonzalez-Rodriguez), University of Utah
 (Johnson), Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München (Wuttke); Tohoku University (Lear),
 UPMC Univ-Paris 06 (Kyne); University Chemical Technology, University chemical
 Technology Prague (Munshi); Riken Institute (Turyanska), Philipps Universitat Marburg
 University of California-Berkeley (Wuttke) . Additionally, Lear was appointed as Adjunct
 Professor at Tohoku University (2014-19, Japan), Wuttke is Visiting Lecturer, Ludwig-
 Maximilians-Universität München and at University of California, Berkeley, Munshi is Visiting
 Professor at Shanghai Institute of Technology and Zhang is Visiting Professor at Hunan
 University of Technology.

 4.2 Relationships with users, beneficiaries and society
 Researchers in the School are pro-active in developing activities to establish the direct impact of
 the School’s research capabilities in social and commercial contexts and to engage effectively
 with regional, national and international communities to inform and direct research, and thereby
 enhancing the School’s future influence and relevance in national and international communities.
 Significant industrial collaboration underpins the School’s strategic direction and several
 collaborative R&D projects with regional and national industries have been undertaken in the
 period: for example, RB (characterisation of piezoelectric materials), Luxus (recycled plastics),
 Astra Zeneca (crystallisation of pharmaceutical materials, with School of Pharmacy), GSK
 (development of pharmaceutical API salts, with School of Pharmacy), Piramal (process
 development of pharmaceutical hydrates), British Chlorophyll (development of protein
 extraction), Dupont (speciation of degradants), Grimley Smith Associates (precious
 metal extraction).

 To further the influence of the establishment of a School of Chemistry in the region, we have
 sought to attract research symposia to the University. To date, these include the Bruker Single
 Crystal User Group Meeting (2015), RSC Thermal Analysis Interest Group Meeting
 (2016); Suspensionology - an industry consultancy/workshop (2015, 2017)); Annual Meeting of
 the EU Crystallize COST Action CM1402 group (2017), involving scientists from 27 different
 countries, the Materials Chemistry Consortium (2018); East Midlands Proteomic Workshop
 (2018); and RSC-sponsored regional Organic and Biomolecular Symposium (2018) and the
 RSC Macrocycles and Supramolecular Chemistry Young Persons Symposium
 (2019), Nanotechnology Workshop (2020) (bridging the gap between idea, innovation and
 enterprise organised across four schools (co-organizer Scowen with Pharmacy, Chemistry,
 Physics and Engineering), which ran for the second time in 2021 with research
 students attending virtually from across the globe.

 The Bridge initiative targets a variety of interactions with partners (see above). In parallel with its
 R&D business support objectives, there is a strong impetus from its directing industry
 consortium to invigorate the engineering community in the region. In response, The Bridge
 will host expert seminars and community clinics amongst other community events throughout the
 programme. The inaugural expert seminar event attracted 70+ on-line attendees.

 4.3 Wider Contributions to research base
 In keeping with our objectives to establish our engagement with national and international
 research communities, the majority of academics are pro-active in refereeing with leading
 journals (ACS, RSC and Wiley). We have established representation on editorial boards: Wuttke
 serves on the Editorial Advisory Board for Advanced Functional Materials and edited a special

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 edition in 2020; Gathergood is Associate Editor for ACS Sustainable Chemistry and
 Engineering; Gonzalez-Rodriguez is Editor of journal Open Chemistry (de Gruyter). Lloyd was
 co-editor for a special issue of CrystEngComm - ‘Supramolecular Gels in Crystal
 Engineering’ (2015).

 Similarly, the School’s academics are playing an increasing role in grant review: e.g. (i) Scowen,
 SFI (Ireland) Research Infrastructure (2018); (ii) Colston, Member EPRSC College (2016-);
 British Council (Newton) Reviewer (2018-), EU-JPICH (Joint Programming Initiative in Cultural
 Heritage) Reviewer (2018-), The Netherlands’ Research Council peer-reviewer, NWO (Council
 for the Humanities of Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research) (2014-) Association of
 Commonwealth Universities Promotions Reviewer (Professorial) (2014-) EPSRC CDT (short-
 listing panel (2018)(iii) Gonzalez-Rodriguez, EU Horizon 2020 (2014-), International Training
 Network-Secure Societies (2017, 2016), Marie-Curie (2017-), Member EPRSC College (2016-),
 Portuguese FCT (2017, 2018); (iv) Gil-Ramirez Associate Member EPRSC College, (2016-); (v)
 Lear, Member EPRSC College (2017-). Lear and Gonzalez-Rodriguez received commendations
 for their contributions to grant review from EPSRC in 2019 (vii) Munshi, Leibniz Association
 (Germany), Innovation Fund (Denmark).

 In line with its objectives to introduce the new School to the wider UK community and raise its
 profile, we have attracted a number of national research group meetings to the University. To
 date, these include Bruker Single Crystal User Group Meeting (2015), RSC Thermal Analysis
 Interest Group Meeting (2016); Suspensionology - an industry workshop (2015, 2017); the
 Materials Chemistry Consortium (2018); East Midlands Proteomic Workshop (2018); and RSC-
 sponsored regional Organic and Biomolecular Symposium (2018) and the RSC Macrocycles and
 Supramolecular Chemistry Young Persons Symposium (2019).

 Outreach to schools and colleges enhances the wider societal relevance of the University’s
 research environments. Funded programmes operating in the School include: RSC
 Spectroscopy in a Suitcase programme (Munshi, 2016-) providing school students with hands-
 on experience of spectroscopic equipment; the Newton Academy for Girls that provides
 Saturday morning science and technology-themed workshops for school-age girls (Colston,
 2014-); Discovery Science for Teachers (RCUK) providing hands-on experience of structural
 science methods in Chemistry and Biology for school teachers (Blagden, Scowen, Taylor, 2015).
 Importantly, the research environments play a crucial role in the hands-on experience we offer to
 local Schools and Colleges – e.g. use of our 500 MHz NMR facilities. Additionally, the School
 contributes to University-wide large city-based events such as LiGHT Nights (a
 €130k Marie Sklodowska Curie funded European Researcher Night).

 4.4 Closing Comments
 Establishing chemistry at Lincoln has transformed the research landscape of the University
 and the region. We are seeing the growing influence of these developments with increasing
 leadership shown by our academics in their respective fields and significant benefits derived for
 our commercial and social partners. From a standing start, the progress in chemistry has been
 remarkable and we now have a strong and sustainable base for the subject in the University that
 is led by our research. We are ambitious to extend the influence of our research in chemistry for
 the future and are well set to develop from this base.




                                                                                            Page 15
