Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London School of Economics and Political Science

 Unit of Assessment: 22A Anthropology and Development Studies (Anthropology)

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 LSE Anthropology is a close-knit and cohesive department with an engaged and collaborative
 research culture. Our vision is to produce world-leading work that pioneers new theory and fields
 of study, while also achieving significant impact on public debates and policy. Encouraging both
 teamwork and individual research, we are committed to our discipline’s practices of cross-
 cultural comparison and the ethnographic method. As well as forging ties with anthropologists in
 other LSE departments such as Law and Methodology and LSE institutes such as the European
 Institute and the International Inequalities Institute, we collaborate with scholars from other
 universities and disciplines.

 Research strategy

 Our objectives—which we have achieved over the review period by using the structures and
 support mechanisms listed below—have been (1) to intensify our pursuit of world-leading
 comparative research. This has been achieved by strengthening theoretical and intellectual
 debate both within and beyond the department, identifying new fields to which ethnographic
 research can make a contribution, and deepening our engagement with existing themes, sites
 and questions. (2) to secure sustainable levels of large grant funding that bring in
 doctoral/postdoctoral scholars, while democratically redistributing the overhead from those funds
 to facilitate smaller individual projects. (3) to nurture new talent among faculty and research
 fellows as well as mentoring the next generation of anthropologists with our PhD programme
 and post-doctoral fellowships. (4) to achieve public engagement, visibility and impact for our
 research.

 In the next five years these objectives will be embedded within the following strategies: (1)
 undertaking active measures to increase diversity and address post-coloniality issues within
 anthropology—at faculty, doctoral and post-doctoral levels. To this end we have relaunched the
 Old Anthropology Library and its website as a venue for open debate and for the highlighting of
 research undertaken by a diverse range of staff and students. We have also set up a doctoral
 student mentoring scheme and are seeking new sources of funding to train research students.
 (2) proposing solutions to the issue of open access, as discussed in our 2019 workshop on
 Academic Freedom, Academic Integrity and Open Access in the Social Sciences. (3) enhancing
 the sustainability of our research environment by attending to debates within the school, and the
 discipline at large, about the precarity of early career researchers on large projects, and by
 devising protocols to ensure that the ownership of research findings is appropriately balanced
 between senior and junior researchers, as discussed during our 2019 workshop on Authorship in
 Anthropology. (4) maintaining and enhancing our delivery of professional training to doctoral
 students. (5) enabling applications for large collaborative grants by holding a series of targeted
 workshops from 2021 around our core research themes, to consolidate our world-leading
 position in research. In sum, we will continue to forge innovative intellectual projects by securing
 collaborative grants; maintain balance by attending to supervisory and mentoring activities to
 nurture doctoral students and early career staff; develop and highlight best practice for
 authorship attribution, integrity, open access and data storage.

 Structures

 The department maintains its unitary and egalitarian character through regular seminars and
 workshops that facilitate inclusive and stimulating intellectual debate. This is sustained by the
 support and mentoring offered by the Departmental Research Committee (DRC). Despite the
 onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, we have maintained our programme of seminars, workshops,
 reading groups, conferences—and our annual Malinowski Lecture—by taking these online. Key
 to the sustainability of our research structures is a redistributive approach facilitated by the DRC,

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 which evaluates and advises on large research grant applications (the largest during the review
 period being £1.3 million) while also encouraging smaller individual projects by distributing the
 overheads through its Research Investment Infrastructure Fund (RIIF) (amounts up to £10K). A
 number of these applications and projects (e.g. those listed under collaborative work in section
 4) involve interdisciplinary research:

 (a) The Friday Research Seminar, attended by all department members, enables staff and
 doctoral students to present their work, invites outside speakers, and fosters challenging and
 engaged discussion. The sustainability of the seminar—and its broader reach—was ensured
 when it went online from May 2020, continuing into 2021. This has enabled us to invite a wider
 range of speakers and participants from the US, Europe, and explicitly from the Global South to
 link with our decolonisation agenda.

 (b) Research away-days afford a space for longer-term strategy deliberations about our research
 direction. For example, Walker and Pelkmans presented a discussion paper ‘Comparison as
 critique’, which led to a further workshop with permanent staff and post-doctoral fellows, and
 compilation of an edited volume How People Compare, presently under consideration by
 Routledge for the LSE Monographs in Social Anthropology series, which includes chapters by
 departmental colleagues Gardner, James, Long, Pelkmans and Scott, alongside emeritus
 professor Feuchtwang and senior visiting fellow Sedgwick.

 (c) Regular, thrice-termly, brown-bag lunches facilitate discussion of draft papers by staff, with
 the benefit of enabling and expediting final publication. For example, following discussion of
 Steinmüller’s ‘Conscription by capture in the Wa State of Myanmar: acquaintances, anonymity,
 patronage, and the rejection of mutuality’, it was published in Comparative Studies in Society
 and History. These continued even during lockdown, e.g. we held an online brown bag lunch to
 provide suggestions to Heslop, outgoing post-doctoral fellow, on his book manuscript.

 (d) Interdisciplinary and cross-department reading groups (e.g. the China Reading Group); units
 (e.g. Religion and Global Society, together with the Faith Centre, Methodology and International
 Relations); programmes (e.g. the Programme for the Study of Religion and Non-Religion);
 seminars (e.g. the Anthropology of Economy/Financial Inclusion seminar held jointly with
 International Development, which similarly went online from May 2020 onwards); and
 workshops/conferences (five or six annually, mostly clustered in the summer, and attended by
 20 to 40 people). We name five examples of the latter. One of these, ‘Speculation: new vistas on
 capitalism’, co-organised by Bear and Weszkalnys in 2014, resulted in a 2020 special issue of
 Economy and Society. Another, ‘International conference on Human Co-operation’, co-organised
 by Astuti and Stafford, brought together a team of anthropologists, philosophers, and
 psychologists with interests in the study of human cooperation from different disciplinary
 perspectives. A third, ‘(Mis)trust, money, and debt in interdisciplinary perspective’ was organised
 in 2018 by then doctoral students Laws and Zidaru. A fourth was Banerjee’s comparative book
 workshop on ‘Democracy and the moral economy of elections in Africa and India’, which helped
 to consolidate the ideas behind her forthcoming monograph. Finally, ‘The Ethnography of
 Akrasia’, co-organised in 2019 by postdoctoral teaching/research fellow Evans and doctoral
 student Deschenaux, turned the ethnographic attention of anthropologists to the philosophical
 problem of ‘akrasia’—why and how might a person choose to freely act against their own best
 judgement?—and fostered a conversation between anthropologists and philosophers: the
 resulting edited volume is under contract with Palgrave, due out in 2021.

 (e) We also host the annual Malinowski Lecture, inviting outstanding pre-professorial
 anthropologists from across the UK and the EU to share their theoretical insights. Lectures in
 this series delivered by colleagues from within the department, for example ‘Equality without
 Equivalence: an anthropology of the common’ (Walker, 2015, published in the JRAI of 2020),
 have illustrated the department’s deep commitment to work that is ambitiously comparative with
 theoretical foundations in sustained ethnographic encounters.



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Themes

 Our research encompasses a commitment to comparative projects that are rooted in deep
 history, draw links between regional/spatio-temporal zones, and pose questions about the nature
 of humanity (concerning inequality, co-operation, vitality, and religiosity vs secularity). We deeply
 regret the death in September 2020 of our colleague, David Graeber, who undertook noteworthy
 research engagements of these kinds. His contribution is nonetheless included in this
 submission. Our research centres on five themes that unite sub-disciplinary concerns and
 transect our field sites, generating new unifying fields of inquiry. New hires, workshops and
 research grant applications are oriented by these themes:

 (i) Inequality and wealth in a capitalist world interrogates the interplay of hierarchy and
 egalitarianism (Graeber & Wengrow); of poverty and abundance; and how inequality is created
 and maintained—by the intersection of class, caste, ethnicity and gender (Shah & Parry
 ‘Persistence of Poverty amongst Adivasis and Dalits in India’ and ‘The Underbelly of the Indian
 Boom: Adivasis and Dalits’), through social networks (Power), and within and between families
 (Stafford on Oklahoma). Bear (‘Rebuilding Economics’), Gardner, and James & Koch
 (‘Ethnographies of Advice’) explore, within the rubric of anthropology of economy, how inequality
 is constituted and reproduced in both core and more marginal sites of contemporary capitalism,
 and how processes of development and speculation, debt austerity and insecurity, and the
 aspirations to modernity and wealth that underpin these, play out in a global context
 (Weszkalnys on oil in Sao Tome). Under this theme, we share interests and projects with the
 International Inequalities Institute (III, where Koch, James and Shah are involved), the LSE
 South Asia Centre (where Banerjee was the inaugural Director), the Department of Methodology
 (where Power is based), and run a joint seminar with the Department of International
 Development.

 (ii) Commitment, Conviction and Doubt explores how people dedicate themselves to received
 cosmologies, ontologies, religions, or secular ideologies. We pay particular attention to the
 fragile and fluctuating nature of such commitments, as investigated and theorised in studies of
 wonder (Scott on the Solomon Islands and in academia), happiness (Walker & Astuti on
 Amazonia), irony (Steinmüller on China), doubt, suspicion and ‘fragile conviction’ (Pelkmans on
 Central Asia). Questions of ethics, justice, and purpose are an integral part of these inquiries
 (Stafford on moral judgment and co-operation; Cannell on Mormon piety in a secular age).
 Under this theme, we share interests and projects with the Department of Religious Studies at
 King’s College London, and run a series of joint seminars on wonder, methodology, and ethics.

 (iii) Mind, learning and human development centres on experiences of childhood (Allerton on
 stateless children); the self and conceptions of free will; affect and altered states of
 consciousness (Long on hypnotherapy in Indonesia); moral judgement and the psychology of
 economic life (Stafford on everyday economic decision-making). We engage critically with
 psychology, cognitive science and related disciplines (Astuti on Madagascar, Power). We
 examine how predispositions of the human mind—towards mutualism or the sense of fairness—
 are shaped by the specific historical and cultural circumstances in which people live (Walker on
 justice in Amazonia). Our expertise dovetails with recent psychology-oriented developments
 across the LSE, notably in the Department of Psychological and Behavioural Science.

 (iv) Generative Vitality provides new perspectives on kinship (Cannell on Mormon kinship,
 Gardner on marriage and divorce in Bangladesh), gender and generative or productive
 processes, and forms of redistribution (Devlieger on disability in the Democratic Republic of
 Congo). This includes ritual practices (Bear on intimate economies in India), conceptions about
 the generation and end of life, and the nature of parental responsibility and of childhood
 (Allerton). Our research, rooted in households and local contexts, shows how these link to, and
 are productive of, global processes: how the powers of capitalism—both generative and
 destructive—produce and are reproduced within family and other forms of solidarity. This
 research theme also enables us to re-theorize phenomena such as attempts to access the


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 hidden generativity and vitality that lies behind any visible form of power and productivity (Scott
 on so-called cargo cults in Melanesia).

 (v) The state, its reach, and beyond critically examines settings where government powers are
 mediated through, challenged or buttressed by market relations. It explores corporations,
 development (Gardner on Bangladesh), legal and economic bureaucracies (Bear with Mathur on
 the ‘New Public Good’, Graeber on ‘Bullshit Jobs’, Pia on water provision in China), and
 speculation and prospecting (Weszkalnys on oil in Sao Tome and on the UK’s oil sector, Bear on
 global speculation). It also investigates how the state is personalized or vernacularized in
 people’s daily lives (Koch on working-class Britain, Scott on rural Solomon Islands). Key areas
 where our research interrogates the reach and limits of state power are political participation,
 changing systems of democratic choice and their local meaning (Banerjee on democracy and
 republicanism in India, Long on democracy in Indonesia), conspiracy theorising and wilful
 blindness (Pelkmans on the politics of ignorance, Allerton on state non-recognition of migrants in
 Malaysia), revolutionary struggle (Shah on Naxalite Maoists in India), and transnational
 migration and the paradoxes and pain of being undocumented (Allerton on children of stateless
 child migrants).

 Supporting research integrity and ethics

 Our robust procedures for assessing ethics involve an online form with sections for
 anthropology-specific concerns. Applications are assessed at departmental level and referred to
 the LSE’s Research Ethics Committee where appropriate and where we feel we would benefit
 from its insights. (In the spirit of reciprocity, this School-wide committee has taken our advice on
 ethical challenges and how to overcome them in order to inform its policies.) During 2019 we
 focussed in particular on dilemmas, recently emerging in the discipline more broadly, involved in
 employing post-doctoral researchers on large grants. Discussions during department away-days
 and a dedicated panel at the EASA conference later led to a RIIF-funded workshop ‘Authorship
 in Anthropology: towards a code of good conduct’ at which concerned parties from LSE and
 elsewhere, and from within and beyond the UK including members of ASA and EASA, discussed
 these issues. From this we produced guidelines appropriate to the discipline which are now
 being adopted more widely.

 Impact

 The impact of our research is planned judiciously, with specific targets in mind from the outset.
 We embed a concern to engage with the user community in our research design, working in
 partnership with interlocutors and using participation in public events and debates, podcasts,
 blogs and other social media. Enabled and supported by LSE’s Research and Innovation
 Division, our Departmental Research Committee, and funded (at different scales and variously)
 by large grants, the LSE’s Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) and Impact Acceleration
 Account (IAA), and the department’s RIIF, respectively, we ensure that our collaborations are
 guided by our key research themes (i-v, above) along with LSE 2030’s ‘shape the world’ policy.
 We undertake (often challenging) conversations with specific policy arenas and relevant
 segments of the public, while carefully navigating a changing (and shrinking) public sphere in
 certain settings—like China, Burma, and increasingly India. This approach to impact is
 exemplified in our three Impact Case Studies. James’ work with South African consumer rights
 organisation The Black Sash, designed to aid in reforming legal frameworks concerning debt
 while challenging government inaction, was funded by LSE’s HEIF and the Department’s RIIF.
 She received valuable feedback at one of our Brown Bag Lunch seminars. The extensive
 impacts achieved by Shah and her Departmental Research Unit were carefully planned from the
 outset using ESRC and ERC project funding, and were then integrated into the broader life of
 the department via seminars and through the display of the exhibition Behind the Indian Boom in
 the School’s Old Building. Finally, collaborative work by department members after the onset of
 Covid-19, under the leadership of Bear, formed the basis of our third Impact Case Study. LSE’s
 COVID-19 Internal Research Call and our department’s research structures and resourcing
 models enabled us to be responsive to this urgent and unforeseen set of research priorities.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Facilitated by these processes and structures, our research has had widespread impact beyond
 these case studies. Much of this, although listed here under separate headings, combines
 several of our key research areas:

 (i) Inequality and wealth: Graeber was a world-renowned public intellectual. His numerous
 newspaper articles, best-selling books, TV appearances and public talks, and more specifically
 his LSE book launch ‘The Bullshitisation of the Economy Has Only Just Begun’, pursued a wide-
 reaching and significant dialogue with economic reform activists. His work on this and related
 topics was formative in reconfiguring opposition politics and economic policy, through his
 consultations with and direct advice to the former shadow chancellor, John McDonnell, and
 leaders of Momentum. Further significant effects on policy were achieved through Leverhulme-
 funded research by Mundy, emerita professor. This provided evidence for the deliberate
 destruction by coalition forces, led by Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates, of food production
 and distribution in rebel-held areas of Yemen. Her work has informed policy discussion and
 debate in the UK and elsewhere, and been used by NGOs, charities and human rights
 organisations to lobby for national and international action to prevent this violation of human
 rights. In June 2019 it was used in a court case in which UK arms sales to Saudi Arabia were
 ruled as unlawful. Likewise influential, in other sectors, has been the work of Bear, who has
 been involved in an ESRC-funded collaborative research project, together with the think-tank
 National Institute of Social and Economic Research, on economic policy including research with
 the Bank of England. She also took part in the 2017 Hay-on-Wye festival and in a book
 launch/public event ‘Alternatives to Austerity’, with a podcast downloaded some 15,000 times.
 James’ work on debt has involved collaborations with debt activists from Toynbee Hall, Debt
 Resistance UK, and the Theos Institute, and—together with post-doctoral fellow Davey—she co-
 convened a campaign requesting a Household Debt Amnesty.

 (ii) Commitment, Conviction and Doubt: Pelkmans held a public event/book launch of his Fragile
 Conviction during LSE’s Shape the World festival in early 2020.

 (iii) Mind, learning and human development: Astuti, together with post-doctoral fellows Buitron
 and Deshoullière, mounted a collaborative exhibition as part of their ‘Justice, morality and the
 state in Amazonia’ project: their interactions with a Shuar community in Ecuadorian Amazonia
 inspired a critical engagement with the requirements of ‘knowledge exchange and impact (KEI)’
 as conceptualized in university settings in the Global North.

 (v) The state, its reach and beyond: Long’s insights on democracy in Indonesia were shared at
 his public book launch/workshop at STISIPOL Raja Haji Tanjung Pinang. Banerjee hosted a
 public event on post-truth politics, has been interviewed on Radio 4, the World Service and BBC
 News, and her ‘Why Delhi’s elections could be a turning point’ was published in The Guardian
 and several Indian national dailies.

 Most recently, responding to urgent concerns raised by the Covid-19 pandemic, we commenced
 a series of projects in April 2020 that were aimed at generating evidence with immediate
 relevance for those tackling the pandemic. These combined our themes on (i) inequality and
 wealth and (iv) generative vitality, and two of them were funded by LSE’s COVID-19 Internal
 Research Call. One of these, entitled ‘State/Market/ Community in the time of Corona’, involved
 Banerjee in a cross-disciplinary collaboration with LSE economist Maitreesh Ghatak. A second,
 directed by Bear and involving Cannell, Long and James together with postdoctoral fellows and
 PhD students, formed the basis of one of our Impact Case Studies, see above. A third project,
 involving Long with a team of researchers in New Zealand, resulted in a co-authored report in
 2020, ‘Living in bubbles during the coronavirus pandemic: insights from New Zealand’. Its
 findings, which have received coverage in media outlets including New Scientist, The Telegraph
 and The Guardian, and which have been published in international peer-reviewed articles
 including Journal of the Royal Society of New Zealand, Intersections, and Sites, made a crucial
 contribution to SAGE advice to the UK government on social bubbles. References were made to


                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the report’s findings in the Welsh government guidelines on extended households and it has also
 directly informed policy debates in Ireland.

 The readiness of colleagues in the department to collaborate at short notice on these projects,
 including a range of PhD students who were feeling temporarily cut loose from their own field
 sites, illustrates the vitality and equality of our research environment.

 Open research environment

 The Department is supportive of activities that aim to ensure that sustainable systems of
 publishing remain viable. Shah engaged with the LSE Library on a project to demonstrate the
 potential of Creative Commons Licences by transforming an open access research article into a
 cartoon. This image was reused in an anthropology textbook “Through the lens of cultural
 anthropology”, by Laura Tubelle de González, published by the University of Toronto Press. The
 event ‘Academic Freedom, Academic Integrity and Open Access in the Social Sciences’,
 organised by Pia, discussed the present and future of open access publishing. One outcome of
 the event was the ‘Labour of Love Manifesto’, which was reviewed by the LSE Impact Blog and
 has circulated widely in the OA community, with Spanish, Italian and French translations. It has
 also been taken into consideration by the UKRI Open Access Policy Review and by the EASA
 Board. The recent transfer of the journal Social Anthropology from Wiley to Berghahn owes
 much to the work done by Pia and its other signatories. Over this REF period the number of OA
 publications deposited in LSE Research Online has increased by over 30%.

 The department has partnered with the Library to organise several events to encourage
 engagement with issues of open research. The ‘Authorship in Anthropology – Towards a Code
 of Good Conduct’ workshop discussed data management, data archiving, data ethics, and IPR
 of data in relation to the discipline of anthropology. We have also worked with the Library to
 arrange a workshop on data management and data archiving for PhD students and staff, and to
 archive data, or deposit metadata, in the UK Data Archive related to UKRI funded research (by
 Allerton, James and Shah).

 Section 2. People

 Staffing Strategy

 The department, at the census date, had eighteen permanent faculty, and a part-time Centennial
 Professor (Barber). In addition, eight visiting fellows, three senior visiting fellows, a visiting
 professor and seven emeritus professors all play an active role in the research culture of the
 department. We also have several short-term post-doctoral research (‘LSE’) fellows, some of
 whom teach as well as doing research, and others purely employed on research contracts
 whose number depends on grant funding. During the review period we employed five of the
 former at any given time, and fifteen of the latter altogether. Our hire of these fellows, including
 on our three large research projects (Inequality and Poverty in India; An Ethnography of Advice;
 and Justice, Morality and the State in Amazonia) dovetails with current research themes. They
 form an essential part of the department’s research culture and strengthen our research-based
 teaching strategy.

 In 2018 we rebalanced the profile of the department: with the departure of a Professor, Engelke,
 to Columbia University, we recruited two assistant professors—Pia and Devlieger—who work in
 China and Central Africa respectively, and who bring new expertise in our research themes (i),
 (iv) and (v) (specifically in the fields of legal and economic anthropology, development and
 disability studies). The subsequent elevation of a Professor, Stafford, to the position of Pro-
 Director (Faculty Development), and part-time deployment of another Professor, Astuti, as the
 Head of the PhD Academy, has resulted in our appointing a new Assistant Professor,
 Doughan—an expert on the Middle East who received his PhD from the University of Chicago
 and brings expertise in research themes (i), (ii) and (v)—from September 2020. (Since Graeber’s
 appointment was made against a special fund, we will not, unfortunately, be in a position to

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 replace him). Our recruitment strategy for new hires is intensive and thorough, and involves all
 faculty members other than those on sabbatical. The search process sees us send news of
 vacancies to colleagues in the UK, EU and US, and beyond (see Support for Equality and
 Diversity, below). To prepare for the shortlisting meeting, colleagues are allocated readings by
 longlisted applicants and tasked to report back on them; to prepare for the presentation and
 interview, all colleagues are involved in reading submissions by the shortlisted candidates. This
 approach has paid dividends and leads to the recruitment of excellent young scholars.

 Mentoring and Career Development

 All Assistant Professors and post-doctoral fellows are mentored by senior members of staff.
 These mentors meet with them on a termly basis to give support and constructive advice on
 career development, their teaching and research. This includes reading draft research papers,
 helping with planning book manuscripts and advising on funding applications. These informal
 mentoring sessions are followed through during the annual Career Development Reviews
 (CDR), carried out by the Head or Deputy Head of Department for all non-Professorial staff.
 These were recently expanded to include postdoctoral teaching/research fellows on short-term
 contracts, given that such fellows form an essential part of our research culture and are included
 in our general research activities, including the Friday Research Seminars and brown-bag
 lunches. The CDRs enable staff to reflect and receive feedback on their career development,
 publication strategies, funding applications, development of new research, and promotion
 prospects. During the review period, Associate Professors Bear (2016) and Pelkmans (2020)
 were promoted to Professor, while Assistant Professors Walker (2016), Long (2019), Koch
 (2019) and Steinmüller (2020) were promoted to Associate Professor. During the annual
 consultation with the Pro-Director (Faculty Development), salary increases for permanent staff
 and non-recurrent awards for postdoctoral teaching/research fellows are agreed and subsequent
 awards made, in recognition of their contribution.

 Support for Equality and Diversity

 The department’s commitment to the LSE EDI strategy is evident across the full range of its
 activities: including (of particular relevance here) the selection of outputs for submission to the
 REF from the broadest range of participants. The department takes gender and LGBTQ+ issues
 as an important aspect of its approach to equity and diversity, embedding these concerns in the
 Well-Being and Diversity Committee and its policies. This has led to our setting up a mentoring
 scheme to find talented third year and MSc students and to support them in their plans for study
 for PhDs, thereby tackling the ‘pipeline problem’.

 For our staff we offer flexible working conditions, a strategy that has gained even greater
 importance as we accommodate those with caring roles or people required to shield during
 Covid-19. LSE’s support for parents includes a term’s extra leave—beyond the normal parental
 leave—before returning to work, enabling new parents to resume their research and publication
 activities before being re-immersed in teaching. We are also sensitive to LGBTQ+ issues, being
 aware of the need to ensure that those staff who do not require or need to take parental leave do
 not end up being discriminated against. We do this by supporting their requests for sabbaticals
 and through other means.

 The balance of our staff between men and women is roughly even: on the census date, ten out
 of our eighteen permanent academic staff were women. A slightly higher proportion of senior
 staff were women, with four female Professors to three male ones. We had four female
 Associate Professors to three male ones, and one female Assistant Professor to two male ones.
 Our permanent academic staff have a variety of national backgrounds, including Australia,
 Belgium, Germany, Kenya, Italy, India, The Netherlands, the Middle East, South Africa, the USA
 and the UK. In 2017-2019 a review of staff salaries and gender equity was carried out and
 appropriate adjustments made.



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Despite this attention to gender and LGBTQ+ equity, however, our representation of minoritized
 ethnic groups has been less successful, especially at senior levels. In our professoriate we had
 no minority ethnic groups during the review period, although we had 33.3% at Associate
 Professor level. To ensure a sustainable approach to diversity in the longer term, we made a
 concerted effort in our recent hiring process for an Assistant Professor post. Members of the
 department reached out globally to specific candidates inviting them to apply. We then placed a
 particular emphasis on longlisting and shortlisting excellent academics from minority, ethnic
 backgrounds, and our shortlist of six included four such candidates. We are delighted that
 through our appointment, in September 2020, of Yazan Doughan, a rising star with a prize-
 winning PhD from the University of Chicago, we have increased our numbers in this area.

 To ensure equity between senior and more junior staff we maintain a transparent allocation of
 work points, with postdoctoral teaching/research (‘LSE’) fellows being given 25% less teaching
 and no significant administrative work. This facilitates an approximate equality of workload within
 the department. We are attentive to balancing the needs of those post-doctoral research fellows
 on externally funded short-term (mostly 3-year) contracts with those of permanent staff; to this
 end we recently expanded the reach of the RIIF funds by including post-doctoral fellows as
 recipients of grants, which has enabled them to build their research and publication profiles by
 running workshops—such as ‘State Legibility – Mind Legibility’, co-organised by Buitron, and
 ‘Ontology and Prediction in Divination’, organised by Matthews—that led to important
 publications. Our 2019 RIIF-funded workshop on Authorship in Anthropology sought further to
 balance these needs by producing a policy brief to protect the interests of early career
 researchers on funded projects.

 PhD Students

 The PhD programme is central to the life of the department. The recruitment, training and
 mentoring of PhD students (some of whom stay on as postdoctoral fellows, and all of whom, as
 from 2020, are invited to become visiting fellows for a year after completion) is one of the
 department’s core priorities, and PhD students have long played a key role in our intellectual and
 collegial life. We are fortunate in being able to recruit extremely talented PhD candidates to the
 department, and have been pleased to see the consistent success of our graduates over the
 years—in particular, but not only, when it comes to securing employment in higher education.
 We have typically had about 10 new PhD students per year, and a significant proportion of these
 have funding from ESRC, the LSE, or other sources. The emphasis in our programme, which
 involves close collaboration with the LSE PhD Academy, is on (a) high-quality pre-fieldwork
 training, centred on intensive/individualized work with supervisors to develop innovative research
 plans. We have a co-supervision model, to ensure that students are supported by two members
 of staff in their intellectual inquiry); (b) long-term fieldwork, averaging 18 months, which enables
 our students to establish regional expertise and theoretical insights on which they can draw for
 years to come. We have fought to ensure that anthropological fieldwork is not truncated by
 funding or other concerns, and have changed the programme format in order to deal with this
 issue; (c) a post-fieldwork focus on producing high-quality dissertations and research
 publications but also on career development. For example, we hold away-days in which students
 give presentations about their research, and give them individualized feedback on their CVs and
 draft letters of application, but we also employ as many post-fieldwork students as possible as
 Graduate Teaching Assistants so that they have teaching experience on their CV.

 In the programme as a whole, our students benefit from the ‘cohort’ effect, working closely with
 their peers from start to finish; through detailed discussion of chapters in the weekly writing-up
 seminar; and through participation as presenters in the Friday Research seminar. This enlivens
 and contributes to the vitality of the department’s research culture. PhD students speak beyond
 their specialisms by focusing on what will be of interest to people who do not have immediate
 expertise in their areas of research. We have recently begun to examine the pressures that PhD
 research in social anthropology can place on our students, and on how we can support them
 through this. We have been working collaboratively with them to improve the advice, training and
 support they are given in relation to risk, ethics and well-being—both at School level (primarily

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 via the PhD Academy) and at the departmental level (via our pre-fieldwork training provision).
 Career advice workshops have helped enable students to get postdoctoral placements and,
 later, permanent jobs. Many of our PhD students spend 3-4 years in postdoctoral fellowships
 and teaching positions in a wide range of excellent UK and European Institutions. As evidence of
 the success of our doctoral programme, about 75% of those who received a PhD during the
 census period were in permanent academic posts four years after receiving their degree. They
 are mostly hired by UK institutions, including Cambridge, Edinburgh, UCL and Goldsmiths, with
 outliers in Europe (Ghent and Groningen), Latin America (Brazil, Chile) and in the US (Berkeley).

 The onset of Covid-19 has, however, brought significant challenges for our PhD students, many
 of whom were forced to return from the field while others had to delay the onset of their
 research. It threatens to unsettle many of the elements of our programme as outlined above.
 Aware of some of the serious issues affecting the morale and sense of purpose of this cohort of
 students, supervisors, with the help and support of the PhD Academy, have been working with
 individual students to help them shift emphasis or achieve their original aims through other
 means, and to convey and work through the implications of funder decisions. We have also
 shifted our pre-field training to include significant attention to digital and online methods for the
 2020/21 intake of students. We have held Town Hall meetings and will host a workshop and an
 awayday to discuss and address these issues, especially for those whose fieldwork has been
 interrupted.

 PhD students have achieved recognition, both internally through our annual Firth Prize for the
 best doctoral student paper presented at the Friday Research seminar, and through external
 prizes awarded to best articles and books based on PhD theses. Pia, who joined the department
 in 2018, was in 2014 awarded the Association of Political and Legal Anthropology Best Graduate
 Student Paper for the article ‘“We Follow Reason not the Law”. Disavowing the law in rural
 China’. The Thinking Allowed Award for Ethnography was awarded to former doctoral students
 Max Bolt in 2015 for Zimbabwe's Migrants and South Africa's Border Farms and Ruben
 Andersson in 2016 for Illegality, Inc.: Clandestine Migration and the Business of Bordering
 Europe, while the William A. Douglass Prize in Europeanist Anthropology was won in 2019 by
 Anna Tuckett for Rules, Paper, Status: Migrants and Precarious Bureaucracy in Contemporary
 Italy.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income

 In the review period we have been awarded a total of £5,528,059 in grant income. This more
 than doubles the amount—£2.5m—awarded in the previous review period. The organisational
 structures outlined in Section 1 and below, alongside robust support from LSE’s Research and
 Innovation Division, have enabled staff members to bid successfully for large multi-person grants
 as well as securing more modest ones for individual research.

 The largest proportion was from UK funders, with over half the funding coming from the ESRC
 (James & Koch’s’ ‘An Ethnography of Advice’, and Shah’s ‘An Ethnographic Investigation into
 the Persistence of Poverty amongst Adivasis and Dalits in India’). The Leverhulme Trust
 awarded part of the funding for 4 post-doctoral fellowships, totalling £285K (Hickel, Kajanus,
 Tilche, and Nahum-Claudel). (Match-funding for these came from LSE’s RIIF). Leverhulme also
 gave £246K for staff projects (James’ ‘Creative Interventions: Innovation in Public Legal
 Services after Legal Aid’ and Emerita Professor Mundy’s ‘Agrarian Question in the Arab World’).
 £60K was awarded by the National Institute of Economic and Social Research (Bear’s part in
 ‘Rebuilding Macro-Economics’), and £14K by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research
 Council (EPSRC) to Bear’s ‘Decision-Making Under Uncertainty: Developing a Deeper
 Conversation’. Nearly £17K came from the British Academy for Long’s ‘Democracy in Indonesia’,
 and about £8K for Barber’s proposal to run a development workshop for Africa-based scholars
 submitting journal articles.


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We were also successful in bidding for EU-based funding: the ERC awarded just over £1m to
 Walker & Astuti’s ‘Justice, Morality, and the State in Amazonia’ and £892K to Shah’s ‘The
 Underbelly of the Indian Boom: Adivasis and Dalits’, while the European Commission gave
 £177K to Stafford’s ‘The Dynamics of Independence and Interdependence in Chinese Children's
 Development’.

 US funders have also played their part in our funding strategy: the Social Science Research
 Council gave £93K (Cannell’s ‘Prayer, Lives and Family Piety’) and the National Science
 foundation, £14K (Power’s ‘The Effect of Social networks on Inequality: Economic Network
 dynamics and the origins of Wealth’). The Independent Social Research Foundation gave £60K
 for Graeber’s mid-career fellowship. The balance of our funding was awarded internally by LSE
 sources: STICERD, LSE RIIF, LSE COVID-19 Internal Research Call and—specifically oriented
 towards enabling impact—LSE Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) and LSE Higher Education
 Innovation Fund (HEIF).

 We have further grants awarded, such as Weszkalnys’ ‘Fraying Ties? Networks, Territory and
 the UK Oil Sector’ which started in 2020 and Long’s ‘The power of 'suggestion': an ethnographic
 study of therapeutic vernacularisation, sociality, and governance in Indonesia's hypnosis boom’
 which starts in 2021. Steinmüller is involved in an ERC Advanced Grant, ‘Extort’, led by Lucia
 Michelutti at UCL which also starts in 2021. Grant applications in the pipeline include, among
 others, those by Banerjee on taxation in India, by Barber on Yoruba migrants in London and
 their connections in Nigeria, by Steinmüller (together with LSE colleagues from Departments of
 Government and International Relations, respectively) on ‘Expanding China’, and by Bear on
 ‘Reconfiguring the Public Good: caring and uncaring post-Covid’. Both of these will involve
 several post-doctoral fellows and PhD students.

 In addition to externally-awarded funds, LSE provides money to support KEI, giving £10k to each
 department from central funds to support knowledge exchange activities. This has been used to
 promote our work to targeted sections of the public, for launches of Rules, Paper, Status by
 Tuckett and Care for Sale by Gutierrez Garza, both ESRC-funded research fellows at the time. It
 also enabled us to reach a far wider audience with our panel discussion of Graeber’s renowned
 Bullshit Jobs, which filled the Old Theatre, and with an international poetry festival he co-
 convened in London with an activist organisation from Greece. In addition, two centrally-funded
 LSE KEI Fund awards were made during the census period: £14K to Banerjee for ‘The States of
 South Asia’, in 2018/19, and £100K to James for ‘Welfare payments as debt collateral in South
 Africa: collaborating to challenge illicit deductions’ in 2017/18. Both made significant
 contributions to our impact profile, with the former resulting in a book workshop on democracy
 and the moral economy of elections in Africa and India, and the latter helping to inform one of
 our impact case studies.

 Infrastructure

 Key in providing research support are the Departmental Research Committee (DRC) and LSE’s
 Research and Innovation Division (see REF5a for more detail). The DRC meets each term to
 consider applications made to the Department’s RIIF fund and discuss—and provide detailed
 feedback on—research proposals by staff members, helping to secure much of the funding
 outlined above. In addition, by providing initial commentary on, and later evaluating, proposals
 made by potential postdoctoral fellows, it has helped to secure positions for a number of them.
 The advice provided to applicants for the Leverhulme, British Academy (including the Newton
 Fellowship), Marie Curie, the Fyssen Foundation, and Canada’s Social Sciences and
 Humanities Research Council (SSHRC), along with support from Research and Innovation, has
 resulted in our hosting four Leverhulme post-doctoral fellows over the period (Kajanus
 ‘Cooperation, Punishment and Violence – A comparative study of children's cooperative
 relationships in China and in the UK’, Hickel ‘Debt Resistance and the Politics of Central
 Banking in South Africa’, Nahum-Claudel ‘Intimate Witchcraft: forging human life between
 unseen and phenomenal worlds’ and Tilche ‘Making and unmaking indigeneity: art, religion and
 inequality in contemporary India’), one SSHRC fellow (Webb ‘States, Bodies and Markets:

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Comparative Perspectives on Biometrics and Cash Transfer Programs in Southern Africa’), and
 a Fyssen fellow (Wencellius ‘Conceiving the Reproduction of Living Kinds: Indigenous theories
 of the heredity of domesticated plants and animals in African agro-pastoral societies’) as well as
 one British Academy Newton Fellow (Hauck ‘Moral Socialisation of Aché Children’). Over the
 past two years, the task of mentoring would-be fellows for the new one-year ESRC post-doctoral
 fellowship has been added to our portfolio. Out of a small number awarded to LSE overall, we
 have achieved considerable success. In year 1, Musallam was granted funds for his research
 entitled ‘A break in the future: Feeling like an activist after the Arab uprisings’, to carry forward
 his work on Lebanon under Graeber’s mentorship. In year 2 we achieved even greater success,
 with anthropologists in the UOA securing no less than 3 places: Ongaro’s ‘The value and
 efficacy of Akha shamanic medicine: exporting anthropological insights’ (mentored by Scott);
 Zidaru’s ‘Phantom trust: faith, language, and digital inequalities in Southwest Kenya’ (mentored
 by James) and Deschenaux’s 'Beyond participant observation: integrating ethnographic and
 quantitative research methods' (mentored by Power).

 Space and facilities

 After a long wait, we are making progress in our aim of mirroring, in geographical space, the
 sense of ‘psychic’ cohesiveness that our department enjoys. As LSE approaches the completion
 of its building programme, we have gradually been consolidating all staff, including postdoctoral
 fellows and graduate teaching assistants, in the Old Building; many were previously housed in
 one or more of the harder-to-reach small network of buildings surrounding Portugal Street. The
 only exception to this exercise in spatial consolidation is the siting of our doctoral students, who
 have been using shared workspaces in a dedicated study room in a separate building. They
 were due to be moving into a larger and more spacious office in the Old Building, but this move
 has been delayed due to Covid-19. (Those employed as Graduate Teaching Assistants do,
 however, have separate offices where they can work and see students). Postdoctoral
 research/teaching fellows have their own offices, while those employed on large projects or
 holding one of the post-doctoral fellowships listed above have, since 2014, occupied a large,
 shared office on the 6th floor of the Old Building. (For information on library facilities and IT
 support, see REF5a). A nodal point for this newly achieved consolidation is the Old
 Anthropology (formerly Seligman) Library, on the 6th floor of the Old Building. It forms a key
 space for research activities. Before the Covid lockdown, it hosted the Friday Research Seminar
 held weekly during term-time. Weekly slots in the library enable doctoral students to present
 their work at the writing-up seminar, and are used for other seminars in our doctoral training
 programme. During the lockdown, the Library’s website has doubled up as a place to display
 undergraduate, masters and doctoral student research as well as celebrating the department’s
 decolonizing initiatives.

 Administrative support

 All members of our small team of professional services staff (currently 4.4 FTE) play important
 roles in the research life of the department. Tasks range from website management, through
 facilitating the annual Malinowski lecture and other conferences, to the administering—in
 communication with the LSE’s Financial Support Office—of PhD funds, grants and monies: a
 task undertaken with meticulous attention to detail by our department manager, Yanina
 Hinrichsen. A part-time administrator services the Departmental Research Committee and has
 provided support for REF preparation.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 During the review period, staff made significant contributions both within and beyond the
 discipline by participating in a range of collaborations. At different scales—from our smaller-
 scale research projects to broader collaborative programmes—we have engaged with
 researchers at LSE and at other universities. The Department cultivates and maintains links at
 national and international levels which facilitate long-term research collaborations, visiting
 positions for our members of staff, and a vibrant community of visiting fellows and scholars.

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research collaborations, previous and ongoing, have involved Banerjee (with LSE departments,
 the South Asia Centre and Centre for Policy Research, New Delhi), Bear (together with civil
 society groups such as the New Economics Foundation, activists in the debt resistance
 movement, and—with ESRC funding, in conjunction with David Tuckett at UCL and others—with
 a series of interdisciplinary hubs on the ‘Rethinking Macroeconomics’ project); Graeber (who has
 written collaboratively with UCL archaeologist David Wengrow and with members of parliament
 in the Labour Party and Momentum, including John McDonnell and James Schneider), James
 (in collaboration with civil society, activist groups and advice agencies in the UK and EU in the
 ‘Ethnographies of Advice’ project, and with human rights organization The Black Sash in South
 Africa in the ‘Welfare payments as debt collateral in South Africa: collaborating to challenge illicit
 deductions’ project); Long (who, together with two PhD students and post-doctoral fellow Laws,
 participated in a 15-person research study alongside colleagues at several universities in
 Australia and New Zealand) and Shah (together with Jens Lerche at SOAS) on their South Asia
 project ‘The Underbelly of the Indian Boom: Adivasis and Dalits’.

 Visiting positions have been (or currently are) held by a number of staff: including in Central Asia
 (at the Department of Anthropology, American University Central Asia, financed by the Open
 Society Foundation’s Academic Fellowship Program), China (Visiting Professor at Dianxi Normal
 University); Germany (Visiting Research Fellow, Institut für Ethnologie, Ludwig-Maximilians
 Universität); New Zealand and the US (Visiting Scholar, Columbia University).

 Keynote or distinguished memorial lectures and lecture series have been delivered by members
 of staff in the US, Europe, Australia and the UK as well as India, China, and Africa. Scott gave
 the Frederik Barth Memorial Lecture, Bergen, and the opening keynote at the 2017 conference
 of the International Society of Anglo-Saxonists, while Bear gave the Raymond Firth Lecture at
 the ASA (Association of Social Anthropologists of the UK) and the 2019 Edvard Westermarck
 memorial lecture, Finland. Other keynote lectures were given by Gardner at the 2019 ASA
 conference, and Shah at the 2020 DSA (Development Studies Association) conference. Shah
 also gave the 2019 Willem Wertheim Lecture and the 2019 Gold Lecture at Goldsmiths College.
 Bear and James both delivered lectures in the Munro series, in Edinburgh. In the UK, members
 of staff have delivered invited lectures at the Universities of Cambridge, Durham, Edinburgh,
 Kent, Kings College London, the Pacific Islands Society of the United Kingdom and Ireland
 (PISUKI), Oxford, SOAS, UCL, and Warwick. Internationally, they have delivered invited lectures
 at Aarhus; American University of Central Asia, Kyrgyzstan; Bayreuth; Berlin; British Columbia;
 Canberra; Cape Town; Centre of Applied Anthropology in Kiev; Chinese Association of
 Ethnology; Columbia; Copenhagen; Cornell; Delhi; Dianxi Normal University of Science and
 Technology; Doha; Georgetown; Hong Kong; Jena; Kaljani, India; Kyoto, Japan; Leuven;
 Macquarie, Australia; Maritime Museum, Quanzhou; Maynooth, Ireland; Melbourne; Monash;
 Munich; Oslo; Rio de Janeiro (FURJ); Universidad del País Vasco; Sydney; Witwatersrand,
 South Africa; and Zurich.

 Prizes. Books and articles by department members have achieved recognition. Foremost and
 widest-read, Graeber’s Bullshit Jobs: the rise of pointless work, and what we can do about it was
 named as 2018 book of the year by The Financial Times, The Times, The New Statesman, and
 City AM. Likewise achieving widespread recognition in the wider market, Shah’s Nightmarch was
 shortlisted for the 2019 Orwell Prize for Political Writing, New India Book Foundation Prize, and
 Victor Turner Awards given by the Society for Humanistic Anthropology, and appeared in 2018
 Book of the Year Lists (New Statesman, History Workshop, Hindu Year in Review, Scroll India
 and the Hong Kong Free Press). In 2020 the book was awarded the Association of Political and
 Legal Anthropology Book Prize in Critical Anthropology. Other prizes were awarded by specialist
 bodies, such as the Socio-Legal Studies association, which gave the 2020 Hart-SLSA early
 career book prize to Koch’s book Personalising the State: Punishment, Class and Gender in
 Britain (it was also shortlisted for the book prize under the general rubric). James was awarded
 the ASAUK’s 2016 (inaugural) Fage and Oliver Prize, and the 2017 Society for Economic
 Anthropology’s prize for Money from Nothing, while the Society for Psychological Anthropology
 awarded Long the 2019 Stirling Prize for the best published work in psychological anthropology
 for his 2018 ‘Suggestions of power: searching for efficacy in Indonesia’s hypnosis boom’, Ethos

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 46(1): 70-94. Staff members have also been recognized for more innovative ways of presenting
 research, as when Pia’s videogame The Long Day of Young Peng was shortlisted in the 2017
 5th International Educational Game Competition, ECGBL; and when he gave a guest lecture on
 the topic, ‘Introducing Interactive Digital Ethnographies: The Long Day of Young Peng’, in the
 2018 symposium ‘Teaching and learning anthropology and ethnography in Eastern and South-
 eastern Europe: making sense of cultural difference in familiar and unfamiliar contexts’,
 Thessaloniki, Greece.

 Contributions to the discipline

 Editorial work. During the review period, James was co-editor of Africa, Pelkmans was co-editor
 of Focaal; Pia was co-founder and co-editor of Chinoiresie.info and Made in China, Steinmüller
 was co-editor of Social Analysis, and Stafford has been editor and publisher and Allerton co-
 editor of Anthropology of This Century. Staff members also serve as editors for book series,
 including Berghahn’s European Society for Oceanist series Pacific Presents (Scott), Berghahn’s
 Asian Anthropologies and Asia-Pacific (Steinmüller), Routledge’s Exploring the Political in South
 Asia (Banerjee), the International African Institute’s International African Library (James) and
 LSE Monographs on Social Anthropology (Bear). Other staff hold editorial positions on ASA
 Monographs, Contemporary Muslim Societies, Frontiers in Cognitive Science, International
 African Library, Inside Indonesia; Les Chemins de l’Ethnologie, and Social Sciences Press (New
 Delhi).

 Membership of editorial boards. Staff members serve on the boards of journals: Africa, American
 Ethnologist, Cambridge Anthropology, Contributions to Indian Sociology, Critique of
 Anthropology, Dialectical Anthropology, Economy and Society, Focaal, Indian Journal of Politics,
 Journal for the Cognitive Science of Religion, Journal of Southern African Studies and Past and
 Present.

 Participation in professional bodies, and external roles in academia and beyond. Department
 members have been members of Grant Assessment Panels for the ESRC, AHRC, and ERC;
 have served as advisors for senior academic posts and as members of the RAI council and
 steering committee. Pelkmans was a member of the committee evaluating all undergraduate and
 postgraduate anthropology programmes in the Netherlands. Long is a member of the Royal
 Anthropological Institute’s Publications Committee, while Scott is Honorary Librarian and Chair
 of its Library Committee. He is also a member of the Council of the Pacific Islands Society of the
 United Kingdom and Ireland, and served on the board of the European Society for Oceanists.
 James is a trustee of the International African Institute and a member of its publication
 committee. She and Stafford are Fellows of the British Academy.




                                                                                           Page 13
