Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Nottingham Trent University (NTU)
 Unit of Assessment: D27 - English Language and Literature
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Context
 NTU English is a research-focused Unit, with 18 FTE working across national and international
 contexts and major genres from the early modern period to the twenty-first century. Since 2014,
 we have increased our research output production, significantly exceeding the number submitted
 for assessment: 23 monographs and books, 78 journal articles and book chapters, and 17
 creative outputs. We have more than doubled our research income, with awards totalling £1.8m.
 The Unit has nearly tripled the number of doctoral researchers, to 46 compared with 17 in
 REF2014; an additional 26 external PGRs have been co-supervised by Unit staff.

 We have built on each research exercise since our first submission in 1996 through sustained
 engagement with disciplinary and wider research innovations, commitment to researcher
 development, and investment at Unit and University levels. Our areas of particular expertise are:

       creative writing, including critical-creative research
       gender and sexuality
       literary and cultural activism
       postcolonial cultures, including global and world literatures
       print and periodical cultures
       recovery research
       travel writing
       twentieth-century and contemporary literatures

 We play a leading role in disciplinary debates about minority and marginalised groups,
 integrating the principles of equality, diversity and inclusion into our research and ensuring that it
 benefits diverse communities.

 Building on partnerships set out in our REF2014 submission, we have substantially expanded
 the range and scope of our partnerships to address shared challenges with museums, heritage
 organizations, refugee groups, galleries, theatres, publishers, writers, and activist and creative
 networks. Regionally, we work collaboratively with Nottingham UNESCO City of Literature
 (NUCoL), Nottingham Playhouse (NP), Nottingham Refugee Forum, Nottingham Black Archive,
 and Bromley House Library. Nationally and internationally, we have developed partnerships with
 the Science Museum (London), National Justice Museum, Exiled Writers Ink, Women’s Library
 (London), the international UNESCO Creative Cities Network (particularly Katowice, Tartu,
 Dublin, Ljubljana, Granada), Shakespeare Birthplace Trust (SBT), and forged new community-
 led initiatives with writer-activist groups in India. Among cross-HEI networks, we led the AHRC
 Centre for Hidden Histories World War I ‘We Will Remember Them’ project and lead the AHRC-
 funded international network on Dalit literature. We have embraced the principle of co-design
 and co-production, with engagement, knowledge exchange, and impact activities emerging from
 collaborative relationships.

 NTU English comprises 19 staff researchers and 33 currently enrolled PGRs, with an additional
 20 completing in the current period. We are a major presence in the Department of English,
 Communications, and Philosophy, benefitting from the multidisciplinary character of a
 Department that catalyses research collaboration, facilitates shared impact activities, and
 promotes cross-cutting PGR supervision. NTU’s 2020 and 2025 strategic plans, and the ‘Valuing
 Ideas’ theme therein, set out an institutional determination to ‘expand our research excellence’
 and to ‘develop and nurture the next generation of researchers’. These ambitions have resulted
 in considerable funding and investment since 2014 in research infrastructure, researcher support
 and development, and PGR recruitment. We are the main beneficiary of the £2.7m invested by
 NTU in Arts and Humanities research since 2014. This investment has supported senior, ECR,
 and research assistant appointments, sabbaticals, PGR recruitment, impact and engagement

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 activities, and output production. The Unit has also benefitted substantially from NTU partnership
 investment (in particular in NUCoL, Nottingham Contemporary (NC), and NP).

 We participate actively in the formulation of NTU research strategy. A key investment was the
 creation of an Associate Dean for Research (ADR) in the School of Arts and Humanities; Yousaf
 works closely with the Deputy Vice-Chancellor - Research and Enterprise and is a member of
 NTU’s Academic Research Leadership Team and the University Leadership Team. Leonard
 was a member of the 2015-2020 research strategy implementation programme; both are part of
 NTU2025 research strategy planning. Institutional support and funding allowed us to reflect on
 the shape and direction of our research, and to review, assess and strengthen research support
 mechanisms. Our approach to environment development is responsive and intellectually
 creative, ensuring support for both individual and group ambitions that express what is distinctive
 about the Unit.

 Structure
 Over successive RAE and REF periods, we have created an environment that supports
 individual researchers and encourages collaboration. PGRs and postdoctoral scholars are
 integrated into our research culture, mentored for individual benefit, and collaborate continuously
 with staff. Our two Research Centres bring together researchers around established Unit
 strengths, enhance the quality of outputs, and catalyse engagement with partners. Our
 Research Groups evolve out of emerging Unit specialisms and support areas for strategic
 development.

 The Centre for Travel Writing Studies (CTWS), formed in 2002-03, remains the only UK
 Research Centre dedicated to research on travel writing and its global contexts. Areas of
 particular focus include travel writing by neglected and/or marginalised groups or individuals,
 radical writing, and the creative practice of writing about travel. Director Youngs is an
 international leader in this field. CTWS is home to the international journal Studies in Travel
 Writing (Taylor & Francis) which publishes four issues a year. Notable issues in the review
 period include ‘Travel Writing and Wales’ (guest eds Jones, Tully and Williams, 2014 ‘Travel
 Writing and Xinjiang’ (guest ed. Forsdick, 2014) and ‘New Narratives of the Arctic’ (guest eds
 Jensen and Huggan, 2016). Centre membership includes 12 staff and RAs (Bowring, Butler,
 Chambers, Cullen, Dixon, Jackson, Nutting, Ouditt, Taylor, Thacker, Waterman, Youngs) and
 6 PGRs (Aatkar, Bruce, Morris, Owen, Robinson-Smith, Stoneman). International scholars
 visiting the CTWS recently include Ben Stubbs (South Australia) and Sandra Vlasta (Mainz).
 Members co-organise symposia, writing workshops, public talks, and readings with partner
 organizations including Coventry Transport Museum, Bromley House Library, Joseph Banks
 Society, NC, NUCoL, and the Romanian Society of London, with support from the AHRC,
 Heritage Lottery Fund, and the AHRC Midlands3Cities/ Midlands4Cities DTP. The CTWS
 expanded in the review period to welcome NTU poets who address travel. Major Centre outputs
 since 2014 include The Cambridge History of Travel Writing (2019), co-edited by Youngs and
 Nandini Das (Oxford), and Waterman’s Sarajevo Roses (2017).

 Established in 2000, the cross-disciplinary Postcolonial Studies Centre (PSC) examines the
 complex afterlives of colonialism, and radical possibilities for postcolonial thought and culture.
 PSC membership (44) includes 11 Unit-affiliated staff (Ball, Leonard, Makis, Monteith,
 Newport, Ramone, Rushton, Thacker, Thiara, Youngs, Yousaf) and 12 PGRs (Aatkar, Ablett,
 Almefawaz, Banjoko, Bilton, De Riso, Evans, Lockwood-Moran, Naik, Njanji, Olver,
 Ravenscroft). Visiting speakers since 2014 include Kehinde Andrews (Birmingham City), John
 McLeod (Leeds), Ulla Ratheiser (Innsbruck), and Anastasia Valassopoulos (Manchester). In
 2020, Makis was appointed PSC Writer-in-Residence. Cultural sector partners include the
 Bibliothèque Marguerite Audoux (France), the Department of Kannada and Culture (India), the
 International Association for Performing Arts and Research (India), New Art Exchange, NUCoL,
 Nottingham and Nottinghamshire Refugee Forum, Peepal Tree Press, and the Ravindra
 Kalakshetra Cultural Centre (India). Funding has been awarded by the AHRC, Leverhulme
 Trust, British Academy, M3C/M4C, and Postcolonial Studies Association. Thiara leads the
 AHRC-funded international network on Dalit literature, pursuing new directions in Postcolonial
                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Studies by collaborating with one of the most oppressed communities in India. PSC innovations
 include: Ball’s work on the gender politics of mobility in narratives of human trafficking,
 displacement and forced migration; Ramone’s research on Cuba and transnational literary
 marketplaces; and ECA Rushton’s work on world literary systems theory. Thacker’s ongoing
 work on The Oxford Critical and Cultural History of Global Modernist Magazines (OUP) explores
 periodical publications in previously neglected countries around the world. Major Centre
 publications include The Edinburgh Companion to the Postcolonial Middle East (2018) co-edited
 by Ball and Karim Mattar (Colorado, Boulder).

 We regularly review areas of shared research expertise to identify opportunities for disciplinary
 and interdisciplinary innovation. This process of reflection has led to the recent formation of two
 research groups.

 The interdisciplinary Critical Poetics Research Group (CPRG; established 2015) supports
 collaboration between scholars and practitioners who combine creative and critical practice. The
 CPRG comprises 25 staff, RAs and PGRs, 19 affiliated with the Unit (Allak, Ball, Callus, Clark,
 Cooper-Smithson, Cordle, Cullen, Dang, Dixon, Edwards-Daem, Jackson, Leonard, Monteith,
 Morris, Taylor, Terry, Thacker (J), Waterman, Youngs). Led by Jackson (2015-2018; 2019-)
 and Cordle (2018-19), CPRG extends and refines Creative Writing, established at NTU in 1985
 and promoted through the Nottingham Creative Writing Hub (convenor Waterman). Members
 work closely with NUCoL and the international UNESCO Creative Cities Network, NC, Broadway
 Cinema and Media Centre, the Science Museum (London), Creswell Crags Museum and
 Prehistoric Gorge, and the BT Archives. The 2018 Writing East Midlands Conference (Jackson),
 with contributions by Clark, Cordle, and Dixon, introduced creative-critical practice to writers
 across the region. CPRG member Clark was awarded an Innovation Placement with the British
 Library to build an interactive fiction repository. Funders include the AHRC, Leverhulme Trust,
 UNESCO Creative Cities Network, and M3C/M4C. Key outputs include: the ‘Unidentifiable
 Literary Objects’ special issue of parallax (co-editors Jackson and Camilla Bostock (U of
 Plymouth), 2019) and Writing the Contemporary: Poetry and Postcards from UNESCO Cities of
 Literature, co-editors Cordle and Dixon for Trent Editions (2019).

 Led by Clay and Thacker, the Periodical and Print Cultures Research Group (PPCRG;
 established 2019) brings together 15 NTU senior researchers, ECAs, RAs, and PGRs and a
 further 7 external researchers with expertise in the material and economic culture of periodicals,
 books, newspapers, pamphlets, comics, zines, pamphlets, and other forms of print ephemera,
 along with digital manifestations of these objects. PPCRG members include Banjoko, Butler,
 Callus, Clay, Edwards-Daem, Ferris, Grice, Monteith, Palmer, Ramone, Reed, Taylor,
 Thacker, Waterman, and Youngs. PPCRG is responsible for regenerating NTU English’s Little
 Magazines project (established 2001), co-ordinates research seminars, symposia, and literary
 festivals, contributes to national and international research groups, encompassing the Modernist
 Journals Project (US); European Society for Periodical Research; and Transnational Periodical
 Cultures, JGU, Mainz (Germany). Members have been funded by Leverhulme Trust (Thacker
 on the modern bookshop) and AHRC (Clay on Time and Tide; Thacker on European Magazine
 Cultures, c.1945-65). Partners include the British Library and the Women’s Library; key
 publications include Clay’s Time and Tide: The Feminist and Cultural Politics of a Modernist
 Magazine (2018).

 In order to concentrate on our strengths, the Centre for Research in the Romantic Era was
 dissolved following the retirement or departure of key members (Goodridge and Worrall, 2015;
 Thompson, 2016). Our current Centres and Groups maintain the CRRE focus on recovery
 research and print and periodical cultures. Fostering inclusivity and interdisciplinarity, Centres
 and Groups are open to staff, PGRs, and PGT students in English and other disciplines, based
 at NTU and elsewhere.

 Our Impact Case Studies demonstrate how we have nurtured local, national and international
 partnerships to shape institutional attitudes and practices, influence social debates, and
 empower individuals. Changing Wor(l)ds Partnership: Enabling Cultural Self-
                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Representation for Marginalised Communities details how PSC members work with
 community and writers’ groups in Nottingham and India, co-designing events that have
 supported and transformed perceptions of marginalised groups. Being in Touch: Inspiring
 Cultural Engagement through Creative-Critical Writing documents how Jackson has
 developed her critical and creative research on touch and telephony through collaborative
 activities with Nottingham, UK, and international partners, promoting new writing methodologies
 and contributing to cultural programmes.

 Research and impact strategy
 Achievement of REF2014 strategic aims
 Our REF2014 strategic aims focused on enhancing our reputation for producing excellent
 research, reaching new beneficiaries, and further integrating research and impact. Since 2014,
 we have developed a unit strategy that brings together our research and impact. We work
 closely with our partners to design and deliver activities that benefit organisations, groups, and
 individuals. Our research has, in turn, benefitted from our engagement with partners and
 participants. We have also explored new free-to-access digital mechanisms for communicating
 research outcomes, using social media, websites, and blogs to promote our work. Progress and
 achievements are measured against these aims:

 Aim 1: to enhance local, national and international partnerships by formalising links with other
 organisations and agencies, especially those in the creative sector. An exemplary case here will
 be our key role in the planning and delivery of the 2014 Nottingham Festival of Words.

 We have realised impact through deepening our connections with longstanding partners,
 including writers’ groups, educational, media, and cultural and creative sector organisations,
 libraries, archives, literary societies and festivals, and community groups. NTU was principal
 sponsor and partner of the Nottingham Festival of Literature (formerly Nottingham Festival of
 Words), with staff active in planning and delivery. The Unit was one of the drivers for the
 successful NUCoL bid (2015). NUCoL leads the international CoL network; Yousaf was a
 founding Trustee (2015-17); PGR Banjoko is Patron; Belbin is Chair of the Trustees; Jackson,
 Waterman, and Yousaf are Collaborative Board members. We work with NUCoL on shared
 policy research and public engagement activities, reaching writing communities regionally,
 nationally, and internationally. NUCoL was guest of honour at the Granada CoL Book Fair
 (2019); readings and workshops delivered by Cullen, Waterman, and Emeritus Professor
 Woods. Banjoko collaborated with New Art Exchange on behalf of NUCoL and was selected as
 its representative at the 2019 Jaipur Literature Festival.

 To enhance our opportunities for engagement and impact, we have also established new local,
 national, and international partnerships with, among others, BT Archives, Creswell Crags
 Museum and Prehistoric Gorge, the International Association for Performing Arts and Research
 (India), Science Museum (London), and the Women’s Library (London). Monteith led the
 initiative to launch the Journey to Justice: Nottingham exhibition and public engagement
 programme, inaugurating the launch of the National Justice Museum. NTU PGR Bromhall and
 externally co-supervised PGR Weightman undertook M3C placements at NJM to lead on public
 events, liaising with Nottingham City Council and Nottinghamshire Police, and co-creating
 multiple community-HEI research projects. Strengthening this relationship, the PSC held its
 Changing Wor(l)ds Festival at the NJM, launched by Bernadine Evaristo. Smith regularly
 organises panels, speakers, and workshops for the Chipping Campden Literature Festival. In
 2018, he co-organised a conference on Much Ado About Nothing at the Kingston Rose Theatre
 and contributed to SBT’s Shakespeare Connected project. With Nottingham Refugee Forum,
 Ball co-delivered events for Refugee Week; she works closely with the Nottingham PAMOJA
 Women Together Refugee Group. Unit members have realised impact through co-delivered
 activities with New Art Exchange (the UK’s principal cultural diversity visual arts space) and NC
 (a leading UK centre for contemporary art; Monteith was Academic Working Group member
 2017-19). Other partners include NP (including through an AHRC-M4C CDA (Ewart)), Broadway
 Cinema and Media Centre (for the CPRG’s 2017 series Re:Vision: An Exploration of
 Contemporary Experience through Literature and Film), Bromley House Library (where CTWS
                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 organises a travel writing reading group), and ChalleNGe: Nottingham’s Cultural Education
 Partnership (through an AHRC-M4C CDA (Willoughby)).

 Aim 2: to extend our existing collaborative work with academic organisations and develop new
 partnerships. This will include establishing a collaborative research network thematically
 focusing on territory, sovereignty, and globalisation, co-hosted by NTU and Manchester
 Metropolitan University (MMU) and involving staff and PGRs from English and Philosophy.

 The number and significance of academic partner activities increased during the review period.
 Leonard, with Eleanor Byrne (MMU), organised three BA-Leverhulme-funded ‘Troubling
 Globalization’ interdisciplinary symposia (c.65 UK and US participants), leading to a special
 issue of parallax (2021). Thiara’s AHRC-funded ‘Writing, Analysing, Translating Dalit Literature’
 network delivered three conferences (NTU, UEA, and Montpellier, France) with Dalit writers,
 translators and publishers co-designing and co-delivering network events. Monteith as PI (CoIs
 Yousaf, George Lewis (Leicester) and Helen Laville (MMU)), led a 2016 British Academy
 Landmark Conference, bringing together UK and US scholars and documentary filmmakers
 (including John Akomfrah OBE of Black Audio Film Collective and Jon Else (UC Berkeley),
 producer and cinematographer of Eyes on the Prize) to debate the history and practice of
 transatlantic civil rights. In 2014, Thacker was a lead organiser of the Modernism Now!
 conference (Institute for English Studies; 300+ delegates) for the British Association of Modernist
 Studies (BAMS).

 A transformative development in PGR funding and cross-HEI collaboration was the late-2013
 launch of the AHRC-Midlands3Cities Doctoral Training Partnership, with Monteith inaugural
 DTP Director (2013-2016). Leonard and Yousaf lead for NTU as Site Directors (2013-present).
 In 2018, M3C evolved into the Midlands4Cities DTP (ranked by the AHRC 1st of 10 successful
 applications). An active founder member, NTU has shaped and embraced the ethic of shared
 research and engagement that defines this consortium. NTU English has been particularly
 successful, receiving 29 awards. Unit staff and PGRs work across the DTP to deliver researcher
 development activities. After PGRs contributed to the M3C-WROCaH 2016 policy engagement
 workshops (PI Monteith), with the Institute for Government and representation from Amnesty
 International, Aatkar and Bilton co-developed the M4C-WROCaH New Voices in Postcolonial
 Studies network. Richardson and Aatkar were on the organising committee for the M3C-funded
 2018 conference ‘Orientations: A Conference of Narrative and Place’ (hosted by University of
 Nottingham). Aatkar also co-organised ‘Borders and Crossings’, a 2019 M3C-funded
 interdisciplinary conference on travel and travel writing.

 Aim 3: English will plan an NTU-wide Centre for Critical and Creative Research, with both staff
 and PGRs as constituent members, and establish a Poetry and Poetics Research Group.

 Our 2014 submission indicated the close relationship between our critical and creative research.
 Jackson’s and Waterman’s award-winning writing exemplifies this relationship, and a number
 of our staff and PG researchers (Adey, Allak, Banjoko, Buchan-Watts, Callus, Clark, Cooper-
 Smithson, Cropper, Cullen, Dixon, Goacher, Liddle, Makis, Stoneman, Taylor, Terry, Thacker
 (J), Youngs) are creative writers. The Unit continues to be a centre of excellence for poetry, our
 reputation in this genre established over a 40-year period. Our poets regularly co-produce
 events with Five Leaves independent bookshop. Taylor, Waterman and Cullen founded and run
 the Totally Wired public poetry series (hosted by a Nottingham café). Early in the current review
 period, both facets of this aim were combined and made manifest through the formation of the
 CPRG in 2015.

 Aim 4: in line with our existing practice and with the increased importance of open access and
 public engagement agendas, research outputs will increasingly be placed at the point of
 publication in open access digital environments freely available to all.

 We made Trent Editions (TE), the Unit’s publishing imprint (General Editor Thacker; Steering
 Committee: Leonard, Ouditt, Yousaf), an OA platform, resulting in 18 new (e.g. Writing the
                                                                                           Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Contemporary, eds. Cordle and Dixon, 2019) and back catalogue (e.g., volumes on Robert
 Bloomfield and John Clare) titles becoming available in free-to-access digital formats. Green
 (2017-19) and Edwards-Daem (2020) were appointed as Publishing Assistants to support TE’s
 move to OA. The Unit also manages a free-to-access digital archive of poems, letters, and
 selected book content by Laura Riding Jackson. Our ‘gold’ OA outputs include: Cordle’s co-
 edited issue of C21 Literature on the literature of the Anthropocene (2018) and Alluvium article
 on nuclear criticism (2016), Leonard’s monograph Orbital Poetics (2019; supported by NTU’s
 OA monograph fund), and co-edited special issue of GRAMMA: Journal of Literature and
 Criticism on Digital Literary Production and the Humanities (2015). In 2016, Monteith chaired
 the ‘Sprinting to the Open Future’ discussion with editorial directors and managers (CUP, OUP
 and Brepols Press) and Patrick McGuiness (Oxford) for the AHRC Academic Book of the Future
 project. In 2019, Clay was appointed Co-Editor of the OA Journal of European Periodical
 Studies. A 2016 BBC-AHRC New Generation Thinker, Jackson disseminated research
 outcomes through free-to-access programmes and other content developed for the BBC (R3,
 R4, and BBC Arts Online). Ball, Cordle, Keeble, Leonard, O’Connor, Palmer, Ramone,
 Rushton, Smith and PGRs De Riso, Francis, and Liddle contributed articles to The
 Conversation (over 170,000 reads). NTU’s Publication Policy mandates deposit of full-text
 journal articles and (where copyright allows) book chapters and monographs. Our Institutional
 Repository (IRep) enables sharing of research outputs and underlying data internally and
 externally. In accordance with the Concordat on Open Research Data, all research projects at
 NTU require a Data Management Plan (DMP); in 2019 this principle was extended to PGRs,
 further facilitating open research.

 Planning and pathways to achievements
 We regularly review Unit structures and since 2014 have reinvigorated our planning to ensure
 that we address sector and disciplinary challenges. This process resulted in the reorganization
 of the overarching Nottingham Institute for English Research (NiFER) into interlocking groups
 which contribute to our strategy, shape Unit activity, and provide guidance and support via an
 updated mentoring policy for development needs and opportunities.

 The English Research Strategy Group (ERSG; Leonard, Monteith, Ouditt, Thacker, Youngs,
 Yousaf) is responsible for safeguarding the vitality and sustainability of our research culture and
 ensuring equality, inclusion, and diversity. Matters relating to research integrity and ethics are
 overseen centrally (see REF5a) and managed locally. Scrutiny of staff and PGR projects in D27
 is overseen by a cross-School committee to ensure that projects are scrutinised from different
 disciplinary perspectives. Resources are available to staff and students in the form of online
 modules which cover different aspects of research integrity and these are complemented by
 training arrangements at School level. All Unit members are invited to join English Research
 Task and Finish Groups (ERTFGs), addressing e.g. engagement, OA and researcher
 development support. Our ECA peer group has been supported in career development, training
 and skills by ERSG and other Unit members who co-facilitate workshops e.g. on thesis to book,
 funding applications, PGR support and journal publication. Members seeking external funding
 receive feedback and support from NTU’s significantly expanded Research Operations and
 Research Development teams, and peer review by Unit-based mentors. This strategy has
 resulted in major awards for Ball, Clay, Jackson, Thacker, and Thiara (3.1 below). The Unit
 has benefitted from the advice of external impact consultants with subject-relevant expertise, as
 well as University-appointed consultants.

 Post-2014 and future strategic aims
 During the current REF period have renewed and refined the values and aims that we articulated
 in 2014, and which have shaped the Unit for more than three decades. In the next review period,
 we will build on these and develop our established strengths by:

    1. undertaking pioneering work in recovery research, focusing on minority and marginalised
       writing and on perceptions of literary value. Our work here makes a significant
       contribution to literary and cultural history (e.g. Clay’s co-edited Women's Periodicals

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       and Print Culture in Britain 1918-1939; Monteith’s SNCC’s Stories and Leverhulme MRF
       supporting recovery of the literature of the civil rights movement);
    2. engaging with and initiating new directions in criticism and scholarship. Our Research
       Centres and Groups exemplify how research drives as well as explores emerging
       debates about literature and culture (e.g. Thacker’s Modernism, Space, and the City and
       subsequent AHRC-RDG-funded project ‘Spaces Of Translation: European Magazine
       Cultures, c.1945-65’);
    3. exploring the relationship between critical and creative research, in particular originating
       new research practices and activities that combine criticism and creativity (e.g.
       Jackson’s Tactile Poetics).

 We are confident that these initiatives remain compelling for the discipline, and they will continue
 to shape our research and impact strategy. We will reflect and build on them to ensure that our
 research culture is sustainable and that we remain open to both new areas of critical inquiry and
 emerging research practices. Our future aims grow from our established strengths and recent
 achievements and include:

       extending disciplinary and cross-cutting developments relating to communications and
        other technologies, marginalised communities, forced migration and refugeeism, and
        environmental damage;
       broadening the scope of our work on digital and print cultures and on the relationship of
        literary and cultural history to contemporary activism;
       cultivating a large and thriving PGR community; building on our M3C/M4C successes;
        enhancing PGR training and development; and developing M4C CDA projects to
        catalyse PGR partner and cultural engagement;

 We will continue to develop infrastructure to promote open research, enhance our support for
 researchers and expand our high-level collaborative partnerships.

 2. People
 Staffing strategy and staff development
 NTU English comprises 26 staff, 73% with significant responsibility for research. We have
 substantially improved Unit support for all staff and PGRs, and one early initiative formalised our
 one-to-one mentoring to ensure personalised support relating to all research matters, including
 pre-publication output review, time-management, researcher development, external funding
 applications, and research visibility. NTU’s sabbatical policy for all University staff on permanent
 academic contracts has afforded Unit staff time to make significant progress with outputs. Unit
 Co-ordinator Leonard holds annual Individual Research Planning meetings which focus on
 individuals’ publication plans, grant capture intentions, and conference, dissemination, and
 engagement activities. Yousaf ensures appropriate resources are in place so that individual
 ambitions may be realised. Twice-yearly appraisal meetings monitor the relationship between
 research and other academic responsibilities, with Yousaf as ADR involved in all professorial
 and associate professor reviews. We hold regular research away-days, providing all staff
 additional development support and opportunities to contribute to Unit planning.

 Recruitment is linked to our strategy to recognise and retain leading researchers. Since
 REF2014, we have recruited five new members of staff, representing significant University
 investment. Monteith (REF2014 Sub-Panel 29 English and Sub-Panel 30 History Assessor)
 joined in 2017, bringing additional expertise in American literature and cultural history, and
 augmenting our work on literary activism, social justice, with interdisciplinary strengths across
 history, media, and visual culture. ECAs Bowring, Butler, Cullen, Grice, and Rushton were
 recruited to underpin and renew strengths in nineteenth-century literature, modernism, creative
 writing, travel writing, and postcolonial and World Literatures. Five members have retired;
 confirming the stability of our environment, only two (Keeble, Thompson) moved to another
 institution.


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have supported PGR development by recruiting Allak, Buchan-Watts, Butler, Dixon,
 Edwards-Daem, Green, Newport, Nutting, Reed, and J Thacker to research assistant and
 publishing assistant positions, facilitating exchanges with partner organizations and supporting
 research production. Butler was appointed to a three-year lectureship following Monteith’s
 Leverhulme award and has since been appointed Lecturer. Mentored by Jackson, Allak
 progressed to the post of Lecturer in Creative Writing, Edge Hill University. Green (a former PhD
 student of Monteith) and Publishing Assistant for Trent Editions (mentored by Thacker), was
 appointed Research Development Officer at University of Birmingham. Other PGR successes
 include Clark (appointed AHRC Postdoctoral Fellow at University of Dundee, 2019); Bromhall
 (appointed NUCoL Project Officer, 2019); Cullen (appointed Lecturer in English at NTU, 2019);
 and Dixon (appointed Lecturer in Creative Writing, DMU, 2019)

 Two members of the Unit (Jackson (2017) and Thacker (2018)) received Vice-Chancellor’s
 Outstanding Researcher Awards, conferred following NTU-wide competition. In recognition of
 exceptional and sustained contribution to American literature and cultural history, Monteith in
 2019 was awarded the title of Distinguished Professor, the fourth award by NTU and the first in
 Arts and Humanities. Four staff were promoted: Ball, Clay, and Jackson to Associate Professor
 and Leonard to Professor.

 Research Students
 Our strategy to increase PGR enrolments and completions has been highly successful: 46
 enrolments and 20 completions to date (compared with 17 enrolments and 11 completions for
 REF2014). We have also provided cross-School and (through M3C/M4C and research
 partnerships) cross-HEI co-supervision to 26 additional PGRs. The Unit provides dedicated
 training in conference participation, policy engagement, networking and collaborative research,
 research promotion, and publication. The School of Arts and Humanities has substantially
 increased office space and IT equipment allocated to PGRs, supports doctoral entry through
 routes-in funding for M-level students, and includes PGT students in research group and centre
 activities. 28 NTU English MA and MRes students progressed to PhD, with thesis writing and
 application workshops provided by Unit members. PGRs participate in English’s research
 seminar series, annual Doctoral Research Festival, and annual School Research Conference.
 Doctoral researchers have at least two (usually three) supervisors, with progress monitored
 twice annually. PGR development is supported by NTU’s DoctoratePlus multi-stranded
 framework, a mixture of mandatory and optional courses, building employability, knowledge, and
 engagement skills.

 Most of our research students are funded by the M3C/M4C DTP and NTU’s PhD Studentship
 Scheme. Both are highly competitive, with rigorous recruitment processes ensuring high calibre
 researchers join the Unit. We have been very successful in securing NTU Studentships (16) and
 M3C/M4C awards (29) since 2014. Doctoral researchers are fully integrated into our ethos of
 building and sustaining valuable partnerships with external organizations and other HEIs. Major
 projects include: Aatkar’s 3-month placement with Peepal Tree Press and co-organisation of
 Orientations conference with Richardson; Bromhall’s Movements: Protest, Politics and Activism
 in the 21st Century conference (co-organised with NC); Clark’s 12-month part-time placement
 with the National Videogame Arcade; Cullen’s 6-month placement as poet at Newstead Abbey;
 Cooper-Smithson’s 6-month placement at Creswell Crags Museum and Prehistoric Gorge; and
 Richardson’s organisation of the first Queer Modernism conference (NTU, 2017, subsequent
 iterations hosted by Oxford University).

 Equality and Diversity
 NTU was awarded bronze Athena Swan charter mark in April 2019 and targets a silver
 submission after 2023. Supporting this, the School has established its self-assessment team
 (SAT) and has carried out cultural surveys and started work on data analysis. The Unit is
 represented on the SAT by Palmer and Yousaf. The School’s Athena Swan champion
 signposts School-level EDI events including International Women’s and Men’s week and LGBT
 History month. The EDI intranet links staff to relevant policies, resources and staff networks. At
 Unit level, staff ensure our research environment is open, respectful, and supportive of all. All
                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers in English have undertaken equality and dignity training. Our research Code of
 Practice ensures staff with responsibility for recruitment (whether staff or PGR) and research
 management undertake unconscious bias training. Our gender balance is very healthy, with 55%
 identifying as female and 45% identifying as male. All staff appointed since 2014 identify as
 female (one at Professorial level). Of 4 staff members promoted in the period, 3 identify as
 female, with 2 funded to undertake the Aurora Leadership programme. The Unit is actively
 supporting NTU’s Athena SWAN target to increase the representation of women within the NTU
 professoriate to 35% by 2022.

 Yousaf is co-Chair, with NTU’s VC, of the Self-Assessment Team working towards the Advance
 HE Race Equality Charter. Staff equality and diversity are monitored through NTU HR data; we
 also monitor PGR equality and diversity through data produced by NTU’s Doctoral School (DS)
 and M3C/M4C. Yousaf and Leonard contribute to M4C strategy relating to BAME student entry
 to, and participation in, doctoral research. The DS ‘values the diversity of all research students,
 stakeholders and staff’; M3C/M4C promotes ‘equality of opportunity and good relations across
 and between the defined equalities groups in all of their activity’. Our PGR cohort includes
 researchers from BAME, Dalit and refugee backgrounds, as well as EU and international
 students (see detail in REF5a).

 We engage directly with EDI challenges, substantially contributing to academic and public efforts
 to decolonise the curriculum and challenge racial and ethnic inequalities in the UK and
 internationally. Ball, Leonard, Monteith, Ramone, Thacker, Thiara, Youngs, and Yousaf work
 on cultural activism, forced migration, refugeeism, marginalised writing, and with groups
 promoting social justice and positive political change for communities disadvantaged by national
 and international policies and events. Our work on gender and sexuality from the early modern
 to the contemporary periods (Butler, Carter, Clay, Grice, Monteith, Ouditt, Palmer, and
 Rushton) redresses women’s, activists on race and civil rights, and LGBTQI groups’
 marginalization in literary and social histories. Our integrated approach to research and impact
 means that EDI commitment is fundamental to our projects that promote social and cultural
 equality and diversity. Ball’s collaborative work with Nottingham Refugee Forum (and its
 Women’s Group in particular) helps vulnerable groups and individuals rebuilding their lives in the
 UK; in 2020 she published the creative anthology ‘Owning our Words’ with Survivors Alliance (a
 group supporting survivors of modern-day slavery and human trafficking) following workshops in
 India, Cameroon, and the UK. The Changing Wor(l)ds network and festival celebrates and
 promotes diverse and radical authors and publishers. Working with The Women’s Library and
 other organizations, Clay connects early C20 feminist publishing to the resurgence of feminist
 activism in early C21. Jackson’s ‘Exchange’ project with the Science Museum included two BSL
 writers and exploration of D/deaf histories and the telephone. Our doctoral researchers also
 address key EDI challenges. M4C CDA researcher Ewart works with NP to assess best practice
 for inclusion of diverse and youth community groups, including BAME, white working class, and
 disabled theatre participants. Nottingham Journey to Justice Steering Committee members
 Banjoko, Bromhall, Francis (with Monteith, and Yousaf) promoted awareness of city campaigns
 for equality and human rights from the Luddites to Black Lives Matter. Aatkar co-edited the travel
 writing anthology Caribbean Journeys; Banjoko researches Nottingham Black Archive and
 contributed to the collection Clever Girls: Autoethnographies of Class, Gender and Ethnicity
 (awarded the Working-Class Studies Association prize for a book about working-class academic
 experience).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Our REF2014 research income totalled £810,527; at c.£40.5k per FTE this was higher than the
 sub-panel D29 mean (c.£35k). Early in the current period, we set out to improve on this
 outcome, introducing pre-submission peer review processes supported by Research
 Development. Staff have benefitted from NTU’s ‘Winning Grant Funding’ programme for ECRs.

 In the current period, we have successfully applied for £1.8m in funding (over £97k per FTE).
 Significant awards include: Ball’s Leverhulme Research Fellowship ‘Moving Women, Moving

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Stories: Rethinking Representations of Forced Migration’ (£43,436); Clay’s AHRC Follow-on
 Funding Impact and Engagement award (£72,886); Jackson’s AHRC Research Leadership
 Fellowship (ECR) ‘Crossed Wires: Literature and Telephony’ project (£179k); Monteith’s
 Leverhulme Trust Major Research Fellowship ‘The Civil Rights Movement: A Literary History’
 (£161,043); Thacker’s Leverhulme Trust Research Fellowship ‘The Modern Bookshop: A
 Cultural History (£46,474) and AHRC-German Research Foundation award, ‘Spaces Of
 Translation: European Magazine Cultures, c.1945-65’ (£251,102); and Thiara’s AHRC
 Research Networking and Follow-on Funding awards, ‘Writing, Analysing, Translating Dalit
 Literature’ (£115,560).

 Increased research investment is part of NTU’s 2015-2020 strategy. We have accessed
 institutional funding to appoint seven RAs and one publishing assistant, to support our impact,
 engagement, and KE activities, conference attendance, primary research (including archival
 visits), seminar series, and sabbaticals. Because M3C/M4C is 50/50 match funded, NTU’s DTP
 investment (£861,069) has translated directly to PGR recruitment. Our researchers have
 benefitted from Research Development workshops with senior representatives of major funding
 bodies, including the British Academy, Leverhulme Trust, and the Arts Council. NTU was a
 founding sponsor of NUCoL and since 2016 has invested over £120k in the project.

 One of our strategic priorities since 2014, to improve PGR recruitment, development, and
 training, is reflected in substantial funding secured for doctoral research. With 29 awards, the
 Unit has received 43% of all M3C/M4C awards made to NTU. Our PGRs have successfully
 applied for M3C/M4C additional funding to the value of c.£76k, accessing support for national
 and international conferences, archival research, placements, and training (including Royal
 Literary Fund writing workshops). M3C/M4C’s Cohort Development Fund (CDF) supports
 projects that include non-DTP-funded PGRs, allowing all of our doctoral researchers to benefit
 from UKRI-funded training and research events. CDF projects led or co-led by Unit PGRs
 encompass: the 2016 Critical Creativity symposium (Clark; Dixon); Talking Heads: Interviewing
 and Broadcasting Training (featuring a Guardian journalist, novelist Pat Barker and NTU-based
 Notts TV) initiated by Cullen in 2016 and rolled out in subsequent years; the 2018 Unidentifiable
 Literary Objects creative-critical PG workshop (organised by Cooper-Smithson and Terry to
 accompany Jackson’s ULO symposium); and the 2018 Movements: Protest, Politics and
 Activism in the 21st Century interdisciplinary conference (Bromhall) building on Nottingham:
 Journey to Justice.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Collaboration
 Our recognition of the importance of research collaboration was articulated in the second of our
 REF2014 aims: to extend our existing collaborative work with academic organizations and
 develop new partnerships. We have worked intensively to ensure collaboration with other
 researchers and non-HEI partners. Through collaborative partnerships and engagement
 activities, we make an economic contribution to the region, the UK, and internationally, for
 example, increasing footfall and revenue for commercial and cultural partners, including Five
 Leaves Bookshop, NC, Broadway Cinema, Nottingham Industrial Museum, NJM. Our activities
 generate income for writers in the UK and India, and we support small independent presses,
 including The Emma Press, Palewell Press, erbacce-press and Peepal Tree Press.

 Leading NTU’s contribution to M3C/M4C, Unit staff had a primary role in co-ordinating
 recruitment of 68 PGRs across 4 NTU academic Schools and 11 subject areas (Cultural Studies,
 English, Film and TV, Fine Art, History and Heritage, Law, Linguistics, Photography, Philosophy,
 Physics, and Textile Design). Through the DTP, we work with researchers in 7 Midlands
 universities (BCU, Birmingham, Coventry, De Montfort, Leicester, Nottingham, and Warwick) to
 develop the M3C/M4C mission to recruit the next generation of Arts and Humanities researchers
 and develop PGR-staff collaborative networks, symposia, conferences, training, and
 placements.


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our symposia, conferences and workshops have brought together UK and international
 researchers. Notable examples include: the 2016 British Academy Landmark Conference on
 Civil Rights Documentary Cinema and the 1960s (Monteith, Yousaf; participants from Berkeley,
 Colorado, Memphis, Mississippi, Stanford, and Virginia in the US, and Birmingham, Leicester,
 and Oxford in the UK); and the 2019 British Association of Nineteenth-Century Americanists
 (BrANCA) Scaling the Nineteenth Century symposium (Palmer; co-organised with University of
 Nottingham; participants from Bristol, Buffalo, Clermont Auvergne, Cornell, CUNY, Kent, Royal
 Holloway, SUNY, Sussex, and Western Colorado). O’Connor organised the annual
 interdisciplinary British Society for Phenomenology conference (2015-20); Rushton was lead
 organiser of a multi-panel strand at the 7th Biennial Network Conference: Afroeuropeans: Black
 In/Visibilities Contested, with participants from Johannesburg, Cape Town, Stockholm,
 Cambridge and Leeds. Smith co-organised a conference on Much Ado About Nothing at the
 Kingston Rose Theatre, London (2018; participants from Delaware, Lancaster, Ottawa, and
 Royal Holloway). Youngs’ BAAS-supported conference in collaboration with the Network for
 Periodical Studies, ‘Magazines on the Move: North American Periodicals and Travel’ (2017)
 included participants from Tufts, Northumbria, UEA, UCL, KU Leuven, Swansea, Essex,
 Cambridge, Nottingham, Oxford Brookes.

 We have focused on delivering events that connect academic research to partner needs. Led by
 Thiara, the AHRC-funded Research Network ‘Writing, Analysing, Translating Dalit Literature’
 organised six conferences/symposia (at NTU, Leicester, UEA, Paul-Valéry Montpellier (France),
 and Pune and Delhi (India)); participants from Bangalore, Chicago, CNRS, Columbia, Delhi,
 Heinrich Heine in Dusseldorf, Hyderabad, Jadavpur, Jawaharlal Nehru, Michigan, New York,
 North Maharashtra, Northwestern, Presidency (India), Rajasthan, Singapore, SOAS, Western
 Ontario, York in Toronto, and Zaragoza. Youngs co-organised ‘Mirroring Discoveries: 100 years
 of Romanian-British Travelogues’ at the Romanian Cultural Institute, London (c. 120 attendees,
 with participants from Amsterdam, Bucharest, Constanța, Exeter, Iași, Timișoara, and UCL).

 Contribution to the research base
 Enhancing research resources
 We contribute to subject sustainability through producing and supporting production of online
 resources that benefit researchers in the UK and internationally. Butler, Clay, and Thacker
 bring together open access and other resources on the PPCRG website; Butler and Youngs
 promote travel writing research and foster reading and writing communities through the email
 and CTWS website Snapshot Newsletter; Ball, Ramone, and Thiara provide access to
 resources and promote research engagement through the PSC website. For her Crossed Lines
 project, Jackson curated an online exhibition of over 80 texts relating to literature and telephony
 and launched the Dial-a-Poem smartphone app (63 poems). The CPRG website, produced by
 Jackson and Cordle stimulates debate, collaboration and innovation among scholars and
 practitioners concerned with creative and critical theory and practice. O’Connor’s Thales’ Well
 podcast (40 episodes, 14.3k unique downloads) streams discussions with creative writers,
 literary theorists, and philosophers. For her Time and Tide centenary project, Clay published an
 OA souvenir edition and research resources on the project’s website. We also support legacy
 websites, including the Labouring-Class Poets Online OA resource, Laura Riding Jackson
 archive, and Little Magazines database. In 2020 Monteith supported The Amistad Research
 Center, New Orleans, in a bid to the National Endowment for Humanities to digitize print
 collections on community-based arts activism in the U.S. South, and pre-broadcast tested the
 Henry Hampton Eyes on the Prize civil rights television documentary series for Washington
 State University (2017).

 Editorial work
 We edit book series, journals, and major essay collections that strengthen and renew the
 discipline, and serve on many advisory and editorial boards.

 Thacker is editor of Palgrave’s new Material Modernisms Series. Waterman is General Editor of
 poetry pamphlet publisher New Walk Editions. Youngs’ co-edited Routledge Research in Travel
 Writing series publishes titles that tackle neglected subjects and offer new approaches (17 titles
                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 since 2014). Youngs’ recently commissioned Cambridge Elements series (with Nandini Das,
 Oxford) will publish short-form monographs on travel writing; Yousaf and Monteith co-edit
 Manchester UP’s Contemporary American and Canadian Writers series (distributed by OUP in
 the US), providing critical evaluations of established, emerging, and neglected writers (six titles
 since 2014).

 Youngs is editor of Taylor & Francis journal Studies in Travel Writing and Thacker is co-editor
 of the interdisciplinary journal Literature & History; Clay was co-editor for Keywords: A Journal of
 Cultural Materialism (2009-17) and in 2019 appointed Co-Editor of Journal of European
 Periodical Studies. Smith is Co-Editor-in-Chief of Cahiers Élisabéthains and on the editorial
 board of Shakespeare. Thacker is Editorial Board member for Book History, Journal of Modern
 Periodical Studies, Journal of Wyndham Lewis Studies, Modernist Cultures, and New
 Formations. Ramone is content editor for Black British Writing 1945–present for the Literary
 Encyclopedia (15-30 articles annually). Monteith is Advisory Board Member for The Global
 South, H-NET Southern Literature, and the Irish Journal of American Studies.

 Among special issues, Butler was guest editor of the 2018 Yearbook of English Studies on
 Literature in the Reign of King William IV (1830-1837); Cordle co-edited a special issue of C21
 Literature on The Literature of the Anthropocene (2018); Palmer edited a special issue of
 Symbiosis: A Journal of Transatlantic Literary and Cultural Relations on Transatlanticism and
 British Writing (2017). Significant edited collections include: Ball’s Edinburgh Companion to the
 Postcolonial Middle East; Chambers’ Endeavouring Banks; Clay’s Women's Periodicals and
 Print Culture in Britain, 1918-1939: The Interwar Period; Ramone’s Bloomsbury Introduction to
 Postcolonial Writing: New Contexts, New Narratives, New Debates; Smith’s co-edited Much
 Ado About Nothing: Arden Early Modern Drama Guide; Youngs’ co-edited Cambridge History of
 Travel Writing, and Routledge Research Companion to Travel Writing.

 Peer review and other professional service
 Unit staff devote substantial time to advisory and peer-review activities. Staff have refereed
 proposals for leading academic presses (including Cambridge UP, Columbia UP, Edinburgh UP,
 Manchester UP, Open Library of the Humanities, Oxford UP, University of North Carolina Press)
 and journals (including American Literature, Journal of American History, Literature & History,
 Huntingdon Library Quarterly, parallax, Review of English Studies, Shakespeare, Studies in
 Romanticism).

 Because learned societies and subject associations help to sustain and refresh the discipline,
 we encourage staff to support their activities and development. Grice is on the International
 Program Committee of the DH Lawrence International Conference; O’Connor was President of
 the British Society for Phenomenology (2019-2020) and Executive Member (2015-20); in 2019,
 Leonard was elected Chair of the British Association for Contemporary Literary Studies; in 2015
 Monteith completed a 3-year term on the Executive of US-based Society for the Study of
 Southern Literature; Palmer is a member of the BrANCA steering committee (2014-) and
 President of the Mary E. Wilkins Freeman society (2015-); Ramone is the Postcolonial Studies
 Association Treasurer and Events Coordinator (2015-) and member of Cuba Research Forum.
 Smith completed his term as Trustee and Treasurer of the British Shakespeare Association in
 2016. Thacker served on the Executive Committee of BAMS until 2016 (and remains a Trustee).
 In 2020, PGR Bruce was appointed Secretary to the Association for the Study of Travel in Egypt
 and the Near East (ASTENE).

 Staff support research through Research Council, advisory panel, and review board
 membership. Thacker was a member of the Modernist Studies Association Book Prize Jury in
 2015; in 2015, 2016, and 2018, he reviewed Postdoctoral Fellowship applications for Flanders
 Research Council; Leonard joined the AHRC Peer Review College in 2016 (Research Grants
 Panel assessor in 2019 and 2020); Jackson joined the PRC in 2020. Monteith, Thacker, and
 Yousaf completed terms as AHRC PRC members in 2014. Youngs is a member (2019-) of the
 European Science Foundation College of Expert Reviewers. Ball was grant application reviewer
 for the Kuwait Council of Arts & Sciences (2019). Eight staff (Clay, Jackson, Leonard, Ouditt,
                                                                                         Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ramone, Thacker, Youngs, Yousaf) have served as M3C/M4C Subject Area Panel assessors.
 Monteith was a member of the AHRC’s PGR and ECR Careers and Training Advisory Network.
 She was Assessor for the AHRC-ESRC International Placements Scheme (2014); Assessor for
 the Leverhulme Visiting Professorship Scheme and post-doctoral Research Fellowships for the
 Austrian Science Fund (2015); grant reviewer for the Research Grants Council of Hong Kong
 (2019). Yousaf reviewed grant proposals for the South African National Research Foundation
 (2018). Youngs reviewed funding proposals for the Austria Science Fund (2017), the European
 Science Foundation (2019, 2020) and the National Science Centre, Poland (2020). Clay is a
 member of the Executive Committee of the Friends of the Women’s Library.

 Staff have acted as external assessors for promotions and professorships at 24 institutions,
 including (in the UK) Birkbeck, Cardiff, Cork, Edinburgh, UEA, Essex, KCL, Leeds, Manchester,
 Northumbria, Oxford Brookes, and Warwick, and (internationally) Duquesne, Loyola,
 Massachusetts, North Carolina State, Thessaloniki, and Uppsala. We have acted as external
 examiners for 44 PhD students.

 Esteem and awards
 At all levels, from Professors to PGRs, fellowships and prizes have been awarded in recognition
 of our contribution to the discipline. Grice received the 2020 DH Lawrence Society of North
 America Biennial Award to a Newly Published Scholar in Lawrence Studies. Jackson was an
 AHRC 2016 New Generation Thinker and shortlisted for the 2017 Commonwealth Short Story
 Prize. Monteith was selected in international competition as Scholar in Residence for ‘The
 Radical South: Southern Activism, Past and Present’ (2017) at the Center for the Study of
 Southern Culture, University of Mississippi and delivered a public lecture at the Oxford
 Conference of the Book in Mississippi. Thacker was awarded a Mercator Fellowship from the
 DFG (German research council) to visit Cologne University (2020; held over until 2021). Among
 book prizes, Leonard received the Choice Outstanding Academic Title award in 2014;
 Waterman was shortlisted for the 2014 Seamus Heaney Prize and received a 2014 Poetry Book
 Society recommendation for Tonight the Summer’s Over; his collection Sarajevo Roses was
 nominated for the 2019 Ledbury Forte Prize, and W. H. Davies, The True Traveller: A Reader
 was a Guardian paperback of the week recommendation. New Walk Editions (ed. Waterman)
 was shortlisted for the 2019 British Library Michael Marks Awards for Poetry Pamphlets Best
 Publisher and Best Pamphlet Awards. In 2020, he was awarded one of two inaugural Bucheon
 (South Korea) writing Residencies. Four NTU PGRs (Bromhall, Clark, Cullen, Aatkar) and two
 externally co-supervised PGRs (Weightman, Phipps) received the M3C/M4C Cultural
 Engagement award, recognising their exceptional contribution to DTP engagement and impact.
 Clark was shortlisted for the 2019 BBC National Short Story award and won the 2018 regional
 (Europe and Canada) Commonwealth Short Story Prize. Cullen won the 2018 Poetry Business
 International Book and Pamphlet competition. Staff have delivered 143 keynote lectures, invited
 talks, and readings across four continents.

 Supporting research and researchers in the context of COVID-19
 During 2020, staff ensured that research projects and researcher support continued during a
 national and international crisis. Part of her Time and Tide centenary project, Clay’s online
 Festival of Women Writers and Journalists (November) comprised a pre-recorded keynote, four
 pre-recorded talks, and two live-streamed panel discussions (one with Polly Toynbee), all
 archived on YouTube and accessible through the project website. Jackson’s Telepoetics
 symposium (due to be hosted by the Science Museum) moved online, adopting the ‘nearly
 carbon neutral’ format, with 23 speakers (including Will Self, the Head of Heritage and Archives
 at BT, the Curator of Technology and Engineering at the Science Museum, and contributors
 from Cardiff, Durham, Edinburgh, Kent, Michigan, New South Wales, NYU, Oxford, UEA, and
 York), participants from 40 countries and c.7,000 visits to papers and conversations. Leonard
 co-organised the online 2020 BACLS conference ‘Crisis in Contemporary Writing’: c.150
 participants; 37 speakers from 8 countries; contributions from academic researchers, publishers,
 and writers. Smith co-edited a Cahiers Élisabéthains special issue devoted to ‘Lockdown
 Reviewing’ (2020); 37 authors, 32 reviews from 14 countries. Thacker co-organised Future
 States 2020, one of the first UK lockdown conferences (30 March-17 April), utilising the 'nearly
                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 carbon neutral format' to ensure that modern periodicals researchers could continue to network;
 c.200 participants, speakers from 11 countries. In collaboration with Anthony Caleshu (PI,
 Plymouth). Waterman received AHRC funding for the 'Poets Responding to COVID-19' project,
 promoting writing, exchange, publication and discussion of poetry in response to the pandemic.
 Research seminars continued throughout lockdown. PGRs were provided with additional
 guidance and support by supervisors, the Postgraduate Research Tutor, and Doctoral School.
 Submission date extensions were approved where necessary, with extended funding provided to
 NTU- and M3C-funded doctoral researchers as appropriate.




                                                                                         Page 14
