Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Institution: University of East London

    Unit of Assessment: 21 Sociology

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context and structure

Sociology has been a major area of scholarship at the University of East London for over 50 years.
The integral role played by the research of the UoA in shaping the ethos of the university is reflected
in Building a Radical University (2020) a volume which traces the character of the institution from its
inception as a polytechnic in 1968 to the present. Post-1992, and within the realm of the Social
Sciences, which remains the natural environment of the UoA, an organic dialogue between
researchers begun to yield distinct interdisciplinary approaches identity; internationally acclaimed
work around migration and belonging; significant theoretical contributions in narrative theory, gender,
and politics; and important interventions in policymaking in East London and in international
communities.

Our research arises from East London and benefits East London, as well as having a global
relevance. We maintain a dual local-global focus, strengthening our links with organisations and
communities as equal partners and collaborators, questioning racism and hostility to refugees and
immigrants anywhere in the world, promoting theoretically robust scholarship, and training a new
generation of researchers to make material changes possible in communities across Europe, Latin
America, Africa, and South Asia. Our approach is producing notable results, like the award-winning
Open Learning Initiative (OLIve) which assists refugees to gain access to Higher Education in the
UK and several low-cost high-impact development projects around the world. Within the REF period,
staff have also increasingly delivered innovative and impactful sociological research related to the
Sustainable Development Goals. This work has gathered important empirical data about neglected
and ignored phenomena of SDG relevance; has theorised social transformation towards and
resistance against the SDGs; and has developed participatory and action-oriented research methods
to drive forward SDG initiatives. The work has also delivered integration of understanding and action
between often-neglected fields of SDG concern in global north countries, particularly in marginalised
and povertised communities, with more recognised global south SDG concerns.

In REF 2014 Sociology was ranked the second highest in a post-1992 University with 59 per cent of
outputs and 76.7 per cent of research impact at 3-4*. Our current submission offers a balanced
representation of colleagues at various levels of seniority: lectures and senior lecturers (55%),
readers (15%) and professors (30%).

Key areas of research excellence in the UoA are:

•      divided societies, migration and belonging
•      social and political theory
•      narrative research and auto/biographical methods
•      development, sustainability, and economic life
•      psychosocial approaches in the Social Sciences

Much of the research in Sociology is aligned to the specialism of three research centres, which are
hubs of cross-institutional collaboration:

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


• the Centre for Narrative Research (CNR), an internationally recognised centre which brings
together researchers from psychological, sociological, anthropological, cultural and media studies,
humanities, arts and performance research traditions.
• the Centre for Research on Migration, Refugees and Belonging (CMRB), which specialises
in interdisciplinary perspectives on the relationship between migration, refugee and belonging.
• the Centre for Social Justice and Change (CSJS), dedicated to research on development and
the improvement of public policies both nationally and internationally.
The contribution of the research centres to the UoA’s environment permeates all subsequent
sections.

Research and impact strategy

Current research and impact objectives and achievements
The pillars of the UoA’s research strategy from 2014-19, have been:
• to consolidate our research by building on existing strengths and activities, and
• to develop and embed a more comprehensive and far-reaching impact culture across the
research of the UoA.
In REF2014 we defined several research and impact objectives for the UoA:

a) to respond to current challenges and to develop and shape innovative theoretical and
methodological approaches that can have a formative impact on society

This objective was addressed across all five areas of research excellence. More specifically:
We generated internationally known work on borders and migration, including the politics and
policies of immigration, the well-being and education of migrants, the everyday lives of migrants,
bordering, border-crossing and transnational controls (Wemyss), narratives of conflict and agency
in civil war (Dona), nationalism and diasporic identities (Woods, Kim).

We produced research on issues around conceptualisations of global challenges within the
Capability Approach and multidimensional poverty, including poverty in the UK (Tiwari); explored
themes in the work of NGOs (Pickering-Saqqa), gender and age issues in global development
(Wright) and conflict (Korac), the role of religious organisations in humanitarian contexts (Kraft),
emerging geo-political challenges and citizenship in the developing world (Ahrearne, Jamieson).

Researchers in the UoA have engaged with debates and epistemological positions on social change
generating new theoretical perspectives on the philosophical underpinnings of social and political
theory, social movements, social complexity, feminism, and new materialism. Research included
race and the critique of neoliberalism and austerity (Bhattacharrya), labour conditions and production
(Hyde, Boticello), the political economy of the commons (De Angelis), new directions in
posthumanism and human non-human relations (Cudworth, Hobden, Langstone), interdisciplinary
approaches to gender and feminism (Jabiri), research on the lives and narratives perspectives of
women workers’ labour and political activism (Tamboukou).
We carried out innovative research on spoken, written and visual narratives, shaping new
methodological approaches (Lounasmaa, Esin). Research included narratives of ethnic violence,
political change and political identities, age and ageing (Andrews), gendered experiences of
displacement, travelling and migrant’s narratives in Europe (Squire) as well as research on HIV and
public health.



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We contributed to debates around well-being and the intricate relations between society and the
psyche. Our research interrogated the construction of methodological and conceptual categories in
mental health (Rustin, Liebert) whilst advancing a sustained critique of political and therapeutic
institutions from various psychoanalytic perspectives and examining the cultural and spatiotemporal
dimensions of identity and psychic formations, with increased emphasis on affect and emotions
(Lara) and the impact of the digital media on contemporary identities (Ellis).

b) to continue to shape research on social change by enhancing our existing strengths, supporting
the research centres and creating greater synergies within the UoA and across the University.
We combined our research centres and groups into three, further removing silos and increasing our
focus on local impact.

The activities of the London East Research Institute (LERI) were reframed and linked to the work of
the other three research centres about narrative, health, socioeconomic positioning in cities, forced
migration and racism. CNR's work on refugee narratives were linked to CMRB’s research on forced
migration and racism in big cities. CSJC’s research around the sustainable development goals and
the developed world established connections with local communities, especially in Newham, a
borough with vast health and education challenges, including being one of the most Covid-affected
boroughs in Greater London.

c) to continue to enhance the quality of our research outputs

Highlights over this REF period include the publication of 34 books, including 21 sole or joint-
authored and 16 edited collections, and 95 journal articles and 75 book chapters.
Examples of outstanding and awards winning publications can be found in section 4.
Our commitment to sharing of knowledge is reflected through Open Access and making our work
approachable to non-academic audiences (see section 4).

d) to further develop key areas for interdisciplinary and international collaboration

The international standing of staff is evidenced in the extensive record of project collaborations and
networks (see section 4) and the number of funding applications and research bids (see section 3).
Highlights include:

CNR (Squire, Lounasmaa, Esin) has been leading on various impactful research projects, such as
the lives of refugees in Calais and Dover and living with HIV in Zambia; Eric Woods, has been
collaborating with the university of Toronto on understanding new ethno-nationalism; Giorgia Doná
has been part of the Femicide across Europe network (European Cooperation in Science and
Technology); Maria Tamboukou has been part of the New Materialism: Networking European
Scholarship On 'How Matter comes to Matter!; Meera Tiwari has collaborated with the Tata Institute
of Social Sciences, Mumbai, India; the Development Management Institute in Bihar, India and the
JKLU.

e) to increase support for researchers across the career ladder

Two key mechanisms by which this has been achieved have been targeted sabbatical and other
research leave, and a robust mentoring scheme. Support to staff is further discussed in section 2.

f) to further support and strengthen the postgraduate community


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The graduate student community has flourished, with an increased rate of completions and growing
dynamism (see section 2). We have attracted international students from Bangladesh, Ethiopia,
Ghana, Italy, India, and South Africa.

In 2016 the University joined the ESRC UBEL Doctoral training partnerships with five leading Social
Science institutions: UCL, SOAS, LSHTM and Birkbeck. UEL has a strong presence in the
partnership and has so far secured 6 studentships with 4 being in the UoA. Two of these include Co-
funded studentships, one with World       Vision      and       the     other       with     Global
One.

In 2014 the University launched a Research Excellence Scholarship scheme. The UoA has been
successful in recruiting four students in these competitive scholarships. Since 2019 Meera Tiwari
has been appointed as one of the two Deputy Directors of UBEL DTP and leads on the Widening
Participation programmes and strategies.

g) to expand research grant income

Our income profile and grant applications reflect an interdisciplinary and collaborative approach to
research, evidenced by the bids won in this REF period and detailed in Section 3. These were
supported by:
• a series of grant capture workshops were organised within the UoA to promote confidence in bid
preparation and to share best practice.
• members of the UoA made effective use of the University’s Research support team.
• several sums of seed funding were awarded to the UoA (see section 2).
• the internal process of review and feedback prior to submission of bids has improved the quality
of applications and is assisting colleagues in honing their skills.

h) to support a full range of collaborative and participatory impact research activity; to develop and
embed a more comprehensive and far-reaching ‘impact culture’ across the research of the UoA; to
improve the communication of research impact both internally and externally

Impact is intrinsic in the research of Sociology. Our three case studies
1. Explaining and challenging ‘hostile environment’ policies towards migrants
and racialised individuals.
2. Educating without borders: Building refugee inclusion in Higher Education; and
3. Signature literacy and women’s empowerment in rural India,
arise from broad collaborative work and an increased emphasis on embedding impact in most of our
projects. To achieve the above, the UoA
• appointed a dedicated Impact Champion (Tiwari).
• gained grants to establish and sustain networks, community and public engagement activity, and
to support external training where necessary.
• incorporated research impact into annual personal development reviews (optional).
• embedded impact fully into all research bids.
• organised impact-related training as part of sharing good practice and research dissemination
workshops with policy makers and NGOs to foster uptake of research findings and future
collaboration (e.g., Tiwari and Pickering-Saqqa).

Impact and its alignment to national and international challenges is discussed in detail in section 4.



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Future Research and Impact Strategies

 The UoA is now part of the School of Education and Communities. The long-term vision is to create
 four impactful subject clusters which can develop synergies with one another without losing their
 distinct character, each gaining in strength and providing the greatest potential for growth.

 In line with the UEL Institutional Research Strategy 2018-2023 Key Commitments to Sustainable
 Excellence, and building on our 2014-19 objectives, the UoA’s strategic research aims are to:

 • invest in people, to further improve the research base through better informed and trained
 researchers.
 • enhance research excellence through mentoring and peer review.
 • further promote interdisciplinary work.
 • further support a full range of high impact research activity.
 • further develop partnership and collaboration with other institutions and organisations.
 • maintain international reach in terms of the geographic spread of impactful research activity of
 the UoA across Europe, Africa, and South Asia.
 • further promote research-informed teaching, in undergraduate and taught postgraduate
 provision.
 • further support archival work and public engagement with archives.
 • sustain a comprehensive and far-reaching ‘impact culture’ across the UoA with a target of 50%
 staff involved with some form of public engagement.
 • improve the communication of research impact both internally and externally through increasing
 the numbers of UoA staff active in public engagement activities.

 2. People

Since REF 2014, the staffing levels and constitution of the UoA have changed considerably
but not its core character, its identifiable research strengths, and the collective commitment to
research in dialogue and to inclusivity which sustain all our efforts, from PhD students and alumni to
early career researchers and senior academics.

PGR student support

Training and development support for PGRs

• While we make the most of the Researcher Development Programme administered by the
University Graduate School, we hold our own annual research seminar series which provides
training, for example, in mobile, narrative, visual and digital research methods, and on different
concepts and theories, such as complexity, capabilities approaches, feminism and posthumanism.
• Membership of the UBEL DTP enables access for all UEL PhD students to training events at
partner institutions.
• PGR students in the UoA are encouraged to present their work at national and international
conferences. The UoA supports these activities financially.
• Our Research in Progress annual symposium offers postgraduates an opportunity to co-present
with senior staff and early career researchers in a supportive environment and is attracting increasing
numbers of students and staff from outside the UoA.
• Most of our PGR students are members the UoA’s research centres and present ongoing
research in their annual events series. PGR-focused events organised by the research centres
enable students to network within and beyond the University. For example, CNR runs a popular

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
annual PGR conference since 2003, entitled ‘To Think is to Experiment’ which attracts students from
around the UK, Europe (Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, and Sweden) and beyond (South
Africa and the US).
• The UoA produces an annual PhD yearbook entitled Crossing Conceptual Boundaries (blind
peer-reviewed) since 2007 (ISSN: 2041-9090) with an editorial board composed of PGR students
and staff at different levels of seniority. For many of our PhD students, an article in Crossing
Conceptual Boundaries has been an invaluable first publication.
PGR students’ involvement in reviewing and editorial work for the journal has the additional benefit
of enhancing their employability.
• PGR students are encouraged to publish their work in peer-reviewed journals (Langstone,
Thomas) and edited volumes (e.g., Jones, Bushay) as well as write for The Conversation, build a
media profile (workshops given by experienced staff), and make their voices heard in diverse fora
(e.g., colleague and PhD student Bushay recently gave a presentation on Race and Education
at the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, and Jones co-authored an opinion
piece with Professor Marcia Wilson for Times Higher Education (2020) entitled ‘Dear senior
university leaders: what will you say you did to address racism in higher education?’).
• PhD students develop their teaching skills by contributing to lectures and seminars when such
opportunities arise, and by volunteering to teach at the Olive Erasmus programme.
• Paid internships have also helped some students to further develop their research remit whist
studying for their PhD (e.g., Mulubale).

Doctoral completions

Since 2014 there have been a total of 49 completions, 34 in Social Sciences, an increase over the
28 completions in the previous REF period, and an additional 15 in the Tavistock and Portman NHS
Trust PhD programme, which UEL validates.

To ensure timely we conduct annual reviews in which each student is given independent feedback
by members of staff outside the supervisory teams, whilst supervisory meetings, annual monitoring
reviews and upgrades are recorded on PhD Manager, the electronic platform for tracking progress
from registration to completion.

Sociology Alumni

The support of supervisory teams extends beyond the life of the PhD, through promoting alumni
work (e.g., book launches), invitations to events, and collaborations in grant applications and
academic outputs (e.g., Squire and Mulubale; Squire, Canat et al; and Godin and Dona on the award-
winning paper Reversing the gaze on Fortress Europe: visual interferences produced by migrants in
transit at the France-UK border, jointly written with Crispin Hughes, 2019).

Since 2014 our alumni have secured academic jobs nationally (for instance, at the Universities of
East London, UCL (IoE), Oxford, Leeds, Warwick, Westminster, Leicester) and internationally (for
example, Central European University, Budapest; Graduate Institute of International and
Development Studies, Geneva; Tampere, the University of Zambia, United Arab Emirates).

They have produced
• 10 single authored books developed from PhDs
• 4 edited collections
• 2 readers


                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
• 1 co-authored book
• 68 chapters in edited volumes and in journals including Refugee Studies; Movements: Journal
for Critical Migration and Border Regime Studies; Migration and Development; Journal of Ethnic and
Migration Studies; The Journal of Oral History; Journal of Education and Practice and Public Health.

Several alumni have won early career and postdoctoral scholarships (e.g Canat, Marie Curie early
career (2014-15) and Central European University postdoctoral scholarships (2016); Godin, British
Academy post-doctoral fellowship, Oxford (2019-20); Hasem, research fellowships at the University
of Nottingham (2020-present) and the University of Warwick (2018-20). Others have combined
research with activism (e.g., Guemar, research and monitoring role in the Info.Migrants.net platform
funded by the European Commission, AHRC and France Médias Monde), or academic life with high
profile public roles (Mulubale: project leader in Zambia, for a UNESCO’s Silencing the Guns in Africa
through investing in Youth Education project (2020).

Apart from collaborating on research projects and publications with members of the UoA, several of
our alumni have contributed to contribute directly to the UoA’s intellectual life by returning to UEL to
provide training to PhD students (e.g. workshop on applying for external funding, Thatcher, 2019-
20; panel on developing research beyond the PhD, Jones, Gallagher and Beddell, 2020-21); by
participating in the OLIve programme (Guemar, Hasem) and by continuing to develop the UEL Living
Refugee Archive (Hasem).

Staff Development

Mentoring and research development

Both the university and the UoA contribute to staff development, starting from early career
researchers. A formidable team spirit within the UoA means staff regularly support each other so
that a colleague has the time to finish that article, submit that grant application or attend a
conference.

The UoA operates an organic mentoring scheme, based on a needs analysis and involving staff
at all levels of seniority. Mentors and mentees are expected to meet regularly and to be outcome
focused. A mentoring co-ordinator monitors the scheme (De Angelis). We also encourage informal
mentoring through self-directed peer collaboration. All staff in the UoA are encouraged to be
members of a research centre, giving them opportunities to launch ideas or collaborate with senior
staff.

Mentoring and support of early career researchers often takes place within these centres, allowing
them to benefit from existing experience (e.g., on funding bids and project management). For
example, Jabiri gained invaluable experience grant applications by being a member of an
interdisciplinary team (CNR and CMRB) working on a funded project on refugee university education
in Jordan and Lebanon (2019?) and Susannah-Pickering by being co-investigator on two projects
with fellow-CSJC member Tiwari (The role of dignity in improving sanitation and menstrual health
in rural India, Global Challenges Research Fund, DFID (2018 – 2020) and Tracking SDG progress
in the London Boroughs of Newham and Tower Hamlets, London Scholars Programme (March -
Sept 2019). Lounasmaa has been playing a leading role in the OLIve programme and the Calais
Jungle project. She has since published three book chapters and given several dissemination
workshops at UK universities. She was co-recipient of The Guardian award for the Calais Jungle
project (2017).


                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Another form of mentoring involves more experienced colleagues supporting early career
researchers in supervisory roles. Other research-related development includes the opportunity for
early career staff to present papers at Departmental seminars and symposia prior to conferences,
and holding training events according to emerging needs, for example, ‘hands-on’ workshops to
support bid development.

At institution level, all staff can access training through the Researcher Development Programme
run by the University Graduate School, which provides both generic and tailored disciplinary support
on subjects like writing for publication and dissemination and on grant capture. Various sums of
School- and College-wide funding have been made available over the years for attending
international conferences and for organising research events at UEL. As the stipulations for the
award included developing publications out of conference papers and dissemination to colleagues
this funding has led to quality outputs and research dialogue. During the same period, 10 members
of the UoA were awarded sabbatical research leave for a semester.

Seed funding and GCRF QR funds

Since 2017 UEL have received GCRF QR funds from Research England in the form of an annual
allocation. These annual allocations are considered internal funds for research and are awarded by
the [PVC] to UEL academics across Schools following an internal competition. The funds are aimed
at small research projects and building partnerships in Development Assistance Committee
countries. These seed funds are meant to be used as a springboard to external grants applications.

UEL acknowledges the UoA’s vibrancy and the necessity of its research by awarding such funding
to several projects, including:

• The role of women's collectives in curbing alcoholism in rural India (Tiwari, GBP 7,798).
• Role of Dignity in improving Menstrual Health (MH) in rural India and Uganda (Tiwari, GBP
21,230).
• Resource insecurity and HIV: How material, psychosocial and medical HIV-relevant resource
access and deficits in Zambia and Brazil may contribute to or inhibit meeting the 90-90-90 goals
(Squire, GBP 15,718).
• Migration Balkan Route and its Transit Societies (Korac-Sanderson, GBP 6,910).
• Refugee university education in Jordan: supporting and evaluating the provision of key skills,
guidance and support for Syrian refugees (Doná, GBP 14,323).
• Building capacity among development researchers in Ethiopia (Pickering-Saqqa, GBP 11,200).

Staff Strategy

After being part of the School of Law and Social Sciences and subsequently the School of Social
Sciences within the College of Professional Services (2014-17), the UoA now resides in the School
of Education and Communities.

Since 2104 the UoA recruited five Early Career Researchers (Gephelitis, Kim, Jensen, Javornic,
Woods), supported colleagues to PhD Since completion by allocating research time (Mukasa,
Saqqa-Pickering) and awarded fixed-term and permanent fractional contracts to recent PhD
graduates (Gallagher, Ansong).




                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The workload model under which the UoA has been operating safeguards research time for those
with significant responsibility for research and has been used flexibly to accommodate specific
commitments. Staff training and development needs are identified through mandatory annual
appraisals and annual Staff Development Plans, conducted by senior staff and line managers,
which include research plans, research impact and civic engagement.

Since 2014 the UoA has continued to successfully support promotion with 4 promotions to reader
(Bernstock, Hobden, Radeljic, Voela) and 2 promotions to Professor (Cudworth, Doná).

Equality and Diversity

The Uoa has a diverse student and staff body with 77% of our students and 34% of staff coming
from minority ethnic backgrounds. More importantly, equality and diversity, in relation to race, gender
and feminism are key areas of research excellence in our UoA, subjects we are passionate about
and form significant part of the impact of our research.

Since 2014 the school has established a Racial Equality Chartermark and an Equality, Diversity and
Inclusion committee and organised activities to involve both students and staff in dialogue around
issues such as decolonising the curriculum and sharing good practice. Examples include:

• ElevateHer conference in 2014 and 2015, providing opportunities for both staff and students to
engage in discussions, workshops, and networking on gender issues.
•   Decolonise the Curriculum working group.
•   Setting up dedicated teams and podcast series to share good practice on issues like racism and
decoloniality (e.g., ‘Sharing Good Practice and Critical Self-Reflection’ team).
•   Hosted anti-racist training programme for the school delivered by the Equity Collective.

The University is an Athena Swan bronze award holder. The School’s application for a bronze award
is under way but has been delayed because of the pandemic. In the meantime, several members of
staff are engaged in Athena Swann cross-university mentoring schemes as mentors and initiatives
to decolonise the curricula.




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income

External funding is central to the UoA’s research culture. From REF 2014 onwards our aim was to
increase the grant capture per FTE. Between 2013-20, 115 bids were submitted with a total value of
GBP 11,758,740. However, only twenty-eight (24%) bids were successful and the total value of
funding was under GBP 400,000.

The reason for this can be found by looking at the nature of the bids: staff in the UoA focused on
lower-value high-impact bids, in line with the strategic emphasis on impact and embracing local
communities in projects that alleviate poverty and inequality. A substantial number of these bids (19
out of 45 – 42%) were successful and income from UK central/local government and health
authorities more than trebled from in this period compared to REF2014 (REF2014: GBP 33,177;
REF2021: GBP 108,100). We also saw an increase of GBP 22,756 of income from non-EU based
charities compared to REF2014.




                                     Figure 1 Funding sources

The two charts demonstrate the transition from a UoA whose research was funded primarily by
research councils, to a UoA drawing most of its funding from government bodies and charities,
reflecting the UoA’s success in strengthening the links with a wide range of local organisations and
local stakeholders. Examples include:

• Crops for the Future Research Centre, CFFRC Malaysia Project (Tiwari, GBP 2,115)
• South East Asian Prayer Centre, Establishment of Research, Knowledge Management and
Advocacy Department for Served (Kraft, GBP 22,756)
• Islamic Relief Academy, Islamic Relief Domestic Programmes Research (Pickering-Saqqa, GBP
10,290)
• BA/Leverhulme, Precaritised lives: Storying HIV and resource insecurities in the UK and South
Africa (Squire, GBP 9,130)
• Leverhulme Trust Research Project, A linguistic description of Pearl Lagoon Basin Miskitu, with
Edge Hill University (Jamieson, GBP 64,683)


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The UoA has been successful with medium size grants. Between 2014-20, the average successful
application provided GBP 13,260. Examples include:

• Leverhulme Trust Fellowship, Revisiting the Nomadic Subject (Tamboukou, GBP 54,248)
• BEIS Research Councils / Royal Society / British Academy and Royal Society of Edinburgh,
Understanding the new Ethno-Nationalism, (Woods, GBP 12,028 - UEL share of GBP 42,634)
• Leverhulme Trust Research Fellowship, The impact of cocaine money on social processes on
Nicaragua’s Caribbean coast, (Jamieson, GBP 53,089)

At the same period, researchers in the UoA worked in several partnership bids, demonstrating the
UoA’s high profile and strong and active links to other institutions. For example,

• AHRC, Gargi Bhattacharyya, “Performing memory & memorialising conflict at a distance:
innovative approaches to understanding the views of displaced people & receiving communities”,
with Birmingham City University and University of Pisa, UEL: GBP 18,904
• Wright (CO-I) with Lloyd (PI) British Academy Grant GBP 203,390. ‘Towards early childhood
education by 2030 for all children in Lebanon,’ exploring inclusive educational access for 3 to 5-year-
old deprived Lebanese children and Syrian child refugees (2019-2022).

Additional income of GBP 159,570 was raised through educational and consultancy projects, most
importantly an ERASMUS+ award of GBP 93,000 with the Central European University, the
University of Vienna, the European Network Against Racism, which supported the OLIve programme
for the education of refugees, enhanced the UoA’s international standing in matters of inclusive
education and provided the impetus for several publications from different members of the UoA.

Research infrastructure and facilities

Research is supported through a range of central University facilities including grant capture support
is provided by the Research Development Support (ReDS) team which is part of the central
Research and Enterprise office, Staff also have access to GrantCraft for dedicated support to write
research bids. More than 80% of the UoA’s research active staff have participated in grant capture
seminars and workshops, while 50% have regularly benefited from feedback and support with their
funding applications.

In 2016, the University invested in Vertigo Ventures Impact Tracker which enables the effective
storage of impact-related information and the mapping and assessment of the nature of our research
impact. All staff have training available and are strongly encouraged to track impact.

The research base is further supported by the work of the library and the University Research
Repository. Particularly important for the UoA is the Refugee Council Archive, one of the largest
collections of materials relating to the study of forced migration, and a source of information on
displacement, flight and exile; on legal, political and social issues; and on refugee community life.
The Archive contains materials on refugees in all parts of the world, with special emphasis on Britain,
and has a dedicated archivist working on the further development of the Refugee Council archives:
Living Refugee Archive – www.livingrefugeearchive.org. The work of the archives supports the
research of PGR students and staff working on issues of transnational migration, dislocation and
refugees and is an important enabling mechanism for research impact in the areas of anti-racism
and migrant rights, and refugee education.


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Contribution to Research Base, Collaboration, Networks and Partnerships

Our approach to our contribution to the research base and the economy are closely linked with
building a strong collective profile rather than individual careers and therefore being more strongly
represented in the research community and more effective in benefiting local communities. An
important role is played by the three research centres as focal points of intellectual exchange,
international visibility and impactful research, and most researcher in Sociology are aligned to one
or more research centres.

Research Centres

The Centre for Migration, Refugees and Belonging (CMRB) supports scholarship and debates on
contemporary issues of migration, refugees and belonging by fostering partnerships between
academics, policy makers, practitioners, activists and migrants from a wide range of backgrounds.
The Centre benefits from its unique location at the heart of East London, an area which has seen
some of the highest rates of international settlement in Europe – historically and in the present day.
Between 2014-2020 CMRB has led with international research projects like the EU Borderscapes,
financed though the EU’s 7th Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development,
and Refugee University Education, funded through the Global Challenge Research Fund (2018-
2019). During the same period, the centre organised over 50 public events, including conferences,
invited talks, book launches, documentary film screenings and seminars.

The Centre for Narrative Research (CNR) has been leading on various impactful research projects,
such as the lives of refugees in Calais and Dover and the OLIve programme that provides migrants
with opportunities to access higher education in the UK. Since 2104, the centre has run 12 research
projects, 13 co-organised collaborative events, an average of 10 research seminars per year and 5
impact projects. The centre also hosts post-doctoral and visiting scholars (7) and maintains an active
media profile (14 events in the last five years).

The Centre for Social Justice and Change engages with the themes of social and economic justice,
sustainability, community development, and resilience. It is dedicated to developing alternatives to
new challenges, especially motivated by the multiple crises of a rapidly changing world, and new
understandings of social reality. It promotes forms of dialogue that are inclusive, participatory and
inter/trans-disciplinary, with a reflective attitude towards methodologies of enquiry and values,
worldviews and the principles they presuppose. The centre is organizing, on average, 10 annual
events open to wider public.

Awards and memberships

The UoA maintains a high international profile reflected in awards, membership and leading roles in
professional bodies and networks within and outside academia. Members of the UoA regularly
advise on book series, serve on editorial boards for leading academic journals, review funding
applications and are invited to deliver keynotes speeches in international conferences.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Notable awards include:

• Giorgia Doná, Winner B. Gudykunst Outstanding Book Award, International Academy for
Intercultural Research for the edited book by D. L. Sam and J. W. Berry (Eds) Cambridge Handbook
of Acculturation Psychology (2nd Edition), Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, which includes
the chapter Refugees and Forced Migrants, 2017.
• Giorgia Doná, Best Paper Award Senior Scholar for Reversing the gaze on Fortress Europe:
visual interferences produced by migrants in transit at the France-UK border, jointly written with
Marie Godin and Crispin Hughes, 2019.
• Aura Lounasmaa and CNR, The Guardian University Award for Calais ‘Jungle’ project, 2017.
• Meera Tiwari, was awarded the CROP International Studies in Poverty Prize 2016 for her
manuscript proposal ‘Why some Development Works’. Tiwari has also been elected a Fellow of the
Human Development and the Capability Association in 2020 (HDCA).
• Georgie Wemyss, 2019 Sage Sociology prize for Innovation and Excellence for Everyday
bordering, belonging and the reorientation of British immigration legislation, jointly written with Yuval-
Davis and Cassidy.
• Nira Yuval-Davis, International Sociological Association (ISA) Award for Excellence in Research
and Practice, 2018.

Examples of membership of organisations outside academia include:

• Doná was the University representative on the Council for Assisting Refugee Academics/
Scholars at Risk Universities Network (2007-2015), and for international Canadian Association for
Refugees and Forced Migration Studies and International Association of Scholars of Forced
Migration initiatives (2011-16). She is on the Board of Directors, Harrell Bond Foundation which was
set up to provide micro-grants to refugees and asylum seekers and member of the country-of-origin
expert team for Refugee Legal Aid (2011-2019).
• Jabiri is an advisor on UN’s peace missions to conflict areas, including Libya (2014) and Yemen
(2013); member of the Harvard Kennedy School’s Carr Centre for Human Rights’ Initiative on
Violence against Women, a Board Member of Goethe-Institute’s Middle East Initiative and a board
member of Women Living Under Muslim Laws Coalition, London.
• Tiwari has a visiting Professorship at the Development Management Institute, Bihar, India and
she has close links with the Rajiv Gandhi Mahila Vikas Foundation, India. She was on the Board of
Trustees of the NGO Sanitation and Human Rights in India (2017-2020).
• Wright is a member of the board of trustees at ‘Latin Elephant’, a charity that promotes the
engagement of migrant and ethnic groups (including Latin Americans) in urban regeneration
processes in Elephant and Castle and other areas of London.
• Jamieson is a Fellow of the Royal Anthropological Institute. He is also a member of the advisorial
board of CIDCA (the Centre of Research and Documentation of the Atlantic Coast), a research
institute set up in Nicaragua during the Sandinista administration period that promotes sociological,
historical, anthropological and linguistic research on the minority peoples of the Central America’s
Caribbean coast, and is on the editorial board of CIDCA’s peer-reviewed journal Wani.

Involvement with such international networks has led to UoA members directly influencing
Governmental decision making. For example, since 2016 Doná has been one of the ten members
of the Independent Advisory Group on Country of Origin Information (IAGCI), Office of the
Independent Chief Inspector of Borders and Immigration (ICIBI). This group advises the ICIBI about
the content and quality of country information and guidance notes produced by the Home Office and
relied upon by decision makers. Membership of the IAGCI is by invitation of the ICIBI. Members are

                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
respected academics and representatives of organisations with a working interest in country
information and how it is used by the Home Office.

Examples of senior editorial roles include:
• Dona is editorial board member of the International Journal of Migration, Health and Social Care
(2006-present) and Critical Childhood & Youth Studies (2017-Present)
• Tamboukou was co-editor, Gender and Education (2012-16) and is section editor of Matter:
Journal of New Materialist Research. She is on the editorial boards of Gender and Education and
Qualitative Research Journal.
• Tiwari was Associate Editor for the Journal of International Development (2014-2018).
• Wemyss and Yuval-Davis are editorial collective members of Feminist Dissent.
• Wemyss is on the editorial board of the Journal of Borderland Studies.
• Yuval-Davis is currently on the editorial advisory boards of Das Argument (Germany), Ethnicities
(UK), Hagar (Israel), The Journal of Inter-cultural Studies (Australia), The International Feminist
Journal of Politics (Routledge), Signs (US), Social Inclusion (Switzerland) and Sociology of Race
and Ethnicity (American Sociological Association).
• Wright is associate editor of Progress in Development Studies (2019-present).

Since 2014, our staff have reviewed papers submitted to a variety of leading journals in the UK and
internationally, including: American Sociological Review; British Journal of Sociology; Distinktion:
European Journal of Cultural and Political Sociology; Journal of Social Theory; International Journal
of Criminology and Sociology; International Journal of Sociology and Social Policy; International
Political Sociology; International Sociology; Sociological Review, Sociology and Theory, Culture and
Society, Development in Practice, World Development, European Journal for Development
Research, Journal of Human Development and Capabilities, Voluntas (International Journal of
Voluntary and Non-Profit Organisations), Contemporary South Asia, American Anthropologist,
Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute.

In addition, staff have reviewed book proposals and manuscripts for publishers such as Ashgate,
Berghahn Books, Blackwell, Bloomsbury, Cambridge University Press, James Currey, I.B. Tauris,
Oxford University Press, Palgrave, Pluto, Polity, Practical Action, Routledge and the Taylor and
Francis group, Rowland and Littlefield, Sage, Springer, University of Minnesota Press, University of
Toronto Press, Versita and Zed.

Our work has attracted significant attention both nationally and internationally. Since 2014 we have
delivered 72 keynote addresses in UK institutions and in Austria, Australia, Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Canada, Croatia, Denmark, Germany, Greece, Finland, France, India, Ireland, Italy, Mexico, the
Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the
United States. We have been invited to speak at academic events on 168 occasions in the UK and
Australia, Austria, Denmark, Estonia, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Finland, France, India, Ireland,
Italy, Mexico, New Zealand, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, South Africa, Spain,
Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Trinidad and Tobago and the United States.

In addition to contributing to academic events, members of the UoA have been invited to address
international NGOs, charities, and Government Departments and to speak at events organized by
local authorities, museums, and the United Nations.

More than 20 research outputs have been translated into Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Greek,
Italian, Norwegian, Pashto, Polish, Portuguese, Russian, Sinhala, Spanish, Swedish and Tamil.


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Staff collaborate both nationally and internationally as researchers or research fellows in areas of
our specialisms on narrative research, cultural sociology, and migration. For example, Wright is an
Associate Fellow of the Institute of the Americas, University of London and a Research Affiliate of
the Centre for Migration, Policy and Society (COMPAS, University of Oxford). Staff also hold honorary
positions. For example, Tamboukou was Affiliated Professor in Gender Studies, Linnaeus University,
Sweden (2016-2019) and Adjunct Professor, Griffith Institute for Educational Research, Griffith
University, Queensland, Australia (2010-2019).

Academic collaboration is evident in extensive external PhD examining. We have examined more
than 57 PhD theses across UK HEIs and HEIs in Australia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland,
France, India, Ireland, the Netherlands, Norway, New Zealand, South Africa, Spain and Sweden.
Members of the UoA have also been external members of supervisory panels at HEIs in Belgium,
France, Sweden, and the UK.

Members of the UoA are involved in a range of academic networks. Emeriti professors Rustin and
Yuval-Davis are members of the Academy of Social Sciences and Yuval-Davis is also a member of
its nominations committee. She is past president and a permanent member of the board of the
International Sociological Associations Research Committee 05 on Racism, Nationalism and Ethnic
Relations. Doná is a management committee member of the European Cooperation in Science and
Technology (COST) network Femicide across Europe (2013-17) and Tamboukou of the COST
network New Materialism: Networking European Scholarship On 'How Matter comes to Matter!
(2014-2018). Doná was a founding member and co-convenor (2014 - 2017) of the BSA Violence and
Society Study Group.

Scholars are also involved with networks in their specialist areas such as:
• ATGENDER, the European Association for Gender Research.
• the Society for Latin American Studies.
• The Development Studies Association.
• the International Association for the Study of Forced Migration.
• The Human Development and Capability Association.

Given the focus on inter- and transdisciplinarity, members are also involved with other associations
such as the Royal Geographical Society-Institute of British Geographers, Development Studies
Association, with Wright being convenor of the Migration, Development and Social Change Study
Group and Tiwari being co-convener of the Multidimensional Poverty Group (2004 – 2018) and an
elected Council Member until 2014. Tiwari was also co-convener of the Multidimensional Poverty
Group (2005 – 2018) of the European Association of Development Research and Training Institutes
(EADI) and founding co-convener of the Sustainable Human Development Study Group of Human
Development and the Capability Association (HDCA).

UoA members have also been significantly involved with advising national and international bodies,
both academic and more widely. For example, Tamboukou is a member of Scientific Board, ‘Hannah
Arendt Centre for Political Studies’, University of Verona, Italy and the International Advisory Board,
Centre for the Study of Storytelling, Experientiality and Memory (SELMA), University of Turku,
Finland.

Members of the UoA have been involved in peer review of fellowship and funding applications for a
range of national and international funding bodies, including, the Arts and Humanities Research


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Council, the Economic and Social Research Council, the Economic and Social Research Council,
the European Union, the Leverhulme Trust and the Medical Research Council.

Public engagement

We seek to maximise the benefits of our research through various forms of public engagement
activity intended to communicate research insights to as wide a non-academic audience as possible.
These include:

• Media engagement: the UoA takes every opportunity to use popular press, radio and television
media to share its findings with the public by contributing to media discourse about topics relating to
our work. Examples include Doná’s TV interview, 2019; Korac’s Radio interview 2018; Ahearne,
commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of the Arusha Declaration in Tanzania and the legacy of
authoritarian rule which was accessed by more than 25,000 readers and led to follow-on publication
on the political tensions in Tanzania.
• Features in The Conversation, for example, articles on life stories from the Calais ‘Jungle’ by
Squire; Wemyss and Yuval-Davis on everyday bordering; Pickering-Saqqa on reliance of big
development NGOs on UK aid money and the importance of the money development charities spend
in Britain; Tiwari on India’s Covid-19 mitigation in rural India.
• Artistic and creative work, for example:
• the film produced by Wemyss for the everyday bordering project was shown at a range of public
venues and to members of NGOs and community groups.
• Bhattacharyya’s collaborative Mapping Immigration Controversy project included a project film
by the same title produced in 2015.
• the collaboration of Ellis and Harper on the ‘Psychological Impacts of Surveillance’ video
presented at the Ars Electronica Festival in Glasgow (2020).
• Two exhibitions and one symposium related to longitudinal East German project by Molly
Andrews: Remembering East Germany’s Peaceful Revolution Twenty-Five Years Later; Exhibition
and symposium at the German Historical Institute London, October 2014-January 2015; Exhibition
at Wissenschaftzentrum Berlin, November 2014- January 2015; Creation of website: “Remembering
East Germany's Peaceful Revolution”
http://eastgermanhistory.wix.com/peaceful-revolution

Contribution to economy and society

UEL’s Sociology UoA is an internationally recognised centre of excellence. The impact of the UoA’s
collaborative research is evidenced in three key areas:

•   evidence-based policy
•   campaigning
•   public awareness

All three were met through raised awareness among community and political stakeholders as
evidenced, for example, by the discussion of the CMRB produced film “Everyday Bordering” in
Parliament and in venues across the country in 2015 and 2016.

Examples of collaborative and participatory impact activity include:




                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
• Organising workshops and symposia offering both training in, and opportunities for, networking
with non-academics such as NGOs, community organisations and professional organisations. For
example, research undertaken by the members of CSJC in the domain of International Development
is closely aligned with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) with special focus on the
SDG tag line of ‘leave no one behind’ (Wordpress research page in preparation). The thematic areas
of our impact map directly into SDGs 1 (no poverty), 3 (good health and wellbeing), 5 (gender
equality), 10 (reduced inequalities), 16 (peace, justice and strong institutions) and 17 (revitalize the
global partnership for sustainable development).
• Developing significant international reach. The countries in Global South where our research
has been carried out include India, South Africa, Zambia, Brazil, Malaysia, Iraq, Syria, and Lebanon.
• Creating collaborative networks in each of the countries noted above to foster institutional
partnerships with academic and non-academic organisations to achieve the research being
undertaken in one or more of the SDGs.

Interventions to combat poverty and promote sustainable development included our research
undertaken by the members of CSJC in the domain of International Development which has had
significant international reach. The outcomes of the research have led to shifts in practice at
individual, community and organizational levels, for example through:

• mandatory ‘signature literacy’ from thumb imprint for signature for each member of the women’s
collective network Jeevika (which has a membership of 1 million rural women) and the establishment
of a separate health fund for each household in rural Bihar in India.
• local researchers in rural India acquiring new knowledge of dignity and menstrual health.
• young girls’ collectives have formed street theatre groups to raise dignity focussed menstrual
health awareness in the community through street plays. This is a direct impact of the research that
deployed street theatre to collect data on perceptions of menstrual health in the villages. Over 20
performances have taken places before being halted because of the Covid-19 restrictions.
• enhanced data collection skills and monitoring - evaluation capacity of volunteers and domestic
NGOs in Syria and Lebanon.
• increased organisational capacity to drive the domestic programming work research, training,
and employment capacity, and understanding of HIV’s resource contexts for people with HIV and
NGOs in Zambia and Bahia, Brazil.
• research contributed to refocusing and expansion of IRW programmes in Malaysia and South
Africa.
• nutrition support for people with HIV in South Africa.
• the lead researcher in Zambia has been appointed as the HIV ambassador for community
engagement.

Research carried out by members of the CMRB and conducted in collaboration with local and
national communities and partners has challenged what has become known as ‘the Hostile
Environment’ towards migrants and refugees and influenced policy:

• The EU Funded Borderscapes research exposed the reach of the UK immigration legislation
across everyday life.
• the ESRC funded Go Home Vans project challenged anti-immigration operations and identified
their negative reverberations on race and ethnic relations within British society.
• the international context of our findings is informed by our work on asylum decision making using
countries of origin reports.


                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Members of the CNR have developed, maintained and promoted UEL’s innovative refugee-centred,
multimodal, and holistic ‘bridging’ and ‘gateway’ HE programmes – OLIve (Open Learning Initiative)
preparatory workshops and Foundation programmes, and Life Stories accredited short courses in
France and the UK and online in Lebanon and Jordan.

This research has highlighted how broad contextual issues impact migrants’ and refugees’ lives,
especially youths’, access to services such as HE and pointed to the importance of refugees’
participation in all work concerning them, and the impact of online media for refugee voices.
Lounasmaa, Esin and Squire’s research on Erasmus+ and UEL-funded projects acting as ‘bridges’
and ‘gateways’ for refugees into HE has shown the specific value of refugee-led approaches for
refugee HE and demonstrated the value of participant-centred approaches that use personal
narratives to bring people together and precipitate new forms of thinking and action.

These have led to:
• increased numbers of UK and other refugees preparing for and accessing HE.
• increased skills in other areas of education and training for refugees participating in the
programmes.
• six substantial and refugee-led art and literature productions emerging from the UEL HE
inclusion projects.
• significant capacity-building among academic and administrative staff and students involved –
overwhelmingly as volunteers - with the UEL refugee HE programmes.
• expanded work in refugee-focused NGOs around HE.
• promotion, holistically, of other work by refugee-focused NGOs.
• awareness raising in policy for an increased focus on the value of personal narratives and
multimodalities in refugee HE programmes.

This research continues to be used to resist the Hostile Environment and strengthen solidarity among
migrant rights and anti-racist movements. Tamboukou’s research project on migrant and refugee
women’s mobility patterns in Greece has contributed to empowerment projects in crisis areas, such
as the notorious Moria camp in Lesvos.

A significant area of impact to local communities and more specifically in East London is achieved
through numerous evaluations that the UoA performs on interventions and other projects by local
authorities and charities, contributing an objective and scientific angle to the understanding the
outcomes and designing further stages or interventions.




                                                                                           Page 18
