Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leeds

 Unit of Assessment: B10, Mathematical Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Introduction
The Unit comprises members of the School of Mathematics in the Faculty of Engineering and
Physical Sciences (FEPS). The School is one of the largest in the UK, with over 100 academic and
academic-related staff, over 200 MSc students and PGRs and over 1000 undergraduate students.
It was ranked in the top 10 for research quality in REF2014. Its main aim is to carry out world-
leading research in the mathematical sciences. It combines a core mathematical focus with a
strong interdisciplinary ethos. With its strength in breadth, it empowers staff and students to fulfil
their research and impact potential across the mathematical sciences by providing a creative and
supportive research environment with clear career trajectories.

With the appointment of Langfeld as permanent Head of School, the University committed to
sustained strategic leadership, aiming to advance the Unit to the top 20 Mathematics units
worldwide. Leadership is overseen by the Management Team and facilitated by three Heads of
Department: Speight (Pure Mathematics), D Read (Applied Mathematics), Houwing-Duistermaat
(Statistics; Aykroyd from 2021), the Director of Research and Innovation Gambino, the
Knowledge Exchange Director Ward, the Impact Coordinator Bokhove and the REF coordinator
Marsh, as well as a Strategy Board with ECR, postdoc and PGR representation. The Unit is well-
embedded in the University governance structure: The Pro-Dean for Research and Innovation,
Harlen, oversees strategic alignment with Faculty goals, Barber is co-head of the Faculty graduate
school, Sturman is Faculty Pro-Dean for International, and Langfeld discusses research priorities
in regular all-Heads meetings at Faculty level. In 2020, eight Schools, including Mathematics,
joined to form the Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences. This extends opportunities for
collaborative research, in particular with the Schools in Engineering, and offers excellent new
pathways to impact.

1.2 Research and impact strategy
The Unit’s success is built on a strong community of excellent staff. A research group approach
ensures a strong combination of critical mass with a spectrum of research fields and enables
expansion into new areas when opportunities arise (see 2.1.1), attracting staff through strong
activity and an attractive working environment.

The Unit's research and impact strategy is to focus on key interacting areas across the
mathematical sciences. Staff are organised into closely integrated research groups (see 1.2.2)
including world-leading groups in Astrophysical and Geophysical Fluid Dynamics (FluidDyn) and
Logic.

The departments and research groups, under Langfeld’s lead, provide organisational structure
and balance across the Mathematical Sciences and facilitate management of the large Unit,
providing coordination and support. A Research Expectations policy sets out what is expected
from staff.

1.2.1 Achievement of REF2014 research and impact strategy, and evolution

Key research principles, formulated in REF2014, were to

K1 Reinforce research group cohesion;
K2 Build strengths in interdisciplinary research beyond Unit boundaries;

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
K3 Expand in research areas with capacity for long-term interactions with industry;
K4 Further invest in excellent Early Career Researchers and provide strong support for their
ambitions to become field-leaders.

Key impact principles, formulated in REF2014, were to

I1 Enhance the organisational structures that further impact and secure external third-party input
into impact policy;
I2 Strengthen the engagement with support structures that facilitate impact.

The Unit has:

      increased the number of permanent staff satisfying the Category A submitted criteria from
       65 (58.9 FTE) in August 2013 to 75 (69.74 FTE) in July 2020, increasing the number of
       female staff from 3 to 10 (K1);
      appointed 18 Lecturers and 7 University Academic Fellows (UAFs) (K1, K2, K3, K4);
      been awarded 29 fellowships, value totalling more than £7.3m (K1, K2, K3, K4);
      funded a strong programme of international visitors and conferences, supported by an
       annual internal budget of £70K and external funds (K2, I2);
      led 5 EU-funded Innovative Training Networks (ITNs) (I2, K2, K3);
      co-led the EPSRC CDT Fluid Dynamics (2014, renewed 2019), and supported 4 other
       CDTs (I2, K4);
      successfully organised the 162nd European Study Group with Industry involving 120+
       Mathematicians from 10 countries (and 22+ UK Universities) working, for one week in
       2020, on 8 problems sponsored by 7 industrial partners [text removed for publication] (I2,
       K2, K3). This went ahead online, despite the lockdown, at a time when other ESGIs were
       postponed.
      carried out a £4.5m refurbishment, designed to facilitate collaboration (K2, I1);

Further to K2: The Research Visitors’ Centre (RVC) is central to the Unit's collaboration and
dissemination strategy, funding a strong programme of international visitors and conferences (see
3.5.2, 4.1.2), with an annual budget of £70k, supporting grant applications (see 3.2, 4.1.4) and
recruitment (see 1.2.1, 2.1.1). The Unit has an extensive programme of regular internal, external
and interdisciplinary seminars. To increase the time staff have for research, the Unit recruits
Tutorial Assistants and Teaching Fellows and is redesigning assessment practices.

Further to K4: The Unit engages strongly with the University Academic Fellowship (UAF)
scheme, part of the University’s Great Minds programme (see REF5a, People). These attractive
positions include a five-year development programme, reduced teaching and strong mentoring,
leading to Associate Professor status. We have made good appointments: [text removed for
publication], Faber in algebra; Brooke-Taylor in set theory, Fitzgerald in industrial mathematics,
Liu in applied statistics, Mann in human and animal behaviour and Pegler in fluid dynamics. [Text
removed for publication] Faber has obtained an EU Marie Skłodowska-Curie Individual Fellowship
(2018-2020), and Brooke-Taylor transferred an EPSRC Early Career Fellowship to Leeds (2016-
2018). Fitzgerald has an EPSRC Early Career Fellowship, 2018-2023, and Mann has a UKRI
Future Leaders Fellowship. Fitzgerald and Mann were promoted to Associate Professor in 2020,
and Liu is an Alan Turing Institute (ATI) Research Fellow.

Further to K4: The Unit aims for a thriving postdoctoral community, and appointed 60 postdoctoral
research fellows/assistants during the REF period; on the census date it employed 24. The
Academic Development Fellowship (ADF) scheme has given postdoctoral researchers the
opportunity to extend their position while gaining teaching experience; onward destinations reflect
its success (see 2.3.3).

Further to K2, K4 and I2: PGRs are an important part of the Unit. We introduced scholarships to
boost numbers and applicant strength. In 2018/2019 and 2019/2020, the Unit spent approximately
£700K on PGR support (including Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs)). This involved funding

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
contributions for approximately 60 PGRs. The Unit co-leads (via Tobias) an EPSRC CDT in Fluid
Dynamics (2014, renewed 2019). [text removed for publication]. The Unit is a partner in the
EPSRC CDT SOFI, Soft Matter and Functional Interfaces (2014, renewed 2019 as SOFI2 [text
removed for publication]; D Read is a deputy director. The Unit contributes to the Leeds EPSRC
CDTs Molecules to Product (2019-), to a NERC DTP Spheres (2014-2018; renewed as
Panorama (2019-)) and to the ESRC Centre for Data Analytics and Society CDT (2017-) based
in the Leeds Institute for Data Analytics (LIDA; see REF5a, Objective 3).

Further to I1: The Unit created a role of Director of Impact (Bokhove) who leads a team
developing impact (together with the External Advisory Board (see 3.3)).

Further to K2, K3 and I2: The Unit encourages interdisciplinary research, facilitated by joint
seminars (see 3.5.1), CDTs, organization of interdisciplinary conferences (see 4.1.2), visitor
funding and engagement with interdisciplinary institutes in the University and beyond. This includes
the Bragg Centre for Materials Research, the Leeds Institute of Data Analytics and the Leeds
Institute for Fluid Dynamics (see 3.1.1, 3.5.1).

Further to K2: New research connections, involving collaboration, PGR cosupervision and grants,
have developed with the School of Earth and Environment, involving 10 Unit staff. Connections
have also developed with the Schools of Business, Chemistry [Colour Chemistry, Chemical
Physics], Computing, Geography, Mechanical Engineering and Medicine and Health, and the
Astbury Centre.

1.2.2 Research Groups

We list all Unit submitted staff (except where otherwise indicated); those who are Category A
submitted are highlighted in bold throughout the document. An asterisk indicates staff who started
during the REF period.

Algebra, Geometry and Integrable Systems (AlgGeomIntSys)

Baur*, Brooke-Taylor*, Caudrelier*, Chalykh, Faber*, Faria Martins*, Fordy, Gambino,
Halcrow*, Harland, Kokarev*, MacPherson, Mantova*, Marsh, Martin, Mikhailov, Nijhoff, A
Parker, Pressland, Ruijsenaars, Speight, Tange*,T Ward*, Wood (Former staff: [text removed
for publication] Crawley-Boevey).

Algebra research lies mainly in representation theory, topological quantum field theory, quantum
computing, and connections to logic. The latter have been reinforced by the inclusion of logicians
Brooke-Taylor, Gambino, MacPherson and Mantova (K1). Baur is a Royal Society Wolfson
Fellow.

Key geometry activity lies in geometric variational problems, such as harmonic maps and
morphisms, with applications to nuclear and condensed matter physics; also discrete and
computational geometry.

Integrable systems research lies in several strongly overlapping and interacting areas: Hamiltonian
and Lagrangian dynamics, discrete integrable systems, symmetry analysis, solitons, differential
and difference algebra, enumerative topology, cluster and Poisson geometry and connections with
representation theory, quantum integrable systems and many-body systems, and special function
theory.

Analysis

Dareiotis*, Kisil, Partington, Sharp*, Strohmaier*, Young (Former staff: Daws, C Read).



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Key areas are geometric analysis, analysis on manifolds, spectral theory, complex analysis and
operator theory, with connections to scattering theory, quantum field theory on curved spacetimes,
and control theory. The sad loss of C Read and departure of [text removed for publication] meant
there was an opportunity for reinventing the group. The Unit pivoted from its REF2014 plans to
develop in quantum groups, and instead made appointments (see 2.1.1) bringing the group closer
to Geometry (K1).

Astrophysical and Geophysical Fluid Dynamics (FluidDyn)

Barker*, Beaume*, Bokhove, Falle, Griffiths, Hollerbach, Hughes, Jones, Kersalé,
Komissarov, D Parker (submitted to UOA7), Pegler*, Tobias

Research covers many topics motivated by astrophysical and geophysical fluid dynamical
phenomena. There is a strong interdisciplinary component, often through PGR cosupervision, with
the Schools of Earth and Environment, and Physics, as well as external bodies [text removed for
publication] (K2, I2).

The appointment of Pegler in geophysical fluid dynamics jointly to IndMath (see 2.1.1) increased
interaction between these groups as planned in REF2014 (albeit in a different research direction).
In 2018 the group played a key role in the establishment of the Leeds Institute for Fluid Dynamics
(K2, K3, I1) (see 3.1.1) and obtained an ERC Advanced Grant (Tobias). The group has won STFC
grants totalling £2.3m in the REF period. Tobias is one of 10 investigators on a Simons
Foundation Targeted Grant worth $4m. [text removed for publication]

Complex Materials and Industrial Mathematics (IndMath)

Bokhove, Evans, Fitzgerald*, Harlen, Kelmanson, Lesnic, Pegler*, D Read

Overall, research is concerned with the development of theoretical and numerical techniques for
solving continuum and molecular-level processes, with industrial applications. This includes the
modelling of materials, non-Newtonian flow and rheology as well as floods, ships and marine
structures (I2).

The group has a strong focus on interdisciplinarity and academic and industrial collaboration (I1),
with joint projects with physics, food science, engineering, geology and the biological sciences
(K2). [text removed for publication]. Following our REF2014 strategy we have integrated the group
more closely with FluidDyn (I1), appointing Pegler (UAF) (K4) to both groups.

Leeds Applied Nonlinear Dynamics (NonlinearDyn)

Beaume*, Mobilia, Niesen, Rucklidge, Sturman, J Ward

Research is highly interdisciplinary, with key interests in pattern formation in fluid dynamics and
other nonlinear systems, soft matter quasicrystals, ergodic theory and mixing, numerical methods
for nonlinear PDEs, network science, agent-based models and complex systems. Staff across the
Unit are associate members. [Text removed for publication].

Logic

Isolde Adler (submitted to UOA 11), Brooke-Taylor*, Gambino, MacPherson, Mantova*,
Rathjen, Shafer* (Former staff: Halupczok*).
This long-established group is one of the largest worldwide, with a breadth of expertise that is
almost unique, covering set theory, computability theory, reverse mathematics, proof theory,
categorical logic, and model theory, interacting strongly with many other areas, including joint work
with computer science, philosophy and social science (K2).

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Mathematical Biology and Medicine (MathBioMed)

Azaele, Bogachev, Gusnanto, Kent, Lopez-Garcia*, Lythe, Mann*, Mardia, Mobilia, Molina-
Paris
The main areas covered are mathematical immunology and epidemiology, viral infection, statistical
bioinformatics, population dynamics, evolutionary modelling and theoretical ecology. There are
strong links with AppStat. [Text removed for publication].

Modern Applied Statistics (AppStat)

Aivaliotis, Aykroyd, Barber, Cutillo*, Gusnanto, Houwing-Duistermaat*, Liu*, Mann*, Taylor

We have reorganized the Statistics groups along pure and applied lines, with a large overlap. This
facilitates engagement with LIDA and the Alan Turing Institute (K2, I1). AppStat develops
statistical and AI methods for many areas of application. A strong interdisciplinary and collaborative
ethos includes areas such as palaeobiology, criminology, international development and social
decision-making (K2, K3, I2). [Text removed for publication].

Probability and Financial Mathematics (ProbFin)

Aivaliotis, Bogachev, Dareiotis*, de Angelis*, Grigorova*, Issoglio*, Ji*, Palczewski,
Veretennikov

Research focuses on the study and modelling of systems and processes featuring uncertainty and
complexity. The group collaborates with academia and industry in areas including engineering,
power system management, investment management, predictive analytics and software
development (K2, K3, I2). The Unit invested substantially in new appointments (see 2.1.1) in
stochastic analysis and control, which intersect strongly with financial mathematics, thus expanding
in this area as planned in REF2014 (I1).

Statistical Methodology and Probability (StatProb)

Aldridge*, Barber, Bogachev, Houwing-Duistermaat*, Kent, Mardia, Taylor, Voss

Research includes themes across statistics and applications of probability including: group testing,
sparse inference, randomised algorithms, probabilistic combinatorics, information theory, shape
and directional statistics, spatial statistics, robustness, dimension reduction, applications to
astrodynamics, uncertainty quantification and chain event graphs. The group is highly
interdisciplinary [text removed for publication].

1.3 Future Strategy
[text removed for publication]

1.4 Open Research Environment
University policy for papers is that the Author Accepted Manuscript is uploaded to the White Rose
Repository within 90 days of acceptance. Authors are encouraged to submit this to the main office
who will do this, encouraging high compliance levels. Over the REF period, the number of full text
deposits increased from 149 to 1601, with 175,855 downloads.




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Unit has access to UKRI funds, topped up by the University, which can be used for gold open
access. The Unit itself has funded gold open access when needed, for articles not covered by
UKRI or charity block grants.

The Unit follows University policy on data, including data management and deposit, and satisfies
funders’ requirements.

1.5 Research Integrity
The Unit follows University policy on research integrity (see REF5a, Objective 5) and complies with
the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. Training programmes and tailored support are
available through Organisational Development and Professional Learning (OD&PL), including
online PGR training. Where researchers deal with potentially sensitive data, they take appropriate
advanced training.

A Unit colloquium and workshops on ethics in mathematics were given by Maurice Chiodo
(Cambridge) in 2019. Mann gave an invited presentation at the World Conference on Research
Integrity, Amsterdam, 2017. Cutillo co-organised an online Royal Statistical Society local group
afternoon meeting on Research reproducibility and good practice in statistical software in
2020.

 2. People

2.1 STAFF
2.1.1 Staff Recruitment

Appointments are overseen by the Management Committee, with Faculty approval. The Unit
develops a strong coherent breadth across the Mathematical Sciences, ensuring a critical mass in
each research group. It aims to appoint strong mathematicians with the skills for excellent research
and impact, teaching and administration, with a strong focus on equality and inclusion, while
ensuring long-term sustainability and following the principles above. The Unit aims for a range of
experience in each research group and actively encourages applications for postdoctoral
fellowships.

New appointments (Category A submitted)

In AlgGeomIntSys, appointments of Faber (UAF, 2017) and Baur (Professor, 2018), create a
critical mass in cluster algebras, while Faber, Faria Martins (Lecturer, 2016) and Tange (Lecturer,
2014) expand interactions with algebraic geometry, geometric topology and mathematical physics.
Expertise in spectral geometry is expanded by Kokarev (Lecturer, 2016), bringing the group closer
to Analysis (K1). Caudrelier (Lecturer 2016) expands work on integrable PDEs. The appointments
of Baur, Faber, Faria Martins and Mantova (see Logic) bring out geometric aspects of algebra
and integrable systems (K1), and T Ward expands into ergodic theory (linking to NonlinearDyn).
Halcrow is an Academic Development Fellow (see 2.3.3).

In Analysis, appointments of Strohmaier (Professor, 2017) and Sharp (Lecturer, 2018) bring the
group closer to Geometry (K1).

In FluidDyn, Barker (Lecturer, 2016) expands the group into the vibrant area of extrasolar
planetary systems, and Beaume (Lecturer, 2016, jointly to NonlinearDyn) and Pegler (UAF, 2016,
jointly to IndMath), increase interaction with other groups (K1). The Unit appointed Fitzgerald
(UAF, 2016, crystal defects) to IndMath,




                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Appointments to Logic were: Brooke-Taylor (UAF, 2016, expansion into set theory); Mantova
(Career Development Research Fellow 2016, promoted to Lecturer, maintain model theory and
expand towards number theory); Shafer (Lecturer, 2017, maintain computability theory and link to
proof theory via reverse mathematics).

In MathBioMed, appointments were Mann (UAF, 2015, behaviour and ecology) and Lopez-
Garcia (Lecturer, 2016, cell biology and immunology) (K1), building strong interdisciplinary
interests.

In ProbFin, the Unit expanded substantially in stochastic analysis and control, appointing Issoglio
(Lecturer, 2014), De Angelis (Lecturer, 2015), Grigorova and Ji (Lecturers, 2018), and Dareiotis
(Lecturer, 2019, jointly to Analysis).

In AppStat/StatProb, Houwing-Duistermaat was appointed as a new chair in Data Analytics and
Statistics in 2015, working on omics data, electronic patient records and interdisciplinary
collaborations. This helped combine biological modelling and statistics and build on existing links
with clinicians, as planned in REF2014. Houwing-Duistermaat led appointments of Aldridge
(Lecturer, 2018, information theory), Cutillo (Lecturer, 2018, networks (K1)) and Liu (UAF, 2019,
machine learning). This, together with the appointment of Mann (UAF, 2015, biological data
analysis, jointly to MathBioMed), allowed a significant expansion into data analytics and
engagement with LIDA and the Alan Turing Institute (see 3.1.2) (K2, I1).

Since 2014, the Unit included impact in academic job criteria and, from 2016, asked applicants for
their impact strategy.

Out of 27 appointments (Category A submitted, permanent), 4 were Professors, 6 were UAFs and
17 were Lecturers (supporting K4). Of these, [text removed for publication] Professors, [text
removed for publication] UAFs and [text removed for publication] Lecturers were female. On the
census date, 95% of Category A eligible Unit staff were on open-ended contracts. All Category A
eligible staff were submitted.

The RVC facilitates short- and long-term research visits to the Unit, which assists strong
recruitment. For example, Baur was a Visiting Professor 2016-2018 before appointment as
Professor in 2018.

2.1.2 Integration of New Staff

New staff have a thorough induction and typically a two-year probation (five years for UAFs) with a
mentor and probation advisor. Newly-appointed Lecturers have reduced teaching loads for two
years (five years for UAFs) to facilitate research development. The New Lecturers’ Club and
Postdoc Forum facilitate integration. Early career staff are supported to run workshops, with RVC
funding available (see 4.1.2). New staff are often integrated through OD&PL training and roles
such as seminar organization, enabling them to build research links.

2.1.3 Staff Development and Review

The Staff Review and Development Scheme (SRDS) involves an annual meeting with an
academic reviewer, considering research and impact objectives and career aspirations in the
context of the Unit’s strategy. An Annual Academic Meeting (AAM), sometimes combined with
SRDS, focuses on communication, impact, workload and strategy. Additional mentoring is provided
when needed.

Rucklidge, Head of School 2013-2018, benefited from the University’s Leadership Excellence
Programme. This helped him implement a successful series of improvements, including
introduction of Academic Development Fellowships, impact postdoctoral fellowships, Teaching
Assistants, and PGR scholarships.


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.1.4 Staff reward/promotion

Promotion opportunities are discussed at SRDS and AAM meetings, and there is a Faculty
Promotions Advisor. The Head of School, together with the appropriate Head of Department,
identifies staff with strong cases for reward, recognition or promotion, following the University's
Equality and Inclusion Framework, and supports them to apply; staff can also initiate promotion
applications. Below Grade 10, the line manager applies in the case of reward.

2.1.5 Workload / Study Leave

Each academic staff member with research responsibility is allocated 450 hours per year (out of
1650 hours, pro rata) for research, plus time for commitments such as externally-funded projects,
fellowships, supervising PGRs and large grant applications. Staff are encouraged to apply for study
leave, and teaching is sometimes concentrated in one semester to facilitate research or impact.
The workload model is adjusted to allow for external circumstances when needed.

2.1.6 Postdoctoral research assistants and fellows

The Unit follows the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (2008 and
2019), supporting postdoctoral researchers to undertake at least 10 development days a year.
Each researcher has a probation advisor, separate research mentor, and access to a vibrant
seminar and research meeting programme (see 3.5.1, 4.1.2) and wide training opportunities.

Early career staff receive support to submit grant or fellowship proposals, including application
surgeries. Where possible, postdocs become co-investigators on grants or PGR co-supervisors.

Out of 8 postdoctoral researchers leaving in 2018/2019, 2 went on to permanent academic
positions, 4 to further postdoctoral positions,1 to teaching, and 1 to industry.

Research Fellow Subramanian (2015–19, working with Rucklidge) won a L’Oreal–UNESCO
Women in Science Fellowship 2017–18, was shortlisted for a Woman of the Future award 2018,
and won an Oxford Hooke Fellowship in 2019.

2.1.7 Exchanges between academia and external bodies

Industrial secondments are encouraged, and are facilitated by the Unit’s strong industrial
connections and the Research and Innovation Committee.

Bokhove and Kelmanson cosupervised PGRs [text removed for publication] on an EU ITN EID
project SurfsUp: freak waves and breaking-wave impact on offshore structures (see 4.2.1)
[text removed for publication]. [text removed for publication] won the University of Leeds 2017
Postgraduate of the Year award.

[text removed for publication]

2.1.8 Reward for impact; Enabling impact

The workload model facilitates impact. [text removed for publication]. Administration and teaching
duties were reduced for one year for staff who submitted REF2014 impact cases.

The Director of Impact, impact discussion sessions and the Public Engagement Champion
(Houston) help staff develop impact. Support can be provided through Unit funding for activities or
for an impact fellowship (with five such positions of total duration 22 months funded since the
scheme began in 2015), or feedback. [text removed for publication].



                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
EPSRC Impact Acceleration Accounts facilitate impact (e.g. see 2.1.7, 4.2.1, 4.2.3), and totalled
£123,049 over the REF period. Seminars included speakers from industry, or with industrial
connections [text removed for publication].

2.2 RESEARCH STUDENTS
2.2.1 Overview

As of July 2020, there were approximately 124 PGRs with lead supervisor or at least 50%
supervised in the Unit, funded by diverse sources. Each Unit-registered PGR is guaranteed at least
£3000 for research expenses over the course of the PhD (with special arrangements for CDTs).
The Leeds Doctoral College provides cross-discipline community and training opportunities. PGR
admission and progression is overseen by a Director of Postgraduate Research Studies (DPGRS)
and two deputies (covering the three departments). They meet PGR representatives at least once
a year. Unit PGRs usually sit on a faculty PGR committee.

2.2.2 Recruitment

The Unit aims to recruit strong PGRs. The standard requirement is a First Class MMath or BSc
Mathematics Degree, or MSc Distinction. Projects are advertised on open days, Unit webpages, at
a Cambridge recruitment event and via international links. Selected candidates are interviewed and
a DPGRS or deputy approves offers.

The Unit held a two-week LMS Summer School in 2019, introducing undergraduates to PhDs. An
annual bursary scheme typically supports 10-12 undergraduates to work on a 10-week summer
research project, alongside EPSRC and LMS schemes.

2.2.3 Funding

We estimate that Unit contributions to PGR funding were approximately £700K in 2018/2019 and
2019/2020.

   Table 1: Main funding sources, 2019/2020 starters (Unit-registered or at least 50% Unit supervision)


                                  Funder                    Number of PGRs
                      EPSRC                                          7
                      NERC                                           1
                      STFC                                           2
                      CDTs                                           5
                      EU                                             1
                      Royal Society                                  1
                      University/Unit                                2
                      Other countries/self-funded                    11
                      TOTAL                                          30

The Unit coordinated 5 EU Innovative Training Networks in the REF period.

Six-month stipends are provided for PGRs on three-year University-funded scholarships, bringing
total support to 3.5 years.

In July 2020, there were 48 international PGRs, mostly supported by their governments, University
or Unit scholarships. There were 7 PGRs funded by EPSRC CASE studentships, 2 funded by NIF

                                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
scholarships and 1 by an NERC DTP CASE studentship, and 35 PGRs with a Unit supervisor
(possibly not lead) and an external co-supervisor, from areas such as Atmospheric Science,
Computer Science, Medical Imaging and Transport Studies.

2.2.4 Monitoring and support

Each PGR has a lead supervisor and a co-supervisor or advisor (usually a co-supervisor since
April 2017). Students typically meet supervisors weekly. All new supervisors attend a training
course.

The DPGRS and deputies monitor progress through interview reports after 6 months and the end
of each year and meet students midway through each year (from 2018). An induction course
covers milestones, data, support, personal and professional development. After 10-11 months,
PGRs undergo a formal transfer process to full PhD status, involving at least two independent
assessors. Progress, including formal monthly supervision meetings, and plans, are recorded on
the University GRAD system, viewable by the student, supervisors, transfer panel, DPGRS and
deputies, and a Faculty team.

The Leeds Doctoral College brings together support services, including the Faculty graduate
school, training, the Library, Disability Services, the Language Centre, IT, and the Students' Union.
It runs research showcases and talks on mental health, wellbeing and careers. PGRs can get
study extensions or suspensions if needed.

In July 2020, 91% of PGRs starting in 2011-2012, 2012-2013 or 2013-2014 had obtained a PhD,
1% were registered, and 8% had withdrawn.

2.2.5 Skills development/careers

Each PGR agrees a training plan with their supervisory team covering the mathematics needed for
their project, broadening knowledge and more general skills.

PGRs take advanced taught courses (with 50 hours assessed), mostly specialist postgraduate
courses through the MAGIC consortium, via videoconferencing facilities in the RVC. The Unit itself
delivered on average 6 advanced courses each year (including non-MAGIC courses). PGRs can
attend MSc courses, study groups and reading groups (see 3.5.1). The Unit organised 14
summer/winter schools for PGRs/ECRs in the REF period in Leeds and elsewhere.

PGRs are expected to attend the main seminars of their research group (see 3.5.1) and to give
several seminars during their PhD. Several PGR seminar series across the School provide
opportunities for contribution and feedback (recently increased in response to a PRES survey).
During the 2020 lockdown, some seminars increased invitations to Unit and nearby PGRs to
increase opportunities and community.

Additional training is provided by the OD&PL, including presentations, writing, time management,
careers, data analysis, HPC, teaching and public engagement.

2.2.6 PGR-led conferences in Leeds

British Postgraduate Model Theory Conference, 3 days, 2014, 2017, 2020, 30-40 participants;
New Connections and Directions in Representation Theory and Related Topics, 3 days,
2019, 35 participants;
Research Students’ Conference in Statistics and Probability, 4 days, 2015, 108 participants;
Young Functional Analysts Workshop, 3 days, 2019, 26 participants.

2.2.7 Recognition


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
[text removed for publication]
Winner, 2018, Emerging Space Leaders Award, sponsored by the International Astronautical
Congress in 2018.
Selected to present research work at the UK Parliament event STEM for Britain in 2018.

[text removed for publication]
University PGR of the year, 2017.

[text removed for publication]
Vernon Harrison Prize (in 2015 and 2018 respectively) of the British Society of Rheology for the
best UK PhD thesis in rheology during the previous year.

2020 UK Fluids Network thesis competition joint winner.

2.3 EQUALITY AND INCLUSION
The Unit’s diversity is valued highly, and it is committed to equality, inclusion and creating an
environment in which everyone can reach their full potential. This is guided by the University's
Equality and Inclusion Framework and a Unit Equality and Inclusion Forum (with PGR
representation), meeting every 12 weeks and chaired by Faria Martins.

The Faculty Equality and Inclusion committee meets termly to identify issues and shape
policies. The Faculty of Mathematics and Applied Physical Sciences (replaced by the new faculty
in 2019) was awarded an Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2019. The Unit is an LMS Good
Practice supporter.

2.3.1 Recruitment

Staff and PGR recruitment is guided by the Equality and Inclusion Framework which includes
monitoring and review of recruitment data and other activities supporting Equality and Inclusion.
Since 2017, all candidates for positions at Lectureship/UAF level and above are invited to submit
an Equality and Diversity statement, tested at interview. Over the REF period, for permanent
positions at Lecturer/UAF and above, the number of female staff increased from 3 out of 65 to 10
out of 75. Since circa 2017, all Unit-funded PGR scholarships have been open to non-UK
candidates. Projects advertised on the University website state that applications are welcome from
all suitably-qualified candidates, while encouraging UK BME applications in particular, since this
group is currently under-represented.

2.3.2 Flexibility and leave

Study leave decisions (2.1.5) consider historical and current workload, past periods of absence,
number of simultaneous requests, and academic plans. Absences of more than a week in term-
time can be agreed with the Head of Department. In addition to the University policy, a flexible
working procedure was introduced for permanent staff in 2014, allowing colleagues to reduce their
working hours for a period of time and then to revert back later if they wish, to support work-life
balance or approach to retirement. In the REF period, 9 staff have changed their hours.

2.3.3 Career pathways

Part-time/Fixed-term staff are encouraged and supported to take opportunities to develop (e.g.
2.1.6), and the OD&PL provides support for PDRAs for grant applications and Advance HE
fellowship applications. Part-time contracts are used in a flexible and supportive approach to
caring-related commitments and retirement.

[text removed for publication]


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Over the REF period, 10 postdoctoral researchers were awarded Academic Development
Fellowships (ADFs), where, typically, three-year positions were extended to four years, and the
Fellow taught the same course in their second, third and fourth years. The fellow gained teaching
experience and an extended position to develop research, independence and impact. [text
removed for publication].

Other Examples

[text removed for publication]

2.3.4 Conference attendance facilitation

For research meetings and visits, staff can use incentive accounts (see 3.2) or apply to their Head
of Department (with typical annual Unit budget of £40k) or the RVC. Funding opportunities are
highlighted. Matched funding is offered for the LMS Caring Supplementary Grant. A Faculty
scheme offers support for those with family or caring responsibilities. The significant Unit funding of
research meetings in Leeds facilitates participation.

2.3.5 Equality and Diversity Considerations in support

A surgery (usually quarterly) helps grant application preparation. All staff have access to
Departmental and RVC funds (see 4.1). Since early career staff tend to be more diverse, part of
our strategy is to support them in various ways, e.g. PGR investment (see 2.2.3), fellowship
extensions, partial support of Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships, ADFs (see 2.3.3).

2.3.6 Support for staff and PGRs returning from leave, or with caring responsibilities

Central (and Faculty) HR provide a wealth of resources and guidance for staff returning from leave,
or with caring responsibilities etc., which are followed by the Unit. The Unit, with support from
University services, provides bespoke support or funds as needed. [text removed for publication].
The flexible working guidelines (2.3.2) support return. For PGRs study can be extended or
suspended as needed, with closer monitoring and University service involvement where required.
The Unit funds a Daphne Jackson Fellow [text removed for publication].

2.3.7 Support for staff with protected characteristics for research productivity

Support is provided as needed. Access requirements were prioritized in the recent refurbishment
(including a self-opening door, a new lift). Adjustments are made as required [text removed for
publication].

2.3.8 Supporting the wellbeing of staff and PGRs

Staff and PGRs are encouraged to approach the Unit Administrator for advice, with referral onto
support via HR, Counselling, Occupational Health, and PGR and staff networks (see also 2.2.4).
Social events, such as walks, seminar coffee, and the Maths Society (open to all staff and PGRs)
promote community. Following University policy, a Community Code of Conduct was introduced
in 2019. A committee, with PGR representation, monitors Health and Safety. A Unit prayer space
has been allocated.

2.3.9 Equality and diversity in REF submission

The submission was prepared in accordance with the University’s Equality and Inclusion
Framework and REF2021 Code of Practice. In particular, this statement was reviewed by the Unit
Equality and Inclusion Forum, which also made recommendations on the use of secondary criteria
for output decisions and was represented at the final selection meeting. In response to monitoring

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
diversity in impact case studies the Unit plans further steps to encourage diverse staff take-up of
impact opportunities. Distribution data will inform future strategy via the Forum.

2.3.10 Other

We estimate that, at the census date, 37% of PGRs are female (The latest LMS UK Benchmark
data for PGR graduates, 2014/2015, states 27.8%). We are strongly international (58 home
students, 18 other EU students, 48 non-Home/EU students). The Head of School writes
individually to female finalists with high grades, encouraging them to consider a PhD.

Baur featured in the exhibition Women of Mathematics throughout Europe, which toured
Europe in 2016-2019. Evans and Issoglio co-organized a visit of the exhibition to Leeds, including
a talk by Baur, in 2017.

Baur: In the movie An Insight: Women in Science, produced by Handwerk and Willems, Baur
was interviewed about her career and efforts towards achieving gender equality. This was shown
at the DMV Jahrestagung (German national mathematics conference) in 2019.

Baur, Faber: Co-organised a workshop Women in Noncommutative Algebra and
Representation Theory (WINART2) in Leeds in 2019. [text removed for publication] Baur and A
Parker coordinated groups.

Cutillo and Houwing-Duistermaat: Organizers of the COSTNET event Women in Networks in
Leeds, 3 days in 2019. All female participants were fully-funded.

Subramanian, PDRA and ADF (see 2.3.3), was short-listed for a Women of the Future award in
2018.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Strategy
The Unit has a people-first strategy: to do great research, excellent researchers and collaborations
are needed. This leads to a focus on fellowships and collaborative grants. The Unit prioritizes
impact via industrial funding, collaboration and consultancies. In addition, we invest in
multidisciplinary collaborative research centres: large scale infrastructure in key areas where Unit
research is world leading. Our aim is to make these into strong national centres with international
recognition, increasing our reach and visibility:

3.1.1 Leeds Institute for Fluid Dynamics

The Unit played a key role in the establishment of this interdisciplinary institute in 2018, which has
over 200 members from 12 Schools across the University, and is funded by the University and
STEM Faculties. Fluid dynamics is covered from fundamental physics to real-world application,
including experimental, analytical and computational approaches at all scales of flow. Tobias is the
director, Bokhove is Industry Group leader and Sturman is International Lead, with 18 Unit
(Category A submitted) staff members in total. There is a centre manager (0.2 FTE) and
administrative support (0.5 FTE). The LIFD facilitates research, collaboration and impact through
strategic partnerships, PGR training, seminars, and facilities coordination. It offers Junior
Fellowships (for ECRs) and Senior Fellowships to visiting researchers, funding expenses for 1-6
months. An Early Career Forum with lead [text removed for publication] (Unit research fellow)
organises seminars, advice surgeries and social events, facilitating research and networking.

The LIFD acts as a focal point for interdisciplinary research and grant applications, facilitating
coordination between Schools, such as a recent Royal Society URF application involving the Unit
and the School of Earth and Environment.

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

LIFD seminars contributed to ideas in the preparation for Tobias’ Simons Foundation grant
application (see 3.2) [text removed for publication].

Future plans include seeking memoranda of understanding with key collaborating international
partners, strong public engagement, [text removed for publication] and the provision of a
centralised facility for fluids experiments that will significantly benefit the Unit.

3.1.2 Leeds Institute for Data Analytics

As an academic board member, Houwing-Duistermaat spearheads Unit engagement with the
Leeds Institute for Data Analytics, created via £4M of University investment and £12M of
external funding. LIDA channels membership and activities with the Alan Turing Institute, facilitates
grant applications, and provides safe rooms for research with personal data, NHS DSPT/ISO27001
IT infrastructure for research with identifiable and pseudonymised personal data, and a
multidisciplinary research environment for 156 people. Aivaliotis, Liu, Mann, Palczewski and
Ward are also involved in LIDA projects. The Unit match-funded a cohort of PGRs to work on
LIDA-related projects, locating the students in LIDA. Aivaliotis, Mann, Houwing-Duistermaat and
Ward were all awarded ATI Fellowships (2018-2021, Mann 2018-2020). Houwing-Duistermaat is
PI on an ATI flagship project funding Liu as Research Fellow.

3.2 Grants
Grant applications are typically instigated by academic staff and researchers, supported by the
Research and Innovation Committee (RIC), who identify funding opportunities. This encourages
novelty and diversity.

Applications above £100k are peer reviewed internally by a subject expert and someone in the
wider field; smaller applications are handled informally. Surgeries provide feedback on
applications. ECR Fellowship applications are subject to Faculty selection and supported by mock
interviews, feedback, a Unit mentor and a mentor in Research and Innovation Services. This
approach has been successful: see 4.1.4 for fellowships, and Table 2.

                                  Table 2: Success rates for all grants

                                               Success         Success Rate
                          Financial Year       Rate by          by External
                                               Number              Value
                            2013/2014           37.00%            22.70%
                            2014/2015           33.30%            18.00%
                            2015/2016           46.20%            18.40%
                            2016/2017           42.40%            19.10%
                            2017/2018           53.80%            30.00%
                            2018/2019           50.90%            25.60%


Grant applications are encouraged via staff review and incentive accounts (£1,850 credited in total
in 2018 and £5,800 in 2019). The Unit contributes to incentive accounts of staff running CASE
studentships, those applying for some grants and those reviewing grant applications. Incentive
accounts can be used for travel, equipment, visitors, etc. Despite the lockdown, the value of
applications made in 2019/2020 was £23.8M, 92% of plan.

Financial aspects of a proposal are handled by the Faculty finance office. The University’s
proactive European Office contributes to the Unit’s stream of EU grant successes through advice,
workshops, peer review, and dissemination of EU experience.
                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Typically, the Unit match-funds a grant’s inward visitor programme and funds a PGR for large
grants, fellowships and Research Council New Investigator Grants.




                                  Figure 1: Grant Income in REF Period


         Table 3: Selected significant grants starting in the REF period (see 4.1.4 for Fellowships)
  Funder         Principal       Research          Grant          Funder Id        Years      Awarded
               Investigator       Groups                                                       Value

               Tobias           FluidDyn   ERC                 786780              2018-     £1,924,922
                                           Advanced                                2023
               Molina-          MathBioMed ITN                 764698              2018-     £773,746
               Paris                                                               2022
               Houwing-    AppStat               ITN           721815              2017-     £486,115
 European      Duistermaat StatProb                                                2021
  Union        Bokhove     FluidDyn              ITN           859983              2020-     £472,949
                           IndMath                                                 2023
               Bokhove     FluidDyn              ITN           607596              2014-     £429,424
                           IndMath                                                 2018
               D Read      IndMath               ITN           607937              2013-     £339,943
                                                                                   2017
               Hollerbach       FluidDyn         Research      ST/S000275/1        2019-     £672,904
                                                                                   2022
               Hughes           FluidDyn         Research      ST/N000765/1        2016-     £1,024,741
                                                                                   2020
   STFC
               Jones            FluidDyn         Research      ST/S00047X/1        2019-     £402,460
                                                                                   2022
               Barker           FluidDyn         New           ST/R00059X/1        2018-     £238,465
                                                 Applicant                         2020
   John     Rathjen             Logic            Grant         60842               2017-     £582,415
 Templeton                                                                         2020
 Foundation




                                                                                                       Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Funder        Principal        Research     Grant        Funder Id      Years     Awarded
               Investigator        Groups                                             Value

               Voss              StatProb    Standard    EP/M008363/1      2015-    £423,966
                                             Research                      2018



               Speight           AGIS        Standard    EP/P024688/1      2017-    £291,436
                                             Research                      2021
   EPSRC


               Parker            AGIS        Standard    EP/L001152/1      2014-    £277,321
                                             Research                      2018




[text removed for publication]

These grants relate to high quality research and impact. E.g. Tobias is producing high quality work
as part of his ERC Advanced Grant, including Topological Gaseous Plasmon Polariton in
Realistic Plasma in Physical Review Letters (Output UOA10-1071), which has received a lot of
attention and is the basis for an experimental attempt to detect topological waves at the large
Plasma Device at UCLA. [text removed for publication] Tobias is one of 10 investigators on an
international Simons Foundation Targeted Grant, 2019, worth $4m in total.

3.3 Impact
To support impact, the Unit created a role of Director of Impact (Bokhove) in 2014. Bokhove
coordinates impact strategy together with the Mathematics Impact Team created in 2019, the Head
of School, Heads of Department and the Director of Research and Impact. He supports staff
developing impact and coordinates impact discussion sessions. Impact is included in appointment
processes (see 2.1.1) and staff appraisals. Staff are encouraged to take consultancies (and many
do: see 4.2.2). A Public Engagement Champion, Houston, facilitates outreach impact. The Unit
engages with the University impact strategy: Kelmanson is a member of the University Impact
Advisory Group.

The Mathematics Impact Team played a dedicated hands-on role in developing the structure and
content of the impact case studies together with the authors. This strong support and impact
culture, together with strong links with many external bodies (see 4.2.1) and Unit-funded impact
fellowships (see 2.1.8) facilitated the development of the impact cases. [text removed for
publication].

The Unit has an External Advisory Board (EAB) [text removed for publication]. It is attended by
the chair (J Ward), the Director of Research and Impact, the Director of Impact and the Head of
School. The EAB aims to facilitate impact and employability. The Unit is thus ensuring that its
research is informed by feedback from the EAB and the industrial supervisors of its placement
students.

We aim to take on at least one CASE PGR every year, and in July 2020 there were 7 CASE
students in the Unit. Two members of staff contributed to the Bond Review (see 4.1.3).

3.4 Industrial Funding


                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Industrial funding is centred around grants, collaboration, consultancy and CASE studentships.
The University Nexus innovation hub (see REF5a, Objective 6) facilitates industrial projects and
consultancy with help from J Ward in the Unit. The Mathematics Impact Team, the External
Advisory Board and strong links facilitate industrial engagement, and the European Study Group
with Industry (see 1.2.1) is also expected to yield new projects.

During the REF period, the Unit was awarded £1.2m of industry, government and health body
grants (REF3a, REF3b); examples below. See 2.2.3 for CASE studentships.

[text removed for publication]

3.5 Infrastructure
3.5.1 Organisational infrastructure

Research groups (see Section 1) and departments provide a strong organisational context for
research and impact in the Unit, providing a flexible collaborative structure which facilitates
information flow and seminars, grant applications, PGR supervision and training.

The Leeds Institute for Fluid Dynamics and the Leeds Institute for Data Analysis (see 3.1) provide
strong organisational contexts for research, facilitating research grants, impact and interdisciplinary
collaboration.

Bragg Centre

The Unit is actively involved in the development of the new interdisciplinary University Bragg
Centre for Materials Research. Fitzgerald and Harlen are on the management committee, and
Evans, D Read and Rucklidge are members. This correlates well with the CDT SOFI2 in Soft
Matter. This will provide strong opportunities for research collaboration and dissemination, PGR
cosupervision, and will facilitate grant applications.

Seminars

The School has an intensive seminar programme, supported by an annual budget of approximately
£25K. During the REF period, there were 9 weekly and 2 fortnightly subject-focused seminars,
many with regular external participation. In addition, each department had a regular
seminar/colloquium, and a School Colloquium met around twice per semester. An
interdisciplinary seminar in Mathematical Biology and Medicine met roughly fortnightly. The Unit
ran interdisciplinary seminars for the Fluid Dynamics CDT. Members of the Unit participated in
regular Leeds Institute for Data Analytics and Leeds Institute for Fluid Dynamics seminars. The
LIFD ECR Forum provided an additional research and networking channel. There have also been
at least 25 internal regular reading groups/minicourses.

Seminars moved online after the Covid-19 lockdown began. E.g. the LIFD has partnered with the
Journal of Fluid Mechanics and DAMTP at the University of Cambridge to host the ‘Webinars in
Fluid Mechanics’ series with more than 2000 registered participants worldwide.

[text removed for publication]

3.5.2 Operational and Scholarly infrastructure

Most of the Unit has been recently refurbished to a high standard. The RVC has space for 26
visitors and seminar-room facilities with Access-Grid video-conferencing equipment. During the
REF period, there have been over 800 visits, including 6 Visiting Professors and 44 Visiting
Research Fellows, each visiting at least one month. The RVC facilitates research meetings (4.1.2)
and PGR training (2.2.5, 2.2.6, 4.1.6).
                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

The Unit has an administrative office with four staff (2.86 FTE). One staff member devotes 0.5 FTE
to research support, including the RVC. The Faculty graduate school provides additional PGR
administrative support.

The University provides IT support and the ARC High Performance Computing (HPC) service,
currently two 6500 core Intel/Infiniband architecture machines with 2PB scratch storage and 40
GPU accelerators (equivalent in total to up to 644 CPUs), renewed on a four yearly cycle. Support
is provided via a dedicated team, and the Research Software Engineering team provide expertise
in project management and parallel code development. Additional hardware can be added via
external funding and used by other projects when available, for efficient use.

FluidDyn is a significant ARC user. For example, state-of-the-art calculations using ARC on the
mechanisms for generating the Sun's magnetic field (appearing in articles in the Journal of Plasma
Physics and the Astrophysical Journal in 2015 and 2016) supported Tobias's successful ERC
Advanced Grant application (see 3.2) [text removed for publication]. FluidDyn also uses STFC
DiRAC HPC and the EU Prace facilities. [text removed for publication]. STFC funding supports its
substantial HPC use. As of July 2020, 16 PGRs were using HPC.

3.6 Equality and Diversity

The Unit’s approach is to provide high quality support for grant applications in general, particularly
for ECRs, in order to support equality and diversity, including Unit peer review, surgeries, Faculty
selection procedures and mentoring. See also 2.3.4.

The LMS 2013 report (most recent data), Academic Mathematical Sciences Staff in UK Higher
Education Institutions states that in 2011/12, 18% of UK academic mathematics staff were
female. Unit guidelines stipulate that seminar programmes and research meetings aim for at least
25% female speakers, and consider all potential speakers, across gender and ethnicity. Since
implementation, the proportion of female speakers at Unit seminars and research meetings
recorded in a Unit survey has increased from 16.3% in 2014 to 29.7% in 2019, exceeding the
target.


3.7 Benefits in kind
The Unit’s strong interaction with industry often leads to benefits in kind supporting research.

[text removed for publication].


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Research Base
The Unit supports and encourages research collaborations and contributions to the research base
in many ways. There are active conference, workshop and seminar programmes, including
summer schools. Collaboration and conference participation is funded and supported through the
RVC, incentive accounts, departmental research budgets, and a Faculty mobility fund. Unpaid
study leave is usually available on application and paid study leave can often be arranged, or
teaching concentrated in one semester. The Unit coordinates various networks, with help from the
University EU office. The Unit has an international lead, Ji. Scopus data indicates that in 2014-
2020, 61.8% of the Unit’s scholarly outputs involved international co-authors.

4.1.1 Collaborative Research


                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Staff engage strongly in collaborative research and networks, facilitated by the RVC (via funding,
administration, offices).

Examples

Gusnanto: A collaboration with Cecile de Cat (School of Languages, Cultures, and Societies)
since 2017 has produced a 2018 publication which won the Albert Vladman Award from CUP,
and led to being co-investigator on ESRC grant (ES/S010998/1), 2019-2022.

Mantova: A collaboration with C Fuchs (University of Salzburg), and U Zannier (Scuola Normale
Superiore, Pisa) proved a conclusive generalisation of a conjecture of Erdős and Rényi on
fewnomials which appeared in the Journal of the American Mathematical Society (Output
UOA10-3386). It has been used by others to solve a tropical geometry problem.

Partington: A collaboration with I Chalendar, Paris-Est (formerly Lyon), France, produced 17
publications in the REF period.

In the UK, the Unit led EPSRC network Living with Environmental Change (Maths Foresees),
2015-2018, PI Bokhove, and from 2019 led an LMS Scheme 3 network, Lancashire Yorkshire
Model Theory Seminar, PI Mantova. In addition, the Unit is a member of 2 EPSRC-funded
networks and 4 LMS-funded Scheme 3 Networks.

Internationally, the Unit coordinated the FP7 (EU) project MIMOmics, 2012-2017, which had 15
EU partners, and the EU Marie Skłodowska-Curie ITN, IMforFUTURE, 2017-2021 which has 10
EU/UK partners. The Unit was a member of an FP7 (EU) IRSES network INDOEUROPEAN-
MATHDS, 2013-2017 and an FP7-Energy (EU) Network, CO2Quest, 2013-2016.

4.1.2 Sustainability of discipline, interdisciplinary research, national priorities and initiatives

The RVC funds and helps administer a full programme of research meetings, with an annual
budget of £70K. Staff apply for funds and are usually expected to apply for external funding also,
with internal funds as a back-up or extension. The Research and Innovation Committee (with
Faculty input) and the Faculty research office monitor national priorities, initiatives and
corresponding funding opportunities, highlighting them to staff and encouraging involvement.

Some highlights

Bokhove was lead organizer for three general assemblies and two study groups for the EPSRC
Living with Environmental Change network Maths Forsees 2015-2018, 50-80 participants each.

Gambino was lead organizer for Logic Colloquium 2016 (the main international annual Logic
event), 7 days with 240 participants.

[text removed for publication]

The Unit organized 3-day Leeds Annual Statistics Research (LASR) Workshops in 2015, 2017,
2019 on interfaces between statistics and fields such as medicine, molecular biology, computer
science, and bioinformatics.

Mann co-organised the 2nd Workshop on Mathematics for Social Activism in 2019, co-funded
by the Unit, which brought together mathematicians and data analysts from academia, industry,
NGOs and government, on the use of mathematics and data to drive social progress.




                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Conference Organisation

The Unit is active in research meeting organization. Numbers of meetings of length at least two
days in the REF period, co-organized by the Unit in Leeds or elsewhere are given below. Two
meetings (not included) moved online and one was cancelled due to Covid-19.
                       Table 4: Research meetings organised in the REF period
                Length (days)
                                                                      Programme
                                2     3       4       5-7      8+                     TOTAL
                                                                      (3 months+)
         Location
         Leeds                  21    28      8       9        1                      67
         UK (not Leeds)         8     4       3       6        2                      23
         Europe (not UK)        2     2       5       14       0      3               26
         Outside Europe         0     2       0       8        0      1               11
         TOTAL                  31    36      16      37       3      4               127

Unit members have organized 14 summer/winter schools (mostly for PGRs/ECRs), and members
led 3- to 4-month programmes at the Hausdorff Mathematical Institute, Bonn (T Ward), the Erwin-
Schrödinger International Institute for Mathematics and Physics, Vienna (Strohmaier), and the
Kavli Institute for Theoretical Physics, Santa Barbara (Tobias), and co-organised a programme at
the Institut Henri Poincare, Paris (Macpherson).

4.1.3 Leadership and influence

The Unit encourages staff to show leadership through editorial roles, membership of research
council committees, advocacy, and other similar activity, recognised in the workload model.
Examples of wide involvement and impact are given below.

Journal roles

Unit staff had chief editor roles at 6 journals, and at least 48 board membership, advisor, etc. roles.
Three staff were Editorial Advisors for the LMS journals, and Partington has been Analysis
Advisor for the LMS Student Texts, CUP since 2003. Kent is Honorary Officer for Publications,
Royal Statistical Society, 2018-2022.

Staff are encouraged to referee academic publications. Staff have reviewed proposals from
approximately 50 research councils internationally. In the UK this includes BBSRC, EPSRC,
Leverhulme Trust, LMS, Medical Research Council, Royal Society, STFC, and the Wellcome Trust.

Other roles

Baur is on the Scientific Committee for CIRM, Luminy, France. Nijhoff is Chair of the Steering
committee for the biennial meetings in Symmetries and Integrability of Difference Equations.
Palczewski is Chair of an International Federation for Information Processing (IFIP) TC-7 Working
group 7.7, Stochastic Control and Optimization. Rathjen was on the Scientific Committee of the
Oberwolfach Mathematical Research Institute, Germany, 2010-2018. Tobias is an Executive
Committee member of the UK Fluids Network.

6 staff were EPSRC panel members, and staff were on panels for the DFG (German Science
Foundation), Finnish Academy of Sciences, Italian Ministry of Research, Newton Fund, Norwegian
Research Council and the Royal Society.

Kelmanson, Lesnic: Invited members of the Review Committee that researched and authored
The Era of Mathematics: An Independent Review of Knowledge Exchange in the
Mathematical Sciences (the Bond Review), 2016-2018.


                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
MacPherson: British Logic Colloquium President 2014-2016.
Main author of the EPSRC Logic Community Overview Document 2016.

Molina-Paris: Member of the LMS Research Policy Committee (2016-present).
Member of the EPSRC Mathematical Sciences Strategic Advisory Team (2019-present).

D Read: Council member and Honorary Bulletin Editor, British Society of Rheology, 2016-present.

Speight: LMS Research Meetings committee member, 2013-2017.
LMS Early Career Researchers committee member, 2017-2018.

4.1.4 Recognition

The School has a prize committee which identifies opportunities and encourages applications and
nominations when appropriate.

[Text removed for publication]

Crawley-Boevey was awarded an Alexander von Humboldt Professorship in 2016.

Mardia was awarded the Gandhi Medal of Honour by the NRI Institute (India) and received
the International Indian Statistical Association Lifetime Achievement award, in 2019. He was
awarded the Wilks Memorial Medal by the American Statistical Association in August 2013.
The Mardia Prize was instituted by the Royal Statistical Society in 2016, funding cutting-edge
interdisciplinary workshops.

D Read was awarded the British Society of Rheology Annual Award in August 2020, in
recognition of his major contribution to predicting the rheology of polymer melts. A significant part
of this work was carried out during the REF period.

Fellowships starting in the REF period

European Union Fellowships
ERC Advanced Grant
7 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Individual Fellowships

EPSRC Fellowships
3 Doctoral Prize Fellowships
1 Postdoctoral Fellowship
2 Early Career Fellowships

Leverhulme Trust Fellowships
3 Early Career Fellowships
3 Research Fellowships
1 Emeritus Fellowship

Other Fellowships
Royal Society Wolfson Fellowship
Royal Society Newton Fellowship
L'Oreal-UNESCO for Women in Science Fellowship
Medical Research Council Skills Development Fellowship
UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship
4 Alan Turing Institute Fellowships

[text removed for publication]

                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


4.1.5 Conference Talks

Staff participate actively in research meetings in the UK and internationally. 713 invited talks
outside Leeds were given by Category A submitted Unit staff at conferences and workshops during
the REF period (an additional 15 moving online and 25 postponed due to Covid-19).
                      Table 5: Numbers of invited conference and workshop talks




Examples

Baur and Faber both gave series of 4 lectures at the Isfahan School and Conference on
Representations of Algebras, 2019, Iran.

Gusnanto, Keynote, Corporate Gathering 2019: Creating a winning strategy in Industry 4.0, at
the Ministry of Industry of the Republic of Indonesia, 300 participants including almost 100 CEOs of
medium to major companies in Indonesia.

Jones, Fluid Dynamics of the Earth and Planetary Science Lecturer, 2017, University of Kyoto.

Tobias: Invited talk, 15th European Turbulence Conference, Delft, The Netherlands, 2015.
According to the ETC 2013 website: “Eight outstanding contributors are the central invited
speakers”.

4.1.6 PGR Training

The Unit is involved in five CDTs, and the Unit’s substantial seminar and research meeting
programmes provide excellent PGR training. In addition, the following PGR training events have
taken place in Leeds.

                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

British Logic Colloquium Postgraduate Meeting, 4 days, 2013;
British Postgraduate Model Theory Conferences (3 days each in 2014, 2017 and 2019);
Postgrad combinatorics conference, 3 days, 2016.

4.2 Economy
4.2.1 Industrial Collaborations and Consultancies

The Unit encourages staff to carry out industrial collaborations and consultancies with the aim of
creating external relationships with research users to maximise research impact. From Scopus
data 2014-2020, 4.8% of the Unit’s scholarly outputs involved corporate co-authors.

[text removed for publication]

4.2.2 Industrial enrichment of the research environment

Impact, consultancy and industrial collaborative activity is folded into research activity in the Unit.

[text removed for publication]

4.2.3 Wider impact activity

The Unit is involved in impact activity beyond the impact cases.

[text removed for publication]

4.3 Society
The Unit has a long tradition of strong school engagement. Schools are offered a choice of talks
from 15 staff. 47 talks (32 in Yorkshire) were given by Category A submitted Unit staff over the
REF period. An annual Sixth Form conference provides insight into university-level mathematics,
informed by research, aided by PGRs and postdocs. An annual Mathematics Teachers and
Advisers Conference allows teachers and Unit staff to exchange experiences.

The Unit has a Public Engagement Champion (Houston) who is Education Secretary of the
LMS. Elwes is an LMS Holgate Session Leader. In addition to schools, 91 talks were given by
Category A submitted Unit staff members to public audiences in the REF period, including 48 in
Yorkshire, including the Leeds Festival of Science.

[Text removed for publication]. The Unit contributed funding for a three-day international
conference in Leeds, Mathematics Awareness, Training, Resource, & Information Exchange
2016, co-organised by Elwes and Houston, MathsWorld UK and the Museum of Mathematics, New
York. This was attended by Fields Medal Winner Cédric Villani, museum experts and schools.

[text removed for publication]

Lopez-Garcia received an MRC Public Engagement award, £1,200, for a day of activities on
hospital hygiene at the MRC 2018 Festival at the Thackray Medical Museum.

[text removed for publication]

As part of the 2014 refurbishment, the Unit commissioned an installation from artists at
Superposition (a Leeds collective collaborating on art, science and making), encouraging a
research-based experimental approach. Subsequent discussion between artist and sculptor
Dominic Hopkinson at Superposition, and Rucklidge and Subramanian (research fellow) about

                                                                                                Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
their quasicrystals research led to Hopkinson being Artist in Residence in the Unit 2017-2018. The
sculptures created during this Residence were first widely exhibited at the 2018 Venice
Architecture Biennale, which had 275,000 attendees, and at five public events / exhibitions in the
UK (2017-2020).

Langfeld is a member of the Parliamentary and Scientific Committee, representing the Unit and
the Faculty.




                                                                                          Page 24
