Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of East Anglia

 Unit of assessment: UoA5 (Biological Sciences)


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Introduction to the unit, including context and structure
 Our UoA5 return comprises the research and impact of 75 staff employed by the University of
 East Anglia (UEA) and working within the biological sciences. The majority are based in the
 School of Biological Sciences (BIO) and other staff are based in the Norwich Medical School and
 neighbouring partner institutes – Earlham Institute, John Innes Centre, Quadram Institute and
 The Sainsbury Laboratory. Along with the Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital, all these lie
 on the Norwich Research Park, an extended campus containing one of the Europe's largest
 concentrations of researchers in the life sciences. Though just under 60 years old, the School
 has produced two winners of the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine (2001: Sir Paul Nurse,
 PhD 1973; 2020: Professor Michael Houghton, BSc 1972). We are especially proud that
 Professor Sarah Gilbert, who led the team that developed the Oxford-AstraZeneca COVID-19
 vaccine, is a graduate of the School (BSc 1983). The unit's current staff include three Fellows of
 the Royal Society and 3-5 staff have been among the top 1% most highly-cited researchers
 worldwide each year in the four years to 2020.

 The unit structures its research into four
 overarching research themes: Cells &
 Tissues,       Molecular      Microbiology,
 Organisms & Environment and Plant
 Sciences (see figure at right). The majority
 of staff in Plant Sciences are in The
 Sainsbury Laboratory, a research institute
 with its own funding and governance co-
 founded by UEA. Within the unit, the
 School is part of UEA's Faculty of Science,
 enjoying        excellent      collaborative
 relationships with its sister Schools,
 particularly the Schools of Chemistry and
 Environmental Sciences. Via the shared
 Biomedical Research Centre, it has a
 close relationship with the Norwich
 Medical School in the Faculty of Medicine
 and Health Sciences. Staff in the unit
 contribute to several virtual research
 centres, including the Centre for Ecology,      Thematic structure of the unit, with some of
 Evolution and Conservation (linking to the       the principal Norwich Research Park links.
 School of Environmental Sciences), the               BIO: School of Biological Sciences.
 Centre for Molecular and Structural
 Biochemistry (linking to the School of Chemistry), the Earth and Life Systems Alliance (linking to
 the John Innes Centre and other Norwich Research Park institutes) and the Norwich Institute of
 Healthy Ageing (linking to the Norwich Medical School). The School is housed in a single
 building, adjacent to the Biomedical Research Centre and continuous with the other Science
 Schools, so facilitating collaborations. All components of the unit lie within 15 minutes' walk of
 one another on the Norwich Research Park.

 The School has built a successful research community by following a strategy combining the
 pursuit of research excellence across the biological sciences with a focus on particular areas of
 strength and collaboration within the unit and beyond. Across the four research themes, we take


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 an integrated approach, connecting biology at all scales, from molecules, genes and genomes
 to populations and ecological communities. We work on fundamental biological mechanisms and
 processes using state-of-the-art tools and approaches, with emphasis on developmental biology,
 biomedical research to elucidate health and disease, microbiology, evolutionary biology, ecology,
 conservation, molecular biology and plant sciences. Work from all our themes achieves strong
 impact, and we value our excellent industrial links. Our ideal is a unit whose success rests on a
 strategy that encourages research excellence, impactful science, fruitful synergies and a
 supportive and diverse culture, as well as capitalising on the unit's central place within the
 Norwich Research Park. For this reason, we pride ourselves on our activities and events
 promoting internal communication, esprit de corps, mutual respect and wellbeing. These include
 daily use of a social space/café at the core of the School (the BIO Atrium), weekly Friday evening
 social gathering, Head of School's weekly 'good news' message, monthly staff meetings, prizes
 for best colloquium talk and poster by Contract Research Staff and PGR students, summer
 barbecue, Christmas party and sports events.

 Through strategic growth, income generation and expansion, the unit has grown substantially
 since the REF2014 assessment period. Specifically, through new appointments, the School has
 gained six academic research staff and The Sainsbury Laboratory has gained a group leader,
 making a net increase of seven staff. At the same time, the unit's submission has expanded to
 include newly-appointed staff in the Norwich Research Park institutes and independent
 researchers, bringing it to its current size of 75 staff (by contrast, 44 staff were returned in
 REF2014). Over the assessment period, the unit's HESA-reportable research income was
 £65.6M. The unit produced over 1,270 outputs, which have collectively been cited (in Web of
 Science) over 31,850 times. They include 109 research outputs published in highly competitive,
 multidisciplinary venues (16 Nature, 25 Nature Communications, 28 PNAS, 11 Science) or
 subject-specific venues (4 Cell, 25 Nature subject journals).

 Highlights among the unit's achievements in the assessment period include:

 •   Outstanding research discoveries across all four research themes, a selection of which are
     showcased in Box 1.1.
 •   Seven successful ERC grant applications (two Advanced, four Consolidator and one Starting
     Grants).
 •   Eight successful independent research fellowship applications/transfers (four BBSRC Future
     Leader, two NERC Independent Research, one Royal Society Dorothy Hodgkin and one
     UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships).
 •   Four successful Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) applications, i.e. from BBSRC (Norwich
     Research Park DTPs 1 and 2), NERC (ARIES DTP) and the Wellcome Trust (EDESIA DTP),
     leading to continuous DTP funding to the unit throughout the assessment period.
 •   Substantial increase in the number of internally registered Impact Case Studies (15 to 28
     cases), with five of our six submitted cases being new, including one based on the spin-out
     company NatureMetrics co-founded by Yu in 2016 and valued at £7.5M by 2019.
 •   Appointment of a Royal Society-funded Entrepreneur-in-Residence to help sustain our
     impact agenda.
 •   Award to the School of Athena SWAN Silver status in 2017, replacing Bronze status held
     from 2013.

       Box 1.1 Selected research discoveries of the unit (collectively cited >1000 times
       on Web of Science).

       Cells & Tissues Theme
       • Haerty developed a new bioinformatic approach to characterise a psychiatric
           risk gene in human brain (2020. Molecular Psychiatry; DOI: 10.1038/s41380-
           019-0583-1).



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      •   Münsterberg discovered a role for bone morphogenetic proteins in heart
          formation in chicken embryos (2014. PNAS; DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1321764111).
      •   Rushworth showed how transfer of mitochondria to blood stem cells aids rapid
          response      to    infection     in   mammals      (2019.      PNAS;       DOI:
          10.1073/pnas.1913278116).
      •   Williams identified signalling pathways underpinning tissue renewal in the lining
          of human colon (2014. Gut; DOI:10.1136/gutjnl-2012-304067).

      Molecular Microbiology Theme
      • Clarke characterised a protein complex acting as a transmembrane molecular
         wire in bacteria (2020. Cell; DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2020.03.032).
      • Crombie described the mechanism by which a bacterium assimilates short-
         chain alkanes and methane, a key climate change gas (2014. Nature; DOI:
         10.1038/nature13192).
      • Hutchings identified antimicrobial metabolites produced by a fungal parasite of
         ants, suggesting a novel source of antibiotics (2018. Nature Communications;
         DOI: 10.1038/s41467-018-04520-1).
      • Kingsley showed how within-host genomic evolution affects host adaptation by
         Salmonella (2016. Nature Microbiology; DOI: 10.1038/ nmicrobiol.2015.23).
      • Todd showed that marine bacteria produce dimethylsulfoniopropionate
         (DMSP), the major precursor of the climate change molecule dimethyl sulfide
         (DMS), and identified the first DMSP synthesis gene (2017. Nature
         Microbiology; DOI: 10.1038/nmicrobiol.2017.9).

      Organisms & Environment Theme
      • Gage demonstrated a novel effect of Darwinian sexual selection in protecting
         animal populations from extinction (2014. Nature; DOI: 10.1038/nature14419).
      • Immler experimentally demonstrated in a vertebrate that maintaining the
         germline is costly, a key tenet of the evolutionary theory of ageing (2020. PNAS;
         DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1918205117).
      • Richardson showed that cooperatively-breeding birds exhibit delayed
         senescence, demonstrating links between sociality and ageing in animals
         (2019. Nature Communications; DOI: 10.1038/s41467-019-09229-3).
      • Spurgin demonstrated the presence at the genomic level of natural selection
         on beak length in a wild bird (2019. Science; DOI: 10.1126/science.aal3298).

      Plant Sciences Theme
      • Balk identified a molecular mechanism preventing the excess uptake of iron by
         plant roots and leaves (2019. PNAS; DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1907971116).
      • Dalmay showed that small RNAs regulate flower pigmentation and help
         maintain      flower     colour     diversity    (2017.      Science;      DOI:
         10.1126/science.aao3526).
      • Hobbs (formerly Ryder) and Talbot identified a turgor-sensing kinase that
         enables the rice blast fungus to penetrate the host plant's leaf surface (2019.
         Nature; DOI: 10.1038/s41586-019-1637-x).
      • Jones demonstrated that some plant immune receptors incorporate a 'decoy'
         protein domain enabling them to detect pathogenic bacterial effector molecules
         targeting that domain (2015. Cell; DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2015.04.024).
      • Kamoun showed that small differences in the effector molecules of the
         pathogen lineage including the potato blight organism allow new host species
         to be attacked (2014. Science; DOI: 10.1126/science.1246300).
      • Zipfel elucidated the role of receptor kinase in mediating plant immune
         signalling (2017. Science; DOI: 10.1126/science.aal2541).



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2 Research and impact strategy, with review of past and future objectives
 Overview and strategy
 The unit's current research and impact strategy was constructed via a formal review led by the
 Pro-Vice Chancellor for Research & Innovation, which involved an assessment of the draft
 strategy and extensive consultation by the PVC's team, followed by a unit response and final
 recommendations. Progress in implementing the strategy is monitored annually by the School
 and the Faculty of Science's Associate Dean of Research. Our core strategy and values are
 presented in Box 1.2, and our forward strategy is presented further below ('Strategic research
 objectives over the next five years').

       Box 1.2 Unit's core research and impact strategy and values

       Core research and impact strategy:
       • To pursue world-leading excellence in research and impact across the four
          research themes.
       • To support and grow areas of strength within the themes while remaining
          flexible in response to opportunities arising and to changing research and
          impact needs.
       • To continue to grow our collaborations across the University and beyond,
          including capitalising on our position within the Norwich Research Park.
       • To respond to regional, national and international research priorities.
       • To pursue a staffing strategy of recruiting outstanding new staff, including
          independent fellowship awardees/holders, and to support the ongoing career
          development of both new and existing staff.
       • To provide excellent training for the next generation of researchers in our PGR
          programmes.
       • To deliver excellent research-led masters and undergraduate teaching.

       Values:
       • We ensure that all our activities meet the highest standards of equality and
          diversity.
       • We hold ourselves to exemplary standards of research integrity.
       • We promote open research and data sharing.
       • We contribute our professional expertise and services to the research
          community.
       • We communicate our science to as wide an audience as possible.


 The evidence for the success of our strategy in enhancing the vitality and sustainability of the
 unit is presented in our REF2021 submission as a whole and herein. We promote continued
 vitality and sustainability through encouraging, supporting and valuing research and impact as
 integral components of the unit's activity at every level.

 Review of implementation of unit's research plans from REF2014
 Within our overall strategy (core plus forward strategy), our REF2014 objectives were: "targeted,
 selective growth in each Theme by appointing high calibre researchers and post-graduate PhD
 students, and by contributing to Norwich Research Park strategy in five areas covering
 biodiversity, food security, synthetic biology, industrial biotechnology/bioenergy, and gut health."

 The unit has met and indeed exceeded these objectives. A total of 24 new academic research
 staff have been appointed, including 15 new staff in the School. In the same period, 9 staff left
 the School (for retirement, new UEA posts or new external posts), leading to growth from 45 to
 51 staff, i.e., an increase of 6 staff for the School across all four research themes (Section 2.1).
 Similarly, PhD student numbers have grown steadily over the assessment period (Section 2.2).
 The School appointments included staff in the targeted areas of biodiversity (Spurgin, Suh),

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 food security (Dicks), synthetic biology (Miller) and industrial biotechnology/bioenergy (Lea-
 Smith). The exception was gut health, but we achieved this objective by the strategic transfer of
 Robinson to a group leader position at the Quadram Institute, a premier setting for the field. In
 addition, Moxon was appointed to meet an emerging need to build our strength in bioinformatics.

 In REF2014, the unit also defined six specific strategic objectives, and each of these has also
 been met (Table 1.1).

                       Table 1.1: REF 2014 specific strategic objectives
                 REF2014 objective                              REF2021 fulfilment
     1. "Appoint new researchers … in the               Appointments of Dicks and Spurgin.
     areas of food security, agri-intensification,
     ecosystem services and conservation
     biology."
     2. "Develop our expertise in molecular              Appointments of Immler and Lea-
     ecology and marine microbiology for             Smith; co-supervision of three PhD
     understanding sustainability in the             studentships with CEFAS (Taylor).
     oceans, in collaboration with nearby
     CEFAS       [Centre     for   Environment,
     Fisheries and Aquaculture Science,
     Lowestoft] in fisheries research."
     3. "Create a base for translational medical          Contribution to Quadram Institute, a
     research in the new Medical Research            new institute on the Norwich Research
     Building, in collaboration with the Norwich     Park, created in a partnership of BBSRC,
     Medical School and the NNUH."                   the Norfolk and Norwich University
     4. "Contribute in areas of diet and health,     Hospital and UEA, dedicated to
     gut biology and microbiology, involving         translational medical research, especially
     creation of a new Norwich Research Park         in areas of diet and health, gut biology and
     Institute, The Centre of Food, Health and       microbiology; including transfer of
     the Gut."                                       Robinson to group leader position.

     5. "Participate with other UEA Schools              Development of UEA's new School of
     (Mathematics, Environmental Science,            Engineering, which in 2019 won major
     Computing, Chemistry) in the formation of       funding of £4.5M from the New Anglia
     the research platform of the new School         Local Enterprise Partnership for Norfolk and
     of Engineering, whose portfolio of              Suffolk to create, aided by UEA investment,
     research will embrace microbial systems         Productivity East, a new regional hub for
     for energy capture."                            engineering, technology and management.

     6. "Recruit a synthetic biologist to           Appointment of Miller as the Eastern
     metabolically engineer cells to yield useful ARC Research Fellow in Synthetic
     products, such as biofuels and anti- Biology, in collaboration with the other
     infective agents, as part of a new Eastern universities in Eastern ARC.
     Academic Research Consortium (ARC)
     involving UEA and the Universities of
     Essex and Kent."

 Strategic research objectives over the next five years
 As evidenced by the unit's progress and achievements, our core strategy (Box 1.2) of combining
 a focus on areas of strength with the flexibility to respond to changing priorities has served us
 well. We will therefore continue to implement it, with renewed emphasis on harnessing the
 benefits of our position within the Norwich Research Park. These have included our successful
 BBSRC and EDESIA DTP bids (Section 2.2), access to and bids for large-scale capital
 equipment and infrastructure (Section 3.3) and much of our collaborative and interdisciplinary


                                                                                                    Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 work (Sections 4.1, 4.4). Specifically, within the overall strategy, over the next five years we
 intend to:

 •   Aided by state-of-the-art research tools and infrastructure, grow our activity within each
     theme in research areas addressing grand challenges in health, biodiversity, climate, energy
     and food security, in particular:

        o   Fundamental causes of disease, e.g. arthritis and cancer, and contributions of dietary
            factors to disease and ageing (Cells & Tissues).
        o   Evolutionary origin and maintenance of biodiversity, as well as its ecological
            determinants and conservation; and the role of genomic and epigenetic factors in
            determining phenotypes (Organisms & Environment; Plant Sciences).
        o   Role of microbes in global climate (Molecular Microbiology).
        o   Extraction of energy from microbes (Molecular Microbiology).
        o   The molecular basis of crop plant pathology (Plant Sciences).

 •   Continue to address the massive growth in the availability of sequence data through
     consolidating our expertise in bioinformatics.
 •   Broaden and deepen our commitment to impact generation and our growing impact portfolio.
 •   Leverage our position within the Norwich Research Park to continue to make full use of its
     complementary expertise, facilities and critical mass, especially in collaboration with the
     Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital and the new Quadram Institute; likewise, grow our
     collaborations within UEA, especially with Productivity East.
 •   Address regional and national research priorities, as well as international priorities through
     increasing engagement with the goals of GCRF.
 •   Continue to strive for best practice in equality and diversity, and specifically to renew our
     Athena SWAN Silver status and then apply for Gold status.

 Implementation of this forward strategy will be led by the Head of School (currently Dalmay),
 Director of Research (currently Bourke) and Director of Innovation (currently Brearley).
 Progress will be assured via our established means of annual review of achievements against
 milestones and timelines as reported by the School to the Faculty of Science's Associate Dean
 of Research, followed by readjustments as required.

 1.3 Impact: strategic goals, mechanisms and achievements
 Within the unit's overall strategy, the central goal with respect to impact has been to achieve,
 over the assessment period, a complete culture change. Led by our Directors of Innovation, we
 aimed for impact to become recognised as an integral component of our activities. We have
 achieved this through implementing the strategy via a variety of mechanisms and approaches
 (Sections 2.1, 3.1). Evidence of our success is found in:

 •   Our number of internally registered impact cases almost doubling (15 to 28 cases).
 •   Our impact income showing a healthy vitality, whether through paid consultancies, external
     partner contributions to CASE/iCASE PhD studentships or awards from internal UEA funds
     (Section 3.2).
 •   Impact growing across multiple sectors, including Agricultural/Food Security (e.g. Brearley,
     Dicks, Jones, Talbot), Biomedical (Clark, Gavrilovic, Wormstone), Environmental (Bell,
     Bourke, Butler, Dicks, Gill, Lehtovirta-Morley, Yu) and Pharmaceutical (Chantry,
     Fountain) (Section 4.2).
 •   Five of our six Impact Case Studies submitted to REF2021 being new and all six (led by
     Baulcombe, Bourke & Dicks, Brearley, Jones, Wormstone and Yu) having been
     developed through the mechanisms that were established (Sections 2.1, 3.2).
 •   Leads of the submitted cases each being previous winners in the annual UEA Innovation and
     Impact Awards contest, 2018 (Brearley and Wormstone in the category, Consultancy
     Project of the Year, and Yu in the category, Outstanding Commercialisation of Technology).


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Looking forward, we will continue to pursue our strategy to nurture our growing portfolio of active
 impact cases, thereby assuring the future vitality and sustainability of the unit's impact.

 1.4 Unit's approach to interdisciplinary research
 The unit embraces interdisciplinary research whenever solving research questions requires the
 combined approaches of several disciplines. Features and mechanisms facilitating
 interdisciplinary research are as follows (with outcomes detailed in Section 4.4):

 •   The Biomedical Research Centre, co-founded by the School and the Norwich Medical School
     expressly to promote interdisciplinary approaches to human disease and, via links with the
     Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital, translation to the clinic. Physically connected to the
     School, it hosts up to 20 group leaders from across the School, the Norwich Medical School
     and the School of Pharmacy. We maintain a dynamic presence, with four new appointments
     establishing their laboratories in the centre in the assessment period (Akay, Griffin, Monk
     and Rana).
 •   The Quadram Institute, opened in 2018 and now housing approximately 300 staff, providing
     a new partner for the unit's biomedical research, focused on diet and health. In 2018
     Robinson transferred from the School to a group leader position in the Institute and in 2019
     the School and the Institute held a 'speed-dating' event specifically to promote
     interdisciplinary collaboration.
 •   Links across the Norwich Research Park cemented through: two School staff in tailor-made
     'Synergy Posts' based in the John Innes Centre (Balk and Malone); new unit staff appointed
     in the Earlham Institute and Quadram Institute; and the unit's membership of the across-
     Norwich Research Park virtual research centres (Section 1.1).
 •   The Norwich Research Park Science Links Seed Fund, providing up to £15K for projects
     initiating collaborations between researchers at two or more institutes on the Park, with an
     emphasis on interdisciplinarity.
 •   Four DTPs held across the unit, other Norwich Research Park institutes and external partners
     (Section 2.2), again actively promoting interdisciplinarity by encouraging across-institution
     PhD project applications.

 1.5 Progress towards an open research environment and reproducibility
 The unit pursues open research and reproducibility through both University-level processes
 (REF5a) and unit-level actions. For example, all outputs are uploaded as accepted manuscripts
 to the Pure research information system for external accessibility in compliance with REF open
 access requirements. A new UEA initiative will extend open access to datasets, so facilitating
 reproducibility. The University also disburses UKRI and charity funds to pay for open access
 publication in accordance with funders' requirements. The unit has gone above and beyond these
 requirements in several ways. In our REF submission, 97% of in-scope outputs are open access-
 compliant, exceeding the 95% threshold. These outputs include ones testing reproducibility, with
 Chapman having shown that an influential study claiming an effect of the gut microbiome on
 reproductive isolation in insects was not reproducible (2017. PNAS; DOI:
 10.1073/pnas.1708345114). The unit was also an active participant in UEA's Open Access Week
 in 2018. Unit staff routinely post their data and data analysis code in public repositories, and our
 PGR student inductions train the next generation of researchers in the need for open research
 and reproducibility.

 1.6 Research integrity and ethics
 UEA is a signatory of the revised 2019 Universities UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity
 and the Concordat on Openness in Animal Research, and all staff are held to UEA's Research
 Ethics Policy. At unit level, we have again gone above and beyond to instil exemplary research
 integrity standards. For example, revisions to UEA's Research Ethics Policy are highlighted in
 the monthly research newsletter circulated by the Director of Research (Bourke). Unit member
 Riley chairs UEA's proactive Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Board. Reinforcing this,


                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Bourke, Riley and staff from the University's Research and Innovation Services ran two
 Research Ethics workshops for staff during the assessment period. Lastly, as for open research,
 our inductions train new staff and PGR students in the paramount importance of research
 integrity and ethics.



 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Within the unit's overall strategy (Sections 1.2, 1.3), our staffing strategy is to facilitate career
 development at every level and to recruit outstanding new staff in open, fair competition and then
 support them from the start of their appointments. This includes attracting independent fellowship
 holders and mentoring internal and external applicants for fellowships to be hosted by the unit,
 and providing excellent training and career support for our PGR students. For all, we seek to
 provide a research environment with the highest standards of equality and diversity.

 Staff development strategy
 To implement our strategy, we deploy a suite of mechanisms at University, Faculty and School
 levels:

 •   Annual appraisal: For academic research staff, annual appraisal is by a single, senior team
     comprising the Head of School, Director of Research and Director of Learning and Teaching.
     Appraisal is a supportive process and, as well as including University-mandated Research
     Activity Planning focused on research and impact, covers workload, training needs,
     promotion guidance and work-life balance. For Contract Research Staff, appraisal is by the
     Principal Investigator (PI), with additional appraisers nominated by the appraisee present on
     request, and includes training needs and optimising career development for further
     employment. If required, Contract Research Staff are pointed to the Faculty of Science's
     Bridging Fund, which provides bridging salaries for up to three months.
 •   Training and continuing professional development: These are delivered by UEA's Centre for
     Staff and Educational Development, which includes over 200 courses and is open to all UEA
     employees and PGR students. Its individual development funding scheme provides funding
     for additional off-site or specialised training.
 •   Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers: PIs follow UEA's Code of
     Practice for the Management of Research Staff, now informed by the revised Concordat.
     UEA has also developed a Concordat Implementation Plan to fulfil the Concordat's goals
     (REF5a). For example, it offers financial relocation assistance to new Contract Research
     Staff and provides top-up funds for merit-based promotions and salary progression awards.
 •   Promotions: The School's Promotions Committee, whose 14 members include the Directors
     of Research, Innovation and PGR, considers confirmation of appointment and promotion for
     academic and Contract Research Staff in accordance with UEA's promotion processes. The
     Committee assists applicants as fully as possible. Before each meeting, it circulates
     'benchmarks' that provide anonymised examples of research and impact achievements in
     previous cases of successful promotion, and Committee member Chapman informally
     advises applicants as Promotions Mentor. After each meeting, the Committee provides every
     applicant with constructive written feedback.

 Staffing and recruitment policy
 To implement our strategy of recruiting outstanding new staff in open, fair competition, all UEA
 staff sitting on recruitment panels undergo mandatory Recruitment & Selection training and all
 staff undergo Diversity in the Workplace training, each refreshed every 2-3 years. Similarly, the
 School has introduced 'bias interrupters' to scrutinise each step during recruitment for
 Unconscious Bias. Recruitment is by external advertisement to meet a defined need. We also
 issue regular calls for applications for independent research fellowships to be hosted in the unit.


                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 In the assessment period, there were 24 new staff appointments, consisting of 15 appointments
 to the School, along with five new group leaders in the Earlham Institute, two in the Quadram
 Institute and two in The Sainsbury Laboratory. Appointments to academic research staff
 positions are generally indefinite subject to confirmation of appointment (after a probation of up
 to five years). Across all such staff in the unit on the census date, all were either on indefinite
 contracts (89%), on probation (8%) or on fixed-term contracts (3%) prior to completing moves to
 other institutions.

 Evidencing the success of our strategy to attract fellowship awardees/holders and underscoring
 the unit's attractiveness to high-quality researchers, five academic appointments in the School
 were of independent research fellows funded by competitive and prestigious schemes (total
 value £2.87M). Three staff won new fellowships (Akay, UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship; Dicks,
 NERC Independent Research Fellowship; Spurgin, BBSRC Future Leader Fellowship) and two
 transferred their fellowships from other HEIs (Lehtovirta-Morley, Royal Society Dorothy
 Hodgkin Fellowship; Perry, NERC Independent Research Fellowship). In addition, Ding,
 Monaghan and Pennington each won a BBSRC Future Leaders Fellowship held in The
 Sainsbury Laboratory. All independent research fellowship holders in the School were appointed
 proleptically as indefinite posts (subject to probation). Hence the School is set to maintain its
 100% record from the previous assessment period of each independent research fellow moving
 on to an indefinite post.

 New academic research staff each receive formal induction, a mentor to guide them through
 UEA processes (including probation), start-up funding and equipment according to research
 needs, and, in common with all staff, annual appraisal and access to staff development
 processes. In the School, teaching responsibilities are reduced over the first 1-2 years in post,
 and staff also participate in the Master of Arts in Higher Education Practice (MA-HEP), a
 professional development course for new academics. Following confirmation of appointment,
 staff are free to retain their mentor, while Theme Leaders and Directors are available for
 additional support.

 There were four retirements from the School during the assessment period, with subsequent
 new appointments ensuring net growth as planned in our overall strategy. With regards to
 succession planning, 12 current academic research staff in the School will be at traditional
 retirement age by 2028. Although the exact number of retirements cannot be predicted, we will
 pursue our strategy of growth with follow-up appointments across all four themes. Because
 retirements tend to be by senior staff, and new posts are advertised at Assistant Professor level,
 each replacement will recalibrate the unit's demographic composition. Moreover, we are
 confident that the unit will continue to grow beyond replacement level in accordance with our
 strategy.

 Support for individuals at the beginning of their research careers
 Staff at the beginning of their research careers are integral to the strategy, culture and success
 of the unit. Accordingly, informed by our overall strategy and the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers, we support them using multiple mechanisms:

 Contract Research Staff:
 • Induction and mentoring: On appointment, there is a formal induction to the School and
    research theme led by the PI, who then provides continuous mentorship, reinforced by annual
    appraisal. This way, several Contract Research Staff have been mentored into successful
    grant applications as Researcher Co-Investigators (e.g. Fowler, Rostant) and Mok was
    mentored into a successful application as a PI for a British Heart Foundation grant.
 • Profile within unit: Contract Research Staff have multiple opportunities to present their work,
    including at the University-wide Annual Researcher Summit, in the annual School Research
    Colloquium and within the seminar series of the themes and virtual centres. For example, the
    Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Conservation holds an annual two-day conference for

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Contract Research Staff and PGR students (the highly popular 'Rebellion'), with costs
     subsidised by the School.
 •   Career development opportunities: In addition to guiding Contract Research Staff towards
     the training and professional development opportunities open to all staff (see above), the
     School encourages them to join PGR student supervisory teams and provides a mentoring
     scheme in gaining teaching experience, especially valued by those seeking careers as
     university academics.
 •   Contract Research Staff liaison: The School has a Contract Research Staff Coordinator, who
     liaises with Contract Research Staff and represents their interests. Ensuring their voice is
     also heard directly, a Contract Research Staff member (Eldred) chairs a Research Staff
     Forum and, along with any other member wishing to attend, regularly meets the Head of
     School.

 Early Career Researchers:
 • Induction and mentoring: The submitted staff include 13 Early Career Researchers. Early
    Career Researchers recruited as academic research staff receive the same support as all
    new academic staff, including induction, mentoring and start-up funds. Those recruited as
    independent research fellows, including external applicants, are also aided in preparing their
    fellowship applications through an assigned mentor and access to the University's Research
    and Innovation Services, as well as via mock interviews. This strategic support led to
    successful fellowship applications as detailed above. Independent researchers receive
    similar support, helping Crombie, for example, to win a junior fellowship (Leverhulme Early
    Career).
 • Other support: Early Career Researchers can apply for funded projects to supervise in a
    dedicated Faculty of Science-led PhD studentship competition. In addition, the Director of
    Research runs a grant-writing workshop for all new appointments including Early Career
    Researchers. For Lehtovirta-Morley, all these various support modes helped her win an
    ERC Starting Grant. Similarly, Lea-Smith won a Human Frontier Science Programme grant
    as PI within two years of his appointment as Assistant Professor.

 Study leave and exchanges between academia and business etc.
 As per University policy, there is an annual call for study leave (for up to one semester for every
 six semesters worked), which is available to all academic staff, including part-time staff. The
 School adopts a highly flexible approach to study leave for research or impact. For example,
 Brearley took short-term leave to visit Taiwan and meet industry representatives to help
 consolidate his submitted Impact Case Study. Yu won a Leverhulme Fellowship that paid for
 teaching buy-out enabling him to take extended leave (18 months) to focus on research and his
 submitted Impact Case Study.

 Consistent with our strategy for impact and aided by the Entrepreneur-in-Residence and
 University business relationship managers (Sections 1.3, 3.1), we deploy a variety of procedures
 to facilitate exchanges with business, industry and non-academic organisations:

 •   We encourage grant applications with business/industry and support staff seeking paid
     consultancies (Section 3.2); e.g. Wormstone's consultancy funds a partial buy-out from other
     duties to allow him to focus on research and impact, including his submitted Impact Case
     Study.
 •   We host visits by business to facilitate collaborations; e.g. Fountain organised visits by
     AstraZeneca and Eli Lilly and Company to develop impact on drug development.
     Reciprocally, we facilitate visits by staff to industry, as in Brearley's leave described above.
 •   We work with NGOs to advance our research and impact in conservation biology; e.g. Gill's
     hosting of seconded RSPB scientist Dr Jennifer Smart (Section 4.2).
 •   Lastly, we recognise industry or NGO partners who have developed significant, extended
     relationships with the unit by supporting their applications for UEA Honorary Fellowship.



                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Rewards and recognition for staff for research and impact
 In line with the overall strategy, the unit supports, enables and rewards staff achievements in
 research and impact by multiple, interrelated mechanisms, as detailed fully in Section 3.1.

 2.2 Postgraduate research students
 Overview
 Postgraduate research (PGR) students are essential to the unit's research vitality and
 sustainability. Simply put, they form a core part of our research activity and, through them, we
 train the next generation of skilled researchers. PGR students within the unit are registered in
 the School, and their programmes are overseen by the Faculty of Science Graduate School or
 the Norwich Bioscience Institutes Graduate School, both in turn coordinated by the UEA Doctoral
 College. Further assuring integrated approaches, unit staff (Clark, Gage and Münsterberg) sit
 on the management boards of each of our DTPs (EDESIA, ARIES and Norwich Research Park
 DTPs, respectively).

 In the assessment period, the standing population of the unit's PGR students averaged 266
 registered students each year (94% being PhD students), growing substantially from 244
 students per year for the first four years to 294 per year over the last three. This was reflected in
 the intake (totalling 400 new PhD students) averaging 49 students per year for the first four years
 and growing to 68 per year over the last three.

 Approach to recruitment
 Recruitment of PGR students adheres to the UEA Code of Practice for Staff - Equality and
 Diversity (Section 2.3), which includes Protected Characteristics, and to UEA's Code of Practice
 for Research Degrees. Within this framework, the unit aims to recruit excellent students from as
 wide and diverse a pool of candidates as possible. First, we ensure the diverse composition of
 recruitment panels. Second, panel members and prospective supervisors have completed
 mandatory Recruitment & Selection and Diversity in the Workplace training, and all supervisors
 complete training in Best Practice in Research Supervision every three years. Third, recruitment
 is via open calls, with every applicant (funded or self-funded) undergoing a formal selection
 process involving senior staff outside the supervisory team as well as the PGR Service.
 Reflecting their diverse backgrounds, of new PGR students in the assessment period, 61% were
 Home students, 22.5% EU and 16.5% international.

 Funding of studentships
 The unit has been exceptionally successful in winning DTP PhD studentship funding, having
 been a key partner in four successful applications for DTPs over the assessment period – three
 from UKRI funders and one from a major charity. Chapman and Gage played central roles in
 preparing the BBSRC and NERC applications, respectively. As a result of this funding success,
 the unit has benefited from DTP funding for the entire assessment period:

 •   Norwich Research Park DTPs (BBSRC):
     The unit was a key partner in two
     successful applications to the BBSRC's
     DTP competitions, each funding the
     Norwich Research Park DTP led by the John Innes Centre. In DTP2 (2014), this was awarded
     34 studentships per year (including nine iCASE studentships) plus an additional nine
     studentships from the National Productivity Investment Fund. In DTP3 (2019), it was awarded
     24 studentships per year (including six iCASE studentships), with an additional eight
     studentships per year being funded by the Norwich Research Park DTP's Partners and
     Associate Partners. As the DTP was also funded to 2014-15 by BBSRC's DTP1, as at the
     end of 2019-20 the unit has received an unbroken eight intake years of BBSRC-funded PhD
     students, with a further five years to come. In total, 242 PhD students were recruited to the
     DTP in the assessment period (to 2018-19).



                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   ARIES DTP (NERC): In NERC's DTP1, the EnvEast DTP, led by
     UEA, benefited from the 2013 award of 12 studentships per year
     from 2014-15 to 2018-19. In 2018, the unit was a key partner in
     a successful new application to NERC's DTP2 that funded
     EnvEast's successor, the ARIES DTP, again led by UEA. This
     was awarded up to 12 studentships per year from 2019-20 to
     2023-24. Overall, 60 students were recruited to the EnvEast
     DTP in the assessment period (to 2018-19).
 •   EDESIA DTP (Wellcome Trust): In 2019, the unit was a key
     partner of the EDESIA DTP, co-led by the John Innes Centre
     and UEA, which won Wellcome Trust DTP funding to provide five studentships per year from
     2020-21 to 2023-24 to advance the study of plant-based nutrition and health. Clark is a
     current EDESIA Director. Total funding from the Wellcome Trust to the DTP will be £5.3M.

 The unit has also been successful in winning PhD funding from other external sources, including
 charities (e.g. Dunhill Medical Trust), industry (e.g. AB Vista), overseas partner universities
 (Southern University of Science and Technology, Shenzhen, China) and overseas governments
 (e.g. Saudi Government). It also attracts large numbers of self-funded PGR students (92 in the
 assessment period). Finally, it received PhD studentships from investment by the Faculty of
 Science, both through top-up funding to the DTPs (2-3 studentships per year for both the Norwich
 Research Park DTP and EnvEast/ARIES DTPs), and Faculty studentships targeted at Early
 Career Researchers and staff in areas outside the DTPs' remits (27 studentships over the
 assessment period). Overall, of all new PGR students in the assessment period, 21% were UKRI-
 funded, 31% UEA- or Norwich Research Park-funded, 24% funded by other sources including
 the NHS, charities and industry, 20% self-funded and 4% funded by overseas governments. In
 sum, in an increasingly competitive environment, the unit has achieved excellent PGR funding
 success across multiple sources, thereby maintaining vitality in its PGR activity and its
 sustainability into the future.

 Monitoring and support for PGR students
 All PGR students follow a formal monitoring and progression process mandated by the UEA
 Doctoral College. Formal progress meetings occur every four months and, for PhD students,
 include the probationary meeting, which is held within the first 12 months under an independent
 chair. To support them, students have access not only to their supervisory team, but also to the
 Director of PGR (Kelemen), the Senior Adviser and Disability Officer and UEA's Student Support
 Services (including a dedicated well-being team in the Faculty of Science). More generally,
 students have representation on the Faculty of Science Postgraduate Research Committee,
 which, chaired by the Associate Dean of PGR, enables them to shape PGR policy. In addition,
 the unit and DTPs strive to develop each year's PGR student intake as a cohesive group through
 cohort-level events and activities, so providing a ready-made peer support group. Lastly, PGR
 students present their work at the annual School PGR Colloquium and their successes are
 celebrated as for staff (Section 3.1), underlining their integration into the unit's research culture.

 Evidencing the effectiveness of these processes, in the assessment period the unit's PhD
 students achieved high rates of completion of their theses (School average, 92%), with 41
 doctoral degrees per year being awarded across the unit. Moreover, satisfaction rates are high
 and growing, with the biennial Postgraduate Research Experience Survey demonstrating, from
 PRES 2015 to PRES 2019, satisfaction rates increasing from 87% to 92%, 73% to 76% and 88%
 to 91% for Professional Development, Research Culture and Research Skills, respectively,
 among the School's PhD students, with all these values exceeding sector averages.

 Skills and career development for PGR students
 The UEA Code of Practice for Research Degrees commits the unit to providing transferable skills
 and employability training to all PGR students, taking into account national standards including
 Roberts ‘SET for Success’ report. Hence, all PGR students follow a Training Pathway from their
 DTP or from the Faculty of Science. These Pathways are linked to the Vitae Researcher

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Development Framework and involve a minimum of 10 days full-time training per year or
 equivalent. The Pathway specifies mandatory training requirements and offers proposals for
 broader professional and personal development. The proposals are then individually tailored via
 a Training Needs Analysis completed by each student at the PhD's start and updated annually
 as a Personal and Professional Development Plan. Students receive personalised feedback from
 the supervisory team, a dedicated PGR Training Coordinator and (typically) a DTP board
 member. Training is delivered by a variety of qualified staff, including the Training Coordinators
 and external providers. It is evidence-based, responsive to student feedback and includes
 training for impact and employability. For example, PGR students may take up 3-month external
 placements (mandatory under the Norwich Research Park DTP). Students also have access to
 dedicated advisers in the Careers Service and are supported in participating in the annual i-
 Teams programme focused on innovation. Across all programmes, a substantial number of PhD
 students are co-supervised with external industry/NGO partners under the CASE/iCASE model
 (Section 3.2). Lastly, the DTPs and Faculty of Science each provide funds for PhD students to
 attend external conferences, so enhancing employability prospects for those students selecting
 an academic career.

 2.3 Equality and diversity
 Overview
 The unit is governed by the UEA Code of Practice for Staff - Equality and Diversity (REF5a). This
 covers all aspects of equality and diversity, including staff and PGR student recruitment and
 support. It addresses the nine Protected Characteristics, each of which is covered by its own
 specific Code of Practice. In line with these frameworks, all staff undergo mandatory Diversity in
 the Workplace training every two years, and undertake to foster a respectful, supportive and
 inclusive environment for all.

 Beyond these requirements, the unit strives to achieve best
 practice in equality and diversity in every aspect of its activity
 (e.g. Sections 1.2, 3.5, 4.1). Reflecting this, the School is proud
 to have held Athena SWAN accreditation throughout the
 assessment period (Bronze award from 2013, Silver award from
 2017). Since gaining Silver in 2017, we have been implementing
 an Athena SWAN Action Plan committing us to renewing our
 Silver status in 2021 and then working towards Gold status. The
 Action Plan, along with all equality and diversity implementation,
 is overseen by the School's Equality and Diversity Committee. Composed of representatives at
 all levels, including the School's Director of Research, and co-chaired by Immler and
 Wormstone, this committee meets monthly and reports to the School Executive. It routinely
 surveys staff and students for their views to enable continual improvement in our equality and
 diversity culture.

 Specific equality and diversity measures within the unit
 The unit implements a number of specific measures, both formal and informal, to achieve a
 professional, supportive and inclusive research environment for all:

 •   Protected Characteristics: The unit recognises its obligation to those with Protected
     Characteristics in staff and PGR student recruitment and support (Section 2.1, 2.2). All staff
     have access to ResNet, a UEA-supported network promoting equality and fairness
     throughout the Norwich Research Park. The School has a Senior Adviser and Disability
     Officer and individuals with disabilities are represented on the Equality and Diversity
     Committee. PGR students with disabilities receive support to facilitate their research via a
     system of recorded 'reasonable adjustments' and/or via needs arising, including support
     through the provision of paid assistance. Staff also have access to UEA's BAME Staff
     Network and in 2019 the School started its own 'BAME in BIO' initiative to support BAME
     members including PGR students. In the assessment period, 29% of the 24 new staff


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     recruited to the unit were female, as against 20% of existing staff being female, evidencing
     progress towards greater gender balance.
 •   Wellbeing: We aim to ensure staff wellbeing through our support mechanisms for all staff and
     PGR students (Sections 2.1, 2.2). Less formally, we observe events such as Time to Talk
     Day and World Mental Health Day, and solicit suggestions for wellbeing actions from staff
     and students.
 •   Access to resources, promotion and senior roles: The unit operates procedures designed to
     maximise equality and diversity in promotion (Section 2.1) and access to resources (Section
     3.5). Appointment to senior School roles is via open calls and this has helped broaden take-
     up, such that the 15-strong School Executive currently has a representative gender balance
     (6F, 9M). Female staff can obtain financial support to attend Aurora, a leadership
     development programme run by Advance HE.
 •   Flexible working: The unit adheres to UEA Flexible Working Guidelines (REF5a) and
     accordingly aims for all staff enjoying a healthy work-life balance. Staff can request flexible
     working arrangements and this is well supported. For example, a staff member whose family
     life is based overseas alternates weeks working from home and at UEA. To allow parents or
     carers easily to sit on and attend School committees or similar meetings, these are
     preferentially held within core working hours (10:00-16:00).
 •   Part-time staff: Academic research and Contract Research Staff on part-time contracts
     receive the same support as full-time staff to pursue their career pathways. For example,
     they follow exactly the same annual appraisal and promotion processes.
 •   Career absences: The Faculty of Science's Return to Work/Family Support Fund is available
     to all staff and PGR students to assist the transition back to work and career development
     following absence, e.g. after parental leave or leave for adoption, caring or ill health. Twelve
     research staff in the School took parental leave/career breaks in the assessment period and
     two requested and received Fund support. The Fund also provides costs of caring for
     dependants to facilitate staff attending conferences, networking events or professional
     development events.

 Equality and diversity in the construction of the unit's REF submission
 The unit's REF2021 submission has been constructed in compliance with equality and diversity
 requirements as set out in UEA's REF2021 Code of Practice. This includes fair procedures for
 identifying staff with significant responsibility for research, determination of independent
 researcher status and selection of outputs. REF decision-makers for the unit all received
 Unconscious Bias training. Within the unit, outputs for potential submission were solicited via
 open calls and/or discussion with staff. Outputs underwent a series of assessments of quality
 involving internal and/or external assessors. Internal assessment was carried out collectively by
 submitting staff, and all assessors received instruction on assessing output quality according to
 REF criteria. Anonymised assessment scores were fed back to authors, giving them the
 opportunity to reflect on and discuss them. Similarly, the submitted Impact Case Studies were
 selected via iterative assessments by multiple individuals within and outside the unit in Annual
 Impact Review meetings overseen by the Pro-Vice Chancellor for Research & Innovation, with
 feedback provided at each stage. Reflecting these approaches, our final set of submitted outputs
 is broadly representative of the staff profile (21% led by female staff versus 23% female staff,
 16% led by Early Career Researchers versus 17% Early Career Researchers).



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Mechanisms for promoting, facilitating and funding research and impact
 Encouraging, enabling and funding research and impact activity is key to our overall strategy and
 is realised by maintaining a culture of submitting applications and supporting this via multiple
 mechanisms:



                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Directors of Research and Innovation who sit on the School Executive and the Faculty of
     Science's Research and Innovation Executives, with briefs to provide strategic direction for,
     and champion, research and impact.
 •   Theme Leaders for each research theme, charged with coordinating strategy for, and
     ensuring vitality of, their themes.
 •   A Research Committee, chaired by the Director of Research and including Head of School,
     Director of Innovation, Director of PGR and Theme Leaders, to coordinate research and
     impact activities, promote collaboration and ensure effective use of infrastructure.
 •   Strong support for staff to pursue research and impact funding, aided by the University's
     Research and Innovation Services, whose dedicated biological sciences team supports grant
     applications/management, while an impact team supports business relationships; and, in The
     Sainsbury Laboratory, by the 2Blades Foundation, a charity specifically established to
     achieve impact.
 •   A tailored set of UEA internal impact funding schemes to which staff are encouraged to apply
     via regular calls (Proof of Concept, Innovation Development, Strategic, Impact Acceleration,
     HEIF Impact, Associate Dean, GCRF and Industrial Strategy Funds).
 •   Additional impact funding schemes available, including the Norwich Research Park
     Translational Fund and the regional EIRA (Enabling Innovation: Research to Application)
     fund supporting innovation in the East of England.
 •   Two Faculty-level committees each chaired by a unit member (Balk, Gill) to provide internal
     review and supportive feedback for draft grant applications and fulfil UKRI demand
     management requirements, i.e. the NERC (Life Sciences) and BBSRC & MRC (Non-clinical)
     Committees.
 •   Organisation of, and/or participation in, funders' visits, e.g. British Heart Foundation visit
     (2019) organised by Fountain and two Faculty of Science-led NERC theme days (2016,
     2019), including roundtable discussions to allow us to align with funders' priorities and
     expectations; and industry visits (Sections 2.1, 4.2).
 •   Annual University-wide Research Activity Planning for all staff, focused on outputs, impact,
     external income and PGR student supervision (Section 2.1); in addition, each internally
     registered Impact Case Study is reviewed annually at Faculty and Pro-Vice Chancellor level.
 •   Communication of research and impact news and calls via monthly newsletters from the
     Directors of Research and Innovation, along with a weekly Faculty of Science funding
     opportunities bulletin.
 •   Recognition and rewards for research and impact success through: workload adjustments;
     buy-out of teaching responsibilities; leave periods; promotion or, for sustained research
     and/or impact excellence at a level beyond an applicant's current grade, salary increases via
     special increments or discretionary awards; and prizes in the annual UEA Innovation and
     Impact Awards contest.
 •   Uniquely within UEA, the School appointed a Royal Society-funded Entrepreneur-in-
     Residence (Dr David Dent; appointed 2019, renewable in 2021). As Chair of the BBSRC
     Follow-on-Fund panel with extensive commercial experience, he holds a brief to provide us
     with expert help in sustaining our current impact activities and identifying new impact
     opportunities.
 •   Vigorous seminar programmes, including the School's flagship Open Lecture series for
     external speakers, along with seminar series of the research themes and virtual research
     centres and two annual all-day colloquia, one focused on academic and Contract Research
     Staff (BIO Research Colloquium) and one focused on PGR students (BIO PGR Colloquium).
 •   Enthusiastic celebration of research and impact achievements via the monthly newsletters,
     social media and Head of School's weekly 'good news' message.

 3.2 Research and impact income
 Research income in the assessment period
 Evidencing the success of our strategy and implementation mechanisms, the unit's HESA-
 reportable research income was £65.6M, of which £35.7M came from Research Councils (or The
 Royal Society and British Academy). There were 633 active, funded projects with a total UEA

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 value of £75.4M, including £46M from UKRI, £16.8M from UK Charity and £7.7M from the EU.
 PI-led awards included over 80 grants with UEA values of £0.25M-£1.5M each. The unit also
 received research income-in-kind of £635K. Five ERC grants started in the assessment period,
 i.e. two Advanced (Jones, Kamoun), two Consolidator (Maklakov, Zipfel) and one Starting
 (Lehtovirta-Morley), and there were two additional successful applications for Consolidator
 Grants (Immler, Suh), leading to a total ERC grant award value of >£10.3M. Other major funders
 were BBSRC, NERC, MRC, EU Horizon 2020 (ERC plus other schemes), Royal Society and
 Leverhulme Trust, plus medical charities (e.g. British Heart Foundation, The Dunhill Medical
 Trust and Versus Arthritis). Further evidencing the success of our strategy, we achieved excellent
 success rates for applications to major UKRI funders in the assessment period, with UEA
 success rates standing at 30% (BBSRC) and 37% (NERC), each well above national averages
 (25% and 30%, respectively).
 To win larger, multi-partner grants (consortia), we apply the same mechanisms within the
 strategy, aided by our approach to interdisciplinary work (Section 1.4) and administrative support
 from the International Research Project Manager and European Funding Manager within the
 University's Research and Innovation Services. As a result, we lead and participate in a number
 of competitively-funded consortia (sums are total awards):

 •   Dunhill Medical Trust-funded consortium including Clark and Dalmay led by external
     colleagues at the University of Newcastle (£1.0M).
 •   EU Horizon 2020-funded consortia including Dalmay (EUR 3.2M), Dicks (EUR 3.0M), Monk
     (EUR 4.1M), Pöschl (EUR 7.8M) and Wheeler (EUR 4.2M) respectively, each with multiple
     external colleagues.
 •   GCRF-funded consortia with external colleagues: on watershed protection in Mexico led by
     Bell (£0.3M); on protecting biodiversity in Colombia led by Di Palma (£6.5M); and on crop
     protection in sub-Saharan Africa and Bangladesh, respectively, led by Talbot (£1.7M) and
     by Talbot and Kamoun (£0.75M).

 The ultimate payoff of achieving funding is in outputs, impact and training of research staff, and
 so links between our funding and high-quality outputs are integral to our research efforts. Such
 links are too many to detail, but, for example, of outputs showcased above (Box 1.1), Clarke's
 on a protein complex acting as a transmembrane molecular wire in bacteria was funded by grants
 from BBSRC, Todd's on dimethylsulfoniopropionate by grants from NERC, Gage's on sexual
 selection by grants from NERC and the Leverhulme Trust and Jones's work on plant immunity
 by multiple grants including an ERC Advanced Investigators grant.

 Impact income in the assessment period
 Our strategy has also found success in terms of impact income. This included £1.45M from paid
 consultancies held by 11 staff, £0.21M from industrial or NGO partner contributions to 25
 CASE/iCASE PhD studentships, £562K in 43 awards from competitively-selected UEA internal
 impact funds and £187K from the Norwich Research Park Translational Fund and the Enabling
 Innovation: Research to Application fund (Section 3.1). In addition, The Sainsbury Laboratory
 received £7.44M from research contracts with commercial companies and £3.49M from patent
 royalties. Multiple staff members have won UKRI Industrial Partnership Awards, LINK Grants,
 Pathfinder Grants or Innovation Grants supporting impact elements of research (e.g. Brearley,
 Hemmings, Hutchings, Wheeler and Yu). Overall, both nationally and internationally, unit
 members have held funding with 112 external businesses or institutions as Collaborators and 60
 as Project Partners.

 Impact income has been used to help produce both our submitted and maturing Impact Case
 Studies. For example, Brearley, Dicks, Wormstone and Yu variously received income from
 several of UEA's internal impact funds, as well as from the Enabling Innovation: Research to
 Application fund, helping them develop their submitted cases on, respectively, improving animal
 feeds, global policy for pollinators, better intraocular lens for cataract surgery and the spin-out


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 company NatureMetrics. Outside the submitted cases, staff in all our impact sectors (Section
 1.3) enhanced their impact work using awards from the internal schemes available. In addition,
 staff pursuing impact have benefited from iCASE partner support for PhD projects, including
 benefits-in-kind from partners' time and expertise, for example from AB Vista (Brearley,
 Hemmings), AstraZeneca (Fountain), HL Hutchinson Ltd (Dicks) and Merck (Fountain).

 3.3 Infrastructure supporting research and impact
 The infrastructure supporting research and impact comprises a range of facilities from benchtop
 equipment in individual laboratories funded by external project grants and the Pro-Vice
 Chancellor for Research & Innovation's Capital Equipment Fund, to large-scale Instrument
 Platforms funded by UEA, Norwich Research Park institutes and/or external capital equipment
 awards.

 The Faculty of Science Instrument Platforms (Bio-imaging, Elemental Analysis, Mass
 Spectrometry, Nuclear Magnetic Resonance, Stable Isotope Analysis, Structural Imaging and X-
 Ray Imaging) provide centrally supported facilities for all unit members. Each has an academic
 lead for strategic oversight, with Mogensen leading Bio-imaging and Wormstone leading
 Structural Imaging. In addition, Menke leads a proteomics facility (TSL Proteomics) in The
 Sainsbury Laboratory. Keeping the unit's research at the technical cutting edge is central to our
 overall research and impact strategy. Consistent with this, substantial investment has been made
 in the Faculty of Science Platforms in the assessment period. For example, unit members
 contributed to two successful cross-Norwich Research Park bids to the BBSRC 17ALERT and
 19ALERT calls, winning £0.84M in total from BBSRC topped up by £0.24M from UEA to fund
 new instruments for the Mass Spectrometry Platform. These awards provide an excellent
 example of the Norwich Research Park's critical mass being leveraged into capital equipment
 funding success. In addition, successful bids led by Mogensen and Wormstone in the 2019 and
 2020 competitions for UKRI Capital Equipment awards to UEA resulted in the Bio-imaging and
 Structural Imaging Platforms receiving totals of £0.58M and £0.70M for upgraded confocal and
 scanning electron microscopes, respectively.

 The School also houses a set of specific facilities serving its research themes:

 •   Controlled Environment Facility (a suite of climate-controlled rooms for culturing
     invertebrates, amphibians and fish) (Cells & Tissues; Organisms & Environment).
 •   Disease Modelling Unit (animal facility co-hosted by the Faculty of Medicine and Health in
     the Biomedical Research Centre) (Cells & Tissues).
 •   Wolfson Fermentation Suite (for microbial culture) (Molecular Microbiology).

 These facilities receive core technical support and are maintained by responsive mode grants,
 UKRI Capital Equipment awards and recurrent investment from UEA and the unit. For example,
 the Controlled Environment Facility received £70K for new humidifiers from the 2020 UKRI
 Capital Equipment award and the Disease Modelling Unit/Biomedical Research Centre received
 a £2.51M upgrade from UEA. UEA invested an additional £1.64M in maintaining fume cupboards
 and refrigeration facilities in the Faculty. Lastly, the School received £0.27M through successful
 bids to the Pro-Vice Chancellor's Capital Equipment Fund, and invested in infrastructure for new
 staff, including an aquarium for Immler and refitted laboratories for Lehtovirta-Morley and
 Maklakov.

 Unit members have access to other high-quality equipment across the Norwich Research Park,
 including the Park's Biorepository of tissue samples for biomedical research. The Park's Earlham
 Institute, a BBSRC-funded national centre for genomic research and sequencing, provides
 unparalleled access to cutting-edge sequencing platforms and expertise, including single-cell
 sequencing.




                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Technical support is provided by the Faculty of Science, with dedicated technicians for each
 research theme, a Platform Manager and specialist technical support for each Instrument
 Platform and a Laboratory Manager for Research and Related Activities for overall coordination.
 The Faculty of Science also provides core services such as autoclaving and glass-washing.
 Research computing, including access to the High-Performance Computing cluster, essential for
 the unit's bioinformatics research, is centrally supported by the University, having received £520K
 per year in investment since 2014. Scholarly research infrastructure is provided by the UEA
 Library, in which a biological sciences Academic Librarian ensures access to informational
 resources and support for reference management and search tools.

 Overall, these facilities underpin the research programmes of multiple groups and have led to a
 suite of key outputs. For example, the Bio-imaging Platform was central to the work of
 Münsterberg in discovering a role for bone morphogenetic proteins in heart formation (2014.
 PNAS; DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1321764111). The Controlled Environment Facility enabled Gage's
 pioneering research on the effect of higher temperatures associated with climate change on
 insect reproduction (2018. Nature Communications; DOI: 10.1038/s41467-018-07273-z; 2019.
 eLife; DOI: 10.7554/eLife.49452). Multiple studies in the unit have used the sequencing capability
 of the Earlham Institute and proteomics facility of TSL Proteomics. Similarly, the unit's facilities
 have been key to generating impact, with, for example, Wormstone's submitted Impact Case
 Study drawing directly on the Bio-imaging Platform.

 3.4 Collaborative use of research infrastructure
 Unit members are both providers and users of facilities shared across HEIs. For example, the
 Controlled Environment Facility has been used to host the work of visiting researchers from the
 Universities of Ottawa and Warsaw. Richardson collaboratively shares a field station in the
 Seychelles part-funded by UEA with colleagues from the University of Sheffield and University
 of Groningen, The Netherlands, for their long-term ecological and genetic field study of the
 Seychelles Warbler (e.g. 2017. PNAS; DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1704350114; 2019. Nature
 Communications; DOI: 10.1038/s41467-019-09229-3). Clarke used the external Diamond Light
 Source national synchrotron facility at Harwell for his work on a protein complex acting as a
 transmembrane molecular wire in bacteria (2020. Cell; DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2020.03.032).
 Through the unit's extensive portfolio of iCASE PhD studentships (Section 3.2), we also benefit
 from access to the equipment and facilities of our industrial and other non-academic partners.

 3.5 Equality and diversity in accessing research and impact funding and infrastructure
 Access to all funding and infrastructure is delivered mindful of our equality and diversity
 commitments in fairly allocating resources (Section 2.3). All staff receive support for achieving
 research and impact (Section 3.1) and have equal access to the Instrument Platforms, with
 allocation decisions for these and for funds from the UKRI Capital Equipment awards being made
 by formal Faculty of Science or University-led committees based on need and merit. We also
 provide mentorship and targeted support for Early Career Researchers (Section 2.1). Evidencing
 the success of this approach, for example, the percentage of grants held (by value) by female
 PIs in the unit was 28%, fully in line with the unit's percentage of female staff (23%).



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research collaboration
 Collaboration is integral to the unit's overall strategy, allowing it to address scientific issues not
 easily tackled by smaller teams. Collaborative teams – internal and external – are facilitated by
 all of our mechanisms for encouraging research and impact (Section 3.1) and interdisciplinarity
 (Section 1.4), as underpinned by our ethos of mutual help and collegiality and commitment to
 equality and diversity. Logistically, they are supported by the University's Research and
 Innovation Services and International Office. In addition, UEA is part of the Aurora Network of


                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 universities, a group of nine European research-intensive universities dedicated to fostering
 common approaches and collaboration, and co-hosts PhD studentships through a partnership
 with the Southern University of Science and Technology (SUSTech), Shenzhen, China. The
 effectiveness of our approach is evidenced by 82% of the unit's outputs as a whole having
 external coauthors, with 67% of the total having international coauthors, who come from over
 100 countries.

 Examples of our collaborations include:

 •   Within the Norwich Research Park, collaborations by Hemmings and Hutchings with John
     Innes Centre researchers on, respectively, identifying plant natural products (2016. PNAS;
     DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1605509113) and antibiotic discovery (e.g. 2019. Nature
     Communications; DOI: 10.1038/s41467-019-11538-60).
 •   Nationally, Bell's collaboration with a team led by the University of Cambridge on myxoma
     virus in rabbits (2019. Science; DOI: 10.1126/science.aau7285).
 •   Internationally, Robinson's collaboration with scientists in China, UK and USA discovering a
     previously unrecognised mechanism of cancer growth control (2020. Cell; DOI:
     10.1016/j.cell.2020.02.003).

 In addition, large-scale consortia producing sequenced genomes illustrate par excellence the
 value of international collaboration, with unit staff having led or co-led genome projects for ferret,
 rabbit and spotted gar (Di Palma) and tsetse fly (N Hall), and contributed to such projects for
 Asian seabass, bumble bee, elephant, koala and tuatara (Bourke, Dalmay, Di Palma, Haerty,
 Suh). Similarly, staff led very large-scale comparative genomic studies for wheat (A Hall: 2020.
 Nature; DOI: 10.1038/s41586-020-2961-x) and contributed to such projects for birds (Suh: 2020.
 Nature; DOI: 10.1038/s41586-020-2873-9) and mammals (Haerty: 2020. Nature; DOI:
 10.1038/s41586-020-2876-6).

 Lastly, unit staff have produced high value community resources, exemplifying both collaboration
 and contribution to the sustainability of the discipline. For example, Jones led a study
 inventorying       disease   resistance    genes    in   Arabidopsis    (2019.     Cell;   DOI:
 10.1016/j.cell.2019.07.038) and Macaulay published a protocol for parallel genome and
 transcriptomic       sequencing    of   single   cells   (2016.    Nature    Protocols;    DOI:
 10.1038/nprot.2016.138).

 4.2 Impact: relationships and contributions
 Both our set of six submitted Impact Case Studies and our wider portfolio exemplify the unit's
 contribution to the economy and society. To realise this, staff have engaged with users aided by
 our impact support mechanisms (Section 3.1). For example, outside the submitted cases, Butler
 has engaged with the EU Commission to design an algorithm for conservation and development
 planning; Lehtovirta-Morley has engaged with Defra and Norwich City Council over remediation
 of waste sites; and Talbot is engaging via a GCRF-funded project with potential users of disease-
 resistant rice in sub-Saharan Africa. In addition, Gill hosts Category C staff member Dr Jennifer
 Smart, a senior RSPB scientist working full-time in the School as a seconded employee and
 contributing substantially to the research environment via joint grants (NERC and Defra), CASE
 studentships and outputs.

 Building on the submitted cases of Baulcombe and Wormstone, a further cluster of developing
 Impact Case Studies exemplifies the unit's biomedical collaboration and impact. For example,
 Chantry has engaged with AstraZeneca over drug development for cancer treatment; Clark is
 part of an external team funded by Versus Arthritis conducting clinical trials of nutritional
 interventions in arthritis; Fountain has engaged with Afferent Pharmaceuticals, AstraZeneca and
 Merck over drug development based on purinergic signalling and shares British Heart
 Foundation grants with Turner from the Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital; and Gavrilovic



                                                                                                Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 is collaborating with John Innes Centre and Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital colleagues
 to develop in vitro human skin models.

 All these collaborations, as well as delivering impact, have substantially enriched the unit's
 research environment, by supporting staff research programmes in their widest sense and
 employing Contract Research Staff to the benefit of both research teams and potential end-
 users.

 4.3 Engagement with diverse communities
 The School runs a full and varied programme of public engagement and outreach, coordinated
 by a Director of Engagement (Academic, Teaching & Scholarship staff colleague Blake) and
 supported by a Communications Officer (Spurgin), social media presence (the School's Twitter
 handle is @biouea) and UEA's Press Office. In addition, in 2019 UEA appointed biologist and
 award-winning broadcaster Ben Garrod as Professor of Evolutionary Biology and Science
 Engagement to conduct teaching and outreach in biological sciences. We therefore
 communicate our research and impact achievements to a very wide audience, including school
 children, local societies and the public nationally and internationally. Accordingly, engagement
 activity is valued in promotion decisions, and celebrated at University level. For example, several
 staff have been honoured as Vice Chancellor's UEA Media Stars, including Bell in all four years
 of the award, and Hutchings won the UEA engagement award for ‘Outstanding Contributions to
 Public and Community Engagement’, 2015. Unit members have also been externally recognised
 for engagement, with Dicks receiving Defra's Bees’ Needs Champion Award in 2018 and
 Hutchings receiving the Microbiology Society's Microbiology Outreach Prize 2019.

 Highlights of our hundreds of individual engagement events include:

 •   Exhibits on bacteria (Clarke) and biodiversity (Gage, Spurgin and Taylor), Latitude Festival,
     Suffolk, 2018 and 2019.
 •   Di Palma's participation in a panel discussion of biodiversity, Cheltenham Science Festival,
     2020.
 •   Dicks's exhibits on pollinators, Bees' Needs Week, London, 2018 and 2019.
 •   Hutchings's exhibits on antibiotic discovery at the Royal Society Summer Science Exhibition
     2014, BBSRC Great British Bioscience Festival 2014 and Big Bang Science Fair 2015; plus
     an 18-month sponsored exhibit on 'Superbugs' at the Science Museum (2017-2019).
 •   Hutchings's and Immler's presentations of 'Science Lates', Natural History Museum and
     Science Museum, London, 2018 and 2019.
 •   Unit staff participation (posters, exhibits) in two annual public science events in Norwich, i.e.
     'Super Science Saturday' and the Norwich Science Festival.

 Through events like these we have reached very wide audiences, with, for example, an estimated
 1M people visiting Hutchings's Science Museum exhibit. We also regularly publicise our work
 through press releases (approximately one per month) and interviews on broadcast media.
 Through such means, in the assessment period the School averaged over 850 media mentions
 per year both nationally and internationally.

 4.4 Interdisciplinarity and responsiveness to national and international priorities
 Applying the unit's mechanisms for supporting interdisciplinary research (Section 1.4), we have
 achieved some notable outcomes:

 •   Evolutionary geneticist Spurgin collaborated with epidemiologists and mathematicians to
     use citizen-science data to model COVID-19 control strategies, which later led to a well-
     cited publication (2020. Nature Medicine; DOI: 10.1038/s41591-020-1036-8).
 •   Di Palma is leading a £6.5M GCRF-funded interdisciplinary programme (GROW Colombia)
     to strengthen Colombian research capability in the biological sciences, computational
     biology and socio-economics, with the goal of protecting Colombia's rich biodiversity.

                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Bell co-led a GCRF-funded project with Few, School of International Development, to take
     an interdisciplinary approach to watershed protection in Mexico.
 •   Following the 'speed-dating' event with the Quadram Institute, cell biologist Gavrilovic
     collaborated with microbiologist Webber (Quadram Institute) to win BBSRC funding to use
     in vitro human skin models to investigate antiseptic tolerance in premature babies.
 •   Lastly, a major coup for our approach of capitalising on the synergies present across the
     Norwich Research Park was the successful interdisciplinary application to the Wellcome
     Trust for the EDESIA DTP centred on plant-based nutrition and health (Section 2.2), which
     rested on the combined expertise of biomedical researchers in the unit, health researchers
     in the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences and plant scientists in the John Innes
     Centre.

 For both interdisciplinary and other major grant applications, we have consistently responded to
 national and international priorities and initiatives. For example, we responded to calls from the
 UK Aquaculture Initiative (Gage), Research England's E3 (Expanding Excellence in England)
 Fund (team led by Maklakov) and the Transforming the UK Food Systems Strategic Priorities
 Fund (Dicks). Internationally, we responded to EU Horizon and GCRF consortium calls, with
 funding success for multiple unit members as detailed above (Section 3.2).

 We are proud that our expertise and flexibility also permitted our response to the national and
 global emergency represented by the COVID-19 pandemic. On site, molecular biologists from
 the unit joined others across the Norwich Research Park to pilot and establish a community
 testing facility on the Park. Spurgin and external collaborators won funding from the Royal
 Society’s Rapid Assistance in Modelling the Pandemic (RAMP) Initiative, which led later to
 Spurgin's publication described above (2020. Nature Medicine; DOI: 10.1038/s41591-020-
 1036-8). Spurgin then became a member of the Scientific Pandemic Influenza Group on
 Modelling (SPI-M) of the Government's Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE), as
 well as accepting a year-long secondment on Norfolk County Council's COVID-19 Outbreak
 Response Team. Bell provided expert commentary on the pandemic (e.g. Bell D. Coronavirus:
 we still haven’t learned the lessons from Sars. The Conversation, 20 January 2020). Lastly,
 Macaulay coauthored a study on the mechanisms for the loss of the sense of smell (anosmia)
 in COVID-19 patients (2020. Science Advances; DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.abc5801).

 4.5 Professional contributions to the discipline, esteem and recognition
 The unit's staff contribute extensively to the sustainability of the discipline. For example, several
 have taken roles on influential planning and strategy committees for major funders:

 •   Di Palma served on the assessment panel for the Research England International
     Investment Initiative (I3 Fund).
 •   Gill served on the NERC Biodiversity & Ecosystem Service Sustainability Advisory Panel,
     overseeing a six-year research programme with a £13M budget.
 •   N Hall served on the BBSRC Exploiting New Ways of Working Strategy Panel and the
     BBSRC Transformative Technologies Strategy Advisory Panel.

 Staff sit on multiple grant committees and/or serve as peer review college members for major
 funders, including BBSRC, ERC, Leverhulme Trust, NERC and UKRI (Future Leaders
 Fellowships), with N Hall being Chair of the Wellcome Trust Biomedical Resource Committee.
 Chapman is Editor-in-Chief of Evolution, the leading journal in its discipline, while staff are
 members of editorial boards of numerous journals, including Ecology Letters, EMBO Reports,
 Genome Biology, Journal of Animal Ecology, PLoS Biology, PLoS Pathogens and Proceedings
 of the Royal Society B. Staff routinely serve as peer reviewers of grants and submitted papers,
 including for Nature, Science and highly-regarded subject journals.

 Staff take leading roles in scientific NGOs and societies. For example, Gage is Treasurer of the
 Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour, Gill is Chair of the Board of the British Trust for


                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ornithology and Kamoun was elected President of the International Society of Molecular Plant-
 Microbe Interactions. They have also served as organisers of conferences and symposia. Taylor
 co-convened the 2018 Symposium of the Fisheries Society of the British Isles held at UEA over
 five days and attended by more than 180 scientists from 20 countries. Overseas, Bell organised
 the GCRF-funded Best Practice-Sharing Meeting for Watershed Dependent Cities, British
 Embassy, Mexico City, 2019; Hajihosseini was Vice-Chair of the Gordon Research Conference
 on Fibroblast Growth Factors in Development and Disease, USA (2018); Maklakov organised a
 Symposium at the European Society of Evolutionary Biology Congress, The Netherlands, 2017;
 and Mogensen organised the European Cytoskeletal Forum, Slovenia, 2015.

 Reciprocally, many staff are invited to conferences as plenary/keynote speakers; e.g. Gill at the
 27th International Ornithological Congress, Canada (2018); Kingsley at two Gordon Research
 Conferences (Salmonella Biology and Pathogenesis; Signaling at the Microbe-Host Interface),
 USA (both 2019, USA); and Malone and Todd at the annual American Society of Microbiology
 'Microbe' Conference, USA (2018 and 2019, respectively); and many more have been invited
 presenters at conferences.

 Unit staff have also influenced their research fields through publishing highly-cited reviews; e.g.
 Jones on immune surveillance across plant and animals (2016. Science; DOI:
 10.1126/science.aaf6395) and Zipfel on plant signalling (2016. Nature Reviews Immunology;
 DOI: 10.1038/nri.2016.77; 2017. Nature; DOI: 10.1038/nature22009). In addition, since 2014,
 Dicks has coauthored influential annual horizon scans for emerging global biological
 conservation issues in Trends in Ecology and Evolution (e.g. 2020. DOI:
 10.1016/j.tree.2019.10.010).

 Reflecting their calibre, unit staff received high honours during the assessment period:

 •   Gill was awarded the British Ornithologists' Union's Union Medal, 2017.
 •   Kamoun was elected a member of the European Molecular Biology Organization (EMBO),
     2015, and awarded the Kuwait Prize, 2016, and Linnean Medal, 2018.
 •   Jones was elected Foreign Associate of the US National Academy of Sciences, 2015.
 •   Wormstone was awarded the US National Foundation for Eye Research's Cataract
     Research Award for Outstanding Research Achievements, 2015.
 •   Zipfel was elected a member of EMBO, 2018.
 •   3-5 staff have been among the top 1% most highly-cited researchers worldwide each year in
     the four years to 2020 (Jones, Kamoun, Talbot, Win, Zipfel).

 Lastly, joining Jones (FRS 2003), two unit staff (Kamoun in 2018 and Talbot in 2014) received
 the exceptional accolade of election as Fellows of the Royal Society.




                                                                                             Page 22
