Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University College London (UCL)

 Unit of Assessment: 26 - Modern Languages and Linguistics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Significant growth has fuelled orbital expansion of research in modern and medieval languages
 at UCL since REF 2014. We inquire into how the languages and cultures of Europe have shaped
 the world and in turn how the world has shaped them, consolidating established strengths at the
 core of Modern Languages and Linguistics (MLL) and promoting multi- and interdisciplinary
 approaches to them. We have fortified and enhanced the linguistic and territorial compass of our
 research through the foundation of our flagship graduate and research division, the Centre for
 Multidisciplinary and Intercultural Inquiry (CMII), and establishment of a major centre for
 translation studies, the Centre for Translation Studies (CenTraS). This strategy has generated a
 highly productive research environment, a key goal of the previous and current REF cycles: both
 centres have nourished our historically large number of doctoral students and augmented our
 already substantial research-funding portfolio. Further testament to the achievement of that aim
 and our commitment to the production of high-calibre research are the 42 monographs with
 leading academic presses in our current submission and the 22 national and international
 honours that have been awarded to our researchers at all career stages during this assessment
 period, including the Malcolm Bowie Prize (Rushworth, 2015), Order of Merit from the National
 University of Trujillo (Hart, 2014), Amaury Talbot Prize for African Anthropology (Neveu-
 Kringelbach, 2015) and Wolfson History Prize (Fulbrook, 2019). We have built on our
 excellence in impact recognised in REF 2014 by creating agenda-setting alliances between staff
 and a broad range of academic, charitable, and commercial partners, including Mussgnug’s
 ‘Interdisciplinary Italy’ project with Royal Holloway University of London and Trinity College
 Dublin, Federici’s crisis translation training with New Zealand Red Cross, and Díaz-Cintas’s
 work on professional subtitling standards with leading streaming provider Netflix. We have
 continued to cultivate our outward-looking approach to research, illustrated in the international
 reach and influence of our findings, such as those of Dickie on the freemasons and Klaas on
 election security, in widely-disseminated books in many languages and in prolific media and
 policy interventions worldwide. Diversity, multilingualism, and multidisciplinarity are thus integral
 to our scholarly activities and ethos. In short, our articulation of UCL’s commitments to cross
 boundaries and address major societal challenges stems from the bedrock of strong disciplinary
 foundations in ‘European’ languages, our fundamental aim being to assess their possibilities and
 provocations in a global context. In doing so, we aspire to rethink and reshape the discipline of
 MLL.

 Unit structure
 The unit is coextensive with the School of European Languages, Cultures and Society (SELCS),
 which has a distinguished history and unique composition. We are home to the earliest
 departments of German, Italian and Spanish in the UK, established at UCL’s foundation in 1826;
 the world-leading Viking Society for Northern Research (est. 1892); the oldest centre for Dutch
 studies in the Anglophone world (est. 1919); and only centre for modern Scandinavian studies in
 England (est. 1917). Our 6 departments (Dutch, French, German, Italian, Scandinavian Studies,
 and Spanish, Portuguese, and Latin American Studies) study and teach 11 well-established and
 less commonly-taught languages (Danish, Dutch, French, German, Italian, Icelandic, Norwegian,
 Old Norse, Portuguese, Spanish, Swedish), while research in CenTraS is informed by many
 more. Colleagues work in heterogeneous fields of study exploring subjects and materials in MLL
 from the medieval period to the present day. Our exceptional interdisciplinarity is also fed by a


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 portfolio of successful graduate programmes in CMII (including Comparative Literature and Film
 Studies) co-taught by colleagues from across and outside the unit: these provide a pipeline for
 collaboratively supervised doctoral theses and successful internal and external research
 partnerships.

 Research and Impact strategy
 UCL’s commitment to the study of languages and cultures is unwavering, notwithstanding
 external challenges: indeed, strategic growth and remodelling have enabled us to preserve and
 revivify our venerable institutional history described above. Our structural transformations since
 2014 enable staff the opportunity to fulfil their scholarly potential in a confidently interdisciplinary
 environment. We encourage and support them to produce research that results in high-calibre
 monographs, book chapters, and peer-reviewed journal articles as well as still atypical outputs
 such as ‘minigraphs’, practice-based or digital outputs. Our particular vision for MLL rests on the
 following aims:

     1) to sustain and develop research on a wide range of languages and cultures
     2) to promote and advance multi- and interdisciplinarity
     3) to set new research agendas with global reach and relevance

 Organisation of our activities into six Research Clusters (described below) has created novel
 opportunities to realize these aims. New appointments across these groups – in African,
 Andean, Lusophone, and Chinese Studies – have allowed us to globalize the scope of our
 inquiries and thus address key national and international priorities. Our pioneering research
 projects on trans-continental translations of Frantz Fanon (Batchelor), on Black Germany
 (Bowersox), Sino-Francophone cultural exchanges (Li), transnational Francophone families
 (Neveu-Kringelbach), and the Portuguese in Sri Lanka and South India (Biedermann), inter
 alia, attest to our intellectual affinities with the AHRC’s ‘Translating Cultures’ theme, for example,
 as well as the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals of reduced inequalities, good
 health and well-being. Our specialist cross-disciplinary research centres – including our African
 Studies Research Centre (dir. Neveu-Kringelbach), which unites university-wide expertise on
 the region from the humanities, social sciences and natural sciences; the Centre for Low
 Countries Studies (dir. Demeyer); and the Centre for Early Modern Exchanges (CEME, dirs.
 Samson, Sampson) – further buttress our multidisciplinary domain and ambitions.
        We actively encourage dissemination of our research in the public sphere in order to
 realize UCL’s ambition to deliver impact for public benefit. Our staff work in local and global
 partnerships with the countries whose languages and cultures we research and engage
 constantly with the media across the world, appearing on radio and television in the UK, Europe,
 the Americas and Australasia, in order to exchange knowledge. Such activities, alongside our
 commitment to an open research environment through publication in open access (OA), deposit
 of our publications in UCL’s OA depository (Discovery) and translations of them (into languages
 including English, Danish, Dutch, French, German, Italian, Mandarin and Spanish), ensure that
 our work reaches academic and general audiences in the Global North and South.

 Research Clusters
 We set great store by autonomy as a key principle for the development of our researchers’ work,
 in order to preserve UCL’s disciplinary breadth and the integrity of the National Languages
 Strategy (2020). That said, since 2014 we have organized our research into six cross-pollinating
 research clusters, which allow us to realize our vision for research as outlined above, and which
 foster collegiality and collaboration across our large but intellectually coherent unit. In doing so
 our objective has been three-fold: to broaden and deepen, rather than contain, the work of our

                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers in areas that are particularly distinctive in our expansive multidisciplinary profile; to
 respond to the needs of our increasingly interdisciplinary and international research students
 and next generation of academic researchers; and to advance meaningful partnerships
 institutionally, nationally and internationally. The clusters, the distinct achievements and
 developments of which are described below, aspire to promote but not prescribe, cross-period,
 cross-cultural and inter-disciplinary research. Colleagues are supported in their interpretation of
 cluster identities (and may often contribute to more than one) or in exploring new areas of
 research. Likewise, they are encouraged to pursue work in areas that lie at the heart of MLL but
 have not yet gained the same critical mass in the UoA (ethnographic work in gender studies by
 Hyde and Tanna, for example, and research in linguistics by Horan and Samek-Lodovici).

 Medieval and Early Modern Exchanges. Our long-standing medievalist strengths, since the
 retirements of senior staff such as Knox and Took, have been revitalized in work by Gilbert in a
 co-authored 2020 monograph on transnational medieval Francophone cultures (the outcome of
 her £297k collaborative AHRC grant awarded in the last REF period), Keen’s prize-winning
 research on Dante, and Rushworth’s major 2017 study of Petrarch and the Literary Culture of
 19th Century France, as well as a 12-month Leverhulme postdoctoral fellowship on bureaucracy
 and Old Norse (Cole, 2017-2018). We are committed to retaining and nurturing this cohort of
 researchers, which we regard as fundamental to both the chronology of our research coverage
 and our fidelity to the discipline of MLL. Our renowned CEME continues to be buoyant.
 Maximizing the concentration of early modernists within and outside the unit across the Faculties
 of Arts and Humanities (A&H) and Social and Historical Sciences (SHS) (across Architecture,
 Economics, English, History and History of Art), it runs regular seminars (such as those that led
 to Moreau’s co-edited volume Seventeenth-century Fiction: Text and Transmission) and hosts
 visiting researchers such as Carrió Cataldi (Newton International Fellow), who is developing
 work on early modern science and technology. Following the departures of Fisher, Ibbett and
 Moreau during the census period, this cluster has welcomed Goeres and Sampson whose
 respective research on commemorative skaldic verse and gender and performance in early
 modern Italy has attracted over £100k in funding from the AHRC and British Academy, won the
 Josephine Roberts Best Scholarly Edition prize 2014 (Sampson) and led to senior promotions
 for both. Research in this area has deepened and ramified beyond Europe with the publication of
 Hart’s studies of Santa Rosa of Lima, the result of grants of over £104.5k from the Leverhulme
 Trust and the British Academy.

 Transnational Histories and Global Politics. This world-leading grouping of social scientists
 and cultural studies scholars focuses on collective violence and the effects of globalization. Its
 researchers have delivered and built on major funding bids from the previous REF period and
 have published 21 monographs since 2014. The 2011 AHRC-funded ‘Reverberations of War’
 project has yielded monographs by Fulbrook (Reckonings: Legacies of Nazi Persecution and
 the Quest for Justice) and Bird (Comedy and Trauma in German and Austria after 1945), as well
 as journal articles by research associates (Rauch and Thonfeld) appointed as part of that bid.
 Fulbrook and Bird are advancing this research with their £752k AHRC-funded project
 ‘Compromised Identities? Reflections on Perpetration and Complicity under Nazism’ (2018-21).
 Hewitson’s work on the violence of war has been supported by over £207k in external research
 grants to date, most recently by a Leverhulme Fellowship, while his AHRC grant ‘The Violence
 of War: Images and Experiences of Conflict’ (2013-2014) has resulted in numerous
 monographs, including Absolute War and The People’s Wars (both 2017) and three special
 issues on violence in nineteenth and twentieth-century Europe (in History, Cultural History and
 the European Review of History). Meanwhile, Connolly (whose The Experience of Occupation
 in the Nord was runner up in the biannual Eugen Weber book prize, 2020) and Kuldkepp

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (winner of the Hendrik Sepp Prize for Military History, 2020) have published work on occupation
 and liberation in France and the Baltic during the First World War, while Davies has examined
 political violence and its reverberations beyond Europe (Writing and the West German Protest
 Movements, winner of the Institute of Germanic and Romance Studies annual book competition
 in 2013). Another major theme examined by the cluster’s researchers is transnational networks,
 regionalism, and globalization. Batchelor, Dickie, Ferrara degli Uberti, Haddour, Hewitson,
 Klaas, Kuldkepp, Lindsay, and Samson have all examined in different books the ramifications
 of global travel, communication and exchange, or transnational networks within regions.

 Critical Theory, Psychoanalysis, and Philosophy of Health. Our researchers pursue the study of
 individual thinkers and currents in continental philosophy and postcolonial studies worldwide.
 They have produced major studies of Hélène Cixous (Hanrahan’s 2014 Cixous’s Semi-Fictions
 received a commendation in the R. Gapper book prize competition 2015) and Frantz Fanon
 (notably, Haddour’s 2019 Frantz Fanon, Postcolonialism and the Ethics of Difference and
 Batchelor’s 2017 edited volume Frantz Fanon Across Continents and Languages). A special
 issue of Paragraph on animal-human relations in Rousseau co-edited by Inston and Mussgnug
 built on a large, interdisciplinary conference hosted by the UoA in 2014. Recently appointed
 Early Career Researchers (ECRs) Baker, Bollington, Geraghty, and Li enhance this work by
 looking beyond Europe to global articulations of critical theory in regions such as East Asia and
 Latin America. This cluster has realized another of the UoA’s 2014 aims: to establish a research
 centre dedicated to C.G. Jung’s correspondence and manuscripts, which is independently
 funded. Its prolific work, supported by more than £834k from the Philemon Foundation, has led
 to a major critical edition of Jung’s correspondence with Erich Neumann and an eight-volume
 series of Jung’s Lectures at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology from 1933-1941,
 published by and in press with Princeton University Press. Shamdasani (with James Wilson,
 UCL Philosophy) has also established an interdisciplinary Centre for Health Humanities, on
 health, illness and wellbeing which has created four post-doctoral research posts and an
 inaugural open access volume with contributions by seven of the UoA’s researchers, Medical
 Humanity and Inhumanity in the German-Speaking World (eds. Davies and Shamdasani, 2020).
 This and other activities attest to the diverse ways in which the theme of health and wellbeing
 has ramified across the unit and become one of our strategic areas of development: these
 include Baños-Piñero’s ‘Wikipedia Women’s Health Translatathon’ event; Beniston’s translation
 of Schnitzler’s medical drama Professor Bernhardi; Stougaard-Nielsen and Shamdasani’s co-
 authorship of the 2014 UCL-Lancet III commission on Culture and Health; and 2 Wellcome Trust
 PhD studentships (2020-2023) to study Mediterranean Remedies in Old Norse Manuscripts
 (Cangemi) and the reception of critical psychiatry in Western Europe and the US, 1965-today
 (Klement).

 Film, Media and Screen Studies. The unit’s global outlook is articulated with particular potency
 in this cluster, which pursues research in established and emerging areas of the discipline on
 fiction and non-fiction film as well as other media and visual forms such as television and
 photography. Our work here is distinguished by its emphasis on film and politics, film history,
 and the media’s relation to hierarchies of power, neo-liberalism, globalization and gender.
 Particular strengths have crystallized in the area of ‘useful cinema’ (Thomson’s work on Danish
 public information cinema), while the distinguished tradition of the study of national cinemas and
 auteurs has been revivified in approaches including the collection of directors’ correspondence
 and research on unrealized films, in work by Bollington, Evans, Geraghty (co-winner of
 the Latin American Studies Association Film Studies Best Essay prize 2020), Hart, Kord, Lack,
 Martin and Ring. Evans’s Leverhulme-funded project (£252k, 2015-2019) ‘Luis Buñuel: A Life in
 Letters’ has produced two unparalleled volumes of the director’s correspondence in English and

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Spanish, published by Bloomsbury and Cátedra, which won the Premio Muñoz Suay 2019 for
 the best book on Spanish film; Martin has published the first monograph in any language on The
 Cinema of Lucrecia Martel (2016) while her previous AHRC Early Career Fellowship (2011-
 2012) has yielded a study of The Child in Contemporary Latin American Cinema (2019).
 Appointments since 2014 amplify existing research on world cinemas and visual media, bringing
 expertise on contemporary visual cultures in China and Korea (Wagner) and Latin America
 (Bollington, Geraghty). Grieveson’s research on Anglophone cinema, state media and capital
 has resulted into two major studies with University of California Press and three distinguished
 prizes, the Limina Award for Best International Film Studies Book and the British Association of
 Film and Television Studies awards for Best Essay (2014) and Best Monograph (2019).

 Translation Studies. Research here ranges across the spectrum of translation studies, from
 historical, social, cultural, cognitive, theoretical and pedagogical aspects to the use of translation
 technology and audiovisual translation. Indeed, our unit’s multi-disciplinary approaches find
 paradigmatic expression in cutting-edge translation research that intersects with a range of other
 fields of study including healthcare communication, disaster management, literary and cultural
 studies, refugee and migration studies, accessibility studies, artificial intelligence, media studies,
 the creative arts and performance. There are particularly strong academic and non-HEI national
 and international collaborations in this cluster, in part since CenTraS is an internationally
 recognised professional translation hub and research centre. As such, three of our impact case
 studies (ICS) in the current submission are based on research in translation studies. Pathways
 to impact in this area have led to the establishment of international guidelines for subtitling
 (Díaz-Cintas ICS) and, befitting of our location in a university in, of and, for London, new
 collaborations with the capital’s theatres such as the Gate and the Almeida (Brodie and
 Beniston ICS). Colleagues have also established pioneering interdisciplinary collaborations to
 support communication for health and/or crisis management in multilingual environments
 (Batchelor, Federici ICS). Strengths of this cluster are further evidenced in a combined £596k
 generated in external research income, senior promotions for seven members of staff working
 on translation and numerous honours for services to subtitling and audiovisual translation (Díaz-
 Cintas, Jan Ivarsson and Xènia Martínez Awards). Research on translation theory and history
 has led to the publication of major studies by Batchelor (Translation and Paratexts, 2018) and
 Brodie (The Translator on Stage, 2018).

 World Literature and Cultural Studies. Researchers in this cluster, exploring modern and
 contemporary world literature from multiple geographical and cultural angles, are shaping the
 thriving cross-disciplinary field of study of Comparative Literature. Our unrivalled multiplicity of
 languages and strong connections to other UCL departments of Greek & Latin, Hebrew &
 Jewish Studies, School of Slavonic and Eastern European Studies (SSEES) and the nearby
 School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS) place us in an idea position to forge collaborative
 research partnerships and be attentive to different media. This group has received considerable
 investment in the assessment period, with nine appointments (one professor and eight ECRs)
 made since 2014, many of which are also contributing to UCL’s advancement into the Creative
 Humanities. Its researchers have published twelve monographs and been awarded over £313k
 in external research funding from the AHRC and Leverhulme Trust. They have produced major
 comparative works (such as Kord’s Lovable Crooks and Loathsome Jews, an outcome of her
 2015 Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship) and studies with a focus on the transnational
 reception and circulation of literature across periods and cultures (Li’s Comparative Encounters
 and Rushworth’s 2016 Discourses of Mourning monograph). Its researchers have also probed
 the persistence of unique national and regional cultural traditions, often with a focus on collective
 memory and political critique (Bray’s The Price of Literature, Geraghty’s The Polyphonic

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Machine, both 2019). The juxtaposition of local and global contexts, between and within these
 diverse projects, forms the basis for the unit’s shared engagement with the literary, which it
 views as an important locus of social critique and creative-critical innovation. This vision is
 expressed in Bowlby’s influential theoretical work (Everyday Stories; Talking Walking) and
 ongoing exploration of creative-critical approaches in ethnography, autobiography and literary
 criticism (Davies, Hyde, Palandri, Tanna).

 Future strategy
 A core ambition beyond 2021 will be to continue to support existing and emerging individual and
 collaborative research excellence in all of the UoA’s research clusters, languages and cultures,
 sustained both by synergies in and across those different groups and our fidelity to inter- and
 multidisciplinarity.
         Particular strands of our work we expect to scale up in the next REF cycle, augmenting
 our ambitions to address global issues and provide leadership at UCL and in MLL, are
 contributions to intellectual and institutional developments on race, health and environmental
 humanities. Such work - adding to our long-standing critical reflections on questions of gender
 and sexuality (Agar, Bowlby, Hanrahan, Hyde, Lindsay, Sampson and Tanna); burgeoning
 research considering the potential of the visual for activism worldwide (Bollington, Ring,
 Martin); and, optimizing the establishment of the Sarah Parker Remond Centre for the Study of
 Racism & Racialisation at the Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS), our new MA in Race, Ethnicity
 and Postcolonial Studies (dir. Paul Gilroy) - further articulates our strong commitment to
 decolonising knowledge. Expertise on Fanon, for example, will deepen with Haddour’s
 Leverhulme-funded project on the biopolitics of colonialism while new research will be developed
 on African-American entertainers in the German lands pre-1914 (Bowersox); Afro-Brazilian
 literature (Suriani da Silva, funded by UCL’s Global Engagement Office, GEO), and on
 translation, migration and Arab writers (Alhussein, funded by EU, 2021-2023). British Academy-
 funded research on cultural responses to environmental trauma in Guinea (McGiffin, 2021-2024)
 will enhance this endeavour as well as add to expertise coalescing in ‘World Literatures and
 Cultures’ (Baker, Mussgnug) and ‘Transnational Histories’ on the Anthropocene. Building on
 our world-leading track record in impact, we will also progress pioneering collaborative research
 in CenTraS (with partners in Sierra Leone) on translation as a tool to reduce social inequalities in
 the Global South.
         The Covid-19 pandemic has exacerbated existing inequalities but also thrown into sharp
 relief the need to speak to each other as part of a global community. Our intercultural,
 multidisciplinary approach to MLL is a vigorous expression of that imperative while our historic
 strength, agility and innovation in research equip us well to address the next decade’s
 challenges and opportunities.

 2. People

 i. Staffing Strategy and staff development
 We aim to attract and retain the very best researchers to strengthen our research clusters and
 advance collaborations between and beyond them. For permanent posts, we advertise
 internationally, recruit from a global pool of applicants and appoint candidates whom we expect
 and support to become academic leaders in their fields of study. Recruitment and selection
 panels, advised by a Fair Recruitment Specialist from HR, comprise the Head of Department
 (HoD) and representatives from the relevant research clusters/language areas and are equitably
 balanced in terms of seniority and gender. Staff development, progression and reward are a
 priority and achieved by the following:


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a) Strategic appointments and promotions:
 Since 2014, our academic staff body has grown by 48%, to 67.8 FTE Category A staff, an
 exceptional increase in otherwise challenging conditions in the wider sector. This upwelling is a
 result not only of the 2013 transfer of staff to UCL from Imperial to form CenTraS but also the
 university’s support for and new investment in strategic interdisciplinary and intercultural areas of
 growth across our research clusters. New appointments since 2014 have been made at senior
 and early career level. Batchelor, Bowlby, and Grieveson have brought vital research
 expertise and leadership at professorial level to CenTraS (following Hermans’ retirement) and to
 the UoA’s ‘World Literatures’ and ‘Screen Studies’ clusters, which have been bolstered further
 by ECRs Wagner and Paragraph Prize-winner Ring. New posts have included lectureships in
 African Studies (Neveu-Kringelbach), Global Politics (Klaas), Norwegian Studies (Carbone),
 and 20th-century Scandinavian and Baltic Political History (Kuldkepp). These allow us to offer
 unrivalled geographical as well as chronological breadth in research on contemporary
 international politics, history and cultural studies. We have welcomed Bray, Connolly, and
 Rushworth to amplify ‘Transnational Histories’, ‘Medieval and Early Modern Exchanges’ and
 ‘World Literatures and Cultures’ clusters. In order to sustain the next generation of academic
 researchers and realize our strategic vision, 50% of our new appointments in this REF cycle
 have been made to ECRs with the highest quality research in one or more languages
 researched in the unit, to advance our interdisciplinary and cross-period work in ‘World
 Literatures and Cultural Studies’ (Baker, Bollington, Demeyer, Geraghty, Li, and Rushworth).
 All staff are on permanent contracts, with the exception of two fixed-term, externally funded
 postdoctoral fellows (Lin, Tanna).
        Staff development is a priority. In line with UCL policy, all members of staff are appraised
 annually (by the same appraisal-trained professorial colleague for a three-year period, in order to
 ensure continuity). Appraisals support staff in planning for the future, by defining objectives,
 establishing training needs, monitoring progress, and facilitating discussions about changes to a
 role. Promotion cases are triaged to a UoA-level promotions committee, equitably balanced in
 terms of gender, which advises on and helps staff prepare applications for promotion,
 accelerated increments, or professorial rebanding. The impact on research of personal
 circumstances and, more recently, the pandemic is factored directly into appraisals and
 promotions. In that respect, UCL’s Covid-19 Career Support Scheme provides an equity- and
 inclusion-based response to the understanding that it has impacted individuals in our community
 differently.
        The success of our strong investment in staff is evident in 49 senior promotions in the unit
 since 2014: 16 to personal chairs and 33 to Associate Professor, Reader or Senior Lecturer.

 b) Equality, diversity and inclusion:
 Our heterogeneous approach to MLL in a global context is matched by our pledge to forge a
 diverse and inclusive working environment. Women comprise 49% of Category A staff, 40% of
 promotions, 42% professors, and 64% of new appointments, a significant levelling-up in gender
 parity since the last REF assessment. Our people are also more diverse now than in 2014 in
 terms of ethnicity, sexuality, and nationality: BAME researchers have risen four-fold (from one to
 four) and 45% of submitted staff are from outside the UK.
        Appraisals, mentoring, recruitment, sabbaticals, and promotions are all managed in line
 with UCL policy to foster and recognize talent at all levels free of discrimination, prejudice, or
 intolerance. All staff take training in diversity and unconscious bias with further training, e.g. on
 sexual harassment or neurodiversity, provided at Faculty level. Staff taking family leave (five in
 this REF cycle) benefit from UCL’s progressive provision of a term’s gender equality sabbatical
 leave on return to enable them to resume their research activity free of the demands of teaching
 and administration. We make reasonable adjustments for members of staff with disabilities who,

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 alongside those with caring responsibilities, may request flexible or part-time working patterns
 (four colleagues currently have part-time contractual arrangements and three have reasonable
 adjustments in place). In order to endorse work-life balance and management, we operate a
 ‘core business hours’ model for meetings between 10am-4pm and, likewise, encourage staff to
 minimize email communication outside of the hours of 9am-6pm Monday-Friday. Our people are
 active in equality, diversity and inclusion work throughout UCL such as the B-Mentor programme
 (Bowersox), PACT (Goeres, Martin), and qUCL (Agar), and Neveu-Kringelbach leads on
 these issues at Faculty level as Vice-Dean of EDI in A&H.
         We ensure parity of opportunity in access to and involvement in our research environment
 through timetabling research events at family-friendly hours and in accessible spaces in our
 estate; ensuring balance wherever possible in terms of gender, race, seniority and subject area
 in invitations to home as well as visiting speakers to our research seminars (e.g. funding the
 costs of one visiting speaker per term from Africa to present at the African Voices seminar series
 [2016]; and covering travel costs and honoraria for visiting artists and filmmakers who do not
 have research/travel funds to participate in our events); and disseminating research
 opportunities in a timely and democratic manner. All staff are encouraged and supported to
 apply for funding, regardless of career stage. Mindful that many of our former Teaching Fellows
 – now, following the 2020 Concordat on Teaching Contracts and Careers in which Bird and
 Evans played a leading role, Lecturers (Teaching) – are research-active, we offer considerate
 timetabling to enable their research.
         We are making an inclusive submission to REF2021, managed by a female Research
 Director (RD) who works part-time with reasonable adjustments. All staff have been regularly
 informed of the processes for identifying staff circumstances and that selection procedures are
 wholly separate from performance management. A transparent procedure to determine
 independence rendered ineligible only one postdoctoral researcher while the two HESA2 staff
 submitted are both women. Colleagues were invited to identify preferred outputs for submission,
 which were reviewed internally by a Review & Selection group of eight members of staff (diverse
 in gender and academic field), all of whom received calibration training and three of whom
 received EDI and bias training in order to make the final selection fairly. UCL’s equalities
 analysis informed selection, which is representative of the UoA’s profile in terms of gender,
 ethnicity and disability. Women are just as likely to have outputs attributed to them as men and,
 though fewer in number, BAME staff are appreciably more likely to have an output attributed to
 them in our submission.
         We acknowledge that there is still more work to do; thus, in further attempts to conjoin our
 workplace practices with our scholarly commitment to equality and diversity, we have bid in the
 first round for UCL Doctoral School ‘In2research’ placements for BAME students in 2022 and our
 Inclusion Leads (Foster, Keen) are currently preparing an application for an Athena Swan
 (Bronze) award, also in 2022.
          .
 c) Development of ECRs:
 We have continued our success in attracting postdoctoral researchers, our 15 externally funded
 posts by British Academy, Leverhulme Trust and European Commission representing a 50%
 increase on post-doc numbers since 2014. New staff are typically probationary for three years,
 during which period they have reduced teaching and administrative loads in order to help them
 develop skills and protect research time. Unless previously qualified, probationary staff complete
 the UCL Arena Two teaching qualification, which includes training in doctoral supervision, and
 apply for Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy within their probationary period (over
 50% of colleagues in the unit are now HEA fellows). All new staff are given a research induction,
 allocated a mentor with whom to discuss their work and career goals, and reviewed annually;
 particular attention is given to ECRs, who are monitored by the HoD. Our transparent workload

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 allocation model (WAM) ensures balance of teaching loads and protects research time, the norm
 for face-to-face teaching hours being 130 hours across two ten-week terms, timetabled to allow
 for at least one day per week to be set aside for research. Our School structure means that
 major academic roles are centralized and attract a reduction in teaching hours, with staff
 encouraged to take on these duties as part of career progression and promotion.

 d) Research support and development:
 UCL policy, retained during the pandemic, is that staff receive a term’s sabbatical leave on
 completion of probation and thereafter may apply for one term’s paid sabbatical leave free of
 teaching and administrative duties every three years. Our WAM also enables it to be applied
 flexibly: for staff to defer sabbatical leave to take two terms concurrently, or, through the accrual
 of reductions to their normative load, to apply outside of the university’s sabbatical rota for terms
 of teaching relief or ‘light terms’, in order to complete major research projects. All eligible
 research staff have had sabbatical leave in the census period.
        Each colleague receives an annual pro rata Faculty personal research allowance (PRA,
 £1000, £500 p.a. for Lecturers (Teaching)) to facilitate conference attendance and cover other
 research expenses. In addition, we have a UoA Staff Conference and Research fund to which all
 staff may apply to put on conferences and for other expenses not ordinarily covered by their
 PRA (from which we have awarded £163.8k over the period). Since its inception in 2018,
 colleagues have benefited further from five awards (= £16k) from the Dean’s Strategic Fund,
 which offers seed-funding for small and larger collaborative projects.
        In order to develop and sustain the impact of our research, academic staff and
 postgraduate students are also encouraged to undertake training and apply for seed-funding
 provided via UCL Culture and to access expert support from the Faculty Research Development
 and Impact team, the demand for and success of which has seen that group triple in size since
 REF2014.

    ii. Research students
 Postgraduate students are central to our research activity, community, and purpose. Our
 emphasis on intercultural and interdisciplinary research equips our graduates with the kind of
 intellectual agility that, combined with advanced language proficiencies, is prized by all
 employers, though most especially in research careers. Indeed, of the average 95 PGR
 applications we receive per annum, an increasing number of these are for our intercultural or
 interdisciplinary research degree programmes, while a sizeable core (in 2019-2020, 25%)
 continue to be attracted to/by our vibrant tradition in MLL. With an average yearly intake of 20
 PGRs, we have recruited 125 research students and supervised 138 to completion, a rise of
 35% since the last REF period. Of these, 39 were funded via the AHRC DTP London Arts and
 Humanities Partnership (LAHP) studentships, four by the Economic and Social Research
 Council, four by UCL Graduate School Research Scholarships, five by UCL Impact
 Scholarships, five by UCL Overseas Research Scholarships and six by Wolfson Scholarships.
 EU and overseas students, the proportion of which has increased significantly since 2014, have
 been funded by the British Council (Spain), Conicyt (Chile), the embassies of Kuwait, Saudi
 Arabia, Libya, Turkey, Syria, the Royal Thai government and charitable and commercial
 organizations such as Anadolu Ajansi (Turkey), Buzachi Neft LLP and the Rothermere
 Foundation. With the majority of our PGRs self-funded, 38% from overseas, and 25% registered
 part-time, we aim to both maximize full and partial awards available to them from UCL, LAHP
 and other sources and continue to offer considerate conditions for research, including a flexible
 approach to registration, while maintaining our good submission rates. Our rising rates of both



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 FT and PT submissions within the permitted period (which have increased by 19% over this
 assessment period) attest to the success of our efforts in this area.
        We admit students on the basis of application, a writing sample, and interview with at least
 two members of staff. At commencement all research students are assigned two supervisors
 who have completed mandatory training as Research Student supervisors: to ensure relevant
 supervisory expertise one of these might be from another part of UCL or elsewhere in the
 University of London. Since 2014, in expression of our commitment to cross-disciplinary
 supervision, we have co-supervised students with the Bartlett Faculty of the Built Environment,
 Division of Psychology and Language Sciences, the Deafness Cognition and Language
 Research Centre, School of Slavonic and Eastern European Studies, the Departments of
 Anthropology, English, History, Information Studies, Greek and Latin, Science and Technology
 Studies and the Slade School of Fine Art as well as with LAHP partners at King’s College
 London (KCL) and Royal College of Music.
        We develop the research excellence of our PGR students through:

 (a)   Monitoring and assessment: while students and supervisors use UCL’s on-line
       Research Student Log continually throughout their studies, six-monthly progress
       monitoring is overseen by the Postgraduate Tutor and Postgraduate Committee. An
       annual Research Presentation Day provides students the opportunity to present findings to
       peers and staff. New students are required to present to their cohort at the end of first year
       before they upgrade from MPhil to PhD, normally scheduled within twelve months of full-
       time registration. The upgrade is assessed by means of a substantial portfolio of written
       work, including a sample thesis chapter, literature review and bibliography, and a viva by a
       panel that comprises at least one examining panel member drawn from outside the
       supervisory team.

 (b)   Training: in addition to benefitting from the opportunities offered by UCL’s Doctoral Skills
       Development Programme, our PGR students are offered specialized training in the unit: a
       fortnightly schedule of research skills seminars on a wide range of topics including thesis
       writing, conference presentation and organization, career skills and planning; weekly ‘Shut
       up and write’ sessions; a ‘How to write a journal article in 12 weeks’ programme; and a
       PGR reading group, facilitated by two ECRs. They may also access training run by the
       University of London, such as the London Screen Studies Group, which offers monthly
       support for screen-related research, including methods training and practice led research
       support. All students may address any subject-specific gaps in their knowledge or skills by
       auditing MA or MSc modules in the unit or elsewhere at UCL (CenTraS students may take
       Professional Courses in the centre at reduced rates) and additional language tuition is
       available at Centre for Languages and International Education or through LAHP. Our
       research students have a good track record of success in applications for funding from the
       AHRC-LAHP International Placement scheme, allowing them to pursue research at
       international archives such as the Library of Congress.

 (c)   Professional development: we create regular teaching opportunities for research
       students and in any one year c.22% of our PGRs act as Postgraduate Teaching Assistants
       (PGTAs) in over 30 different MA and UG modules. The professionalization of the
       recruitment, training, and support of PGTAs has been a major objective since 2014 in
       order to equip them in the short and longer term for careers in and outside academe.
       Evidence of this is that over 100 PGRs have undertaken UCL Innovation and Enterprise or
       Arena training since 2014. In addition to teaching, research students also have the
       opportunity to work alongside research-active staff. In recent years they have gained

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       editorial experience with the journal Dutch Crossings; taken part in risk perception eye-
       tracking experiments, the development of subtitling cloud-based platforms, theatre
       translation workshops, and the Crisis Language Map project; provided lab support for MSc
       modules and Professional Courses and run reading groups on translation theory modules.
       Our PGRs have also developed two online journals: Tropos, launched by students in the
       ‘World Literatures and Cultures’ cluster and Phanes: Journal for Jung History, a
       multilingual open access peer-reviewed journal developed by students and post-docs in
       the ‘Critical Theory, Psychoanalysis and Philosophy of Health’ cluster.

 (d)   Research seminars and funding: All research students are encouraged to participate in
       research seminars across and outside the unit (in networks including the London French
       Graduate Seminar, Open City Docs Fest, the London Intercollegiate Network for
       Comparative Studies, the Hermes Consortium, and the Bloomsbury Gender Network).
       PGRs contribute significantly to our research environment through organization of the
       graduate Society for Comparative Cultural Inquiry, which meets fortnightly and runs an
       annual conference, attracting an international roster of speakers and participants (with
       students forming the organising committee, speaking at or attending the conference). Over
       the census period we have provided additional funding (> £69k) for our PGRs to organize
       or attend other conferences, make overseas archival visits and for other research
       expenses.

 (d)   Mentoring: a mentorship scheme across different years of study in the PGR cohort
       enables a friendly as well as vibrant PGR environment. During the pandemic, we have
       sustained this activity and taken care to stimulate students’ ongoing engagement and
       community through a weekly virtual common room, weekly virtual book and film clubs, and
       a two-day online PGR conference, all facilitated by early career and senior staff.

 (e)   Innovative research degree pathways: we are proud of having pioneered unique
       research degree pathways to facilitate research and practice-led collaborations as well as
       to respond to new directions in research dissemination. Our two interdisciplinary doctoral
       programmes - the Creative Critical Writing PhD (est. emeritus professor Mathews) and the
       Documentary-Track PhD (est. Hart) – have evolved in the assessment period, the latter
       seeing, in collaboration with Anthropology and Psychology, nine PhD completions since its
       inception in 2010. Thomson, Horan and Stougaard-Nielsen have supervised to
       completion three impact studentships co-funded by UCL with Swedish and Danish
       partners awarded in the last REF cycle.

 Our success in preparing postgraduates for research careers is demonstrated by the fact that
 since 2014 over 40 of our former doctoral students have secured academic posts or research
 positions worldwide, including postdoctoral fellowships at Aarhus University (Denmark),
 University of Bologna, Imperial College (London), University of Santiago (Chile), and Helsinki
 University and lectureships at the Universities of St Andrews, Durham, Exeter, Leeds,
 Manchester, Reading, Southampton, Perugia (Italy), La Javeriana (Colombia), Brasilia (Brazil),
 and King Saud University (Saudi Arabia). In the same period, they have also published:
      Over 30 peer-reviewed articles in leading journals such as Studies in French Cinema,
         Translation and Literature, Journal of World Literature, Italian Studies, Bulletin of
         Hispanic Studies
 More than 10 monographs and edited books including Dalla generazione all’individuo
 (Campofreda, Mimesis 2020); Unweaving 'The Odyssey': Barbara Köhler's ‘Niemands Frau’
 (Johnson, IMLR 2019); Rewriting Language. How Literary Texts Can Promote Inclusive

                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Language Use (Lack, UCLP 2020); Rewriting Franco's Spain: Marcel Proust and the Dissident
 Novelists of Memory (O’Donoghue, Bucknell 2018); Las homicidas (Trabucco, Lumen 2020);
 Nazi Camps and their Neighbouring Communities: History, Memory, and Memorialization
 (Whatmore, OUP 2020).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Our overall external research income in the assessment period was over £3.8 million. This
 represents a handsome 38% increase in our research-funding portfolio since 2014, with the total
 value of grants for projects conducted wholly or partly within the current REF cycle coming to
 over £5.9 million. The 37 competitively-awarded research grants illustrate our strategy, with a
 diverse range showing vigorous activity at all staffing levels and in all research clusters in the
 unit, as well as a rising success rate in external research grant applications. We support all staff
 to make bids to UKRI and other funders where and when significant, respecting career stage,
 leadership potential and the impact of family life, rather than arbitrarily-imposed targets.
 Research income has been used to support individuals to complete monographs, enable
 ambitious collaborations and fund impact activities of varying scales. Smaller research grants of
 <£10k (total = £60k) have supported direct (often overseas) research, supplemented changes in
 direction and/or nascent collaborations. External funders have supported 28 larger individual and
 collaborative projects.
          The total value of fellowships held in the UoA in the census period was over £2m. This
 includes funding for our permanent staff from the Leverhulme Trust and the British Academy (a
 total of over £700k), with the remainder (over £1.3 million, including over € 250k from the
 European Commission) to support the work of 11 postdoctoral fellows. £834k from the Philemon
 Foundation also contributed to funding three research associates on Shamdasani’s Jung
 project. Fellowship awards include:

       British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship:

            o   Lin, ‘The Voice of Translators: Re-writing Colonial Memory in Japanophone
                Taiwanese Literature’, £269,311

       Marie Curie Fellowship:

            o   Szarkowska, ‘Exploring the Subtitle Reading Process with Eyetracking
                Technology’, £127,045

       Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowship:

            o   Tanna, ‘Decolonial Feminisms in Latin American Literature’, £93,000

       Leverhulme Trust Research Fellowships:

            o   Hewiston, ‘The Violence of War: Germany, 1888-1968’, £48,656

            o   Haddour, ‘Frantz Fanon: Gender, Torture and the Biopolitics of Colonialism’,
                £48,319

            o   Ring, ‘AI in Experimental Film from the German-speaking Context: Surveillance,
                Complicity, Vulnerability’, £53,724



                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Leverhulme Trust Major Research Fellowship:

            o   Hart, ‘A Critical Edition of the Apostolic Processus of Santa Rosa de Lima (1586-
                1617)’, £97,155

            o   Kord, ‘The Devil We Know: Crime Writing and Propaganda in Germany's Pre-
                World War Periods’, £138,482

          The largest amounts of funding since 2014 have been for major research projects (in
 this context, projects employing externally funded research staff and students in addition to the
 PI or Co-I, or collaborative, multi-institutional projects), which have accelerated our drive to
 develop interdisciplinary partnerships. Major grants awarded since 2014 amounted to more than
 £2.1m and concentrated in our well-established research clusters of ‘Transnational Histories’,
 ‘Critical Theory, Psychoanalysis’, ‘Film, Media and Screen Studies’, and ‘Translation Studies’.
 These include:

       AHRC Research Grants:

            o   Fulbrook (with Bird), ‘Compromised Identities? Reflections on Perpetration and
                Complicity under Nazism’, £752,414

            o   Beniston (with Webber [Cambridge]), ‘Digital Critical Edition of Selected Middle-
                Period Works by Arthur Schnitzler (1862–1931)’, £152,323

            o   Mussgnug (with Pieri & Patti [RHUL] and Brook [TCD]), ‘Interdisciplinary Italy
                1900-2020: Interart/Intermedia’, £66,182

            o   Stougaard-Nielsen (with Milutinović, Chitnis [Bristol],
                Atkin [Cardiff]), ‘Translating the Literatures of Small European Nations’, £61,524

       Leverhulme Trust Research Project Grant:

            o   Evans, ‘Luis Buñuel: A Life in Letters’, £252,238

 These grants, some of which build on successes in and outcomes of 2014, have also provided
 the necessary infrastructural base; for example, the ‘Compromised Identities’ project supports 2
 postdoctoral researchers, an administrator, impact officer, and workspace in Gordon Square and
 the Wilkins Building.

 Infrastructure
 Our research infrastructure is supported in various ways:
 1) The unit’s Research Committee (RC) meets termly and, supplemented by the Faculty
 Research Committee, has oversight of research policy and strategy. RC has been reorganised
 since 2014, its membership now drawn from staff at all career stages and all languages and
 clusters across the unit in order to maximize leadership experience while ensuring strategic
 sustainability. An annual Research Away Day showcases recent examples of the unit’s research
 and impact work and provides opportunity for strategic discussion.
 2) The Research Director (RD) disseminates regular bulletins on funding competition deadlines;
 organises unit-wide research events (see 1) & 3) below) as well as workshops on research
 funding and impact; monitors OA compliance; assesses, with the HoD, all postdoctoral
 applications; and oversees all external research applications.



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3) Vibrant intellectual support is provided through various mechanisms: the Research Clinic, a
 regular ‘problem-solving’ workshop to share knowledge and best practice; interdisciplinary
 research workshops and roundtables (three per term) to support the work of the six research
 clusters; and a critical theory reading group run by ECRs. All of these migrated online during the
 period of remote working in the COVID-19 pandemic in order to sustain our research community.
 In this way new opportunities opened up to recruit to events higher audience numbers from
 different geographical locations and time zones (and on occasion make available recordings of
 them for asynchronous use), thus increasing accessibility to and engagement with our research-
 in-progress.
 4) Our established grant application protocol, an archive of successful external research bids,
 and professional services support are available to all staff making grant applications, as is critical
 reading and/or mentorship of all draft applications, arranged by the RD. Additional bespoke
 support for major bids is available from dedicated staff in the Office of the Vice-Provost
 Research, and highly skilled Faculty Research Development Manager and Impact Manager, who
 also provide briefings and training on grant application protocols and impact.
 5) The strength of and investment in UCL library and special collections in MLL (over £399k
 since 2014) also supports our researchers’ work: in the 11 core languages we teach and
 research, 76,718 items onsite (including one of the largest Dutch libraries outside of the Low
 Countries, a resource of national importance) and 22,300 offsite materials; 248 print journals;
 numerous e-journals and e-book packages from Cambridge UP, Oxford UP, De Gruyter, JSTOR
 and Taylor & Francis (Routledge); 42 MLL databases, 10 in Translation Studies and 25 in Film
 Studies, and a further 720 databases covering 51 subjects to support our interdisciplinary
 research. A subject liaison librarian and a specialised OA team provide dedicated assistance to
 our staff, including training and funding for the publication of OA journal articles and
 monographs. We access other world-class libraries (Senate House and British Libraries, and
 those of sister institutions such as Birkbeck and King’s) within walking distance of campus.
 6) Faculty investment has enhanced our estates and technological capacity: in 2015, for
 example, £180k supported the establishment of our Transcluster, a suite of 60 IT stations
 located over 5 rooms in Foster Court developed specifically for CenTraS and available to staff
 and PGRs; in 2017-2019, Faculty funding enabled the repurposing of 2 rooms for our PGRs
 described below; and in 2019, it supported the purchase of recently developed eye-tracking
 equipment.
 7) The establishment of Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS) by Fulbrook in 2015 with £500k
 funding from the Provost’s Strategic Development Fund has provided a vital mechanism for us to
 articulate and develop our interdisciplinary research leadership. UoA colleagues have been
 protagonists in the creation and governance of the activities of what is now one of UCL’s key
 structures for advancing and supporting collaborative research across A&H and SHS, deploying
 their expertise for the benefit of UCL and external users. Stougaard-Nielsen was its deputy
 director (2017-2020); Brodie and Gilbert edit the IAS Think Pieces series; 4 researchers are on
 the steering committee and 8 have been members of the IAS Junior Research Fellows
 Selections Committees; 50 researchers in the UoA, the largest cohort of any in A&H, have been
 involved in the selection of themes and/or have organised 180 IAS events since its inception.
 8) Colleagues have also been at the helm of the management and execution of funded activities
 by UCL’s signature Grand Challenges (GC) scheme, which fosters cross-disciplinary
 partnerships in and outside the university in relation to six identified areas of societal concern.
 Stougaard-Nielsen was co-Chair of the Human Wellbeing theme (2016-2018) and Mussgnug
 on the ‘Sustainable Cities’ working group. Since 2014, nine staff and three postgraduate
 students have benefitted from GC seed funding (= £33K) to set up collaborative research
 partnerships under the themes of Cultural Understanding, Global Health, and Human Wellbeing.


                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Facilities
 The unit occupies contiguous space in Foster Court and Torrington Place and nearby Gordon
 Square, buildings which all house workspace for staff, postdoctoral fellows, and PGRs. Foster
 Court, Torrington Place and 49-51 Gordon Square are accessible to people with disabilities via
 automated doors and lifts. Our accommodation includes two welcome areas on 1st and 3rd floors
 in Foster Court and ground floor in 16-18 Gordon Square where we showcase our research
 outputs in display cases and advertise research activities on digital screens, supplemented by
 our burgeoning Twitter feed. A SELCS-CMII common room in Gordon Square and spaces such
 as the Housman Room provide informal opportunities for networking and there are dedicated
 quiet contemplation rooms on campus for the observance of religious or spiritual practices
 during working hours. Since 2014, we have been allocated two substantial additional rooms in
 the estate in recognition of our success in developing and recruiting (both taught and research)
 PGs in programmes built upon our multidisciplinarity. PGRs now have a screening room in
 Foster Court and research student common room in Gordon Square containing study space and
 networked computers. PGRs also have access to workspaces in the new UCL Student Centre,
 others at the IAS and elsewhere across campus, as well as at the UCL Hub at Senate House.
 Staff have Display Screen Equipment assessments and those who require reasonable
 adjustments are advised by UCL’s Workplace Health Service so that special equipment may be
 provided, with funding available via the Access to Work scheme. Networked computers are
 upgraded regularly and replaced every 5 years (overseen by the Faculty Information Services
 Division staff, who also provide responsive on-site and remote IT support). Researchers also
 have access to specialist equipment and software, such as video cameras, video-editing
 software, and experimental eye-tracking equipment.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  Our research environment is enriched through cultural and commercial partnerships with
 communities in London and overseas, and with national and international stakeholders, who
 inform and shape our work through their involvement in design, feedback and dissemination of
 research outcomes. Collaboration underpins our research therefore and has been a highly
 productive strategy: leading to fourteen edited volumes and three collaborative scholarly editions
 in the current submission and the organization of over 160 national and international
 workshops/conferences in the UK and other countries including Brazil, Italy, Spain and USA
 since 2014. These events, supported by internal and external funding sources, have enabled the
 formation and consolidation of our research clusters, the development of new research projects
 and partnerships, and made significant contributions to the scholarly community in the UK and
 internationally.
        Our leadership in interdisciplinary collaboration originates at UCL, where our people have
 devised influential research centres, networks and programmes resting on the bedrock of
 expertise in MLL. For example, Fulbrook co-founded the European Institute (EI), UCL's hub for
 research, collaboration and information on Europe, which has acquired a significant strategic
 role for its expertise on the European Union. Since 2013 the EI has produced over 620 outputs
 (including policy briefings, books, blogs, podcasts, videos); hosted and supported 320 events,
 which over 2,500 members of the public have attended annually; and received 446k website,
 115k blog views and 97k open-access book downloads. Amongst these, Marlière has led on a
 Left-Wing populism strand of the EI’s Centre of Excellence programme; Bowlby, Davies and
 Ferrara degli Uberti have all produced EI podcasts; and Fulbrook and Bird collaborated with
 the centre on a 2016 conference on ‘The Impact of WWII on European Society and Culture’.


                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Mussgnug and Shamdasani (Vice-Dean International), with the GEO, also designed UCL’s
 regional research engagement strategy for Europe, the Cities partnerships Programme (CpP), in
 order to deliver a greater depth of partnership across disciplines. Since its 2018 launch in
 response to the Brexit referendum, a further 10 of the UoA’s researchers have led or contributed
 to 6 conferences in Paris and Rome to develop research collaborations with European HEIs:
 Mussgnug and Rushworth, for example, with £4k CpP funding, co-organised a 2019
 conference with Rome Tre and have an edited volume, Dwelling on Grief: Narratives of
 Mourning Across Time and Forms, stemming from that event forthcoming with Legenda.
         Our success in externally-funded projects of different scales has also allowed us to create,
 formalize and enhance numerous networks with academic and non-HEI partners in the UK and
 internationally and to disseminate our research findings in diverse outputs. In ‘Medieval and
 Early Modern Exchanges’, Goeres’ work with the University of Winchester and researchers from
 the Museum of London on her ‘The Siege of London, 1016: Immigration, Government and
 Europe in the Age of Aethelred and Cnut’ project (AHRC, £27k) featured a special exhibition at
 the British Library (BL) and events at the Winchester City Museum while Sampson’s project on
 ‘Italian Academies, 1525-1700’ (funded by AHRC in the previous REF period, £946k) led to the
 2016 volume The Italian Academies, 1525-1700: Networks of Culture, Innovation and Dissent
 (co-edited with partners in RHUL and BL) and the creation of an open-access, interactive
 database launched at the BL in 2014. In our ‘World Literatures and Cultures’ cluster, British
 Academy funds have underpinned both Rushworth’s partnership with musicologists at the
 Guildhall School of Music and Drama on ‘Song in the Novel’ (2020) and Lindsay’s 2019
 conference, with partners at UCL and Sheffield, on modern periodicals in Latin America, which
 has resulted in an edited volume, History, Politics and Visuality in Modern Latin American Print
 Culture, contracted with University of Florida Press. The German Academic Exchange Service
 (DAAD) has supported the work of our researchers in building and participating in external
 networks in ‘Transnational Histories’ and ‘Screen Studies’: Davies, with the Centre for Women’s
 Studies at University of York (2018-2020) on the ‘Violence Elsewhere’ project; Ring (with KCL
 and University of Hull) on ‘Circulating Cinema Archives’, (2018-21): and Bowersox, Davies,
 Hewitson, and Ring all participate with KCL in the DAAD-funded Centre for German
 Transnational Relations.
         International collaboration is pivotal to our work and has also been supported by internal
 and external funders. Since 2014, colleagues have won over £47k from GEO to advance 16
 different partnerships with researchers and partners in countries including Brazil, France, Italy,
 India, Mexico, the US, Scandinavia, and Sri Lanka. Highlights of our many international
 networks supported by these funds and others from external and international funding bodies
 not mentioned elsewhere in this document include, in ‘Translation Studies’, Batchelor’s
 Wellcome Trust-funded project on multilingualism and healthcare in West Africa, with University
 of Ouagadougou and Université Gaston-Berger; and Li’s work with Oxford colleagues on literary
 translation in East Asia. In ‘Medieval and Early Modern Exchanges’, Sampson’s partnership
 with New York University and University of New Hampshire has produced the first ever
 performance and critical edition of a newly discovered play, Clorilli: A Pastoral Drama by
 Leonora Bernardi of Lucca (1559-1616). In ‘Transnational Histories’, Ferrara degli Uberti is part
 of academic networks on gender, culture and history in Italy with Hadassah-Brandeis Institute
 and Ludwig-Maximilians-University (Munich); and Carbone a network partner in ‘The Public
 Sphere and Freedom of Expression in the Nordic Countries, 1815-1900’ project with the
 University of Oslo and the National Library in Oslo, funded by the Norwegian Research Council.
         Our tireless contribution to the research base, economy and society takes various
 forms. We assist in shaping future scholarship through external examining, in service of national

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and international funding bodies and learned societies, and we have a strong track record of
 leadership in publishing and in editorships of leading journals and books series. In a strategy
 that has served our less widely-taught languages well, our researchers have taken leading roles
 in the development of independent imprints such as Norvik Press, a publishing house for
 Scandinavian literature, and the Nordic Research Network series of writing by postgraduate
 students and ECRs. Colleagues are leading the direction and future of publishing at UCL Press
 (est. 2015): they are on its editorial board, editors of book series or authors of its ‘Gold’ OA
 edited volumes, editions or monographs. Even at this early stage of the imprint, the 10 UCLP
 volumes in print to date authored or edited by our staff have had an impressive 63,913
 downloads in 158 different countries. This is just one mechanism that has enabled us to surpass
 our aspirations in respect of OA as articulated in 2014: optimizing these opportunities at UCL
 (e.g. in other books under contract at UCLP by Coxon and Pearce) and those at other imprints
 helps ensure the sustainability of our publication plans in the period beyond 2021.
        The UoA has also become the editorial home of 11 leading peer-reviewed journals:
 African Diaspora (Neveu-Kringelbach), Bulletin of Spanish Visual Studies (Evans), Critical
 African Studies (Neveu-Kringelbach), Dutch Crossing: Journal of Low Countries Studies
 (Tiedau), French Studies Bulletin (Inston), Italian Studies (Keen), The Italianist (Sampson),
 Kosmorama (Thomson), Scandinavian Journal of History (Kuldkepp), Saga-Book, the Viking
 Society’s annual journal, Scandinavica: An International Journal of Scandinavian Studies
 (Carbone, Thomson) as well as Tamesis and Norvik Press. Colleagues have positions on the
 editorial boards of a further 50 journals including Bulletin of Spanish Studies, Comparative
 Critical Studies, Medieval European Literatures, New Formations, Paragraph, Screen, Studies in
 Travel Writing and Textual Practice. Our staff edit 18 book series including Advances in
 Optimality Theory (Samek-Lodovici), Anthem Studies in Travel (Lindsay), the BFI/Palgrave
 Cultural Histories of Cinema (Grieveson); the Legenda series of Research Monographs in
 French Studies (Gilbert) and Italian Perspectives (Keen); Lang’s Race and Resistance in the
 20th Century series (Neveu-Kringelbach); the Maritime Asia book series at Harrassowitz Verlag
 (Biedermann) and Routledge Studies in East Asian Translation (Li).
        We have hosted numerous visiting speakers at UCL in our 7 prestigious lecture series
 (comprising the Noble Lecture on French Culture, Society and Literature; the Dorothea Coke
 Memorial lecture in Northern Studies; the Alcalá Galiano Lecture series; the UCL Rabindranath
 Tagore Lecture in Comparative Literature; the Translation in History guest lecture series, the
 Theatre Translation Forum, the UCL-SOAS Global Translation Lecture Series and the Global
 Politics Lecture series). High-profile guests include Mieke Bal, Peter Boxall, Roger Chartier,
 Rokhaya Diallo, Didier Eribon, Rita Felski, Eddie S. Glaude Jr, Ursula Heise, Matthew Jockers,
 Robert Kelly, Edouard Louis, Cees Noteboom, Jacques Roubaud, Nina Schick, and Robert
 Young. In turn, our research leadership is manifested in the 685 keynote lectures and invited
 talks given by our people worldwide since 2014.
        We convene 10 regular language or subject-specific seminars that are funded within the
 UoA. Colleagues contribute to and organize regular seminars elsewhere at UCL and in the wider
 academic community. These include events run by the Viking Society for Northern Research
 events, CEME, the Queer Space Reading Group (Agar) and the African Studies Research
 Seminar. Shamdasani leads a seminar series sponsored by the British Psychological Society
 and Mussgnug co-runs a London-wide research network in Comparative Literature (LINKS) and
 the annual, international summer school Hermes: Consortium for Literary and Cultural Studies.
 Our historians lead 3 seminars at the Institute for Historical Research: the Modern German
 History Seminar (Bowersox & Hewitson), Modern Italian History (Ferrara degli Uberti) and the
 Low Countries History Seminar (Tiedau).


                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Colleagues are on national and international panels that distribute research funds through
 peer review processes including AHRC (Lindsay serves on its Peer Review College, Samek-
 Lodovici a former member), British Academy, Catalan Department for Innovation, Universities
 and Enterprise, European Commission, Leverhulme Trust, Irish Research Council, Italian
 Ministry of Education, University and Research, the Science and Technology Foundation
 (Portugal) and Marsden Fund (New Zealand). They have refereed 44 senior academic
 promotions during the census period at universities in the UK including Cambridge, KCL,
 Leeds, Oxford, and St Andrews and in Canada (Toronto), Switzerland (Lausanne) and the USA
 (including UC Berkeley, CUNY, Texas and Yale). Staff have also actively contributed to
 professional associations and learned societies as members, on executive committees and
 in elected positions in the Association for the Study of Modern Italy (Ferrara degli Uberti),
 British Branch of the International Courtly Literature Society (Gilbert, as Treasurer), the Society
 for French Studies (Hanrahan as President, Rushworth as Publicity Officer), Academia
 Peruana de la Lengua (Hart, corresponding member), British Comparative Literature
 Association (Mussgnug, Stougaard-Nielsen), European Association for Studies in Screen
 Translation (Díaz-Cintas as President), Ingeborg Bachmann Centre, Institute of Modern
 Language Research (Beniston), Institute for Modern Languages Research (Thomson), inter
 alia, and as fellows of the Royal Historical Society. Fulbrook, a former Council member, is a
 fellow of the British Academy. Staff also participate in international bodies on the basis of
 research expertise: emeritus professor Hermans is a fellow of the Royal Flemish Academies of
 Arts & Sciences, for example, and Fulbrook is on the advisory boards of Chancellor-Willy-
 Brandt-Foundation, Berlin and the Foundation for the former Nazi Concentration Camps at
 Buchenwald and Mittelbau-Dora.
        Our contributions to economy and society are articulated in partnerships with cultural
 and commercial organisations and our work with/in the media. These activities speak to how we
 think about the ways our research links to broader issues and debates outside academe and to
 our commitment to communicating our research to diverse audiences.
        A priority in this REF cycle has been to facilitate and support the impact of our research in
 business and policy communities. In our ‘Translation Studies’ cluster, the establishment of
 CenTras has created opportunities to bring to bear our expertise in translation in both crisis
 situations and commercial media. Here we have developed partnerships with New Zealand Red
 Cross, the Fédération Internationale des Traducteurs (FIT, Geneva), iMotions Biometric
 (Copenhagen), Unbabel (Lisbon), Unilingo (Toronto), Translators without Borders, and
 Wikimedia UK. Commercial partnerships, founded on our specific research expertise, range in
 scale across the UoA: from Thomson’s delivery of an adult education evening course, 'An
 Introduction to Ingmar Bergman', at the BFI (2018, 45 participants) to Díaz-Cintas’s consultancy
 with the American technology and media services provider Netflix, underpinned by his
 transformative work on subtitling, as detailed in one of our impact case studies (Díaz-Cintas
 ICS). Further examples of the thriving links between our research and policymakers include
 Díaz-Cintas’s work with the Spanish Senate on issues related to live subtitles and respeaking
 and his membership of the Audiovisual Translation and Dissemination (AVTD) committee in
 China; Federici’s consultancy with the Council of Europe on languages and crisis management
 and his contribution to the Language Access White Paper Report on language-specific access to
 information in sudden and prolonged crises. Our researchers in ‘Transnational Histories and
 Global Politics’ are also frequently asked to share their findings with interested stakeholders and
 policymakers across the world: Kuldkepp’s expertise on Baltic history, politics and society has
 been called upon by the UK Ministry of Defence, Nordic Council of Ministers (Helsinki) and the
 Defence Academy of the UK, while Klaas, as detailed in his ICS, has advised many international
 organizations on election quality on the basis of his research including NATO, the European

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Union, the Italian Foreign Ministry, the UK Department of International Trade, the UK Foreign
 Office, and the UK Cabinet Office. On elections and human rights Klaas has given a keynote
 address at a NATO conference in Naples (2019), conducted confidential briefings for the UK
 government and co-authored private reports for the Transatlantic Commission on Election
 Integrity and Amnesty International. Likewise, Dickie’s research on the Italian mafia, set out
 further in another of our ICS (Dickie ICS), has benefited the judiciary, police organisations and
 civil society anti-mafia activists in Italy and the USA: it has helped establish a legal precedent to
 enable prosecution of the Calabrian mafia and informed the training of law enforcement and
 other anti-mafia professionals. Dickie’s research has also guided major investments by private
 enterprise while his work on Italian food has boosted the commercial activities of the food brand
 Barilla.
          Researchers in the department engage actively with diverse publics through broadcast
 and social media to enrich understanding of issues related in their research. For example,
 Kord’s research for her book Little Horrors led to participation in the documentary Why Horror?
 (dirs. Kleiman and Lindsay, 2014), Horan contributed to Wildbear TV’s forthcoming Living with
 Hitler and Samson to PBS documentary Empire Builders: The Spanish Empire (2018). Hart
 spoke about Vallejo’s ‘Montevideo’ poetry on Radio Nacional de Uruguay (2016) and Thomson
 on Danish public information films for a 2018 BBC podcast. Lack’s The Cine-Tourist website,
 featured in Sight and Sound (March 2016) receives 2000-2500 unique (mostly non-academic)
 weekly visitors and led to his guest-blogging for 'Film and Furniture' and the British Library's
 'Maps and the Twentieth Century' exhibition. Other staff blogs and podcasts form part of the
 UoA’s 80 broadcasting and media projects since 2014. Dickie has provided expert comment on
 the mafia for programmes on BBC radio and TV, ITV, and SKY and his research has
 underpinned 2 major TV documentaries. The Mafia's Secret Bunkers was reshown on 27 Feb
 2018 (BBC 4) and Chiesa Nostra (The Cross and the Gun), which he co-wrote and presented,
 was first shown on History Channel Italia in May 2015 and then in more than 16 countries.
 Dickie’s monograph Delizia was the foundation of a 6-part TV documentary series on the history
 of Italian food he co-wrote and presented (De gustibus [Eating History], 2015), broadcast to over
 1.3m viewers on History Channel Italia and in over 70 other countries. Fulbrook has given over
 50 public lectures on her research worldwide, contributed to radio, film and television
 documentaries (for German network ZDF, BBC World Service and ITN) and been interviewed as
 a guest expert on BBC radio, CNN, LBC and for high-profile popular history podcasts including
 ‘Dan Snow’s History Hit’ (Fulbrook, Bird, Rauch ICS). Klaas makes frequent appearances in
 the UK and US media to provide expert views on elections and global politics: these include
 repeat appearances on Radio 4’s Today programme and BBC’s Newsnight, as well as on
 MSNBC’s Morning Joe and The Last Word with Lawrence O’Donnell. Klaas also has a weekly
 column in The Washington Post, an award-winning podcast series called Power Corrupts (2m
 downloads since May 2019) and a prolific Twitter account with 237,114 followers, including
 influential politicians from the US, UK, France, New Zealand, India, Nigeria, Pakistan, and
 Ireland. Klaas’s tweets on global electoral politics make between 25 million and 65 million
 impressions per month (Klaas ICS).
         In this census period we have continued to contribute to the formation of the next
 academic generation through our external examination of 225 PhD and DPhil theses at British
 universities in London (including KCL and the London School of Economics), Cambridge,
 Durham, Kent, Leeds, Manchester, Oxford, and Warwick, and in universities in Australia,
 Denmark, Estonia, France, Ireland, Italy, New Zealand, Norway, Spain, South Africa, Portugal,
 and the USA. During this time eight colleagues have chaired or been subject area
 representatives on LAHP studentship competition assessment committees and five have

                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contributed to LAHP interdisciplinary training courses. Samek-Lodovici contributed to AHRC
 training for ECRs in collaboration with the University Council of Modern Languages and the
 University Council of General and Applied Linguistics in 2014. Bray, Sica, Suriani da Silva and
 Samek-Lodovici have also provided PGR training workshops internationally in Brazil, France,
 Italy, Norway, Spain, Switzerland and USA and 5 other colleagues have been assessors on
 other postgraduate or postdoctoral funding schemes in the UK, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and
 Switzerland.
        In sum, our diverse and multidisciplinary UoA contributes to the sustainability and vitality
 of MLL through our high quality research outputs, fertile interdisciplinary collaborations, and
 extensive support of the next generation of scholars. Building on the realization of strategic goals
 set in 2014, we have strengthened and expanded our research in this evolving discipline and
 make this submission from a leading position in A&H at UCL and in the wider global community.




                                                                                             Page 20
