Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Institution: Liverpool John Moores University
  Unit of Assessment: UOA4 Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience
  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Context
        Research conducted within the unit is clustered around three primary topics of
psychological science: biological psychology (neuroscience/psychophysiology), health psychology
and cognitive psychology. In the period since REF2014, the unit has recruited strongly and
selectively to build critical mass in existing areas and develop strategically important lines of
research. As a direct consequence of an institutional strategy to increase the number of research-
active staff in psychology, the size of our submission has increased substantially in the current
exercise, from an FTE count of 9.7 in 2014 to 42.11 in the current submission. Recruitment during
the current census period targeted individuals who could consolidate existing research strengths
and grow new strands of research activity. This expansion in staff numbers is mirrored by a
significant increase of completed postgraduate research students; from 12 in the 2014 exercise to
26 in the current submission.
        With respect to the broader context of the unit within the institution, it should also be noted
that the previous UOA4 submission was delivered from the School of Natural Sciences and
Psychology in the Faculty of Science. Due to institutional restructuring and a recognition of critical
mass in psychology-related research, the current submission originates from the newly-formed
School of Psychology, which was established in September 2019 and is located within the Faculty
of Health. As well as transferring to a new Faculty, it is also planned to move the physical location
of the School to new accommodation in 2021.

1.2 Structure
         Our strategy for the promotion of research and impact within the unit is anchored by the
Research Centre in Brain and Behaviour (RCBB), which was formally conferred by the institution in
2013. The RCBB provides an organisational infrastructure to promote research excellence within
the unit. The current directors of the RCBB are Montgomery and Malinowski (both Readers) who
sit on an executive board alongside Fairclough (REF coordinator), Poole and Forshaw (both
Subject Leaders).
         The current structure of the RCBB consists of six research groups: Cognitive and Affective
Neuroscience (10.6 FTE), Health and Wellbeing (12 FTE), Psychophysiology (6 FTE), Cognition,
Education and Language (5.5 FTE), Animal Cognition (4 FTE), and Forensic and Social
Psychology (4 FTE). Staff are assigned to research groups for purposes of external presentation,
but we have several individuals who contribute to multiple research groups due to their specific
interests. Each group hosts regular internal meetings to discuss current research and exchange
information on common areas of activity, such as grant preparation, development of research
facilities and networking with internal/external partners. Staff can obtain feedback through these
internal meetings to improve planned studies, refine drafts of manuscripts and obtain peer review
of grant applications. The RCBB also holds a series of fortnightly research seminars during
semester time that are attended by all RCBB members and postgraduates, these seminars include
presentations from both internal and external speakers.
         One important function of the RCBB structure is to consolidate good practice with respect
to research integrity. In addition to a specific research ethics panel to assess project work from
undergraduate/postgraduate students, which is staffed by RCBB members, two members sit on the
institutional research ethics board. A high level of involvement in research governance supports a
culture within RCBB that ensures all studies are conducted according to the highest professional


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
standards. In addition, we have expertise within RCBB in preparing applications to external
governance bodies, such as NHS Ethics and Ministry of Defence Research Ethics Committee.
The RCBB also provides a monitoring function to ensure compliance with open research
standards, e.g., open access publication, contribution to open data depository, and produces an
annual report on research quality within the unit.
        While the primary purpose of the RCBB is to promote research excellence within the
School of Psychology, staff are also engaged in interdisciplinary research. Bruno’s work on
ageing and cognitive function involves collaboration with gerontologists from external
organisations. Similarly, research conducted by Brett and Saini is performed in partnership with
epidemiologists in the Public Health Institute (at our institution) and University of Liverpool. Walker
and McGlone have worked with neonatologists from the University of Milan to explore the role of
social touch on preterm infants. Poole collaborates with various medical professionals, such as
pain consultants, oncologists and nurses at various local NHS Trusts, e.g., Clatterbridge Hospital.
Fairclough has co-supervised PhD students with colleagues from the School of Engineering (four
students) and the School of Computer Science (two students); he is also a member of Liverpool
Logistics, Offshore and Marine (LOOM) Research Unit, which is an institutional research institute
dedicated to marine, offshore and transport studies. Richter has co-supervised PhD research on
listening effort in collaboration with audiologists at Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam. The RCBB is
actively engaged with the Institute for Health Research (IHR), an institutional organisation devoted
to interdisciplinary research in health-related research, three staff are co-ordinators of IHR
subgroups devoted to Mental Health (Brett, Saini) and Cancer (Poole). The research conducted
by Adams and Simmons on developmental aspects of writing and mathematics has led to
collaboration with colleagues from School of Education at LJMU.

1.3. Research & Impact Strategy
        The REF2014 submission described a five-year plan with research excellence and the
development of the research environment as core aims. Four strategic objectives were outlined,
which were to: (1) increase research income and diversify sources of income, (2) increase the
number of PhD completions, (3) enhance our network of collaborators from academic and non-
academic organisations, and (4) strengthen research culture within the unit.
        With respect to (1), the unit has obtained funding to the value of £1,393,000 during the
current census period, which represents an increase of approximately 34% compared to REF2014.
Due to the shifting landscape for research funding, specifically the uncertainty surrounding EU-
funded research, the opportunities to diversify income sources has been limited and the unit has
focused primarily on UK-based funders, specifically charities (52% of income in current period) and
UKRI Councils (15% of income). The unit has successfully increased the number of PhD
completions, which has more than doubled in the current review period compared to REF2014 (2).
One natural consequence of increasing the critical mass of research within the unit is an expansion
in our network of collaborators (3), e.g., Stanford University (Moore), Oxford University (Terbeck),
Sorbonne (Bruno), which are detailed in Section 4 of the current document. Finally, the increased
size of the RCBB has increased critical mass in our research groupings, which has enhanced
research culture in the unit (4).
        The REF3a document submitted in 2014 described a strategy for enhancing impact from
our research based upon: (1) strengthening and extending our network of partners from industry
and public sector, (2) active pursuit of priority research areas as identified by industry, government
and public, (3) supporting local economy by working with SMEs, local councils and NHS Trusts,
and (4) acquiring apparatus to facilitate psychological research in the field.
        With respect to (1), the unit has achieved new collaboration with multinational companies in
the current review period, e.g., GSK and Chanel (McGlone), Purdue Pharmaceutical (Moore), as
well as co-funded PhD studentships with industrial partners, such as Emteq Labs (Fairclough) and

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
ECONT (Malinowski). We have also worked with public sector bodies at a national level, e.g.,
National Police Chiefs Council (Kewley), Department of Transport (Fairclough). Staff from the
unit have also pursued a number of topics prioritised by government and industry (2). For
example, the positive influence of meditation on mental wellbeing is of interest to private
companies and public health at a national level, the work of Malinowski (see ICS1) achieved
recognition on national television (‘Trust Me, I’m a Doctor ’on BBC1 primetime 2018) and he has
presented his work to the European Parliament in Brussels (March 2020). The contribution of
obesity to mortality and morbidity is a topic of national importance and Newson was commissioned
by the British Psychological Society (BPS) in 2016 to chair an Obesity Task Group, which
produced a policy briefing paper in 2018 that was widely distributed across the NHS network and
presented to All-Parliamentary Groups (APPG) in 2020. The role of touch for social development
and social wellbeing became a topic of national discussion, even prior to the recent pandemic,
which focused attention on the negative psychological effect of humans being deprived of touch.
McGlone contributed to an APPG report seeking to better address issues related to children’s
mental health that highlighted the important role of touch on psychological development (published
February 2019) - see ICS4 for full details.
         Local partnership in the public sector (3) has been a key feature of the unit’s impact
strategy in the current census period. Suicide and self-harm are significant societal problems in
the north-west of England and the work of Saini via the Suicide Impact Lab (ICS3) has been
instrumental in establishing new services in Liverpool for men in suicidal crisis (James ’Place)to
treat self-harming patients that was founded in 2018. The work of Saini and colleagues
contributed to the foundation of these services by developing an evidence base, performing
economic analyses, piloting services, evaluating services and establishing partnerships, e.g. Wirral
Borough Council. The local economy is characterised by an active digital sector, particularly in
areas related to digital health and immersive technology and the unit is actively supporting this
local industry. Fairclough has collaborated with CGA Simulation (Liverpool) on a number of
projects related to simulation funded by Department of Transport (2017-2019) and Defence and
Security Technology Laboratory (DSTL) (2019-2020). He also collaborated with Onteca Ltd to help
develop and evaluate an app to support mental health in children, which can be downloaded from
the NHS app store. Fairclough has also collaborated with colleagues in the School of Computer
Science to obtain funding for a Knowledge Transfer Partnership project (2019-2021) with local
company Immersive Interactive – as detailed in ICS2.
         The unit has invested in apparatus designed to translate our research into applications in
the real-world (4), which has facilitated our ability to achieve impact. For example, investment in
wearable sensors designed for psychophysiology led to consultancy work funded by AO.com in
2017 to assess emotional impact of high-definition TV (Pawling). Work on the contribution of
touch to the development of preterm infants conducted by McGlone and Walker led to the
development of an incubator device designed to create a calming effect by stimulate C-afferent
fibres, this prototype was constructed and is currently being tested at Alder Hey Children’s Hospital
(see ICS4).
         In summary, strengthening of research within the unit during the current census period is
evidenced by: (i) growth in number of research-active staff as a direct result of a research-led
recruitment strategy, (ii) increased research income and number of PhD completions, (iii)
increased critical mass in the two primary research groups within the RCBB (Cognitive/Affective
Neuroscience, Health and Wellbeing) plus formation of grouping devoted to Psychophysiology,
Animal Cognition etc., and (iv) enhanced research culture (e.g., regular meetings, peer support,
high standards for research governance). These improvements are supplemented by an impact
strategy designed to engage with industry and contribute to public sector initiatives to tackle high-
profile societal issues such as obesity, male suicide and mental wellbeing.


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.4 Future Strategy
        The planned physical relocation of the School of Psychology in 2022 provides context for
our future strategy on research and impact as the unit moves into the next review cycle. This
strategy is based on six objectives, which are described below:

   1. Improve the level of research income generated per FTE and increase level of funding
      obtained from UK Research Councils and UK Government sources.
   2. Increase the number of completed PhD research students
   3. Ensure continuity for current impact case studies while developing new ones to increase
      the demonstrable reach and significance of our work at a national and international level.
   4. Increase the research profile of the unit at the national and international level via high-
      quality contributions to the research base and non-academic impact.
   5. Enhance interdisciplinary collaboration within the institution by incorporating other
      disciplines into the structure of the RCBB, particularly from the Faculty of Health.
   6. Continue a process of selective staff recruitment to consolidate existing strengths in our
      established research groupings and develop critical mass within nascent research
      groupings within the RCBB.
   7. Improve and extend our research facilities, particularly with respect to neurosciences,
      psychophysiology and cognitive psychology, as part of our move to new accommodation

         The first objective represents an implicit recognition that increased staff returns in the
census exercise should lead to a proportionate increase of external research income. In addition,
we recognise that income generated from UK Research Councils accounted for less than 15% of
total income in the current cycle. A number of initiatives are planned to facilitate this objective,
which include: (i) ensure that laboratories in new accommodation are suitably equipped to ensure
that the delivery of world-class research that can offer value for money to funders, (ii)
establishment of regular grant writing workshops both within and across research groupings of the
RCBB, and (iii) active promotion/distribution of UK Research Council funding opportunities via the
RCBB. Increased research funding would be the main engine by which the number of PG
research students will be increased in the next cycle (objective 2). Cultivation of the impact case
studies that currently exist to a national or international level (objective 3) will require investment in
specific areas of research activity in conjunction with a strategic plan to develop evidence-based
impact. Some of this investment will be derived from the institution via dedicated PhD studentships
(objective 2). However, it is important for the unit to increase the number of funding applications
that represent collaboration with partners from industry and the public sector, and to utilise those
partnerships to expand the range of funding options available to the unit and develop impact, e.g.,
increase the number of industry-sponsored PhDs, research partnership with NHS Trusts and
similar initiatives like KTPs. While engagement with local economy, public sector and local
government is important, the unit will continue to build on current impact activity of international
reach (e.g., ICS1) to extend the scope of research with potential for application at this level.
         The increase of staff numbers in the current submission has already enhanced the
contribution of the unit to the research base. We have presented a number of examples where
staff have organised conferences at a national and international level, or contributed at an editorial
level to academic publications, or played a prominent role on professional bodies during the
current submission. It is expected that the contribution made to the research base by staff in the
unit will be strengthened through the next census period (objective 4). The strategy will be
achieved by supporting individual staff to achieve promotion during the next six years by targeting
evidence of academic prestige as part of their annual Personal Development review, e.g.,
publication in prestigious journals, members of editorial board, special issue editorships,
organisation committee for international conferences. The approach proved to be effective in the

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
current period and the number of Readers in the department increased from 2 in 2014 to 10 in
2021. During the next census period, we will be supporting staff to plan and achieve promotion to
Professor and aim to have 5 new Professors by 2026.
         Research conducted within the unit represents a broad spectrum of activities and
methodologies, covering population-based studies to animal behaviour, and it remains important to
fully explore collaborations with other disciplines (objective 5). The move to the Faculty of Health
provides an opportunity to build closer relationships between Psychology and disciplines within that
Faculty, including Nursing and Public Health. A number of those collaborations are already
underway, e.g., Brett collaborates with Nursing staff on social prescribing, Montgomery and
Poole work with Institute for Public Health on opioids. In addition, the unit will build on existing
partnerships with other schools within the university, including: Engineering (Fairclough –
maritime safety), Computer Science (Fairclough – mixed reality systems) and Sports Science
(Ogden – timing perception). One strategic objective of the RCBB over this period is to expand
membership of the Centre to include a greater number of researchers from other disciplines.
         With respect to the sixth objective, it is important to consolidate the existing strengths of the
unit and support areas of excellence where we have built critical mass. This objective will be
achieved by income generation from external funding bodies and internal funding to support
existing areas of research strength including, Neurosciences, Psychophysiology, Health
Psychology and Cognitive Psychology. Targeted staff recruitment represents the primary
mechanism for increasing critical mass in Forensic Psychology and Animal Behaviour. The unit
currently has a range of dedicated research laboratories in our current accommodation, e.g.
microneurography, EEG, fNIRS, neurostimulation, sensory processes, psychophysiology, eye
tracking. These laboratories are supplemented by specialised apparatus, e.g. experimental pain,
virtual reality, ambulatory psychophysiology.
          The last census period has seen an increase in requirements on research infrastructure in
line with staff recruitment and their specific needs for their research (objective seven). During the
next census period, the unit will move to a new accommodation in an existing university building
and the university has committed the necessary funding to ensure that existing psychology
laboratory facilities can be both replicated and enhanced at the new site, i.e., creation of larger
laboratories, specifically for neuroscience research, to support postgraduate teaching and research
. It is also anticipated that the unit will continue to grow through the next census period through the
efforts of individuals and research groups (i.e., particularly with respect to research income
generation) and the new location must have capacity to both accommodate incoming staff and
support their research activity.

   2. People

2.1. Staffing strategy/development
        Staffing is defined by our strategic objective to recruit, develop and retain leading
researchers to consolidate and expand core research groups within RCBB. The focus on
strengthening our established areas of research excellence whilst investing in emerging areas has
underpinned our approach to recruitment and supporting staff. Our staffing strategy has resulted in
a net gain of ~28 FTEs since REF 2014 and all new appointments have been made based on
excellent research track records and/or future potential, e.g. Brooks, Saini, Roberts. Of the new
staff appointed, one is a Reader and the remainder were appointed at various points on the
continuous lecture/senior lecturer scale. The 42 staff submitted comprise 24 females and 18
males. The total staff group includes two professors (both male) and eleven readers (9 female)
with the remainder on the continuous lecturer/senior lecturer scale; of these 10 (23%) are ECRs.
Staff across all levels have contributed to the corpus of evidence presented in support of our

                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
submission. Specifically, ECRs are authors on 26% of submitted papers which is broadly
consistent with their representation in the RCBB and 51% of submitted papers are attributed to
females.
          In recognising challenges inherent within the relatively rapid growth of staff in the RCBB,
the policies and process described below have been instrumental in managing staff development
and active succession planning. Through development we have increased our senior levels to
include more current Readers and we have a pipeline of applicants in development and with
mentorship for promotion to Reader and Professor in future years. In the academic year 2019/20
all five Readership applicants were female reflecting the success of departmental and university
initiatives and particularly our mentorship schemes.
           Staff development is informed by University procedures and all members of staff are
supported and nurtured via a range of policies including annual appraisal and mentorship
schemes. These align with the University’s principles of the Concordat to Support the Career
Development of Researchers. Staff contributing to this unit are subject to the same transparent
Workload Allocation Model [WAM] managed by Subject Leaders (two male, one female) who have
direct line management responsibility for staff. Research-active staff receive a performance related
allowance of hours for research and impact is recognised as part of the model. Individual staff
performance, development goals and training needs are identified and monitored via the annual
appraisal process. This process enables discussion and implementation of personalised solutions
to facilitate and support achievement of tangible research outputs. This supportive environment
resulted in eight internal promotions to Reader during the current REF period, two male
(Malinowski, 2106 and Richter, 2018) and six females (Walker 2018, and Brooks, Kewley,
Newson, Ogden and Saini, 2020). Of these, Newson was awarded Readership via the Social and
Economic Engagement route, which again highlights the extent to which staff achieving significant
impact from their research are acknowledged and rewarded. All staff are equally entitled to apply
for departmental funding for training and research activities and decisions on this are informed by
the appraisal process and agreed by the School Management Team.
          New staff joining the unit who are mid-career or more experienced undergo a one-year
induction and probationary period. They are provided with a mentor to facilitate integration into the
School/University and to ensure a smooth transition of research and provision of relevant support
to establish themselves at LJMU and directly link to RCBB subgroups. New staff with limited HEI
experience, including ECRs undergo a three-year induction period designed to hone teaching and
research skills. This period of induction includes an enhanced research allocation protection on
WAM to enable them to focus on evolving their career trajectories by providing substantive
dedicated research time. Saini provides a good example of this; since joining the unit in January
2018 she used her enhanced research time to successfully establish her research on mental
health and build a small research group. This includes 2 PhD students funded via a competitive
internal scheme, 1 match funded PhD student (50% funded by both LJMU and James Place) and
research assistants funded through research grants (e.g. NIHR project grant). This performance
was resulted in achieving the highest category of research allowance hours on the WAM which will
help ensure her continued development.
          Staff undergoing three year induction are also offered mentors. Mentors are typically more
senior staff in the school or from a cognate discipline. They provide support in early career
development and help facilitate integration of new staff into the existing research culture. To
illustrate how successful these initiatives are; Walker was an ECR status in REF2014 and
mentored by McGlone. Walker was supported by ECR seedcorn funding from the Faculty,
matched by the school which enabled her to attend a neuroimaging analysis course and establish
links with the Karolinska institute and funded to attend the Aurora Women’s Leadership
Development course. Following success as a co-applicant on previous grant applications [e.g. with
McGlone as PI, Leverhulme project], she successfully applied for a teaching sabbatical and this

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
enabled her to submit funding applications as principal investigator (MRC, BIAL) and further
establish her independence as a researcher. Together this support and resulting outputs were
instrumental in her enabling her successful application for promotion to Reader in 2018.
        The School provides Seedcorn funding to support staff in establishing research activity, e.g.
travel to develop and/or consolidate collaborative working. The Faculty and University annually
offer research funding to ECRs on a competitive basis. Six staff in the unit have been successful in
obtaining this funding, which has resulted in the establishment of national and international
collaborative partnerships and funding. For example, Moore was awarded ECR funding in 2014
which enabled travel to Stanford University to establish collaborative links and work on a joint pain
and attention project. This led to a successful joint funding application to Purdue Pharmaceutical in
2015 ($176, 000 total, $39,000 to LJMU) to carry out further work and subsequent funding
applications to extend the work are in progress. To date, findings have been presented at national
and international conferences (International Association for the Study of Pain, American Pain
Society, British Pain Society) one paper has been published (Moore et al., 2019) with more to
follow. The School organises a programme of research seminars that include internal and external
national and international speakers. School seminars are organised by RCBB and provide an
excellent opportunity for new staff and ECRs to showcase and present work in progress and
contribute to collaborative research activity. Staff in the unit have also received funding to run
individual seminars or workshops on specific topics which attract internal and external participants,
for example, Brett and Kidd successfully obtained funding from The MARCH Network to run a
sandpit event on social prescribing (February 2020). This event attracted key stakeholders
[commissioners, providers, beneficiaries] nationally and focused on engagement and evaluation in
social prescribing, identifying key priorities for research and impact. Additionally, RCBB groups run
their own lab and research meetings including journal clubs, protocol development, and specific
sessions on new methods or apparatus which informally support staff development at all levels.
        The University is committed to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers. Broader training, career guidance and staff development needs are also met at
University level via a mainstream Staff Development Programme and a specific Researcher
Development Programme provided by Research and Innovation Services (RIS) which includes the
Award-Winning ACTivator workshops. These workshops provide bespoke training on a variety of
topics such as funding, ethics, research supervision, getting published etc. To date 19 of the staff
in the unit have attended 36 workshops; those most attended are a) Funding applications: Getting
a yes, b) Building blocks of impact, and c) Surveying the funding landscape. Training in
postgraduate research supervision is mandatory for staff engaged in supervision of PGRs , and
~60% of staff have completed this training. Additionally, staff new to PhD supervision are initially
mentored by more experienced supervisors.
        Aligned with the principles set out in the revised Concordat to Support the Career
Development of Researchers (published in 2019), we are equally committed to improving the
research environment for researchers on externally funded fixed-term contracts. We recognise and
value the importance of ensuring that fixed-term researchers have the opportunity to engage with
development and training activities and we are committed to promoting a positive culture where
fixed term staff are encouraged to achieve their full potential. Over the period 25 researchers have
been employed and the number has remained fairly consistent year on year with an average of 4
annually. As members of staff they also undergo induction and annual appraisal processes and
have access to the same training and development resources as other staff. Testimony to their
experience and continued development while employed in the unit, three research staff have gone
on to obtain substantive permanent posts following Post Doc tenure. Boulton who left to join
another HEI has since returned to LJMU as a lecturer/senior lecturer in the School of Justice
studies. While, Pawling and Trotter were appointed to full posts in 2017 and 2018 respectively
which further evidences our commitment to developing staff across all levels.

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


2.2 Research students
        There are currently 27 PGR registrations in RCBB, reflecting a continued upturn in research
student recruitment since 2014, and 26 PhDs awarded in current review period compared to 12 in
REF2014. In addition, we have 23 trainees registered on the Professional Doctorate in Health
Psychology which began recruiting in 2017, and three who have successfully completed their
Professional Doctorates. PGRs and Prof Docs are members of the LJMU Doctoral Academy. The
Doctoral Academy’s Researcher Development Programme (RDP) supports PGRs throughout their
doctoral journey. It is fully mapped to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework, and as well
as helping PGRs to develop research and transferable skills, the RDP also enhances the PGR
community by encouraging peer networking across faculties. Research students also become
associate members of RCBB, linked to the relevant RCBB research groupings. Both the Doctoral
Academy and RCBB provide a community for research students which augments their sense of
belonging within the wider LJMU research community and their specific research areas via RCBB
subgroups. As described below, the Doctoral Academy provides a mechanism to monitor
supervision, training and development to ensure a high-quality PGR experience and timely
completions.
        There are a variety of ways in which PGRs are funded including; directly by the University,
via matched funding from LJMU and an external organisation (e.g. James ’Place), through Industry
(e.g. Glaxo Smith Kline CASE studentship), and as is the case for 2 Prof Docs, by their employer
(e.g. NHS). The University has a highly competitive annual scheme for VC scholarships and four of
our current PGRs are in receipt of these, while another two have successfully completed their
studies. PGRs have dedicated shared office space within the Faculty, designed to promote a
sense of identity and peer support. Adjacent accommodation for post-docs and research assistants
enhances membership of a growing research community within the RCBB.
        Research students at LJMU attend compulsory induction activities provided by the Doctoral
Academy and progress of students is closely monitored by the supervisory team who report to the
Faculty Research Degrees Sub-Committee (FRDC) and beyond to the University’s Research
Degrees Committee. The Doctoral Academy’s new online system ‘eDoc ’facilitates the process of
monitoring training and development throughout their studies. Additionally, each school has a Post-
graduate Tutor (for psychology; McGlone) who acts as a point of contact for current and
prospective students as well as supervisors. At the end of their first year, all students are required
to submit a transfer report and participate in a viva. They are examined by someone external to the
supervisory team, with relevant expertise in the subject and/or methods. This process enables the
progression and future viability of their research to be quality checked, and helps ensure the
relevant resources and support are available to aid successful completion.
        The Doctoral Academy also support annual PGR Research Days across the faculties, the
Three Minute Thesis (3MT) competition, and funding to attend national and international
conferences. The annual PGR Research Days in each faculty provide a forum for students in their
second and third years of study to present their research. They also help plan the programme and
contribute to chairing sessions, something which those involve report being beneficial to their
development. For example, Mattieson states ‘Participating in PGR research days has enhanced
my communication and dissemination skills greatly, and has highlighted the importance of
engagement and wider impact of research.’ Research Days include prizes for the highest rated
posters and oral presentations and six students from the unit have been awarded these prizes
during the current census period (Baker, Makdani, Provazza, Slade, Sneider and Talamonti). The
Faculty participates in the University wide Three Minute Thesis (3MT) competition whereby Faculty
winners go forward to compete with PGRs in other Faculties and two PGRs (Mattieson and Slade)
have represented the unit at the University wide competition. In terms of additional support for
attending and presenting at scientific meetings, PGRs can apply to the Doctoral Academy for

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
funding. To date, 10 PGRs in psychology have successfully obtained this funding and presented
their findings at a range of meetings, e.g. International Association for the Study of Pain, Diabetes
UK.
         The most recent Post Graduate Research Experience survey (PRES) that LJMU
participated in (2017) highlight that for the Faculty of Science, where all PGRs in this unit were
based at the time of the survey, 94% were satisfied they had regular contact with supervisors, 92%
that supervisors had the skills and knowledge to support them, 91% that feedback from
supervisors provided good direction for research activities and 91% were satisfied with their
research skills development.
         Alongside specific Doctoral Academy workshops, PGRs are required to attend, participate
in, and present at departmental seminars which provide opportunities for them to further develop
their skills, such as presenting their findings prior to doing so at national/international conferences.
For example, Stone and Begley presented their work prior to delivering it at national and
international meetings (British Psychological Society (Portsmouthh) and a European Pain
Conference (EFIC, 2020) respectively). As seminars are attended by external speakers and
collaborators, who contribute to questions and discussions, they enable PGRs to consolidate and
enhance their networking, debating and dissemination skills. Further, PGRs are encouraged to
present at the end of their first year with a focus on the work they are submitting for transfer to
PhD. Together, all these activities provide excellent opportunities for PGRs to hone their skills in a
competitive and supportive environment to aid their future development and potential.

2.3 Equality/Diversity
        The University holds membership of the Athena Swan Charter and received the Athena
Swan Bronze award in 2018. A school submission is planned for 2021. As a unit, we are monitored
and follow LJMU policies on Equality and Diversity as set out in the Strategic Plan (2017-22). All
staff are required to participate in training on diversity and equal opportunities annually and we
adhere to LJMU policies in our recruitment processes, activities and staff development. We have a
large proportion of female academics in the unit (57%) and during the period of assessment have
been supported by fixed term staff when permanent members of staff have taken 12 periods of
maternity leave and 3 have taken paternity leave. Staff returning from maternity or extended
paternity leave have a reduced workload initially and this is adjusted to maintain proportionate time
for research activities. Those returning from maternity or paternity leave on a part time basis also
receive the same time pro rata in line with their research allowance in order to continue as an
active researcher. All staff are managed in line with child and carer-friendly HR Policies with an
emphasis on flexibility and support. Staff requests for flexible and part time working are reviewed at
School, Faculty and University level and during the current REF period, 100% [8] of these requests
have been approved.
        It is worth noting that two of the five successful applications for promotion to Reader in
2020 were submitted by staff who have had more than one period of maternity leave during the
current REF period (Ogden and Newson). All LJMU staff are entitled to apply for periods of
sabbatical leave subject to School and Faculty approval. Walker applied during the census period
and was successful, using the time to work on writing and the development of future projects. In
recognising the gender imbalance across the sector, LJMU has developed a range of support for
female academics seeking promotion to reader/professor and/or leadership positions, including
mentorship and financial support to attend the AURORA Leadership Development programme.
Four female RCBB academics have participated in the AURORA programme and been assigned a
mentor staff as part of the initiative to encourage applications for promotion to Reader/Professor.
Of these, Walker’s application to Reader was successful in 2018 and Saini’s application for the
same was also successful. In addition, Cazzato who attended the AURORA training, successfully
applied to become part of the LJMU cohort in the TRANSPEER International Project. This is an

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Erasmus Plus funded international researcher development project (2017-20) that exposes
participants to the importance of personal and career development and planning in an international
context.

  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income
         The unit was awarded over £1,393,000 of income during the current review period, an
increase of 34% compared to previous census period. With respect to funding sources, approx.
16% was obtained from UK Research Councils and 48% from UK-based charities. For example,
McGlone obtained funding from the BBSRC for a CASE award from 2014-2017, which was worth
£125,250 (“Understanding the neural and behavioural mechanisms engaged during oral sensory
processing”). The work of Simmons and colleagues (“'Understanding the influence of cognition
and the home learning environment on early number skills”) funded by the Nuffield Foundation
from 2016 to 2018, and worth £151,609 to the university, represents one high-profile example of
charitable funding obtained by the unit. A project funded by the Leverhulme Trust from 2014 to
2016 on “Investigation of the role of 5-HT in psychological responses to affective touch” obtained
by McGlone and Walker is another example (£235,639), which represented important background
research for ICS4. UK government bodies and UK industry accounted for approx. 13% of funding
obtained by the unit, e.g., Fairclough was funded by the Department of Transport to work a local
SME to develop driver training using virtual reality from 2017-2018 (£25,000). The unit was also
funded during the current census period by EU-based organisations, which accounted for approx.
18% of total research income. The award granted to Richter from the Swiss National Science
Foundation from 2016 to 2018 on listening effort is one example (£20,567).
         With respect to patterns of income generation, the unit has substantially increased income
from UKRI sources between the first and second parts of the census period, e.g., 9% of total
income prior to 2017, which increased to 21% in subsequent years. Income from UK charitable
bodies has fallen slightly from 59% of total income to 41%. Due to uncertainties surrounding EU
funding due to Brexit, income from EU sources fell from approx. 23% to 13% of total income from
the first to the second parts of the census period. However, income generation from UK
government and industry increased from 8% to 16% of total income through the census period.

3.2 Infrastructure & Facilities
        The infrastructure to support research in the School of Psychology is based in the Tom
Reilly Building on the Byrom Street campus of the university. The psychology laboratories occupy
the second floor of this building supported by two dedicated technicians. Three existing
laboratories were described during the previous review exercise, dedicated to the study of: sensory
processes (SomAffect Lab), EEG and functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS). The
SomAffect Lab was heavily used for research funded by BBSRC and the Leverhulme Trust. Since
the 2014 review the SomAffect Lab has expanded its capability with microneurography by coupling
single-unit electrophysiological recordings from cutaneous sensory afferent nerves with the
iontophoretic delivery of polar molecules, e.g., lignocaine, to uncouple transduction mechanisms in
low threshold mechanoreceptors. New acquisitions for this lab include an ultrasound stimulator to
study virtual touch with microneurography and psychophysics, and a new robotic stimulator
(MultiTac) that allows the delivery of ecologically relevant touch gestures. Also, to support research
on pain, the lab was recently equipped with the Somedic SenseLab and a quantitative sensory
testing kit (QST), plus a bespoke fMRI-compatible, compression-pain stimulator. The work
conducted in the SomAffect lab is foundational for the research impact described in ICS4. For
example, the development of work on neonatal neurodevelopment led to design and construction

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
of a prototype NICU baby massage device, which is currently being tested at Alder Hey Children’s
Hospital (see ICS4 for more details).
         The EEG laboratory is constructed around four distinct BioSemi systems capable of
monitoring 32-128 channels within an electrically-insulated space. These facilities have been
extended since the last review by the purchase of an ambulatory EEG system (LiveAmp via Brain
Products) that is capable of collecting high-quality data while participants are in motion, either in
the laboratory or the field (£20,000, purchased in 2017). The fNIRS laboratory has been upgraded
since the previous review exercise. The fNIR200 (BIOPAC Inc.), which included four emitters in a
fixed location on the forehead) has been replaced with an Oxymon system (ARTINIS Ltd.). The
Oxymon (£32,000, purchased in 2015) offers a number of advantages over the fNIR200,
specifically: (i) a higher number of channels, (ii) flexibility with placement of optodes covering the
whole scalp, (iii) the capability of collecting optical data through hair, and (iv) the inclusion of ‘short-
leads ’to remove systemic influences from the signal. The fNIRS lab has supported three PhD
student projects and externally-funded work from DSTL, which provided foundational research for
development of ICS2. There is also an active collaboration between the School of Psychology and
the Department of Engineering who have purchased an ambulatory fNIRS system, the NIRx Sport
(NIRx Ltd.), and we operate an informal policy of equipment sharing. By pooling our respective
apparatus, we have facilities to monitor 4-24 channels of fNIRS in both sedentary and ambulatory
scenarios within the fNIRS laboratory or the ship bridge simulator.
         The facilities for psychophysiological research have also been expanded during the current
review period. A psychophysiology laboratory space has been established, which includes the
CardioScreen 100 impedance cardiograph (Medis Ltd.) in addition to recently-purchased apparatus
for psychophysiological measurement, e.g., MP36 (BIOPAC Inc.) and PowerLab (ADInstruments
Ltd). This facility is complemented by an eye tracking device (Tobii X3-120 - £20,000) that permits
measurement of pupil dilation. In addition, our existing suite of psychophysiological apparatus
(described during the previous review exercise) have been supplemented by the purchase of
BioNoMadix wireless physiology modules (BIOPAC Inc.). These wireless modules are capable of
monitoring a number of signals, e.g. electrocardiogram, respiration, electromyography, skin
conductance, triaxial acceleration, in an ambulatory participant either in the lab or in the field.
These ambulatory sensors facilitated collaborative work with the School of Computer Science (see
ICS2 for details).
         Since the last REF exercise, the School have recruited staff with a specific interest in
neurostimulation and a dedicated laboratory has been created to support their work. This
laboratory contained a Transcranial Magnetic Stimulator (TMS), the Magstim Rapid2 that was
purchased for £25,000 in 2018. Further funding was obtained from the Royal Society (£20,000) to
purchase SofTaxic Optic - neuronavigation system for TMS. The Softaxic Optic system is a
sophisticated system for stereotaxic neuronavigation that complements the Rapid2 TMS system.
Research facilities available to the unit have also been extended via partnerships both within and
outside the university. The ship bridge simulator is a state-of-the-art facility with a 360° field-of-
view, which is located within the Department of Engineering at our institution; this facility was used
to apply neuroscientific methods (e.g., fNIRS) to the study of safety-critical behaviour. The use of
virtual reality (VR) to study the psychophysiology of emotion led to collaboration with the
Department of Computer Science at LJMU and utilisation of the Live Lab, which is a space
dedicated to the evaluation and testing of immersive technology. The Live Lab contains camera
technology that is capable of tracking human posture, movement and facial expression. Research
into mixed-reality systems has been conducted in an immersive space located at a local SME as
part of an ongoing KTP collaboration, this space contains: 3D projections, touch sensitive surfaces,
spatial audio, body tracking, Hololens etc (see ICS2 for details). The unit also has access to a
number of fMRI scanners via collaboration with other institutions, such as the Liverpool Magnetic


                                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Resonance Imaging Centre at the University of Liverpool (3T scanner) and a 7T scanner at
Nottingham University.

  4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Cognitive and Affective Neuroscience group
         Malinowski has delivered two keynotes at international conferences, e.g., Trends In
Mindfulness (Turin, 2016), Second International Conference on Mindfulness (Rome, 2016). This
group have also been involved in publishing academic books, for example, Bruno edited “The
Preservation of Memory: Theory & Practice for Clinical and Non-Clinical Populations” for
Psychology Press, which was published in 2015 and Terbeck authored a research monograph
entitled “The Social Neuroscience of Intergroup Relations” published by Springer in 2016.
Malinowki sits on the editorial board for the journal Mindfulness (IF: 3.48) and Terbeck is an
associate editor for Frontiers In Virtual Reality (IF: pending). McGlone is co-founder/President of
the International Association for the Study of Affective Touch (https://iasat.org/), which host
biannual international meetings. Members of this group also have active collaborations via co-
supervised PhD students or research projects with institutions in the UK, e.g., University of
Liverpool (Malinowski), Oxford University (Terbeck), and abroad, e.g., Stanford University
(Moore), University of Sydney (Malinowski), Sorbonne (Bruno), University of Wisconsin (Bruno).
         The economic contribution of the unit has been achieved via a number of industrial
partnerships, ranging from multinational corporations to local SMEs. McGlone and Walker have
been funded by the Leverhulme Trust (2013-2015: £235,639), BIAL Foundation (2016: £38,400,
2017-2018: £40,327) BBSRC (2013-2017: £90,880) and the Pain Relief Foundation (2014-2017:
£63,618). Malinowski from the same research grouping has been funded by ECONT (2017-2020:
£30,000) and Pain Relief Foundation (2014-2018: £59,000). Malinowski also serves as a
scientific advisor for two companies based in Europe: Mindset Neuroeducación (Spain) and the
Timeless Impact Academy (Germany). Bruno has also received funding from NIH (USA) as part
of a large grant investigating Alzheimers Disease (£167,216 to LJMU), which commenced in June
2020.

Health and Wellbeing group
        Forshaw was a Trustee of the BPS for six years (until 2018) and Chair of the Membership
& Standards Board, which is responsible for membership standards and training for entry to the
profession, across all ‘types ’of psychologist. Forshaw also founded the Crisis & Pandemic
Interest Group in April 2020 as a direct response to the COVID-19 situation, bringing together a
team of researchers and practitioners, primarily psychologists with an interest in health. The group
has expended to include members across the UK, and in Canada and Cyprus and experts in public
health, education, law, supply chain management, and forensic computing. This 35-strong
membership are involved in around 20 projects focused on the pandemic and, looking forward,
other crisis situations. Eames is an executive board member of the research awards committee for
the BPS in the Division of Clinical Psychology. Brett served as a member of the Standing
Conference Scientific Committee for the Division of Health Psychology (BPS), and Poole and
Tarling sit on the BPS Division of Health Psychology Training Committee. Forshaw has also
served on the editorial board of International Journal of Health Promotion and Education and was
President of the Institute of Health Promotion and Education for two years. Members of the Health
and Wellbeing group also have active collaborations with institutions in the UK, e.g., University of
Liverpool (Eames, Sheen, Saini), University of Edinburgh (Brett), Anna Freud Centre (Ashworth),
and abroad, e.g., Freie Universitaet Berlin (Eames), Nagoya Keizai University (Eames).



                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Collectively, members of the unit regularly review papers for a broad range of journals in
addition to those mentioned above, a selective list includes: British Journal of Health Psychology,
British Journal of Educational Psychology, Biological Psychology, Memory & Cognition, Journal of
Criminal Psychology, BMC Pregnancy & Childbirth, Neuroimage, International Psychogeriatrics,
Consciousness and Cognition, Experimental Psychiatry, Nature Scientific Reports, Pain, PLoS
One, Nature Neuroscience etc. Members of the unit also contribute to peer-review of funding
applications for organisations, such as: Wellcome Trust, NIHR, ESRC, EPSRC, MRC, etc. and
Law is a member of the ESRC Peer Review College.
        With respect to funding, members of the Health and Wellbeing group have obtained funding
from local NHS Trusts and community health, e.g. Poole (£5,000: 2020), Newson (£19,820: 2016-
2017). Saini received funding from NIHR in February 2020 on a large project to investigate
community outpatient psychotherapy for self-harm (£186,537). Also, Poole has received regular
funding from the Pain Relief Foundation from 2014-2019 to the value of £16,800.
        The Health and Wellbeing group have also been actively involved in practitioner-based
research and supporting the work of health professionals. For example, Poole co-authored clinical
guidelines on the management of complex regional pain syndrome, which has been downloaded
9,600 times since publication in 2018. Newson was commissioned by the BPS to chair a National
Expert Panel that forms an Obesity Task Group. This Task Group produced a BPS document
“Psychological perspectives on obesity: Addressing policy, practice and research priorities” that
was published in September 2018. The document was distributed to All-Party Parliamentary
groups, professional bodies (e.g., British Dietetics Association) and NHS trusts. In March 2020,
Newson was an invited representative for the BPS to speak at a National Parliamentary
Conference entitled “Addressing Obesity Stigma.” Eames holds a position on the Mersey Care
NHS Foundation Trust to direct priority areas in mental and physical health. She also consulted on
the development of learning resources published to train clinical psychologists on human rights,
decision-making, leadership and evaluation. Sheen’s research on PTSD symptoms in
obstetricians and gynaecologists was published in a specialist magazine distributed by the Royal
College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists and she was invited to present her work at the Royal
College of Midwives ’Learning Representatives Conference in June 2019.

Psychophysiology
        Members of the Psychophysiology group also hold editorial roles for academic journals,
Richter has served as Editor-in-Chief for the journal Motivation and Emotion since 2017 and acted
as action editor for the International Journal of Psychophysiology (2015-2016). Fairclough served
on the editorial board for IEEE Transactions on Affective Computing from 2013-2019 and is
currently speciality editor for neurotechnology/systems neuroergonomics on the Frontiers In
Neuroergonomics journal, which launched in September 2020. Fairclough also co-edited a
collection “Advances in Physiological Computing” published by Springer in 2014 (over 17,000
downloads by June 2020).
        The group have also been active in the organisation of international conferences, Ogden
organised a workshop on modularity in time perception funded by the Experimental Psychology
Section (50 delegates from across UK and Europe). Fairclough is the co-chair of the biannual
Neuroadaptive Technology conference, which has been held in Berlin (2017; 100 international
delegates) and Liverpool (2019: 80 international delegates). Members of the psychophysiology
group also have active collaborations with institutions in the UK, e.g., Imperial College London
(Fairclough), University College London (Kidd), University of Nottingham (Richter), and abroad,
e.g., University of Queensland (Ogden), Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam (Richter), University of
Toulouse (Fairclough).
        With respect to the Psychophysiology group, Fairclough has worked with a number of UK-
based SMEs. He is the academic supervisor on a Knowledge Transfer Partnership project (2019-

                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2021) funded by Innovate UK with local SME Immersive Interactive. This project is worth £175,
824K to the institution. He has also provided academic support for the work of CGA Simulation, a
SME based in Liverpool, who specialise in game development and simulation. His contribution has
enabled CGA Simulation to win contracts from the Department of Transport (£25,000: 2017-2018)
and Defence Science & Technology Laboratory (£20,000: 2019). Fairclough also obtained
funding from Emteq Labs Ltd., a SME based on Brighton, to co-fund a PhD studentship on
wearable sensors in VR headsets (£42,000: 2017-2020); he is also a member of the scientific
advisory board for Emteq Labs - see ICS2 for full details.




                                                                                       Page 14
