Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: Queen Margaret University, Edinburgh

Unit of Assessment: UoA 34 Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and
Information Management

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Research within this UoA primarily addresses questions emerging from the interrelation between
culture, politics, production, and communication with a focus on cultural understanding, social
justice, and building an evidence base for policy and practice. In that respect, research conducted
during the census period builds on the themes and topics that formed the submission to REF 2014;
however, the last six years have seen the research environment for this unit grow and mature.
Furthermore, staff development and appointments have seen the interests of the unit expand to
include work on audiences, digital media and journalism, adaptation, and world cinema as well as
developing a new emergent strand of practice research. This expansion is evident in the increased
diversity and range of outputs submitted to REF 2021 in terms of both the type of output and topic
of enquiry. In selecting outputs for inclusion, we have included work from each of the four key
‘clusters’ of activity, which are discussed in more detail below. In so doing, we have included work
that speaks to our long-standing strengths alongside work that represents our expanded breadth
and interests. However, linking much of this work is an overarching concern with social justice,
equity, representation, and inclusion, and it is in regard to these key themes that we strive for our
research to have wider impact. This is exemplified in our two impact case studies, one of which
has developed from our long running focus on critical dialogue for youth empowerment while the
other builds upon work focused on cultural policy and participation, which was a nascent area of
enquiry in 2014 but has expanded significantly since then.

As with REF 2014, the research unit is comprised of staff located within the divisions of Media,
Communication and Performing Arts (MCPA), Psychology, Sociology, and Education (PSE) and
Business, Enterprise and Management (BEAM). However, all staff members within the unit are
also members of the multidisciplinary Centre for Communication, Cultural, and Media Studies
(CCCMS) that was established in 2015 and hosted within MCPA. CCCMS contains 23 staff (20.5
FTE, 52% Female, 48% Male) and members are grouped into categories of membership based on
institution wide guidelines. There are 13 (12.1 FTE) Full Members, 8 (7.2 FTE) Associate
Members, and 2 (1.2 FTE) Affiliate Members (not including doctoral candidates). There have been
no Contract Research Staff affiliated to CCCMS during the census period. The differing levels of
membership allow aspiring researchers who do not have significant responsibility for research to
be part of a research cluster alongside more experienced researchers who are able to provide
advice and support. The membership categorisation of CCCMS staff members is reviewed once a
year and new members of staff are categorised within one month of joining on the basis of
previous research activity. Of the 23 staff in CCCMS, 16 were identified through the staff selection
process as having significant responsibility for research and, as such, have had outputs submitted
to REF 2021.

A Centre Director, at professorial level, leads CCCMS. The Director, in consultation with the
members, formulates the strategy for the centre. The School Research and Innovation Board
(SRIB) review this strategy. SRIB holds overall responsibility for the strategic development of
research within the School of Arts, Social Science and Management (ASSaM) and reports to the
School Academic Board (SAB), which is chaired by the Dean. The Centre Director, in collaboration
with the relevant Head of Division (HoD), is also responsible for resource allocation and staff
development including mentoring. CCCMS is provided with dedicated budget each year to support
the development and dissemination of research activity. This money is prioritised into five strands
of activity:

      Developing pathways to impact;
      Developing the research environment, in particular supporting staff to host on-campus
       seminars, screenings, workshops, and colloquiums;
      Seed funding new research projects;

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Presenting at conferences;
       Developing networks that could support future grant applications.

At the start of each financial year, cluster leads are asked to work with the other members to
propose a schedule of activity, aligned under each of these five strands, for which they would like
to request financial support. The Director of CCCMS collates these proposals into a spending plan
that is submitted to the Dean for approval.

Research clusters

Staff members within the Centre are organised into ‘clusters’, which are aligned to four primary
areas of enquiry. A senior member of CCCMS (Senior Lecturer or above) leads each cluster.
These clusters are an effective way of encouraging meaningful collaboration and interaction within
a multidisciplinary centre that encompasses a range of research interests and activities.
Specifically, these clusters are:

                        This cluster explores the relationships between cultural production and
                        cultural consumption by interrogating the ways in which governments,
                        markets, cultural organisations, traditional media, and digital institutions
                        construct value and meaning from creative processes and products.
       Creative and
                        Members’ interests are cross-disciplinary and include, for example,
         Cultural
                        equality and diversity in cultural practices and policymaking; in/exclusion
        Industries
                        in festival environments; sustainability of cultural organisations; creative
                        industries and cultural value; notions of quality in creative practice;
                        cultural participation; conceptualisations of 'failure' in cultural policy;
                        media policy; mediation of popular music; and broadcast radio.
                        This cluster brings together colleagues whose work considers how
                        people communicate in ways that allow them to participate in events,
                        organisations, groups, and communities. Work is founded upon a
       Dialogue,        commitment to dialogue, participation, and engagement, examining how
   Participation, and   its related methods can question and/or promote notions of diversity,
     Engagement         equality and inclusivity with regard to the delivery of social change. Work
                        combines practical interventions, working collaboratively with a range of
                        actors in the health, education and cultural sectors, with a critical
                        approach to theory development in this field.
                        This cluster is interested in screen cultures, with a particular focus on
                        film, television, and internet media. The cluster employs a number of
                        methods including: critical textual analysis, political economies of media,
                        qualitative audience research, and production studies. It includes
   Film, Television,
                        members with various specialisms, for example: adaptation, genre,
      and Internet
                        transmedia storytelling, digital media convergence, and media
        Media
                        education. Staff members in the cluster share an interest in key areas of
                        enquiry, for example, changing modes of distribution and consumption,
                        culture and politics, and the changing relationship between theory and
                        practice.
                        The newest of our clusters is focused on the question of what is
                        knowledge-in-doing? The cultural and creative industries often operate in
                        affective, ephemeral, relational and active manners; its unique
                        knowledge lies in the production of cultural work, and such knowledge
    Practice Based      can be difficult to translate into linear, rationalised and traditional
      Research          manners. Working across Drama, Theatre, Film, Visual Art as well as
                        other expressive forms of creative practice, staff members in this
                        emergent cluster are focused on the development of practice research
                        within QMU through supporting reflection about, and the development of,
                        creative practice as a research methodology.



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Each year, a number of research seminars are arranged at which cluster members can share
details of new research activity, seek peer feedback on work in progress, and engage in scholarly
debate. Some of these seminars have also been opened to a wider audience, inviting researchers
from other institutions to attend and/or present their work as part of our aim to widen staff networks
and encourage inter-institutional collaborative research activity.

Pathways to impact, public engagement and dissemination

There is an institutional aim to empower our researchers to act as agents of change, and we have
sought to ensure that public participation and civic engagement are integral to a large portion of
our work. We are focused on growing the number of high quality, outcome-driven partnerships with
the public, private and third sectors, as evident in both of our impact case studies. While one
illustrates how an initial commission by Creative Scotland developed into a long-term collaboration
with a range of funders and arts organisations, the other demonstrates how a new collaboration
with Step Kids Awareness (STEKA) in Malawi not only resulted in the expansion and development
of our unique co-produced model of critical dialogue but also led to the establishment of a new UK-
based partner charity (discussed in Section 4).

In line with our strategy to ‘open up’ access to our researchers and their research, the past six
years have seen CCCMS significantly expand its public facing activities, adopting a multi-faceted
approach to developing pathways to impact that include awareness-raising media activity
alongside more targeted dissemination work with key groups and stakeholders. Activities have
included public presentations, workshops, screenings, and committee memberships as well as the
publication of reports, working papers, and blogs. For example, in 2019, the Scotland Malawi
Partnership invited Wood to address 250 people at a plenary of its schools forum to discuss her
work. In 2017, Finkel hosted a public seminar on critical event studies & the politics of gender in
addition to a public film screening and panel discussion on post-humanism in cultural landscapes.
In 2019, Schrag developed public workshops with Culture Perth and Kinross that explored how
practice-research might be useful within the context of local authority museums.

Furthermore, there has been an increasing focus on adopting digital means of public engagement.
For example, Stevenson’s most recent AHRC funded work has resulted in a dedicated website
intended to support the cultural sector in making use of the tools that have been developed through
the project. Likewise, Van De Peer’s AHRC funded work has resulted in the restoration and global
online exhibition of a key Moroccan film, Door to the Sky (Farida Benlyazid, 1989) and a curatorial
revival of 12 key African films at a number of international festivals. Similarly, throughout 2020,
Blanche has been working with Creative Scotland to create digital content that will support more
arts organisations to use the toolkit informed by her research. As part of this activity she delivered
an online workshop supporting artists to recalibrate participatory arts engagement practice
during the pandemic.

Members of CCCMS are encouraged to write blog posts about their research, which are then
shared through social media. Members have blogged on a wide range of topics including:
coronavirus and the media; film festival curation; the role of artists in cultural organisations; and
cultural participation policies. Additionally, members have been involved in podcasts, such as
Finkel’s interview on the Inside Events podcast about accessibility, inclusion, and gender equality
at cultural events and festivals, and Stevenson’s interview on the Artful Conversations podcast
about cultural value and policy failures. Centre members also engage with traditional media
outlets, for example both Stevenson (5 August, 2015) and Wood (4 January, 2018) have written
opinion pieces for the Scotsman newspaper, while Finkel has spoken on BBC Radio 5 Live (11
October, 2018), BBC Scotland Reporting Scotland (20 August, 2018), and BBC Scotland Radio
Good Morning Scotland (19 August, 2018). Furthermore, and as is noted in Section 4, a number of
Centre members are directly involved in influencing policy development through participation in
working groups and providing civil servants with ad-hoc briefings on particular areas of expertise.
Centre members have also been awarded funding to undertake a public exhibition at the COP 26
Climate Change Summit in Glasgow explaining the role of media in communicating climate change
(postponed to 2021 due to COVID-19).

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Impact development within the UoA is supported by our membership of a number of external
networks and partnerships. Most notably, after 10 years of collaboration with the other Edinburgh
Universities, the Beltane Public Engagement Partnership continues to thrive following the signing
of a new manifesto in 2018. The Beltane allows partner universities to share good practice, builds
on reciprocal researcher training arrangements, and supports interdisciplinary pathways to impact.
Through Beltane, members of CCCMS have been involved in numerous successful collaborative
events including Explorathon, Bright Club, Cabaret of Dangerous Ideas and the hugely successful
Beltane Gathering that brings researchers into multidisciplinary groups, focusing on collaboration in
public engagement around the Grand Challenges. Future priority will be given to raising the profile
of the collaboration, building on the increasing policy priority of regional cohesion through our
Edinburgh and South East Scotland City Region Deal.

QMU is also an active member of the Scottish Parliament Academic Network (SPAN). The network
builds upon an existing collaboration established in 2014 between the Scottish Parliament
Information Centre (SPICE), Scotland’s Futures Forum, Beltane and the Scottish Universities
Insight Unit to encourage collaboration and knowledge exchange between the Scottish Parliament
and the academic community. This activity is also supported through ASSaM’s membership of the
new Scottish Policy & Research Exchange (SPRE) established in collaboration with academic and
policy institutions across Scotland, including universities, the Royal Society of Edinburgh, and
Scottish Government. SPRE aims to increase the diversity of voices from the academy contributing
to the evidence base for policy. One particular focus of their work is supporting Early Career
Researchers (ECRs) and those who have not engaged with policy before to gain more confidence
in pursuing this type of activity. As such, the director of SPRE will be offering group mentoring to a
cohort of QMU ECRs throughout 2021.

Knowledge Exchange (KE) Concordat

QMU was one of the first Scottish universities to sign up to the new national agreement committing
UK institutions to developing their knowledge exchange activities. The KE Concordat will provide
us with a better structure for the sharing and development of research and in-demand skills by
outlining good practice and showing what works. This comes at a vital time as the sector responds
to COVID-19. Examples of KE collaborations established by members of CCCMS over this census
period include:

      Schrag’s work with Perth Museums and Galleries to develop public engagement strategies
       within the local authority;
      Stevenson’s work with Arts Council Malta to support capacity building within the Maltese
       cultural sector;
      Munro’s work with Screen Scotland to develop and deliver professional development
       programmes to existing film education practitioners;
      Finkel’s work with EventScotland to develop new audience engagement activities

Open research culture

With back office support from the University of St Andrews, QMU introduced a new IP Policy based
on the principle of "Easy IP". Aligning much more closely with our institutional vision and
commitment to impact and translational research, this refreshed approach has supported the UoA
in its aims to increase partnerships with external stakeholders and develop collaborative research.

As Open Research Data and Open Access publishing become firmly integrated into the research
environment, we support our researchers in the provision of research support from our library and
information services, and provide training and infrastructure to ensure that we fully respond to the
Concordat on Open Research Data. We also support our researchers in articulating research
outputs to external stakeholders and potential end-users through our institutional e-repository and
newly launched working papers section of our website. We welcome the opportunity to promote
access to our facilities and equipment, proprietary data, and industry resources and as such

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
continue to explore ways to make our campus more open and accessible to those who wish to use
it to develop their work. For example, in 2020 CCCMS made Kerieva McCormick, choreographer,
musician, and artistic director of KAM-RI Dance Theatre, an honorary research fellow providing her
with access to our studio spaces to develop her practice.

Research objectives 2014 - 2020

The strategic objectives that have informed the unit’s research since 2014 are:

  1. To increase participation in collaborative research projects and networks internally and
  externally to develop research grant applications.
  Key Achievements:
       Part of the successful £2,500,000 (FEC) consortia bid for the UK Centre for Cultural
          Value.
       Successful collaborative bid with Leeds University for £250,000 (FEC) AHRC grant.
       Secured funding for four collaborative doctorates through the Scottish Graduate School
          for Arts and Humanities (SGSAH), collaborating with the University of Glasgow and
          University of Edinburgh.
       Part of an AHRC follow on funding grant of £100,000 (FEC) with the University of
          Exeter.
  2. To develop existing research on culture and policy through a focus on the management of
  cultural institutions/organisations, and cultural policy in relation to changes in state and
  government structure and action.
  Key Achievements:
       Development of a new model of quality in participatory practice, which forms the basis
          of one of our impact case studies.
       Development of new tools to support the cultural sector to talk about failures.
       Scholarly work related to this area of enquiry, for example: 0A/01/34; 0K/01/34;
          0K/02/34; 0K/03/34; 0C/01/34; 0D/03/34; 0I/01/34.
  3. To develop existing research on culture and economy that addresses the characteristics of
  culture industries and the relations between cultural production and political economy.
  Key Achievements:
       Scholarly work related to this area of enquiry, for example: 0C/01/34; 0D/01/34;
          0D/02/34; 0D/04/34; 0F/01/34; 0G/01/34; 0G/02/34; 0G/04/34; 0J/01/34; 0M/01/34;
          0M/02/34; 0M/03/34; 0N/01/34; 0N/03/34.
  4. To develop research that engages critically with communications management, including
  processes of professionalization and the production of expertise and its connections with policy
  making.
  Key Achievements:
       Scholarly work related to this area of enquiry, for example: 0H/01/34; 0H/02/34;
          0H/03/34; 0E/01/34; 0B/01/34; 0O/01/34.
       Commissioned to undertake research for the Chartered Institute of Public Relations
          (CIPR).
  5. To continue to support the research activation of established staff, to disseminate research
  through publications and conferences and to organise and host research events.
  Key Achievements:
       Hosted nine one day colloquiums including events on cultural policy and the ‘local’, the
          value of comedy, adaptation and the nation, the failure of cultural participation,
          Scotland on screen, and diversity in cultural production.
       Hosted an international conference entitled ‘Public Relations: critical perspectives,
          edgework and creative futures’ (2015).
       Hosted an international conference, co-organised with European Research and
          Education Association, entitled ‘PR and society: The generative power of history in the
          present and future’ (2017).
       Hosted an international conference on the media in Scotland entitled ‘Becoming
          Scotland’ (2014).

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Established and ran the First Biennial Conference in Food and Communication (2018).
        Hosted the American Association of Arts Administration Educators annual conference,
         the first time this had been held outside of the USA (2017).
        Hosted the Edinburgh International Film Audiences Conference (2018).
        Successful in being awarded hosts of Association of Adaptation Studies Annual
         Conference in 2021

Research objectives 2021 - 2026

In reflecting on these previous objectives, it became apparent that while they outlined many of the
key areas of enquiry the centre wished to pursue, they overlooked a significant area of established
expertise, namely film studies, which has continued to grow (see outputs: 0F/02/34; 0G/04/34;
0L/01/34; 0L/02/34; 0L/03/34; 0N/02/34; 0N/04/34). Furthermore, they were less detailed about our
intentions to develop the research environment, our impact activity, and our people. As such, while
the Centre’s plans for the next five years build on the previous strategy, it includes a broader range
of aims that span the full scope of our activities. These plans have been formulated as the
following high-level objectives:

  1. To publish a wide and diverse range of world-class, internationally excellent research on
  cultural and creative industries, communication management, public relations, and film and
  media studies.
  2. To continue expanding our research networks in order to support a continued increase in
  collaborative research projects and major grant applications.
  3. To nurture and develop practice research and, in doing so, further diversify the forms of
  research outputs generated by CCCMS.
  4. To expand the scope of our impact activity to encompass research undertaken by all four
  research clusters in CCCMS.
  5. To increase the external visibility, awareness, and profile of CCCMS.
  6. To provide more explicit and tailored support for ECRs within CCCMS.
  7. To support a greater and more diverse number of staff to have significant responsibility for
  research through inclusive recruitment, more targeted development activities, and mentorship.
  8. To nurture a group of new drama researchers, with a specific focus on practice based/led
  research in order to support a separate submission to a second UoA.
  9. To increase the number of PhD and Professional Doctorate completions, with a specific
  focus on collaborative doctoral studies.
  10. To increase income generated by CCCMS by 25%.

In early 2021, these objectives will be translated into an operational plan with key deliverables and
milestones mapped out over the next five years. In delivering these objectives, the research unit
will seek to sustain its multidisciplinary and collaborative character evidenced by its research
outputs for REF 2021.

2. People

Over the census period, a number of staff retired; however, the retention rate within the unit is high
and of the ten staff submitted to REF 2014, seven remain at QMU and are being returned to this
REF. Where opportunities for new recruitment have arisen, these have been used to support the
development and growth of CCCMS in two key ways. Firstly, consolidating and expanding existing
areas of strength, for example strengthening our expertise in Film Studies through the addition of
Munro and Van de Peer. Secondly, through the addition of practice-oriented researchers in order
to support our longer-term plans, most notably with the addition of Schrag and Henry. Our growth
is also notable in the increased headcount being returned to this UoA, which is 60% greater than in
2014.

A new Workload Allocation Model was launched in 2019. This made explicit the commitment that
all staff would have 20% of their workload allocated to research and scholarship activities.

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Additional time for research can be secured through income generation as the School works on the
basis of ‘buying out’ additional research time rather than ‘buying back’ the 20% already committed
to. Research objectives associated with this allocation of time are agreed between the Centre
Director, the staff member and their respective HoD, and recorded as part of the annual
Performance Enhancement Review (PER). Although these are optional, a recent PER audit
showed that 82% of academic staff, including contract researchers, take part in the PER process.
Aligned to the PER process, staff members are able to apply for promotion through the Reward
and Recognition programme. During the census period, of the 23 staff in CCCMS, one was
promoted to Professor, one was promoted to Reader, and five were promoted to Senior Lecturer.

As a signatory to the 2019 Concordat for Researcher Development, we are committed to ensuring
researchers have access to 10 days professional development (pro rata) and in 2019 the PER
form was re-designed to encourage all staff to set separate development objectives linked to
career progression aspirations. Since then, research staff taking up institutional level training and
development opportunities has increased by 41%. These opportunities include a suite of
DEVELOP courses, organised by the HR department, and which have included training on
research mentoring and coaching, research blogging, media training, and impact development. We
are keen to enhance support for institutional level research mentoring and are investing in a
number of new initiatives to achieve this. Key to this is our acceptance as a partner in the
Teaching, Research & Academic Mentoring Scheme (TRAMS) led by the University of St Andrews
and the University of Dundee.

Within QMU, the Vitae Researcher Development Framework (RDF) is the widely endorsed
framework underpinning professional development for researchers at all levels. Using the RDF
supports researcher development and fulfils many of the requirements set out by funders and
governments for the support of researchers and researcher careers. Currently, over 30% of
researchers make regular use of the RDF, a number we aim to grow over the next five years. We
are also committed to offering more explicit and structured support to ECRs, and plans are
underway to launch an Early Career Researcher Engagement Academy in partnership with
Edinburgh Napier University in 2021. The scheme will support the long-term career, professional
development, and wellbeing needs of researchers and will include peer-to-peer mentoring.

Financial support for professional development is available from school-wide staff development
funds. These funds are open to all staff members who are free to apply for up to £1000 at one of
three calls across the course of the academic year. The School Management Team (SMT) awards
funds on the basis of alignment with the School Operational Plan. Activity supported through this
route has included research visits, networking events, conference attendance, transcription,
research assistance, and writing retreats.

Inter-centre relationships

There are six research centres and one institute at QMU and collaboration between them is
encouraged. The size of QMU combined with our collective colocation on a single campus means
that staff members regularly collaborate, both formally and informally, with colleagues from other
disciplines. For example, Blanche has collaborated with Ross (UoA 17) to undertake a thematic
evaluation of the Bank of Scotland’s philanthropic grants. Schrag has collaborated with Smith and
Kelly (UoA 3) to consider how creative practice might help healthcare practitioners to better
understand the lived experience of those with osteoporosis. Munro has worked with Eady (UoA 4)
to develop a project that supported probationary primary school teachers gain confidence in using
filmmaking and film archives as teaching tools across a range of curriculum. The opportunity for
staff to take part in research seminars being run by other research centres has also encouraged
the cross fertilisation of ideas; Wood’s work in particular has been shaped by intellectual exchange
with members of the Public Sociology cluster in the Centre for Applied Social Sciences (CASS).

10 Year HR Excellence Award

QMU is committed to the principles of the new 2019 Concordat to Support the Career

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Development of Researchers and was in the first cohort of 5 UK HEIs to submit to the 10 Year HR
Excellence in Research Award. Central to this activity is an ethos of co-creation and, importantly,
shared ownership between the institution and its research community. As such, we established an
institutional Concordat for Researcher Development Working Group structured around these
principles. The resultant Concordat for Researcher Development Action Plan 2020 reaffirms our
commitment to supporting the Concordat through the provision of unit specific development
opportunities underpinned by centralised support for all researchers within the institution.
Compliance with the Concordat is monitored at local levels through the research centre annual
review process. This exercise takes place in November each year and comprises an annual review
panel chaired by the Deputy Principal.

Research Integrity

In 2019, QMU became a member of the UK Research Integrity Office (UKRIO) and that year
delivered a QMU/UKRIO research integrity training workshop. UKRIO training and awareness
materials are actively promoted throughout the campus and on our web and intranet sites. UKRIO
monthly training webinars are promoted to all staff, research managers, professional services and
research students. New QMU whistleblowing procedures were launched in 2020. We are also
members of the Scottish Research Integrity Network (SRIN) led by the University of Dundee and
University of Edinburgh and regularly attend sector best practice events. Supporting and
strengthening understanding of the application of research integrity issues within our UoAs is a key
objective in our 2020-2022 Concordat for Researcher Development Action Plan. An annual
statement on progress in implementing the Concordat for Research Integrity is provided to
University Court and published on our website every Autumn.

Culture, Employment and Development in Academic Research Survey (CEDARS)

In 2020, QMU was 1 of only 22 UK HEIs to participate in the first pilot UK biennial CEDARS
Survey. This survey gathers anonymous data about working conditions, research culture, career
aspirations and career development opportunities for research staff and research leaders in HEIs
across the UK. The QMU CEDARS response rate was 31%. This reflects a significant
improvement to average participation rates in previous national benchmarking exercises i.e., the
Careers in Research Online Survey (CROS) (7%) and the Principal Investigators and Research
Leaders Survey (PIRLS) (17%). 11 of those who took part in the survey were associated with UoA
34 suggesting a higher response rate than the university average. CEDARS has informed CCCMS
reflections about the ways in which we have sought to develop the research environment within the
centre over the past six years. This reflective process has been complemented by an institutional
research culture health check undertaken in response to the Wellcome Research Culture Report,
which involved hosting Wellcome Café Culture events using the Wellcome Trust toolkit to promote
discussion with peers on how to develop the research culture at QMU.

Research students

Currently, there are 17 PhD students registered in CCCMS; this compares to a total of 14 at REF
2014. Of these, 6 are being supported through QMU funded studentships or fee waivers and 11
are self-funding. Three additional students are also attached to the Centre through collaborative
doctoral studentships, secured from the SGSAH. These involve staff from QMU co-supervising
students with academics from Edinburgh University, Edinburgh College of Art, and Glasgow
University.

During the census period, 12 candidates have been awarded PhDs; this is over double the total of
five for REF 2014. Between 2014 and 2020, QMU has invested in 7 fully funded doctoral
studentships in CCCMS, helping to support new research aligned to our key areas of enquiry.
Candidates have undertaken research that covers all four of our research clusters, exploring topics
such as transmedia adaptation, practice-based research into masculinity and film, communities at
the Edinburgh Festival Fringe, Scottish computer games policy, and Scotland on Film. In addition
to PhD students, we also deliver a Professional Doctorate programme with a specific focus on

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Cultural Leadership and Cultural Practice, which began in 2018. There are currently four
candidates undertaking a Professional Doctorate through CCCMS, all of whom have or have had
senior leadership positions within the creative industries. Their involvement in the Centre has
helped to further expand our professional networks in the cultural sector and we plan to expand our
provision to encompass communications and public relations professionals.

All doctoral candidates are allocated a supervisory team of either two or three staff. A full research
proposal and evidence of research activity is submitted to a probationary panel, which interviews
the doctoral candidate at the end of the first year of registration. Doctoral candidates and
supervisors submit annual progress reports to the Graduate School Academic Board (GSAB),
which reports to the University’s Research Strategy Committee. All doctoral candidates are
affiliated members of CCCMS, which creates a sense of belonging and immersion in an active
research environment. A Doctoral Candidates Association (DCA) organises an annual conference
and twice monthly research cafes.

Candidates receive research training provided by the Graduate School at tri-annual study weeks.
We also provide a 60-credit Doctoral Certificate in Researcher Enhancement and Development
(READ) as part of all Doctoral programmes. READ is based around the Vitae RDF and enables the
integration and synthesis of theory with practice to enable the development of transferable
research skills, ensure the rigour of academic thinking and promote the achievement of personal
and professional goals. As part of their career development, doctoral candidates are encouraged to
publish at the earliest suitable opportunity with the help of mentoring from supervisors.

Doctoral candidates in receipt of QMU studentships are allocated a dedicated budget for research
expenses and conference attendance. Non-studentship candidates may also apply to CCCMS for
conference attendance support. The Graduate School also offers opportunities for candidates to
apply for training and development funds to support specific non-core training or skills
development. In order to obtain experience, QMU studentship candidates are provided with
professional development opportunities that include a requisite two years of teaching experience
(90 hours in Yr 1. 180 hours in Yr 2. 90 hours in Yr 3.). Candidates who are not in receipt of a
studentship are often provided with paid teaching experience within a relevant division of ASSaM.
In preparation for undertaking this activity, all doctoral candidates are required to complete a short
course in teaching and learning and should they wish to gain a qualification are able to complete a
PGCert in Teaching and Learning free of charge.

The Graduate School also provides a regular development programme for doctoral supervisors.
This is supplemented by update sessions on a wide range of topics delivered in facilitated
‘communicative spaces’ where supervisors can share concerns and issues and engage in
constructive dialogue with other supervisors. We are also working to implement the UKCGE Good
Supervisory Framework and a member of CCCMS is in the first cohort of staff working towards
accreditation. In addition, QMU belongs to the two Scottish Graduate Schools (Social Sciences
and Arts and Humanities), both of which provide external training, networking, and learning
opportunities for candidates and supervisors.

Equality and diversity

We promote an inclusive culture and have mainstreamed and embedded many of the new
processes defined in our REF 2021 Code of Practice. Management information available to the
Centre Director and HoD has been enhanced with a greater focus on protected characteristics and
monitoring of the equality and diversity profile of our researchers. There is an institutional
programme of online equality and diversity training for researchers available to all staff and
additional resources have been made available to support the use of Equality Impact Assessments
(EIA).

The university was awarded an institutional Athena SWAN Bronze Award in April 2013 and
successfully renewed the Bronze Award in 2017. Since then, our Athena SWAN team has
continued to progress gender equality across the institution by addressing actions set out in our

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
action plan. For example, in 2019, a number of our researchers participated in our EntreprenHER
event, with our Chancellor Prue Leith, promoting gender and innovation. Furthermore, there is
dedicated institutional funding available for female researchers to attend events such as Soapbox
Sciences and AcceleratHER. We also have a strategic collaboration and MoU with Women’s
Enterprise Scotland (WES) to embed Female Entrepreneurship in our research culture. During the
current census period, four members of CCCMS have been supported to undertake the Aurora
leadership development initiative run by Advance HE. Upon completion of the development
programme, these staff can join the QMU Aurora network of previous delegates. This network aims
to encourage peer-to-peer support on issues facing QMU female leaders and provides mentorship
links for future cohorts. The School of ASSaM is also currently working towards a LGBT Bronze
Charter award, which we aim to secure in 2021.

We continue to champion equality and diversity and are developing a leading position in female
research leadership with over 70% of QMU REF 2021 eligible staff being female. At the level of
UoA 34, 50% of the submitted staff are female, 50% male; 26% identify as LGBTQ; and 6% have
had a period of maternity leave during the census period. However, no staff members in the UoA
are BAME, which reflects a wider university population in which fewer than 4% of staff are BAME.
As such, while the EIA carried out on the final output selection identified no areas of concern and
confirmed the selected outputs broadly aligned to the demographic characteristics of the
researchers submitted to the UoA, a number of areas were noted for further action by the Centre
Director in regard to developing the diversity of staff submitting to this UoA in future. Specifically:

      Develop further support for ECRs, in particular those aged 25-34, to publish academic
       work;
      Collaborate with the relevant HoDs and HR to actively encourage applications to vacant
       roles from BAME candidates;
      Collaborate with the Equality and Diversity Committee to highlight the importance of HR
       holding full and accurate demographic data about all staff;
      Reflect on why LGBTQ staff members are so well represented in this UoA compared to the
       University as a whole.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Centralised support services

As a relatively small HEI, QMU works on a model of shared centralised support with local
adaptation in order to account for disciplinary specificity. As such, activity within CCCMS is
supported via the University’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Development Unit (RKEDU),
which supports the development and implementation of the institutional research policy and
strategy. In particular, it supports members of the unit to undertake public engagement, researcher
development, research governance, and external collaborations. Support is also available from the
Research Grants and Contracts Unit (RGCU), which provides pre- and post-award support for
grant submission as well as advice on how best to secure external funding. In addition to an
extensive range of online journals, citation research tools, and other dedicated research resources,
the Learning Resource Centre (LRC) and dedicated Research Support Librarian provide CCCMS
members with information retrieval advice and manage the repository of data sets. Staff members
also have access to an institutional subscription to Research Professional, the leading sector
database of research funding opportunities. A review of research support structures by the Deputy
Principal is scheduled for June 2021. This will be informed by an analysis of pilot collaborative
activity with other HEIs including the previously mentioned procurement of back office
commercialisation/IP support from the University of St Andrews.

External funding

Research and Knowledge Exchange activity has been supported financially from external sources
such as the AHRC (Stevenson, Van de Peer), Carnegie Trust (Tominc, Dickson), Creative
Scotland (Blanche, Schrag, Munro), Local Authorities (Stevenson, Schrag), the CIPR (Pieczka),

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Rachel Carson Centre (Hinde), Santander Research Fund (Finkel) and a range of cultural
organisations. In addition to the £227,265 of research income returned as part of this unit-level
submission, members of CCCMS through KE, consultancy activity, and other research related
work also generated an additional £50,434.

Innovation Fellowships

In 2018, QMU invested in and launched an annual Innovation Fellowship Scheme intended to
develop and support research activity that has the potential for significant health, cultural, and/or
economic impact and which will help us maximise engagement with the UK Industrial Strategy and
Industrial Strategy Challenge Funding. CCCMS members have been successful in gaining three of
these awards, which have supported them to:

      Employ action research methods to co-create a unique new degree programme in Creative
       Enterprise, delivered by Fife College, which will support the growth of the creative
       industries outside of Scotland’s central belt while also widening access to degree level
       education in this area;
      Initiate a pilot project to develop a Rural Art Network across Scotland to share learnings
       about participatory art practices within remote and rural contexts. The resultant network has
       recently gained funding from the Royal Society of Edinburgh to support its continuation;
      Undertake research into how film education can be embedded in initial teacher training
       programmes.

Production and practices resources

The majority of research undertaken by CCCMS requires little to no specialist equipment or
software; however, staff have access to NVivo, SPSS, and Adobe Creative Cloud. Practice based
researchers and doctoral candidates in CCCMS also have access to a range of production
equipment and spaces, including:

      Black box studio theatre;
      Baby black box studio;
      Four rehearsal studios;
      Scenic workshop and store - stock scenery, staging and rigging equipment;
      Scenography studio;
      Digital production equipment, editing suites, and post-production facilities;
      One of only two ‘infinity’ green screen facilities in Edinburgh.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Inter-institutions relationships

In a bid to expand the scope and scale of the research undertaken by CCCMS we have
consciously sought to expand our connections with other HEIs. Some of these have developed into
established relationships allowing centre members to work as part of larger research projects. For
example: Van De Peer’s work with colleagues at the University of Exeter on the AHRC funded
project Building a Transnational Network for Moroccan Cinema: Audiences, Festivals and Talent
Development; Stevenson’s work with colleagues at the University of Leeds on the AHRC funded
project Cultural Participation: Stories of Success, Histories of Failure; and Finkel’s work with
colleagues at Leeds Beckett University and Manchester Metropolitan University on accessibility,
inclusion, and ‘doing’ gender in events and festival landscapes. Additionally, in 2019, Stevenson
become a Co-Director of the new UK Centre for Cultural Value based at the University of Leeds.
Furthermore, QMU is a founder member of the Scottish Arts and Humanities Alliance (SAHA), a
joint initiative of ten Scottish Higher Education institutions, the Royal Society of Edinburgh and the
SGSAH. Stevenson has been part of the steering committee for this new venture that aims to
enhance understanding of the intellectual, creative, social, and economic contribution of the arts

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and humanities to the wellbeing and advancement of Scottish society.

In 2019, QMU signed a new 3-year Memorandum of Understanding with Glasgow School of Art
(GSA) and the Royal Conservatoire of Scotland (RCS) for SHIFT. Recognising the importance of
research-led innovation, the SHIFT partnership delivers specialist events and resources aimed at
encouraging innovation in the creative industries. Participation in SHIFT was extended to other
HEIs in 2020 with plans underway for SHIFT2021. The success of SHIFT is raising the
international profile of best practice in collaborative models of entrepreneurial training for
researchers in Scotland, with an invite to the three partner institutions to present SHIFT as an
exemplar of excellence at the ELIA Biennial Conference 2020, hosted by the Zurich University of
the Arts. ELIA is a European network of 250 members in 47 countries that advocates for higher
arts education.

International profile

Researchers within the centre are regularly invited to give keynotes or undertake visiting
scholarship at international institutions. For example, in 2019, Stevenson was a visiting scholar at
MacEwan University, Alberta, Canada. In 2018, Schrag was invited to develop research with the
Kentucky College of Art and Design; that same year, Schrag also developed projects in Helsinki
and Israel. Finkel has been invited to keynote at five events over the current census period
including the final public event of the Horizon 2020 Marie S. Curie Gender & Cultures of Equality
(GRACE) Project. She was also invited to be a visiting fellow at Open University of Catalonia in
Barcelona, Spain (2017) and a visiting Erasmus+ scholar at Deusto University in Bilbao, Spain
(2018). In 2018, Hinde was awarded a Carson Fellowship to research and teach at the Rachel
Carson Centre for Environment and Society in Munich, Germany. Pieczka has been invited to
serve as an external reviewer for Örebro University’s (Sweden) upcoming evaluation of research
quality and appointed a visiting professor (2020/21) by Lund University, Sweden, as part of the
University’s Council for Gender Equality and Equal Opportunities. Finally, Van De Peer has been
appointed to the FWO Peer Review College for the next three years. The FWO is the Flanders
(Belgian) equivalent of the AHRC.

Reputations established by the research outputs of Centre members have also attracted overseas
academics to visit QMU and/or collaborate with CCCMS staff. These have included scholars from
Spain (Finkel), Finland (Schrag), Canada (Schrag), South Africa (Schrag), Poland (Pieczka),
Slovenia (Tominc) and Denmark (Stevenson). QMU also supports researcher mobility through our
long-standing status as a EURAXESS Local Contact Point and are an invited participant on the
British Council EURAXESS Steering Group.

Supporting the knowledge base

Over the past six-years members of CCCMS have supported the development of the wider
knowledge base by proposing and editing several books and journal special issues, including:

    Special Editions

       Jancovich, L. & Stevenson, D. (eds.) (2020). Failures in Cultural Participation.
        Conjunctions: Transdisciplinary Journal of Cultural Participation. Vol. 7, No. 20.
       Cartiere, C., Wingate, J., & Schrag, A. (eds.) (2020). The Failure of Public Art. Public Art
        Dialogue. Vol. 10, No. 2.
       Danby, P., Dashper, K., & Finkel, R. (eds.) (2019). Multispecies Leisure: Human-animal
        Interactions in Leisure Landscapes. Leisure Studies. Vol. 38, No. 3.
       Gilmore, A., Jancovich, L., Stevenson, D., & Durrer, T. (eds.) (2019). Situating the local in
        global cultural policy. Cultural Trends. Vol. 28, No. 4.
       Platt, L. & Finkel, R. (eds.) (2018). Equality & Diversity in the Professional Planned Events
        Industry. Journal of Policy Research in Tourism, Leisure and Events. Vol. 10, No. 2.
       Finkel, R., Jones, D., Sang, K., & Russell, D. (eds.) (2016). Diversifying the Creative:
        Creative Work, Creative Industries, Creative Identities. Organization. Vol. 24, No. 3.

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Finkel, R. (ed.) (2015). Social Justice and Events-related Policy. Journal of Policy
       Research in Tourism, Leisure and Events. Vol. 7, No. 3.
      Pieczka, M. & Roper, J. (eds.) (2015). Governance through Communication. Journal of
       Public Affairs. Vol. 15, No. 2.
      Stevenson, D. (ed.) (2014). Scottish Cultural Policy. Cultural Trends. Vol. 23, No.3.

   Edited Collections

      Stewart, M & Munro, R. (eds.) (2020). Intercultural Screen Adaptation: British and Global
       Case Studies. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press.
      Stevenson, D. (ed.) (2018). Managing Organisational Success in the Arts. Abingdon:
       Routledge.
      Platt, L. & Finkel, R. (eds.) (2020). Gendered Violence at International Festivals: An
       Interdisciplinary Approach. Abingdon: Routledge.
      Johnston, J. & Pieczka, M. (eds.) (2019). Public Interest Communication: Critical Debates
       and Global Contexts. Abingdon: Routledge.
      Finkel, R., Sharp, B., Sweeney, M. (eds.) (2018). Accessibility, Inclusion, and Diversity in
       Critical Events Studies. Abingdon: Routledge.
      Van de Peer, S. (ed.) (2017). Animation in the Middle East: Practice and Aesthetics from
       Baghdad to Casablanca. London: Bloomsbury.
      Stewart, M. (ed.) (2014) Melodrama in Contemporary Film and Television. Basingstoke:
       Palgrave Macmillan.

Of particular note is the edited collection by Van De Peer, which was nominated by the Society for
Animation Studies for the award of best scholarly book in animation (2020) and won the British
Association for Film, Television and Screen Studies award for best edited collection (2018).

Furthermore, several centre members are editorially involved in internationally recognised journals
and book series. Pieczka is a co-editor of Public Relations Inquiry and has co-edited the Journal of
Communication Management (2008–2013). She has also been a member of the editorial boards of
Journal of Public Relations Research, and Prim, an international online journal based at Massey
University, New Zealand. Stevenson is a member of the editorial board of Cultural Trends, having
previously served as the Policy and Book Reviews Editor. Munro is currently an Associate Editor of
the Film Education Journal and became a member of the Editorial Board in late 2020 with a
specific remit to re-work its back catalogue of articles into alternative formats that might reach
wider non-academic audiences. Stewart is a member of the editorial board of Film Criticism. Van
de Peer is an editor of the Edinburgh University Press series ReFocus: The International Directors,
and a board member of both the Journal of African Cinemas and the open-access MAI: Journal of
Feminism and Visual Culture. Finkel is co-editor of the Routledge Critical Event Studies series and
on the editorial boards of Leisure Studies; Journal of Policy Research in Tourism, Leisure and
Events; Frontiers in Sport, Leisure, Tourism Journal; and founding editorial board member and co-
editor-in-chief of Interdisciplinary Perspectives on Equality and Diversity: International Journal.

Social enterprise

In 2017, an award-winning charity, STEKAskills was developed as a result of Wood’s work to
expand our model of critical dialogue for young people in a way that empowers young Malawians,
reduces their donor dependency, provides them with high quality employment and generates
sustainable income to support the creation of the STEKA Centre. The charity works in partnership
with Malawian Charity STEKA to support their ambition to build a centre for vocational skills and
community enterprise in Malawi. So far, STEKAskills has raised in excess of £56,000, including a
grant from the Scottish Government.

Policy relationships

Many of the members of CCCMS have longstanding relationships with policymakers and the


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Scottish Parliament. Stevenson is a member of the National Partnership for Culture, which advises
the Scottish Government on the delivery of their cultural strategy; he also chairs the Measuring
Change Group, which is tasked with proposing new national indicators that better represent
Scotland’s aspirations for culture. Wood’s work on voluntourism has led to her being invited to
contribute to the Scottish Government’s development of a new policy related to Scottish school
visits abroad. Both staff members have also been invited speakers at Scottish Parliament Cross-
Party Groups (CPGs), which provide an opportunity for MSPs to engage with external stakeholders
on particular subjects of interest.

Professional practice and civic engagement

Many of the members of CCCMS are actively involved in the areas of professional practice and
civic society to which their research is oriented. This ensures that our research is informed by and
responds to the contemporary concerns and interests of the groups, institutions, communities, and
sectors we aim to influence and benefit. For example, Van de Peer is a trustee and programmer for
the Africa in Motion Film Festival and founded MONA, a festival in Antwerp (Belgium) dedicated to
Middle Eastern and North African film; Stevenson is on the Board of Out of the Blue Arts Education
Trust; and Schrag is on the Board of both Stills Gallery and Timespan Heritage and Arts.




                                                                                           Page 14
