Annex I: Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Exeter

 Unit of assessment: Engineering UoA12

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and structure

 Engineering at the University of Exeter (UoE) is a growing, flexible, inclusive and multidisciplinary
 grouping consisting of all academics from the Department of Engineering, some staff from the
 Camborne School of Mines – both within the College of Engineering, Mathematics & Physical
 Sciences (CEMPS) – and the Business School. In terms of research, we seek to build on our
 strong international influence as well as cultivate a significant regional presence in the South
 West of England. We continue to pursue our reputation for delivering excellent research based
 around themed multidisciplinary groups and centres, exploiting existing areas of strength and
 developing new ones, developing strong partnerships with industry, and taking advantage of the
 emerging Exeter Science Park. In the lead-up to REF2014, Exeter Engineering invested in eight
 new chairs to optimise the alignment of the research groups with societal and industrial priorities.
 During the current REF period, this investment has consolidated our capacity in existing areas
 of strength, allowing us to exploit exciting interdisciplinary synergies, within and without the
 department, and to pursue innovation towards industrial and societal transformations. Since
 REF2014, Exeter Engineering has continued to build on these strengths through 34 new
 research-led appointments that further advance our specialist fields of research.

 Headline achievements over this REF period include:
     Substantial growth in the number of research-led academic staff increasing our REF
        submission from 44 FTEs in 2014 to 78.8 in 2020
     A significant increase in research awards (£68.7M v £28M) compared with REF2014
     14 prestigious fellowships.
     5 EPSRC Centres for Doctoral Training/Industrial Doctorate Centres
     A new Renewable Energy Engineering Facility in Penryn (£1.7M)
     A new Science and Engineering Research Support Facility in Penryn (£5.5M)
     A new Engineering Research Building on the Exeter Science Park (£7.3M)
     The EPSRC VSimulators Strategic Equipment award (£3.5M) and facility
     New engineering laboratories, makerspace and workshop (£6.5M)
     A new strategic partnership with Victrex plc (£1.5M)
     Research leadership in offshore renewables via the EPSRC Supergen ORE Hub
     Significant enhancement of the analytical capacities in the Responsible Mining Group

 Exeter Engineering research is organised into eight research groups (Nano Engineering
 Science & Technology, Water & Environment, Materials & Manufacturing, Dynamics & Control,
 Engineering Management, Civil & Structures, Renewable Energy, and Responsible Mining)
 across two University campuses. Six of these are located on the Streatham site in Exeter. The
 Responsible Mining group is part of the multidisciplinary Camborne School of Mines – Europe’s
 top Mineral and Mining Engineering school (2020 QS rankings). It is located, along with our
 Renewable Energy group, at Penryn in Cornwall. These two groups are so situated to maximise
 the benefits of resources at these locations: The Renewable Energy group operates a unique
 offshore facility at Falmouth for testing equipment, and Camborne School of Mines benefits from
 past and present on-site mining activities.


                                                1
1.2 Research and impact strategy

Strategy in REF2014 and during the REF period: The goals of our REF2014 research strategy
concerned (i) development of critical mass and interdisciplinary strength in our research groups,
(ii) wider and deeper industrial engagement, and (iii) internationalisation. These were
complemented by our impact strategy which was to concentrate resources on our existing areas
of impact strength and target new ones aligned with priority areas, and firmly embed and support
impact as a ‘third mission’ activity of equal importance as education and research.

During this REF period, the university has continued to invest strategically in Engineering. This
has enabled us to create a vibrant engineering research environment attractive to staff of the
highest quality, to carry out internationally leading research, to leverage significant research
funding from external sources, and to collaborate with a wide range of national and international
academic and industrial partners.

(i) Critical mass & interdisciplinary strength: Major investments in additional staff and improved
infrastructure and facilities have been made at both the Streatham and Penryn campuses
(Section 3). For example, Exeter Engineering will return 78.8 FTEs in REF 2021 compared with
44 FTEs in 2014 further enhancing our critical mass. In addition, we have transformed our
research facilities by building new laboratories and purchasing new experimental equipment for
renewable energy, nanomaterials engineering, additive layer manufacturing, vibration
engineering and structural health monitoring. This is underpinned by a £6.5M capital investment
in the engineering laboratories at the Streatham campus and a complete rebuild and re-equip of
the workshop facilities. We have implemented our interdisciplinary ambitions through research
driven by real world problems and intellectual challenges in areas such as mitigating the effects
of climate change, sustainable energy production, the development of advanced materials, the
development of low power nanoscale electronic devices, and sustainable manufacturing. This
has been underscored and enhanced by our leadership and/or partnership in our interdisciplinary
Centres for Doctoral Training/Industrial Doctorate Centres (CDT/IDTs): WISE, STREAM,
IDCORE, Meta-materials, and Sustainable Materials and Manufacturing. Furthermore, some
staff have taken up key interdisciplinary roles (e.g. Dodwell is Data for Science, Engineering and
Technology Theme Lead in the Exeter Institute for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence) and
Ahmed-Kristensen (based in the University’s Business School, but whose papers are cross-
referred to UoA12) leads on Design Engineering and Innovation at the multidisciplinary INDEX
Initiative for the Digital Economy (https://exeterindex.org).

(ii) Industrial Engagement and Impact generation: Engagement with industry has always been a
key feature of Exeter Engineering, and our activity over the last REF period is no exception. Our
key goals have been to both translate the research into valued end-use, and to stimulate
research ideas. All eight of our research groups are industry facing. Engagement and impact
generation has been extensive and growing as evidenced by the increase in
industrial/government research awards from £9.5M at REF2014 to £14.3M today. Further details
are given in Section 4, but these include: a £10.5M UKRPIF strategic partnership with £21M
committed by South West Water, a £1.5M, strategic partnership with Victrex plc, a £7.3M
industry-facing Engineering Research Building at the Exeter Science Park, and the £0.9M
offshore renewable energy demonstration site (FaB Test) in Falmouth Bay. We have been
awarded 34 Knowledge Transfer Partnerships since 2014 with partners ranging from local SMEs
(Chelonia Ltd) to FTSE 100 companies (United Utilities). We have or have had 6 Royal Society
Industry Fellowships and Royal Academy Industrial Fellowships linked with major companies, 2
Royal Society Entrepreneurs in Residence, 2 Royal Academy of Engineering Visiting Professors
and 3 industry-funded academic appointments (Rio Tinto, First Quantum and British Geological
Survey). Each of our 5 CDT/IDTs are extensively backed by industry partners including
sponsored PhD studentships. Our CALMARE Business Technology Centre, funded by the
European Research and Development Fund, has supported over 150 businesses on the use of


                                             2
composites and plastics. We have also had significant involvement in 7 university spinout
companies during the REF period (Section 4).

Embedding of impact was an important part of our impact strategy in 2014 and has been
achieved to the extent that impact generation is now a fully established integral part of every
engineering academic’s career and thinking. Over this REF period, the University has
reorganised its administrative support to academics and business through the establishment of
the Innovation, Impact & Business directorate (IIB). Within the UoA, the new role of Director of
Impact has been established with a remit to support and develop high quality Impact Case
Studies and more generally to promote long-lasting impact activity in the discipline. Furthermore,
academic recruitment, promotion and reward criteria now explicitly include recognition of
excellent impact generation.

(iii) Internationalisation: As described in our REF2014 strategy, we have followed the '4th age of
research' which argues that nations and institutions which prosper will be those which form
international collaborations to drive forward innovation and impact. It is precisely these
conditions that the University, with its 2018-22 Global Strategy, and the UoA have established
and nurtured during the REF period, via targeted investment and support. Our internationally
(including EU) funded research awards have increased from £4.7M at REF2014 to £20.6M for
REF2021. In 2019, the University of Exeter was the top UK organisation (and ranked the 8th
institution) in the EU in terms of budget participation in H2020 water-related research grants. We
have had significant funding from the Global Challenges Research Fund (EP/P02839X/1) with
projects and partners- particularly in India. During the REF period, we have initiated new
research partnerships with the University of Queensland (Australia), the University of British
Colombia (Canada), Tsinghua University (China) and the Chinese University of Hong Kong.
Many international academics have visited the department, staff have visited overseas
universities, and a number of staff were appointed as visiting professors (Section 4.4). In Exeter,
we ran the 11th International Conference on Advances in Experimental Mechanics in 2016, and
the 17th International Computing & Control for the Water Industry Conference in 2019.

Future strategy for REF2021: It is increasingly clear that society at large is experiencing a 4th
Industrial Revolution (Industry 4.0), as novel technologies such as the Internet of Things, smart
factories, digital twins, additive manufacturing, data science and cognitive computing are being
combined to transform manufacturing. In fact, these new technologies and ways of thinking and
working are having a transformative impact upon all areas of engineering: civil, mechanical,
electrical & electronic, mining and renewable energy as well as manufacturing and management.
Here at the University of Exeter, our research & impact strategic aim is to be at the forefront
of this new approach to engineering: what might be termed Engineering 4.0. To achieve this
aim and to further ensure the sustainability and vitality of Exeter Engineering, we are prioritising
three key objectives for the coming REF period: (i) Investing in people, space and equipment,
(ii) enhancing and leveraging our interdisciplinarity, and (iii) new initiatives and core strengths.
These broadly align with the institution’s Research and Impact Strategy: see Section 2.1 in the
Institutional-Level Environment Statement (ILES).

(i) Investing in people, space and equipment: We have already demonstrated significant growth
and investment in Exeter Engineering over successive RAE and REF periods. For example, staff
numbers submitted to this UoA increased by 50% from 2008 to 2013 and by a further 77% from
2014 to 2021. Our research awards doubled, and then more than doubled again over the same
periods. Post-COVID 19, we envisage further internal investment and externally funded growth
over the forthcoming REF period to strengthen our critical mass and enhance our facilities. We
have exciting new plans in terms of space and equipment. These include: a new Exeter Digital
Enterprise Systems laboratory, a Centre for Future Clean Mobility, a Centre for Ocean
Technology, a Smart Grids Research Group and a new Data-Centric Engineering Research
Group. All these are described in detail in Section (iii) below. A summary of our existing core
strengths and plans is given in the ‘structure & staff’ section which follows.

                                              3
(ii) Enhancing and leveraging our interdisciplinarity: The UoE is known for its interdisciplinary
research and this ethos pervades the whole institution- including Engineering. This operates
across our local, regional, national and international networks. The university’s College structure
ensures ‘no walls’ between disciplines and ‘thin walls’ between Colleges. We use Institutes to
co-locate and co-create interdisciplinary research across our Colleges. A number of Engineering
staff currently have joint positions in our Environment & Sustainability Institute in Penryn, and
Camborne School of Mines, exploring the strong synergies between engineering, earth and
social sciences in the development of sustainable resource extraction. Over the forthcoming
REF period, we will be looking to make further joint appointments specifically to enhance our
interdisciplinarity. For example, we are working to create a joint appointment between
Engineering (Centre for Water Systems) and the College of Life & Environmental Sciences
(Geography) to support the development of the Centre for Resilience, Water & Waste (CREWW).
Another strong candidate is a joint position between Engineering and the Business School to
promote and develop research into entrepreneurship – a strongly emerging theme. In the future,
we see a particular growth area for joint positions with our new Global Systems Institute. We
currently have a joint lectureship in low carbon engineering (Tian) and expect others to follow,
particularly in the area of climate change mitigation.

We will continue to drive and support virtual research networks to link and mobilise researchers
working across broad thematic areas. Engineering is a key partner in Exeter Marine and Exeter
Energy, and we would look to lead and participate in others (e.g., Materials). These allow
emerging trends to be anticipated, critical mass to be assembled and large bids to be rapidly
developed. We intend to build on our recent virtual event “Opportunities for Collaboration in
Data-driven Engineering” run by Engineering and the Institute for Data Science and Artificial
Intelligence and to take forward new interdisciplinary ideas in larger-longer scale projects. This
agenda will be underscored and enhanced by our leadership and/or partnership in our
interdisciplinary Centres for Doctoral Training/Industrial Doctorate Centres (CDT/IDTs).

(iii) New initiatives and expanding core strengths
We see many opportunities presenting themselves over the forthcoming REF period and indicate
below a non-exhaustive list of our plans to open up new initiatives.

      Exeter Digital Enterprise Systems lab [Lead: Sucala]: This is a new facility that will focus
       on Engineering 4.0, the smart factory and the development of digital twins. It will include
       a state-of-the-art Industry 4.0 demonstrator, plus supporting computing hardware and
       software. It will underpin research in the Engineering Management group on industry
       digitalisation including holistic and digitalised data integration, monitoring and control
       systems, process and resource integration within large organisations and supply chains,
       and optimal application of digital twins.

      The Centre for Future Clean Mobility [Leads: Smith & Menon]: This is another new facility
       which will specialise in the simulation, optimisation and testing of full-scale non-fossil fuel
       powertrains, and unmanned smart functionality (autonomy). Industrial collaborations,
       notably in the marine, off-highway, HGV, rail, and defence sectors will ensure financial
       viability and early impact. This will be based in the Engineering Research Building at the
       Exeter Science Park.


      The Centre for Ocean Technology [Leads: Johanning & Thies]: This new centre will draw
       together our expertise, resources and facilities in Offshore Wind Energy to enhance our
       external exposure, strengthen internal organisational structures and channel targeted
       investments to underpin future funding. Exeter is at the heart of an emerging South West



                                               4
       Floating Offshore Wind Accelerator consortium and is seeking substantial funding from
       UKRI and industry.

      The Smart Grids Research Group [Lead Wang]: This new group will specialise in power
       system plant, focusing on power transformers, the connection of battery energy storage
       systems to the power network, environmentally friendly dielectric materials and insulation
       systems, and condition assessment and asset management of electrical networks. It will
       also be based in the Engineering Research Building at the Exeter Science Park and will
       be funded by the National Grid and a range of other companies.

      The Data-Centric Engineering Research Group: [Leads Dodwell & Tabor] This is an
       exciting initiative supporting our Engineering 4.0 ambitions and will join together our data-
       centric engineering research work which operates at the dynamic interface between
       applied mathematics and high-performance scientific computing, with our extensive
       computational engineering research in materials, fluid dynamics, offshore renewable
       energy, water systems and vibrational analysis. This will build upon our links with the
       university Institute for Data Science & Artificial Intelligence and the Alan Turing Institute.

1.3 Structure & Staff

As described earlier, Exeter Engineering research is organised into eight research groups. Each
group has an Academic Lead (AL) who provides strategic direction, leadership and mentoring.
The research groups provide critical mass that can attract scholars and funding from disparate
sources within an international market. They also serve as a focal point for interdisciplinary
collaboration.

Nano Engineering Science & Technology (NEST) (lead: Wright), includes the Centre for
Graphene Science (CGS). Professors Wright, Craicun, Hrkac, Nash, M Zhu, Y Zhu; Associate
Professor Aziz; Senior Lecturers Luxmoore, Baldycheva, Neves, D Zhu; Lecturer Ott.
The research focus of this group is on the design and fabrication of novel electronic, photonic
and magnetic materials and devices, the understanding, via modelling and experimental
characterisation, of their properties and performance attributes, and their exploitation for a range
of real-world applications; from electronic, magnetic and photonic memory and computing
devices, to wearable and flexible electronics, light sources and detectors, medical diagnosis,
energy storage, and high-strength composites. Future research directions will include a push
towards fast, low-power, non-CMOS memory and computing devices, metamaterial/metasurface
devices for electromagnetic beam control, exploitation of graphene and other 2D materials, ultra-
high-density magnetic storage materials, energy harvesting devices and systems, and new
magnetic materials development for automotive and energy generation.

Materials and Manufacturing Group (MMG) (lead: Ghita), includes the Centre for Additive
Layer Manufacturing (CALM), the Centre for Alternative Materials and Remanufacturing
Technologies (CALMARE), and Exeter Advanced Technologies (X-AT). Professors C Smith,
Dodwell, Ghita, Evans, S Zhang, Young; Senior Lecturers Xia, Holsgrove, J Chen: Lecturers
Agathos, Tian.
The research of this group centres on how to develop, produce, and exploit the commercial
benefits of new materials, innovative new products and high value, low carbon manufacturing
processes. Established collaborations with industry, such as Victrex, Arkema and Invista on
additive manufacturing, and Rolls-Royce for multifunctional materials for vibration damping, will
continue and is slated to expand further. Partnerships with companies such as Victrex – on
developing the next generation of high temperature polymers for Additive Manufacturing – and
the National Additive Manufacturing Centre at the Manufacturing Technology Centre, will
continue to deepen. Existing links with the Alan Turing Institute will expand further and support

                                              5
the need for big data to aid manufacturing and its supply chain. The CALMARE Business
Technology Centre funded by the European Research and Development Fund (ERDF)
supported over 150 businesses on the recycling and remanufacturing of waste materials.

Water and Environment Group (WEG) (lead: Djordjevic), includes the Centre for Water
Systems (CWS). Professors Djordjevic, Butler, Savic, Kapelan, Memon, Fu, Tabor, Belmont;
Associate Professors Farmani, A. Chen; Senior Lecturer Moxey.
CWS is an internationally leading centre for research into the planning, design, operation and
rehabilitation of urban water systems, with particular expertise in hydroinformatics and urban
water management. It has pioneered the development of many of the techniques and tools, such
as evolutionary multi-objective optimisation, used by water professionals worldwide. CWS has
long-term partnerships with key players across the sector including the Environment Agency,
United Utilities, Northumbrian Water and Hydro International. Future research areas lie in
developing sustainable and resilient solutions for dealing with future uncertainties, representing
and engineering the global energy-food-water nexus and driving forward the digital water
agenda. This will be underpinned by developing greater understanding, handling and
exploitation of AI and ‘Big Data’ through digital innovation and the Engineering 4.0 agenda. It will
continue to work closely with our research centre CREWW in terms of leadership, project
development and delivery.

Dynamics and Control Group (lead: Brownjohn). Professors Brownjohn, Pavic, Reynolds,
Edwards; Associate Professors Menon, Zivanovic; Senior Lecturers Alwi, Koo, Liu;
Lecturers Papatheou, Monsalve.
The vibration engineering team within this group aims to improve structure performance for
reduced financial and environmental impact, including the use of alternative materials.
Developed research expertise has been applied, mainly via the spinout Full Scale Dynamics
(see below), to enhancing the dynamic performance of new-build footbridges, football stadia,
floors and tall buildings, through optimal design, experimental evaluation and inclusion of
vibration mitigation devices. The very strong link between human comfort and design of these
structures has led to the establishment of the VSimulators experimental facility (see Section 3.2)
for which applications will go beyond engineering into medicine and humanities. Research on
ageing infrastructure has included a project on condition assessment of Victorian lighthouses
and dynamic assessment of telecoms masts. Our control team tackles problems associated with
dynamic structures, such as aeroplanes and space craft, and the modelling of human bodies for
medical and structural applications. The group has strong on-going collaborations with AIRBUS
and the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency.

Engineering Management (lead: D Zhang). Professor D Zhang; Lecturers He, Melville-
Shreeve, Yang, Yuce, Luis, D Wang, S Zhang
This group focuses on methodologies to support the design, analysis and management of
strategies, operations and supply networks for engineering businesses. Research topics include
manufacturing strategies, supply chain management, business model innovation, digital
manufacturing, organisation and entrepreneurship, open innovation and smart systems.
Industrial collaborations include both large international businesses: for example, with CIFUNSA
(Mexico) on supply chain optimisation and inventory management, and with the Beijing General
Research Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and Beijing COMPO on agile and lean
manufacturing strategies, as well as local SMEs. The future strategy of the group is to work on
methodologies to support the design and operation of new forms of manufacturing systems in
the digital and cyber age, as well as research on new business models and strategies to support
the transition to the new technology era (Industry 4.0).




                                              6
Civil & Structures (lead: Kripakaran). Professor Javadi; Senior Lecturers Kripakaran, Eames,
Wadee; Lecturer Vinai.
This group brings together expertise in civil and structural engineering subjects such as building
physics, computational geomechanics, structural stability and bridge hydraulics, to address
challenges related to the design and management of a sustainable, low carbon-built
environment. The group’s research is strongly inter-disciplinary and spread across a range of
topics including health and wellbeing in buildings, hydraulic fracturing, groundwater
management, waste and recycled building materials and bridge management. The group has an
excellent track of generating impact: notable examples include (i) weather design data that is
now embedded within building regulations, and (ii) a methodology for assessing bridge scour
risk in Highways England guidance. Future research in the group will aim to provide solutions
for the following major challenges: 1) adapting infrastructure for climate change; 2) enabling a
circular economy for the built environment; and 3) creating smart and resilient built environments.

Renewable Energy Group (REG) (lead: Johanning). Professors Johanning, Mallick, Li, Z
Wang; Associate Professors Abusara, Thies, Connor; Senior Lecturers H. Smith, Sundaram,
Tahir, Yan; Lecturers Ashton, Pillai, Ghosh, Matharage.
The group follows a holistic, integrated and interdisciplinary approach to advance sustainable
energy engineering through innovative and applied solutions. It embraces the topic areas of
power generation, energy storage, power transmission and control, as well as energy policy and
lifecycle assessments. Specific research strengths lie in the area of i) offshore energy generation
ii) solar energy iii) electrical and thermal energy storage iv) smart glazing v) power control for
energy engineering and vi) energy policy and energy-nexus system assessments. As a core
member of EPSRC’s SuperGen ORE hub, the Joint UK-India Clean Energy Centre (JUICE), the
UK & China Centre for Offshore Renewable Energy and the TUS-ORE Catapult Research
Centre, the group partners with leading international universities and businesses. Particular
impacts have been achieved in supporting regional and national companies through applied
research solutions and technology development. The Penryn campus hosts a Technology
Innovation Centre, facilitating co-creation between researchers and companies, and hosts world-
leading and unique solar and offshore testing labs that are used for academic and industrial
research alike.

Responsible Mining Group (CSM) (lead: Coggan). Professors Coggan, Glass; Associate
Professors Foster; Senior Lecturer Eyre; Lecturers Crane, Fitzpatrick, Diallo, Vogt.
The group concentrates on the multidisciplinary challenges of responsible mining, including
energy and resource efficiency, ore deposits and critical metals, health and safety, resources for
the circular economy and social and environmental protection. The group’s research strategy is
to ensure continued access to metal and mineral resources using extraction techniques that
minimise environmental harm and maximise societal benefits (Diallo, who specialises in mining,
politics and social insecurity, has been cross-referred to UoA14). Rio Tinto and First Quantum
each sponsor a Chair, the British Geological Survey sponsors a Lectureship in Critical and Green
Technology Metals (part of the Critical Metals Alliance). The group has a strong record of funding
from industry (e.g., Anglo American, First Quantum, BHP), EU Horizon 2020, EU INTERREG,
and the EU Research Funds for Coal and Steel. A recent £1 million donation by Centamin PLC
(the Richard Osman Memorial Fund) will support 40 scholars over a 20-year period.

1.4 Open Research

The University’s Open Access Research and Research Data Management policy was revised in
2017 to reflect the institutional commitment to and broader support of Open Research (Section
2.8 in ILES). It is aligned with external policies encouraging open access to other outputs not
mandated by REF and requiring all UoE outputs to include a data access statement. Since 2016,
the University has facilitated immediate (gold) open access (OA) to non-funded outputs with the

                                              7
creation of the Institutional APC Fund. The Institutional Repository, ORE, reached more than 5
million downloads, placing it in the Top 10 of UK repositories (participating in IRUS-UK). Support
is provided centrally, courtesy of the library, who proactively manage journal copyright
requirements, in consultation with the Director of Research. Since April 2016, it has been made
mandatory for all staff to submit open access compliant versions of their papers to ORE within 3
months of the paper’s acceptance. During the REF period, the UoA has deposited 1808 papers.
Between Jan 2014-June 2020 there have been 194,000 downloads of Engineering papers,
which represents 48% of the total number of downloads from within CEMPS as a whole.

1.5 Research integrity

The University upholds the highest standards of scientific, scholarly and professional integrity,
including ethical, social and environmental issues arising from its research activities, supported
by comprehensive policies and strategies. These include an Ethics Policy, a Research Ethics
Framework, a Code of Good Practice in the Conduct of Research, Misconduct in Research
reporting guidance, and a Public Interest Disclosure “whistleblowing” policy.

Exeter Engineering conducts a range of research and consultancy work from experimental
laboratory-based investigations, through fieldwork studies to non-invasive research with human
subjects (e.g., questionnaires, surveys). This is carried out to the highest scientific and ethical
standards following the guidelines mentioned. All projects require ethical approval at the
application stage and each project PI must ensure compliance with the Research Integrity
policies set out by the University and funders. The UoA has a dedicated Ethics Officer able to
offer advice and support.

Section 2. People

We recognise that our staff are our greatest asset, and we endeavour to create an environment
in which they feel valued, can thrive, and are rewarded for their success. As outlined in our
REF2014 plans, we have grown our submitted staff numbers by 78% during the REF period to
78.8 category A staff. This is in line with our REF2014 Research & Impact strategy and the
University’s recruitment strategy over this period, i.e., to build its research power to deliver its
research, education and global strategies. In addition to recruiting new staff, a further
strengthening of our research profile has been achieved by developing the research
performance of our existing staff. Together with new recruitment focussing on inter-disciplinarily,
international research partnerships and industrial partnerships, we have sought to achieve the
right blend of capabilities to tackle grand challenge research questions at scale.

2.1 Staffing strategy

Within the REF period, 34 new members of research staff have been appointed in the UoA: 28
at lecturer level (L), 3 senior lecturers (SL), 2 Associate Professors (AP) and one new full
professor (P). These new academic posts and their associated appointments reflect our evolving
research objectives. Typically, potential new posts are discussed by the Engineering Strategy
Group to consider the fit to our UoA strategy and the balance of staff across our research groups.
Vacated academic posts are not simply re-advertised, but instead, a full scientific and business
case is made to the University to seek approval. During the REF period, we have introduced
new policies to ensure non-discriminatory appointment procedures. Single gender appointment
panels are strongly discouraged for post-doctoral level appointments and prohibited for staff level
appointments. Applicant selection lists are also closely scrutinised. The success of our
recruitment strategy in terms of hiring up-and-coming research stars is demonstrated by the
large number of prestigious fellowships awarded to new staff during the REF period (see Section
2.9). This growth has led to a significant change in the department’s demographics, with a major
influx of early career researchers appointed at lecturer and senior lecturer level. In our REF2014
submission, the UoA demographic took the form of 18Ps, 6APs, 9SLs and 11Ls. The current

                                              8
profile is 29Ps, 8APs, 18SLs and 22Ls. We have retained 79% of the staff submitted in 2014 –
many of whom have been promoted during the REF cycle. In 2014, our female staff profile took
the form 1P, 1AP, 2SLs, 3Ls. Now it is 5Ps, 2AP, 4SLs, 2Ls (see Figure 1). We have encouraged
and achieved a significant improvement in female staff at more senior levels.




                                   Figure 1: Demographic changes


2.2 Early Career Researchers (ECRs)

Our ECRs (PhD students and Postdoctoral Research Fellows) are a critical part of the UoA’s
world class research aspirations and are at the heart of the University’s research culture. Our
Doctoral College has an active support mechanism via an ECR network and an online ‘ECR
Hub’. We seek to develop world-class ECRs and ensure that they have a ‘voice’ across the
University and are involved in the development of strategies to support this cohort of
researchers. The University has signed the Researcher Development Concordat which aims to
ensure all UK researchers work in healthy and supportive research environments within a
decade. Every two years the University conducts an internal review to assess its performance
in meeting obligations under the Concordat and to gauge progress against actions arising from
the previous evaluation. An action plan, drawn up based on the responses of internal
questionnaires, outlines how further improvements can be achieved. Some of the
recommendations are described in the following sections. As described above, during the REF
period, Exeter has led or partnered in five EPSRC CDTs and these have resulted in crucial inputs
to the associated research groups and helped create further critical mass. Engineering was
instrumental in the creation of an institutional 2nd year PhD conference to advertise and promote
interdisciplinary research ideas and also a Women in Science seminar series. Our Researcher
Development Programme run by the Doctoral College has a sector leading training and
development programme (for details see Sections 3.9-3.13 in ILES).

2.3 Support for new / young staff

During the REF period, (as a University wide policy) the probation period for new Lecturers has
been shortened from 5 to 3 years. Our mandatory induction training covers topics such as
Equality and Diversity, Information Security and Health and Safety. Engineering also offers
specific local inductions including building tours, lab facilities, and staff introductions. Newly
appointed academic staff receive support through ‘ramped’ teaching loads, providing relief from
teaching during their first three years. In their first year, staff are encouraged to develop their
collaborations within and beyond the University and, in particular, to apply for an EPSRC New
Investigator Award (NIA). New appointments are generally provided with internal seed funding
and access to a PhD student, to support their NIA applications. They are also given intensive
additional mentoring from research support staff and academic leads. We believe this package
has been instrumental in our success in terms of winning NIAs (5 within the REF period). We
also actively support the ECR/Lecturer transition process – particularly through our ECR


                                              9
Network. In addition, the ECR Hub draws together different aspects of support through training
and development, funding, initiatives and competitions.

2.4 Personnel development

As part of our People Development Strategy, the University has focused on increasing staff
awareness of the importance of managing their career, and we have enhanced our development
opportunities to support them. New activities include ‘Taking control of your career’ workshops,
CV writing skills sessions, shadowing opportunities, 360 assessments, and one-to-one career
coaching. ‘Research Weeks’ have been regularly organised led by the professional services
team and directed towards all active researchers. They provide an opportunity to disseminate
‘intelligence’ about likely future calls from RCUK, specific training on topics such as grant writing
skills, provide opportunities to share good practice, and create an environment in which to
nurture potential cross discipline consortia and build new contacts.

Our new institution wide ‘One Step Beyond’ mentoring scheme has seen tremendous take up:
60% amongst staff at senior lecturer level and below. The mentoring scheme provides an
opportunity to develop knowledge in areas such as building informal teams and collaborations,
citizenship development, Leadership & Management Development, and covers topics such as
managing personal/family life with professional/career aspirations and Research Development.

All staff undergo a rigorous personal development review (PDR) every year with their Academic
Lead. In these meetings any problems are discussed, solutions sought, and research plans are
made and reviewed for the academic year. Annually, all staff are invited (and encouraged) to
apply for study leave. Applications are considered and are awarded on merit.

2.5 Staff recognition and promotion

Staff retention and contract type are monitored and there is a University policy to reduce the
percentage of fixed term contracts with a move to permanency for ECR cohorts. Gender balance
is also monitored and reported to the Engineering Inclusivity Working Group. Staff are provided
with clear, transparent and objective information about the activities and standards that
academics should focus on at each stage of their career. Applications for Associate Professor
and Professor are subject to internal interview prior to seeking external references, before a final
assessment by a University academic promotions panel. Staff are regularly made aware of the
promotion criteria, which are discussed during annual their PDR. A departmental promotions
committee comprising the Head of Department, Academic Leads, and Directors of Research
and Education, identifies staff that are viewed as credible promotion candidates and advises
them to apply – a process that mitigates against the potential gender bias of a system that relies
on self-promotion. At all career stages, we put a strong emphasis on career progression, to retain
and reward hardworking and high-performing staff from lecturer upwards. During the REF cycle,
in terms of promotions, the following transitions took place: 8 AP→P; 7 SL→AP; 15 L→ SL.

2.6 Equality, diversity and inclusion

We are committed to creating an environment where all staff can flourish. We want our
commitment to equality, diversity and inclusivity to underpin how we operate, how we think about
our strategies, how we implement our actions and how we interact and communicate at all levels
(see sections 3.14-3.17 in ILES). Equality, diversity and inclusion is seen as particularly
important in Engineering, which has suffered from a historical lack of diversity and gender
imbalance. We already have a foundation of recognised good practice in some areas reflected
in our Institutional Athena Swan Silver Award, and a bronze award for the Department of
Engineering and the Camborne School of Mines. Our gender positive policies are having a
significant and measurable effect. For example, since 2015, the UoA has increased the


                                              10
proportion of female staff from 16% to 25% and we now have five female full professors. We
recently facilitated a Black Lives Matter workshop and a new PhD scholarship will be introduced
to take students through UG/PGR to academia to increase the number of black academics within
the discipline.

We offer leadership and personal development courses specifically for women, including Aurora
(aimed at Lecturer/Senior Lecturer level staff) and Springboard (aimed at ECRs). Engineering
and CSM encourage and support staff to attend these courses. There have been five
attendances on Aurora since 2014. Where a member of staff has taken a break for maternity or
caring responsibilities, adjustments are made to the quantity/volume of activities which are
assessed, while maintaining the quality standards. The numbers and success of applications for
progression are monitored by protected characteristics to ensure that the University’s equality,
diversity and inclusion standards are reflected in the decision-making progress. The University
has developed gender equality actions plans to support our Athena Swan commitments and to
address the gender pay gap. Childcare support is provided across both campuses. A salary
sacrifice scheme is in place to support staff to meet childcare costs using childcare vouchers.
Sports Holiday Camps for children, already run in Exeter during vacation periods, have now been
extended to the Penryn Campus.

The UoA has a clear policy on adjusting performance/promotion targets for part-time workers:
the quantity but not the quality of targets is reduced based relative to the reduced working hours.
We have a policy of informal flexible working, such as working from home and flexible working
hours. The University has a detailed policy on flexible working, which is available online as a
‘toolkit’ for all current and prospective employees. The toolbox can be accessed from the
department’s website. The University is currently consulting on staff preferences since the
widespread adoption of working from home during the coronavirus pandemic.

Every two years the University organises an externally run anonymous Employee Engagement
survey. The survey covers a range of topics including: my role; career and personal
development; rewards benefits and recognition; inclusivity and culture; management; and my
university. In the last survey, engineering had an 80% response rate and indicated 85% of its
staff had good working relationships with their colleagues and 84% felt their role contributed to
research excellence. Overall, 81% felt positive about the inclusivity, behaviours and culture
within the discipline. The results from the survey have been reflected on, and changes agreed
and actioned, including developing an overall vision “Engineering the Future@Exeter”.

A committee comprising professorial staff, all with previous REF experience, reviewed the staff-
nominated outputs. The committee received externally provided unconscious bias training arranged
by the University. In a series of formal meetings, the committee ranked and selected our
submitted outputs based on a projected grade for each paper and the quality of the
accompanying 100-word statement. In the case of indistinguishable perceived ranking, the
papers associated with ECRs were included preferentially, and effort was made to balance the
number of papers across research groups. The final submission has a profile in which female
staff have an inclusion rate of 2.9 papers per FTE (compared to 2.4 per FTE for male staff).

2.7 Individual Wellbeing

Wellbeing needs are kept in focus during departmental decision-making, with data from both
University- and College-level staff-surveys considered (see above). ALs encourage individuals
to look to their wellbeing and can direct them to the university’s ‘Mindfulness’ and ‘Stress-
management’ workshops and web-based resources. During the pandemic, in contrast to the
normal term-time patterns, shorter weekly virtual staff meetings were organised in the run-up to
the new academic year and in the first term. These were designed to help circulate plans and
discuss the unfolding narrative, but also to try to engender a collegiate spirit in the face of the

                                             11
unprecedented situation. During these meetings, staff were encouraged to raise and discuss
issues. Both UoA Heads of Department (Engineering/CSM) operated open door policies for staff.


2.8 Research Students: Recruitment, Support and Training

As shown in Figure 2 below, our PGR recruitment numbers have increased year-by-year since
                                            REF2014 including significant growth in
                                            international student numbers (from e.g., China,
                                            Saudi Arabia, Egypt). This has led to a rich and
                                            diverse PGR research environment that
                                            strengthens and underpins the work of the UoA.
                                            The unit has been successful in deriving
                                            studentship funds from a variety of internal (e.g.,
                                            University, College) and external (e.g., DTP,
                                            CDT, industrial, government) sources indicating
                                            that this growth is sustainable in the long term.
Figure 2: PGR recruitment numbers

Recruitment campaigns are organised by the University, with selection being devolved to
Engineering. Initiatives include offering fully or partially funded studentships, specific
agreements with partner universities, and networking with alumni. A first stage on-line
application in which a preferred area of study or pre-advertised project is specified, is then sent
to Engineering. Once applicant and potential supervisor have reached agreement, an offer is
made subject to financial support (considered separately).

As part of their induction, all PGRs complete mandatory online training courses in Health and
Safety, Equality and Diversity, Information Governance and Security and Research Integrity.
Each of our CDTs also has their own extensive training programme covering both technical and
professional topics. The programme focuses on teaching core skills that equip PGRs to
undertake and complete a research degree, and to develop and articulate transferable skills for
their future career. The quality of training and supervision is captured in a yearly exercise, during
which the student, as well as the supervisor, report on progress and training needs, as well as
their achievements. The reports are collected and then assessed by the College and Department
Directors of PGRs. A web-based database (MyPGR) provides the mechanism by which the
student support system is articulated. It includes: minimum supervisor contact expectations; a
record of supervisory meetings; a record of supervisory agreement, training needs analysis and
regular progress monitoring.

The funding associated with the CDTs has given us an opportunity to review and enhance our
PhD training within all of Engineering. As part of the Metamaterials CDT, our industrial partners
were closely involved in helping us design and deliver new training material on specific topics of
direct interest to them We have also introduced bespoke training activities in ‘professional and
transferable skills’, including, for example a very well-received Project Management course (run
by Fistral Ltd), a Science Writing course (run by Write About Science), a Leadership course, and
an innovative course in Cognitive Behavioural Coaching and Creative Thinking. Alongside formal
technical and transferable skills training, we have developed a seminar series “Beyond a PhD”
for students to learn about working in non-academic environments (e.g., Starting your own SME;
Teaching; Business Management; Media; Defence; Intellectual Property; and Policy). By
ensuring they develop other skills valued by industrial (and increasingly academic) employers,
students make themselves both more employable and of more value to their future employers.
Also, organised through the STREAM CDT, an open invitation STREAM symposium and a
Challenge Week take place each summer including transferrable skills training, and guest
lectures from leading industrialists and scientists. WISE organises an annual week-long
residential Summer School, which includes students’ research presentations and poster

                                              12
displays, based on primarily a water-themed ‘challenge’, site visits, and talks from leading
academic and industrial partners. IDCORE delivers research-orientated summer schools at the
partners’ facilities. CDT good practice is disseminated through a number of routes including
mixing of cohorts with non-CDT funded PhD projects.

2.9 Significant Fellowships in the REF Period

The winning of a significant number of fellowships has been one of our key research strategies
during this REF period. Success has allowed the appointment of new staff to cover the teaching
and administrative duties of an individual during their fellowship period. Examples are:
     Craicun: EPSRC Engineering Fellowship for Growth, 2014
     S. Zhang: Royal Society Industry Fellowship, 2014
     Hrkac: Royal Society Fellowship, 2014
     Y. Zhu: Royal Society Fellowship, 2015
     Hrkac: Royal Society Fellowship, 2016
     Neves: EU Marie Curie Fellowship, 2016
     Luxmoore: EPSRC Innovation Fellowship 2018
     Holsgrove: Robin Ling Fellowship, Royal Devon & Exeter NHS Foundation Trust, 2018
     Alwi: Royal Academy of Engineering Industrial Fellowship, 2018
     Aziz: Royal Academy of Engineering Industrial Fellowship, 2019
     Dodwell: Turing Artificial Intelligence Fellowship, 2019
     Fu: Royal Society Industry Fellowship, 2019
     Farmani: Royal Academy of Engineering Industrial Fellowship, 2019
     M Zhu: Royal Society Industry Fellowship, 2020


Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income (overview)

                                                 Research income for Exeter Engineering has
                                                 increased significantly over the REF period in
                                                 comparison to earlier ones (Figure 3). The
                                                 current level of £68.7M in awards compares
                                                 with £28M for REF2014 and £13M for
                                                 REF2008. One factor in this success has been
                                                 the excellent appointments made over this
                                                 period and the quality of the candidates we
                                                 have been able to attract as part of the virtuous
                                                 circle of research level enhancement over the
                                                 last 10 years.

Figure 3: Awards

The UoA has invested time and effort to increase its research income by:
    Supporting applications to win large grants
    Encouraging staff to apply for prestigious fellowships
    Increasing in our level of industrial income
    Organising workshops on grant writing skills
    Increasing the general level of quality of all RCUK applications through a rigorous internal
      peer review process.




                                            13
3.1.1 Large Grant Successes

In response to the changing funding climate, the UoA has formulated strategies to apply for and
win large grants. The University has made significant co-creation investments in applications for
large grants and encouraged the creation of internal consortia through the organisation of
workshops, sandpits and briefing sessions. Our most significant awards during this period are:
     VSimulators: Human Factors Simulation (Brownjohn), EPSRC, £3.5M
     Fun-COMP Functionally scaled computing technology (Wright) H2020 project, €4.0M
     Team-A: The Tailored Electromagnetic, (Nash), EPSRC, £2.5M
     Centre for Future Clean Mobility (Smith), Heart of the South West LEP, £2M
     Composite Material for Advanced Building Fenestration to Enhance Energy Efficiency
        (Tahir), EPSRC £1.6M
     Victrex Strategic Research Partnership (Ghita), Victrex Manufacturing Ltd, £1.5M
     Emergency Flood Planning & Management (Butler), EPSRC/GCRF, £1.5M
     Zero Power, Large Area Rail Track Monitoring, (M Zhu), EPSRC, £1.4M
     Engineering Fellowships for Growth (Craciun), EPSRC, £1.1M
     ESIF - ERDF Marine-I, (Johanning), ERDF, £1M
     Disruptive Optoelectronic Manufacture, (Nash), EPSRC, £1M
     Lobster Grower 2 (Johanning), Innovate UK Facilities, £0.8M

Furthermore the Responsible Mining group has played a key role in several large grants from
EPSRC (DISTINCTIVE EP/L014041/1, £4.9M), H2020 (STOICISM: 310645; €8.6M), and the
RFCS-funded grants (SLOPES: 752504; €3.3M; INDIRES: 748632, €3.2M; PRASS III: 752504,
€3.1M; TEXMIN: 847250, €3.1M) contributing in particular specialised expertise in mineral
recovery, geomechanics, health and safety, environmental and social aspects of mining, to
address global challenges for the mining and excavation-related industries to maximise
resources, improve safety and minimise risks.


3.1.2 Industry Income

With an increasing proportion of future government investment likely to be linked to the needs of
the UK economy, we have worked hard to increase our interaction with industry. Most of the
large projects listed above have industry links – some with substantial monetary contributions
from our industry partners, both in-kind and cash. Research funding from Industry has grown
since REF2014, increasing by 6% overall to £3.7M, with strong growth in funding from industry
from outside the EU (7-fold), and from in the EU (3-fold). Furthermore, we are now making a
much greater impact in terms of Knowledge Transfer activities as evidenced by our steep rise in
the number of KTPs (34 in this REF cycle compared to 6 in the previous one), and the numbers
of companies engaged in collaborative work with us. This uplift has resulted in part from the
creation of a budget-holding post specifically facing Industry (deputy Associate Dean Research
Industry), who has responsibility across the College for raising the profile of industry research
both with industry itself and amongst staff.

3.1.3 Development support for applications

A workload model exists to ensure the balancing of teaching and research requirements. A
minimum research allowance for all staff (20% of all allocated time) ensures that research active
staff have time to write grant proposals (and research papers). We provide multi-layered support
for grant applications. Early on in the REF cycle, additional discipline specific research manager
posts were created in the UoA. These staff were employed to help act as ‘case officers’ to
manage the process of developing large grant proposals. A ‘pipeline’ system was created to help
manage the application development and facilitate resource allocation at key stages. Academics
were encouraged to flag potential ideas early on and identify hard deadlines to allow for internal

                                             14
review and proposal polishing. Furthermore, we have established a rigorous internal peer review
college to provide internal expert feedback on bids prior to submission, and, post-submission, to
support the applicant’s response to the reviewer’s comments. A robust internal sifting process
for the most competitive schemes, such as fellowships and ERC starting grants, ensures only
candidates with a relatively high chance of success move to full application, thereby effectively
managing demands on time for both academics and support staff. Any bids leading to panel
interviews (e.g., fellowships) are supported by internally run communications training sessions
and mock panels.

3.2 Infrastructure

In addition to increased external income, there has also been investment by both the University
and external funders in infrastructure and facilities during the REF period:
     Alongside a £13.5M programme of maintenance work within the Engineering building on
        the Streatham Campus (2019-2021), a £6.5M programme of improvements to workshop
        space, facilities and equipment is underway. This will involve a refurbishment and
        remodelling of laboratory and workshop space, new project and storage space and the
        purchase of new and replacement equipment.
     The new Engineering Research building on the Exeter Science Park offers 1128 m2 gross
        internal area. The project budget to deliver the building and car park was £7.3m. This will
        be home to the Centre for Future Clean Mobility and the Smart Grid research group.
     VSimulators [leads Brownjohn & Pavic] (also based on the Science Park) is a recently
        opened, EPSRC-funded, unique experimental facility and comprises a 4x4 metre, six-
        axis high-frequency low amplitude motion platform equipped with an array of force plates,
        a motion capture system and multi-user virtual reality. The specification originated from
        a broad industry-identified requirement to better address poor management of human
        factors in structural design. VSimulators is also intended to service non-engineering
        research in physiology, sports science and healthcare and has already opened up new
        exciting interdisciplinary opportunities.
     The Metal Additive Manufacturing laboratory is also located at Exeter Science Park. It
        came into use in 2018 based on a total facility equipment investment of £400K. It has
        four main machines:
            o an EOS M100 Direct Metal Laser-Sintering (DMLS) machine (the AM platform)
                 capable of printing parts in stainless steel and titanium alloy
            o a PFG-1545AH horizontal spindle surface grinder
            o a Vecstar Heat Treatment Furnace to perform heat treatment on printed parts
            o a Guyson Formula F1200 blast system to perform finishing operation on printed
                 parts.
        This is the only metal AM facility in South West England and aims to attract and develop
        industrial collaborations with local companies. This facility complements CALM’s
        research which is focused on polymer materials.

3.3 Usage of major external, national and international facilities

Funded by EU H2020 projects, Alwi & Edwards were given access to unique international
facilities for flight testing new fault tolerant controllers. As part of the H2020 funded project
RECONFIGURE, controllers created by Exeter were developed to flight certification standards
and industrially assessed by AIRBUS on their ground-based Validation & Verification integration
test facility at Toulouse (which constitutes a real aircraft cockpit representative of the AIRBUS
fleet). The follow-on project VISION further increased the controller Technology Readiness
Levels by a series of piloted flight-tests on an experimental fly-by-wire aircraft (Mupal-alpha)
owned by the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA). The Mupal-alpha research aircraft
allows the integration of new flight controllers within an experimental fly-by-wire system and
allows flight evaluation of new novel configurations. This is a unique world-wide test facility.


                                             15
Staff working in computational engineering make extensive use of the Isambard high
performance computing facilities based at Bristol. This unique new service run by the GW4
Alliance, together with Cray Inc. and the Met Office, and based on a £3M award by EPSRC,
provides multiple advanced architectures within the same system in order to enable evaluation
and comparison across a diverse range of hardware platforms. It is a Cray XC50 system with
20,992 cores and is the 2nd largest ARM-based supercomputer in the world. Tabor was Co-I on
Isambard Phase 2; (EP/T022078/1, £4.1M). The group also exploits the ARCHER UK National
Supercomputing Service. ARCHER provides a resource to allow researchers to run simulations
and calculations that require large numbers of processing cores working in a tightly coupled,
parallel fashion.

3.4 Facilities at Exeter

The UoA hosts several unique research facilities which have been nurtured over several years
in addition to those described above.

Additive manufacturing facilities: CALM includes facilities for laser sintering (EOS P800, EOS
P100 Formiga, DTM 2000 SinterSTation), material extrusion (STratasys Dimension768, 3D
Systems Projet HD 300) and Powder analysis (Freeman Ft4 Powder Rheometer). Investment in
this area has been further boosted by the recent Victrex plc strategic partnership.

Scour testing facility: This facility consists of an Armfield sediment recirculation tilting flume –
60cm wide, 70cm deep and 14m long. A magnetic flow meter allows the control of a pump
capable of producing discharges up to 170 litres/second. The flume is equipped with state-of-
the-art instrumentation for flow and erosion measurements including a digital point gauge for
surface profiles, particle image velocimetry, a Doppler velocimeter for measuring flow velocities,
and an echo sounder for measuring scour depth. This facility has helped secure and support
projects such as: EPSRC EP/M017354/1 Risk Assessment of Masonry Bridges Under Flood
Conditions; and EP/J010138/1 Optimal Design of Very Large Tidal Stream Farms.

Renewable Energy: has access to significant specialist resources and equipment applicable to
the renewable energy sector. Most of our unique facilities relate to ocean energy research:
     Falmouth Bay test site (FaBTest): is a pre-consented test area for offshore renewable
       energy, located within Falmouth Harbour. This 2.8km2 nursery facility is sheltered from
       extreme sea conditions and enables device developers to test full-scale devices in a
       moderate wave climate.
     Dynamic Marine Component test facility (DMaC) is a purpose-built test rig that aims to
       replicate the forces and motions that components are subjected to in offshore
       applications. It can be used to replicate axial tension/compression forces, and has a
       headstock with three degrees of freedom representative of x- and y-bending and torsion.
     The group operates three wave buoys, two 4-beam and one 5-beam ADCPs for recording
       in situ wave and current data to support offshore research projects and FaBTest
       operation.
     Additional instrumentation includes a VideoRay Pro 4 remotely operated vehicle (ROV)
       for underwater surveys, a WASSP multibeam sonar and SeaPro dropped and towed
       cameras.
     A dedicated 32 node Beowulf cluster to support running software such as the SWAN
       wave model and Delft3D Flow, this facility enables us to run state-of-the-art modelling
       simulations for resource, engineering and environmental impact analysis.

These facilities have helped secure and support large ocean energy research projects such as:
EU H2020 FLOTANT, No. 815289 and the EPSRC research projects EP/S000747/1 and
EP/R007519/1.


                                              16
Centre for Metamaterial Research and Innovation (CMRI): The CMRI is host to an extensive
suite of laboratories for materials and device fabrication and characterisation, including four
special purpose electronic and photonic clean rooms (Class 100 to Class 10000). Facilities
include state-of-the-art e-beam lithography, laser lithography and plasma-etching for device
fabrication (funded via a £1.1M EPSRC equipment grant (Wright, EP/K017160/1), along with a
full range of materials deposition equipment (e.g RF and DC sputtering, evaporation, CVD and
PECVD) and materials and device characterisation (e.g. XRD, AFM, SEM, STEM, TEM, Raman
spectroscopy, TERS, X-ray CT, VSM, Kerr-microscopy, FTIR) equipment.

Imaging Suite: These facilities are heavily used by several groups within this UoA (and indeed
from other UoAs within the University). In particular, members of NEST (Baldycheva, Craicun,
Nash, Neves, Wright, Zhu), Renewable Energy (Li, Tahir, Mallick) have used the equipment to
deliver results from a number of significant grants. The available equipment includes:

      a TESCAN VEGA3 Scanning Electron Microscope with Energy Dispersive Spectrometer
       (EDS), and an Oxford Instrument X-MAXN EDS detector.
      A xT Nova Nanolab 600 Focused Ion Beam unit capable of low- and high-resolution
       scanning electron microscopy, scanning ion microscopy, as well as ion beam and
       electron beam lithography.
      The JEOL 2100 Transmission Electron Microscope provides a point resolution of 0.25
       nm and lattice resolution of 0.14 nm in theory, generating atomic resolution images.
      The Bruker D8 advanced X-Ray Diffractometer has wide applications in analysing
       powders, bulk and thin film materials, quantitative phase analysis, unit lattice parameters,
       crystal structure.
      The Bruker Innova Atomic Force Microscope is a high-resolution scanning probe
       microscopy facility for true 2D and 3D surface profile, with sub nanometre resolution.
      The X-Tek CT is a non-destructive X-ray inspection technique capable of producing 2D
       and 3D maps/structures of materials without damaging the samples.

HPC Facilities: The University of Exeter has invested £3M in the flagship HPC facility ISCA to
serve the advanced computing requirements for all research disciplines. ISCA combines a
traditional HPC cluster with a virtualised cluster environment. This provides 398 computational
nodes, including standard compute nodes (16 or 20 cores), high memory nodes and GPU nodes
available for use by research groups across the university. Significant research grants facilitated
by this include Moxey’s participation in “PRISM:Platform for Research in Simulation Methods”
(EP/R029423/1) and “ELEMENT – Exascale Mesh Network” (EP/V001345/1), Tabor’s “Data-
Driven Surrogate-Assisted Evolutionary Fluid Dynamic Optimisation” (EP/M017915/1) and the
CCP-WSI+ network (EP/T025782/1).

Responsible Mining Group (CSM): On the Penryn campus, the college has significantly
expanded the research infrastructure through the purchase of two scanning electron
microscopes with automated mineralogy software (2014 and 2018), optical microscopes (2015),
laser ablation ICP-MS (2016), an ICP-OES (2017), and a stable isotope facility in 2015. These
facilities have underpinned the delivery of, for example, the CoG3 (NE/M011372/1) and SoS
RARE (NE/M011429/1) projects.

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Collaboration with end users

UoE is key to economic stability and growth in Devon and Cornwall (see Section 1.11 in ILES)
with 1 in 14 jobs in Exeter dependent on the University. The University’s Innovation Impact and

                                             17
Business (IIB) directorate directly engage with academics to capture potential impact case
studies and help embed and support an impact culture within the unit. Impact Incubator events
have been organised, and staff have sought and received College/UoE funds to support Impact
Case Studies (ICS) development. The focus of the Business engagement strategy involves
supporting collaborative R&D services, developing highly skilled people and regional innovation
which recognises Exeter’s key role within the South West’s innovation ecosystem.

In addition to our chosen ICS, all our research groups have produced other notable impact and
collaboration with end users. For example:
      Hrkac has developed a new low rare earth permanent high energy magnet for Hitachi.
         These magnets are now in use in the Prius hybrid model and lead to a significant
         reduction of CO2 and make the electric motor part of the hybrid 20% more efficient.
      Zhu is working with Network Rail, Babcock and AIRBUS on the development of energy
         harvesting powered wireless sensor system technologies.
      Nash has developed a new generation of high-performance thermal infrared emitters
         and is working with QinetiQ on deploying these devices for a range of applications.
      Memon is leading research on smart water systems for rural Africa in association with
         eWaterpay, focussing on advanced system failure prediction for proactive maintenance.
      Tabor and Moxey are working with a wide range of companies to develop capabilities in
         applying CFD to their specific problems (e.g., Hydro International, Oxford Instruments,
         McLaren Racing).
      Smith has developed fretting wear prediction codes for Rolls-Royce for use in R&T and
         design departments, which could facilitate significant reduction of weight in 125,000
         components in gas turbines.
      Ghita’s partnership with Victrex is delivering new high-performance polymer products for
         the Additive Manufacturing industry of which AM200 is the first material commercialised.
      Holsgrove is collaborating with surgeons at the Royal Devon and Exeter Hip Unit to
         utilise wearable sensors to improve patient recovery and rehabilitation. Zhang also
         collaborates with the South Devon NHS Foundation Trust, Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS
         Foundation Trust, London, on developing next generation graphene-based anti-cancer
         nanomedicines.
      Reynold’s developed and implemented a $2M active vibration control system to reduce
         problematic vibrations at a concert venue in the US due to crowd induced loads during
         concerts.
      Alwi & Edwards have worked with AIRBUS Toulouse and Prismatic Ltd (one of the
         world’s leading developers of High-Altitude Long Endurance aircraft) on the
         development of flight control systems.
      Belmont & Edwards are collaborating with MOD/dstl and a wide range of commercial
         partners (e.g., BAE Systems, Babcock, Leonardo Helicopters) to bring the technology of
         Deterministic Marine Environment Prediction to marketable products.

4.2 Spin-Out Companies

The UoA is directly involved with a number of spin-out companies:

Simpleware Ltd: a software spin-out led by Young, was sold to Synopsys, Inc. in 2016. Young
continues in his role as engineering director. He was named as one of the top 50 entrepreneurs
by the SETsquared university business incubator. Joint research with the US Army Research
Labs (on Image based Material Homogenisation) has resulted in 3 software products with NASA.

Full Scale Dynamics: Brownjohn, Pavic & Reynolds are directors of the University of Exeter
spin-off Full Scale Dynamics Ltd (FSD), providing international consulting services in vibration
serviceability management and structural health monitoring of full-scale - primarily civil


                                            18
engineering - structures. FSD’s work and support feeds into research proposals (e.g., the
EPSRC-funded VSimulators) and streamlines the application of research outcomes in industry.

SEAMS: Based on the outputs of the first of a suite of collaborative research projects led by
Savic, a spin-out company SEAMS Ltd., which focuses on data analytics and asset
management, was set up by the University of Exeter in 2002. The company has since delivered
support for over £120 billion of infrastructure investment decisions worldwide, providing savings
of up to 20% in capital and operational costs to clients. In January 2018, SEAMS Ltd. was
acquired by Arcadis for £11.4 million.

Concrene: Craciun and her research group have developed a technology that consists of
proprietary formulations and methods for producing concrete reinforced with graphene. The
technology has established proof of concept in trials with a multinational corporate cement
manufacturer. Concrene® - Graphene Reinforced Concrete, an innovative material for the
construction market with higher durability, strength and water resistance, is being
commercialised successfully via the spin-off company Concrene Limited.

BuildSolar: By developing new innovative more efficient solar technologies, Mallick and his
group have facilitated the deployment of solar technologies in the UK and abroad. Building
integrated Photovoltaics have been developed and are being promoted towards
commercialisation as construction materials through a spin-out company (BuildSolar) in
partnership with National Rail and HS2.

OTA: Melville-Shreeve’s research into remotely operated rainwater harvesting systems led to a
spinout, OTA Water. OTA delivered proof of concept projects for three UK water companies,
modelled the benefits of rainwater systems in a range of settings, and installed 50+ smart
rainwater harvesting devices in the UK and Spain. The company developed a hardware and
software platform ‘StormSense’ that helps reduce wastewater discharges. To facilitate scale-up,
the company was sold to a water industry SME in January 2020.

Bodle: Wright sits on the board of Bodle Technologies based in Oxford. Its core technology is
centred on the creation and manipulation of colour reflected off a surface by changing the
refractive index of ultra-thin functional layers. This highly enabling piece of engineering was first
published in Nature in 2014 in a paper co-authored by Wright. Bodle Technologies is now
partnering with leading manufacturers to deploy its technology for use in reflective displays for a
range of applications.

4.3 Strategic Partnerships

VICTREX strategic partnership: Building upon the successful relationship fostered over the
last few years, Victrex plc and the CALM have engaged in a five-year partnership. The aim is to
further develop the next generation of PEEK polymers for Additive Manufacturing and to
commercialise novel material solutions throughout the supply chain. In so doing, the University
of Exeter will play a pivotal role in the development of the UK Additive Manufacturing (AM) sector.

South West Water: The Centre for Resilience in Environment, Water and Waste has been
established to undertake research into some of the most pressing environmental challenges in
our time – namely how we can manage our precious natural resources in ways which are
sustainable and resilient in the face of climate change and population growth. The research is a
multidisciplinary endeavour undertaken by academics from several different disciplines including
Engineering, Geography, Biosciences, Economics, Psychology. These staff work with industry,
government and NGOs to develop a shared understanding of the issue.




                                              19
4.4 Academic Collaborations

Engineering staff hold honorary positions in other overseas organisations including i) Beijing
Compo Advanced Technology Co Ltd; ii) a visiting professorship at Harbin Institute of
Technology; iii) a visiting Professorship at UNESCO-IHE (Delft, The Netherlands); iv) Dodwell
holds the Romberg Guest Professorship at Heidelberg in the area of Data-Centric Engineering
(this position supports development of the high performance finite element package “DUNE”); v)
Young is a Guest Professor at the China University of Geosciences (Wuhan) China; vi) Edwards
is Visiting professor at ESNEA Paris France; vii) Young has been visiting professor at Chongqing
University, China; viii) Butler is a visiting professor at Xian University of Architecture &
Technology, China; ix) Johanning holds a chair at the UK-China Centre for ORE (UK&CHN
|CORE) and is Visiting Dean of the Yantai Research Institution Harbin Engineering University.

As a result of our involvement in European projects, we have collaborated with many prestigious
European institutions including ONERA (France), DLR (Germany), SZTAKI (Hungary), TU Delft
(The Netherlands); ETH Zurich (Switzerland), University of Augsburg (Germany), Politecnico di
Milano (Italy), Universidad Politécnica de Madrid (Spain); Technical University of Denmark,
Copenhagen; Luleå University of Technology (Sweden), Greenland Institute of Natural
Resources (Greenland); and the Norwegian Geotechnical Institute, NGI, (Norway).

Exchange visit students, funded by the Newton-China scholarship and British Council Newton
Funds, have facilitated collaborations with Tongji University; the Chinese Academy of Sciences
(Beijing); Southeast University (Nanjing); Tsinghua University; Harbin Institute of Technology;
and Dalian University of Technology; Xi'an University of Architecture. The WISE CDT promotes
and funds student exchanges with internationally leading universities (e.g. University of
California, USA; Tsinghua University, China); and our Metamaterials CDT has exchange and
placement arrangements with both universities (e.g. Oxford, Southampton, IMEC, ETH Zurich)
and industry (e.g. QinetiQ, dstl, Dyson, IBM Zurich).

In order to promote exchanges and research collaborations, a number of Memorandums of
Agreement are in place. Recent examples include MoUs with IIT-Madras and the Technical
University of Munich, and an agreement with the University of British Columbia. Engineering
has been successful in bidding for Initiator Grants and funded joint PhDs under our University of
Exeter/University of Queensland (QUEX) Partnership.

The UoA itself funds short term international academic visits. We also encourage and support
hosting of internationally leading academics. Recent examples include our support to Prof
Rodney Stewart’s (Griffith University) Leverhulme Trust Fellowship application from Australia for
his placement at Exeter. We regularly support international research placements using other
opportunities such as the Newton Fund and the British Council Institutional Links programme.

Thies is a Co-Director of the Supergen ORE hub. This is a £9.1M strategic investment by EPSRC
to provide research leadership connecting academia, industry, policy and public stakeholders
and to inspire innovation and maximise societal value in offshore wind, wave and tidal energy.

4.5 Membership of Advisory panels and Societies

Eleven of our current Engineering staff have sat on governmental advisory bodies, such as i)
UNESCO’s International Federation for Information Processing, ii) NATO’s Vessel Motion
Prediction SG61 Committee, iii) MOD’s Virtual Ships Advisory Group, iv) the Chinese Natural
Science Foundation. Staff have also contributed to review bodies for example i) Canada NSERC,
ii) Israel Science Foundation, and iii) EU frameworks. Pavic was invited to attend the by-
invitation-only IABSE Henderson Colloquium on adaptable structures and serviceability, to
discuss and strategize about the future of the area.


                                            20
Nationally, 15 Engineering staff have been EPSRC College members during the REF period.
Butler sat on the EPSRC Engineering Strategic Advisory Team and is a full member of the REF
UoA 12 sub-panel. Seven staff sit on advisory, national or professional bodies including: i) The
Institute of Materials Minerals and Mining; ii) the HSE Quarry National Joint Advisory Committee;
iii) the IStructE stadia guidance working group, iv) the BSI Mechanical vibration, shock and
condition monitoring committee; iv) chair of the IEEE Technical committee on Variable Structure
Control. Furthermore, Glass is Chair of the Mineral Processing and Extractive Metallurgy division
of the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining (IOM3).

Several staff are Fellows of the following societies: the Royal Academy of Engineering, the Royal
Society of Chemistry, the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, the Institution of Civil Engineers,
the Institute of Engineering Technology, the Chartered Institution of Water and Environmental
Management, the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining, the Geological Society, the
International Water Association and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.

4.6 Prizes and awards
 Butler was elected fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering
 Wang was elected a fellow of the IEEE
 Dodwell won the SIGEST Prize for best paper in the SIAM/ASA for uncertainty quantification
 Fu won both the 'Best Research-Oriented Paper' and ‘Best Practice Oriented Paper’ from
    the ASCE Journal of Water Resources Planning and Management
 Fu & Butler’s PhD student – Dr Chris Sweetapple won the Scopus Young Researcher UK
    Award in the area of Environmental Science 2015
 Kapelan won the Environmental Water Resources Institute’s Best Policy-Oriented Paper
    Award (2017)
 Moxey received two best paper awards from ACME (2015) and the International Meshing
    Roundtable (2017)
 Sundaram won the IAAM award in the Global Graphene Forum, 2019, Stockholm, Sweden
 Vogt won the Silver medal, awarded by the SAIMM for a paper in its Journal in 2017
 Yang won Best Developmental Paper Award at the British Academy of Management
    Conference, 2017
 Johanning has a China Academy of Science Presidents International Fellowship Visiting
    Scientist award
 Eames won the Napier Shaw Bronze medal (best paper) in the Building Services Engineering
    Research and Technology Journal
 Monsalve won the 2019 Doak Prize awarded by the Journal of Sound and Vibration
 Tian was identified as one of WES’ Top 50 Women in Engineering 2020
 Coggan received the IOM3 Medal for Excellence 2020
 Zhang was given an Emerald 2017 Citation of Excellence Awards in Business Management.

4.7 Conference organisation and talks

Staff have given invited, plenary and keynote talks at more than 50 international conferences,
including: the 2nd World Drone Congress, Shenzhen, China, 2018; 10th International
Perspective on Water Resources and the Environment, Cartagena, Colombia, 2018; 11th
International Conference on Urban Drainage Modelling, Palermo, Italy, 2018; IFAC
SAFEPROCESS Workshop, Warsaw, 2018; UKACC Control, Loughborough, 2014; 2nd Joint
WDSA-CCWI conference, Beijing, China 2020; 13th International Conference on Computing and
Control for the Water Industry (CCWI), Leicester, 2015; the 3rd UK Energy Storage Conference,
University of Birmingham, 2016; Anglo-French Acoustics conference, Marseilles, 2017; Photon
2018, Birmingham, 2018; the 7th World Conference on Structural Control and Monitoring, 2018;
the 6th European Conference on Structural Control 2016; International Conference on Recent
Advances in Non-conventional Energy Resources using Solar Based Technologies, New Delhi,


                                             21
India 2019; the 13th OpenFOAM Workshop, Shanghai, 2018; 2nd International Workshop on
Hydraulic Structures, Coimbra, Portugal 2015; Council for Geoscience Conference, 2016;
ECCOMAS VipIMAGE Tenerife, 2015; Annual Energy Harvesting Society Meeting, Philadelphia,
USA 2018; 6th International Conference on Experimental Vibration Analysis for Civil Engineering
Structures, Dübendorf, Switzerland, 2015; 8th Experimental Vibration Analysis for Civil
Engineering Structures, 2019, Nanjing, Chin;, IASTED International Conference on Modelling,
Identification and Control (MIC 2015), Innsbruck 2015.

4.8 Editorships

Staff edit (as editor-in-chief or lead editor) and serve on the editorial boards of a diverse selection
of top journals. This includes Butler who is the founder & Co-editor-in-Chief of the Urban Water
Journal, and Reynolds who is Editor-in-Chief of the Experimental Techniques Journal. Other
staff serve as Associate Editors for (amongst many) the IEEE Transactions on Automatica
Control, the IEEE Transactions on Control System Technology and the IEEE Transactions on
Aerospace and Electronic Systems; Proceedings of the Royal Society A; Journal of Water
Resources Planning and Management;; Advanced Engineering Informatics; Nature Scientific
Reports; Journal of the Southern African Institute of Mining and Metallurgy; Energies Journal;
International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear Control; IET Renewable Power Generation,
Journal of Hydroinformatics, International Journal of Optimisation and Control; Geomechanics
and Engineering; Journal of Water, Journal of vibration science and engineering. Staff have also
served as Guest Editors of journal special issues.

4.9 Patents

   Aziz (PB152465GB) a sensor & sensing method for detection of defects in ferromagnetic
    structures
   Dodwell (GB252400) a method of designing and manufacturing a composite component
   Kaplan (US080898) decision support for real-time detection, diagnosis and remediation of
    bursts
   Zhu (WO2018220406A1) a method of controlling an energy harvesting system
   Zhu (GB1904599.6) Energy generation
   Young (US20170249529A1) Image processing method
   Mallick (UK PCT/PB151946GB) Construction block with photovoltaic device
   Monsalve (GB2003251.2) Elastomeric isolator
   Craciun (WO2019171061A1) Electrically conductive material
   Craciun (WO2019175564A1) Graphene Reinforced Concrete
   Craciun (US9865369B2) Graphene-based material
   Craciun (US10053772B2) Doped graphene
   Craciun US20190385841A1 HfO2 devices

4.10 Responsiveness to national/international priorities and initiatives

We actively respond to national/international priorities including winning grants from
 Global Challenges Research Fund (e.g., EP/P02839X/1) – where we have active projects
  with partners in India (IISc Bangalore) and Thailand (e.g., Asian Institute of Technology)
 Multiple submissions to the UKRI Call on “UK Climate Change Resilience”

We also have a database of international links, enabling us to promptly respond to any
engineering-related initiatives.




                                               22
