Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leicester

 Unit of Assessment: 34a

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The University of Leicester (UoL) has been a leading international centre for media and
 communication research for over 50 years, making significant contributions to the critical
 analysis of media markets and industries, political and public communication, including
 journalism, and audience research. In this REF cycle we complemented this tradition by focusing
 on the role of media in significant social and cultural spheres including environmental
 communication, health communication, global media, gender and media, social justice in media
 industries and digital security.

 Our research is oriented to real world relevance and impact. Nearly 20 academics have acted as
 consultants and advisers to national and international NGOs, public and private sector agencies,
 government departments, grassroots and community media organisations. We develop our
 research in partnership with a wide range of interest groups and communities in the UK and
 beyond. Our research promotes changes in national and international professional practice and
 policy in the media, museum, creative and food industries, education and health sectors. We are
 committed to expanding public understanding of critical issues such as sexual violence,
 cybersecurity and media policy.

 The Department of Media and Communication was the locus of media research until 2016 when
 it merged with Sociology to form the School of Media, Communication and Sociology. The same
 year, the Research Institute for Cultural and Media Economies (CAMEo) was founded led by
 media academics. CAMEo and the merger with Sociology have provided a unified context,
 integrated governance and shared infrastructure for strengthening our research focus on the
 sociology of communication and culture. The merger and the establishment of CAMEo also
 enabled media researchers to develop interdisciplinary research, enhance our PGR community,
 and increase support for research development.

 Research and impact strategy
 During the current REF cycle, our research strategy was shaped by the aims articulated in
 REF2014, complemented by emergent initiatives and themes.

  2014 Research Aims                              Achievements
  To create a more supportive infrastructure      We have enhanced mentoring, internal peer
  and environment for research with an            review of research grant applications and
  emphasis on ECRs.                               introduced innovative research cluster
                                                  activities.
  To develop and sustain coherent research        We have created five research clusters which
  clusters in media and foster greater            have been instrumental in encouraging
  international collaboration and networks.       research collaboration, establishing research
                                                  teams among faculty and connecting to other
                                                  disciplines within the University and beyond.
  To increase research grant funding and          We have increased our research income
  diversify sources of funding.                   compared to the REF2014 period by 54%



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                                    from £668k to £1.381m and diversified our
                                                    funding streams.
  To maintain our research strengths and            We have sustained and developed our
  encourage new initiatives.                        research tradition in media, sociology, and
                                                    journalism through our Public Communication
                                                    research cluster. New research areas have
                                                    been developed in research clusters focused
                                                    on Media Cultures, Digital Networks and
                                                    Society, Health, Communication & Well-
                                                    Being, and Media and Gender.
  To strengthen PGR research by improving           We have enhanced support for PGRs and
  completion rates and integrating students to      integrated them into our research
  the research environment.                         environment leading to a near tripling of
                                                    completions compared to REF2014 (from 15
                                                    to 43).
  To enhance the relevance and impact of our        We have embedded impact planning in
  research beyond academia.                         mentoring and support for grant writing.
                                                    Through mentoring, we help colleagues to
                                                    identify potential pathways to impact in their
                                                    research.

 A key strategic aim was to consolidate our research interests and expertise into research
 clusters. Clusters provide a context and support for research development and collaboration and
 enable cluster leads and members to influence and implement research strategy. For example,
 support for grant application development involves both research committee members who
 organise mentoring and reviews and cluster leads who support group members in framing and
 developing their research. The clusters developed in response to this strategy were: Media
 Cultures; Digital Networks and Society; Public Communication; Health, Communication & Well-
 Being; and Media and Gender.

 Media Cultures explores the trajectories, tensions, and dynamics of mediated cultural worlds,
 developing new insights into the media's role in shared and contested cultural lives. Taking an
 interdisciplinary perspective, the group questions access, opportunity and participation in cultural
 production and consumption. Cluster research has generated new insights on community art,
 austerity and neoliberalism (Newsinger, Morgner, Serafini). The cluster builds on an
 established reputation for media audience research (Das, Lunt, Wood) and cultural theory and
 media (Lunt, Morgner). Our work on tribal radio (Moylan), funded by a Marie Curie Fellowship
 exemplifies the development internationally oriented networks and creative, impact-oriented
 research.

 Digital Networks and Society brings together colleagues interested in the implications of critical
 reflections on the ‘digital’ for understanding social, political and psychological lives. Research
 also explores the implications of the digital for research methods, epistemology and ethics
 (Cossu, Harvey, Mendes, Tsatsou, Whiteman) and aims to develop new insights into the role
 of digital media in shared and contested cultural lives (Bain, Chen, Karatzogianni, Lunt,
 Whiteman). Members of the Digital Networks and Society cluster have successfully gained
 grant funding, notably Karatzogianni’s H2020 grant, examining how children and young people
 are affected by the technological transformations in their everyday lives.



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Public Communication integrates the established UoL tradition of interdisciplinary scholarship in
 political communication, journalism, environmental and health communication (Hansen,
 Forchtner, Campbell, Lunt, Matthews, Serafini) with emerging work on PR and advertising
 (Davidson, Puppin, Somerville). Appointments in media, diaspora communities, immigrants
 and extremists (Forchtner, Osman, Smith) have resulted in new insights into the diversity of
 mediated public life and political participation in a variety of global contexts. For example,
 Forchtner’s work develops an analysis and critique of far-right political discourse; Hansen’s
 work has done much to consolidate and synthesise research on environmental communication.
 Cluster members have won prestigious fellowships (Leverhulme, British Academy) to explore
 mediation of the law (Gies), and to conduct impact-led research with organic farmers in India
 (Touri ICS3).

 The Health, Communication & Well-Being research cluster conducts interdisciplinary research
 with colleagues in sociology, psychology, economics, medical and life sciences, to interrogate
 the impact of media on public understandings of health (Koteyko, Vicari, Zhu). In partnership
 with industry stakeholders, the group’s research has established how digital media can enhance
 health service delivery, for example, in Gong’s work with Chinese migrant mothers. Members of
 the cluster have attracted eleven funded projects through the Wellcome Trust Institutional
 Strategic Support Fund at UoL (Institutional Environment Statement (IES) Section 2.2),
 including Zhu’s work on social media’s impact on postpartum depression and Whiteman’s work
 with Sociology colleagues on social media use and adolescent mental health. In 2020, Cluster
 members submitted a report to the House of Common’s Health Committee inquiry into the role of
 education in promoting emotional wellbeing in children and young people.

 Media and Gender is a cohort of feminist media scholars consolidated by several new
 appointments who together built a dynamic research grouping. Research in the cluster
 investigates the intersections between media processes, cultures, texts and gender. It explores
 digital feminism (Bain, Mendes), digital intimacies (Hart, Neville), representation of girls
 (Kennedy), women’s voice (Kay), and how these intersect with identity characteristics such as
 class, ethnicity and sexuality (Wood). Cluster members have produced nine monographs in the
 census period, including Mendes’ award-winning Slutwalk: Feminism, Activism and Media, and
 secured funding from sources such as the British Academy (Bain, Wood), AHRC (Mendes,
 Miazhevich, Wood), and overseas funders (Harvey).

 CAMEo was established as a University Research Institute in 2016 to complement our research
 clusters and support our strategy to attract large scale funding, enhance interdisciplinary
 research and develop research impact. CAMEo has provided a vehicle for research
 collaboration between Media, Communication, Sociology, Museum Studies and the School of
 Business. CAMEo established itself as a leading centre for the critical study of cultural industries
 and held a series of research meetings attended by academics from across the world. Examples
 of research conducted within CAMEo include Parry’s ‘One by One’ project centred on building
 digital confidence in the museum sector which fed directly into a UK government toolkit which
 supports arts, culture and heritage organisations to integrate digital technology into their work
 (ICS2). Media and communication researchers have played a prominent role in CAMEo,
 including as Directors (Banks, Karatzogianni), as leaders of Institute research strands (Wood,
 Harvey), as Research Associates (Serafini, Marsden) and as organisers of salons, seminars,
 conferences and events (Bain, Kay, Kennedy, Morgner, Moylan, Mendes, Whiteman). To
 date, CAMEo members (Banks, Karatzogianni) have attracted over £500k external research
 grant and consultancy income.


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our strategy of enabling researcher development in Media focuses on supporting ECRs and
 mid-career academics, to achieve external funding success. For example, 23 of the 40 awards
 secured in the REF period were to Assistant Professors. Highlights include Moylan’s EU Marie
 Curie Global Fellowship (2019-2021, £200k), exploring Tribal Representation across American
 Indian-produced radio, Touri’s British Academy grant on communication and development in
 alternative food networks (2017-2018, £8k), Veltri’s H2020 grant which assesses the role of
 digital transformations in young people’s online political behaviour (2016-2018, £114k) and Das’
 AHRC networking grant exploring new directions in audience research (2015-2018, £37k).
 These projects created impactful outcomes, such as developing effective social, educational,
 health and online safety policies, practices and market regulation to tackle harms from using
 ICT. For example, Mendes has co-produced a comprehensive school policy, co-badged by
 Britain’s largest headteachers union, to tackle online sexual harassment, a practice that impacts
 up to 75% of school age girls (ICS1).

 We have developed mechanisms to increase research grant income from a variety of funding
 sources. We encouraged and enabled research grant initiatives via proactive support for
 research development, including support for pilot and scoping projects from School funds and by
 encouraging and applications for University pump-prime funds. We provide mentoring for each
 applicant and systematically review all grant applications. These structures and processes have
 enabled increased applications to a broad range of funding bodies including the British
 Academy, AHRC, ESRC, Wellcome Trust and EU bodies, smaller charities and international
 funding sources.

 We achieved our strategic aim of further developing our PGR community, integrating them into
 our research environment by re-structuring our research activities around clusters and through
 more focused recruitment of PGRs whose interests map onto staff expertise. Drawing from
 School funds, we have provided a fully funded annual PhD writing workshop for three students in
 Prato, Italy (in collaboration with our partners from Monash, Oxford, Kent, Newcastle, Kings
 College London and Giessen). Additionally, we have received funding for PGR studentships via
 consortium bids via the ESRC Midland Graduate School Doctoral Partnership and the AHRC
 Midland 3 and 4 Cities schemes (IES, 3.3) and by competing for six fully funded University
 Graduate Research Associate positions. Consequently, we have nearly tripled our PhD
 completion rate (from 15 to 43), bringing us on par with the sector average (the REF2014
 Russell Group average is 25.6).

 1Impact Strategy
 Embedding impact is aligned to our strategy to produce research that has relevance beyond
 academia. Our impact case studies (ICS) demonstrate how we have impacted government
 policy on the museum industry (Parry ICS2), communication strategies of organic farmers in
 India (Touri ICS3), and professional practice and strategic planning of organisations to tackle
 sexual violence (Mendes ICS1). To support our impact strategy, we appointed two Impact
 Coordinators who worked with staff to identify and develop impact potential throughout a
 project's lifetime and sought funds to enhance impactful research.

 We applied for internal and external funds to support impact development securing £35k internal
 investment (e.g. ESRC Impact Accelerator Awards) (IES, 2.3), and external awards worth £98k
 (AHRC Follow on Funding for Impact and Engagement). These initiatives have enabled staff to
 develop relationships with key stakeholders, supported physical and virtual exhibitions, and
 workshops and training to a range of (inter)national stakeholders including museums, farmers,
 school leaders, and young people. Cluster leads, the Director of Research, Impact Coordinators

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and members of the University’s Research Enterprise Division work closely with staff to apply for
 funding which prioritise impact and the inclusion of clear and meaningful pathways for impact in
 funding applications (IES, 4.1).

 Achievements
 We are proud of our many achievements in media research in this census period, enabled
 through our research and impact strategies. We have more than doubled our external income,
 from £668k to £1.381m, through British, European and international funding sources. Application
 success rates now stand at 28%.

              1400000

              1200000

              1000000

               800000

               600000

               400000

               200000

                   0
                             REF 2014              REF 2021         2014 Sector Average


                                 Figure 1 – Income (£) by REF cycle

 An important mechanism enabling increased research grant income has been the diversification
 of funding sources beyond the AHRC and ESRC to include EU bodies, charities (e.g. Fire
 Service Research & Training), institutes (e.g. British Film Institute), consultancies, and overseas
 funders (e.g. Canada’s Social Science, Arts and Humanities Research Council; Institute of Latin
 American Studies; International Development Fund). We have furthermore supported the
 development of international collaborations and networks achieving success in H2020
 (Karatzogianni, Veltri), Marie Curie Fellowships (Moylan) and five grants on development
 themes funded by the Global Challenges Research Fund (Karatzogianni, Lunt, Ong,
 Somerville, Veltri).

 Open Access
 We have contributed to open access debates, processes and structures, fully embracing the
 University’s Open Access (OA) policy. All staff within the unit deposit research outputs within
 three months of acceptance. Significant support for this process has come from the University’s
 research repository hosted by the library through Figshare, facilitating public access to research
 data and outputs. Staff have sought institutional investment to support 11 Gold OA articles, built
 in OA publication costs in grant proposals and targeted OA journals such as Social Media +
 Society or the International Journal of Communication. The School emphasizes OA publication
 in all research mentoring meetings, and our PGRs have produced the OA peer-reviewed journal
 for(e)dialogue. Media researchers created and contributed to the CAMEo Cuts and DigiGen
 open access occasional paper series (Banks, Karatzogianni), sit on editorial boards of OA
 journals (Lunt, Karatzogianni, Mendes) in the field such as the International Journal of

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Communication, and research open access and policy sharing practices amongst academics
 (Zhu). These efforts have progressively increased the visibility and discoverability of the Media
 research findings, with over 38k views and 27k downloads from 90 countries via Figshare since
 2019.

 Research Integrity
 The School has implemented a robust procedure to ensure the highest ethical standards in all
 research conduct. Colleagues and students must submit research programmes for approval by a
 School Ethics Officer and a University Research Ethics Committee. Our procedures support and
 enable research on sensitive research topics exemplified by Karatzogianni’s research with
 Syrian refugees about their experience in Greek refugee camps and Mendes’ research with
 sexual violence survivors using hashtags such as #MeToo.

 Future Strategic Aims:
 We are proud of the research environment we have built, and as we look beyond REF 2021, the
 future strategic aims in the Unit are to:

       consolidate existing areas of expertise around public communication, digital
        technologies, media cultures and media and gender, while driving the discipline forward
        through expanding knowledge around media, health and well-being, and digital futures.

       enhance our supportive infrastructure enabling our early and mid-career researchers to
        reach their potential through mentoring and career development, including support for
        female and BAME staff through the promotion process.

       promote ‘deeper’ forms of interdisciplinarity, working with a broader range of disciplines
        beyond the social sciences (e.g. medical and life sciences, economics, informatics)
        supported through our work with institutional research networks, the Leicester Institute of
        Advanced Studies (LIAS), and the Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund.

       support all eligible research staff to gain grant funding and increase our research
        income.

       develop new initiatives, collaborations and impact activities informed by research
        excellence in our key research areas with external HEI and non-HEI partnerships.

       develop the role of Research Impact Coordinator by coordinating impact across the Unit,
        developing impact strategy, attending university-wide strategy meetings, flagging internal
        support, and driving diverse forms of societal change.

       support the development of international research projects and collaborations, enhancing
        our research impact and quality.


 2. People

 Overview
 Media and Communication comprises an internationally diverse workforce of 29 Category A staff
 representing 13 different nationalities. Our present staff profile comprises three professors, 11
 readers/associate professors/senior lecturers, 14 lecturers, and one Research Associate.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Staffing Strategy
 Our long-term commitment to delivering social change through research has driven our strategy
 to recruit outstanding staff at all career stages committed to research excellence and impact.
 The strategic plan over this cycle has been to develop and enhance existing research
 specialisms (especially public communication, political communication and audience research),
 to invest in growth areas such as public relations (Davidson, Puppin, Somerville),
 environmental communication (Forchtner), global media (Osman), digital media (Allington,
 Chen, Cossu) and media and gender (Harvey, Hart, Kay, Kennedy, Mendes, Neville,
 Whitehouse-Hart).

 New appointments in our REF cycle, predominantly ECRs, have made impressive and
 significant contributions to our research culture. To retain outstanding staff and enable an
 environment in which world-class research can unfold, we provide career development
 opportunities and reward success through promotions and merit awards. We uphold an equal,
 diverse and inclusive working environment through staffing policies, equality events and a
 transparent workload model.

 Our partnerships with CAMEo and the Leicester Institute of Advanced Study have enhanced our
 recruitment to research-active postdoctoral and PGR positions including two new FT
 Postdoctoral Research Associates, three fully funded GRA PhD studentships as well as external
 funding for two AHRC Creative Economy Engagement Fellowships, one Rutherford Fellowship,
 one GCRF Fellowship, and one ESRC research fellowship. These research focused posts
 contribute significantly to the research culture, extending interdisciplinarity and industry links. For
 example, funded through an AHRC Creative Economy Fellowships, Banks and Frost (a research
 fellow) helped the Phoenix cinema and digital art gallery develop a strategy to establish UoL as
 a destination for digital excellence in the arts, resulting in ‘Phoenix at Home’, which includes
 films, digital art, educational resources and creative activities.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Our strategy is informed by the principles of transparency, consistency, accountability and
 inclusivity, reflecting the University’s strategy, ‘A Culture of Equality: Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion’ (IES, 3.1). We have created opportunities for early and mid-career scholars, including
 women, BAME, LGBTQI+ candidates, in our appointments. Since 2014 we have appointed 22
 staff (13 women: 9 men). 14% of current staff self-declare as BAME (just over the national
 average of 12%), 10% from LGBTQI+ communities (higher than the national average of 3.4%),
 and 4% with disabilities (on par with the national average).


   Category A Staff Returned in the Census
                              Assoc. Prof
                                               Assistant       Post-
                  Prof.       or                                           ECR          BAME
                                               Prof            Doc
                              Reader
   Male           1           5                6               0           5            0
   Female         2           6                8               1           8            3

                          Figure 2 - Category A Staff Returned in the Census

 We aim to build on these achievements to diversify our staff profile and have appointed an
 Athena SWAN coordinator, and pioneered the appointment of a Director of Equalities (DoE). The

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 DoE sits on the staffing and Research committees and participants in all recruitment and
 interview process. In addition to advertising jobs via traditional routes (e.g. jobs.ac.uk), we
 routinely advertise them via listservs to target underrepresented groups (e.g. MeCCSA’s Race
 Network and Women’s Network). These actions have increased diversity compared to REF 2014
 and we support women and BAME staff to take on senior positions through mentorship and staff
 development.

 Mentoring and Staff Development
 We aim to equip staff with the skills to achieve excellence in research following the Concordat to
 Support the Career Development of Researchers (IES 3.2). We promote and embed institutional
 practices that foster an inclusive and supportive environment, enabling staff to reach their full
 potential, and rewarding their accomplishments. Mechanisms for enabling this include our focus
 on mentoring, support for study leave, and research training opportunities on grant writing,
 promotion applications, and impact development.

 To support our early and mid-career scholars, we provide support during probation. New
 appointments receive an Early Career reduction in teaching hours; 30% for their first year, 20%
 in their second year, and 10% in their third year. They work with a senior academic mentor to
 monitor and encourage their professional development and growth. These mechanisms provide
 colleagues with the confidence and capability to take advantage of opportunities to develop their
 research and their academic profile, make a full contribution to the unit’s activities and meet
 current and future challenges. All staff receive feedback during annual personal development
 discussions and bi-annual research discussions.

 Robust and timely feedback on developing publications and research grant applications is
 provided through an Output Mentoring Scheme. Academic mentoring has led to academic
 collaborations between more senior and junior staff, including papers (Kay and Mendes;
 O’Reilly and Whiteman; Somerville and Davidson), edited collections (Bain, Kennedy and
 Wood), funding applications and events (Kay, Kennedy and Wood; Noske-Turner and Tufte;
 Bain and Whiteman). The Aurora program for women involved participation from five
 colleagues as mentees and two as mentors, providing support and development to women
 across the University.

 We implement a study leave policy in which all staff are eligible for research leave of one
 semester in seven irrespective of leave funded from other sources, secondment opportunities, or
 by periods of ill-health or maternity leave. Study leave is subject to the submission of an agreed
 research and publication plan. In this census period, 39 staff have been granted study leave,
 and have used it to secure external funding (Moylan, Puppin, Miazhevich), take up visiting roles
 at international institutions (Harvey, Forchtner, Lunt, Mendes, Miazhevich, Moylan), and
 develop impact and engagement activities (Banks, Gong, Mendes ICS1, Moylan, Touri ICS3).
 Study leave has also enabled delivery of 40 REF outputs including 5 monographs and 3 edited
 books.

 Media academics have benefitted from Research Training opportunities provided by the
 University’s Research and Enterprise Division (RED). Some sessions are tailored for early
 career researchers, or staff with little experience applying for external funding. Sessions
 primarily focus on grant capture and impact development. Supported by RED, our School
 provides in-house research training, drawing on staff expertise in grant capture, impact,
 engagement, peer review and REF preparation. Successful AHRC grant holders, for example,
 have hosted training sessions for early career staff on preparing their first applications and we

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 regularly run sessions for those wishing to apply for British Academy small-grant funding (with
 seven grants awarded in the census period). These are examples of our success in developing a
 supportive infrastructure for our ECRs which provides mentorship and support.

 Our staff benefit from the University’s e-learning academy, developing skills in project
 management, coaching and mentoring, leadership development, planning, self-development and
 transformational change. Staff participate in research Leadership Development Programmes at
 Leicester (e.g. Future Leaders Programme; Vital Leadership Programme; Coaching and
 Mentoring Academy; Women Leading with Purpose; Aurora). For example, Mendes benefitted
 from both the Future Leaders and Aurora Programme and works across the institution to
 implement EDI strategies and best practice, including sitting on the REF Code of Practice
 working group. These programmes enabled her to organize university-wide sessions on
 university policies, decolonizing the curriculum, and diversifying forms of assessment.

 Our focus on training and mentoring staff, particularly female staff, has led to tangible changes in
 the gender balance in leadership positions. For example, women have held key roles relating to
 research, teaching and administration during the REF cycle including one Head of School, two
 Deputy-Heads of School; Director of Research, Director of Teaching; Director of Post-Graduate
 Research; and REF UoA lead. These efforts have also had a direct impact on staff success with
 progression.

 Progression
 In REF 2014, three staff members were promoted (two men, one woman, all to Associate
 Professor). To create mechanisms enabling more staff to progress, we created a Staffing
 Committee (2016) with a remit that includes proactive discussions around applications for
 promotion and mentorship. We aim to build on our success in attracting outstanding early career
 female colleagues and mentoring and supporting them by developing career profiles to ensure
 promotion. Addressing the ethnic diversity in our staffing presents more of a challenge. We
 recognise that the problem starts much earlier in the academic career cycle, failing to attract
 home BAME students to postgraduate research. In 2020, staff in our School led a university-
 wide initiative and developed a toolkit to de-colonise the University curriculum. At the College
 level, supported by colleagues in our School, a Task and Finish group has been established to
 address the BAME awarding gap, launching five BAME PGR 3+1 scholarships as a first step this
 year (two of which came to our School). Increasing BAME staff and students is an institutional
 priority. In our unit, nearly 10% of Associate Professors are BAME (14% are BAME across our
 profile) and we aim to increase this percentage over the next REF cycle.

 These mechanisms have delivered a significant increase in promotions: 7 staff members
 promoted to Associate Professor (6 women, 2 men: Bain, Forchtner, Gong, Mendes, Moylan,
 Veltri, Whiteman), two women were promoted to Professor (Karatzogianni, Mendes), and 31
 merit awards were awarded to academic staff.

 PGRs
 Our PGRs research in diverse fields including digital inclusion, feminist activism, selfies as a
 form of cultural production, environmental communication, public relations, cyberconflict, and
 counterterrorism. Issues of equality and diversity drive acceptance of PGR students, and we
 consequently have an internationally diverse group of students from 20 countries, with excellent
 representation from the Global South (15 different nations), BAME (30 students) and female
 students (27).


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Overall numbers at this census point are 45 FTE students (40 FT and 15 PT) of which 67% are
 female and 33% are male (compared to the Russell Group average of 59% female and 41%
 male). 58% of the current cohort identify as BAME (compared to a sector average of 17%), and
 9% have registered disabilities (above the Russell Group average of 2.2%).

 Table 2 – Student Identity Characteristics


                                                                     Russell Group
       Student Identity                        Leicester (2021
                                                                     Average (2014
       Characteristics                         cycle)
                                                                     cycle)
       Female                                  67%                   59%
       Male                                    33%                   41%
       BAME                                    58%                   8.3%
       Registered Disability                   9%                    2.2%

 Since 2014, 55 PhD registrations (average of 9 per year) and 43 home/EU completions (an
 average of 6 per year) represent a near tripling of completions. In addition, three International
 Distance Learning completions are not included in the HESA data. These figures reflect the
 unit’s sustained success in recruiting and supporting a larger cohort of high-calibre PGRs, most
 of whom complete with minor corrections.

 Induction provides a crucial opportunity to inform PGRs about the support available to them from
 the University’s Doctoral College, in terms of academic resources and in mental health and well-
 being (IES, 3.3). As with all other core activities, we support remote participation to ensure
 students based outside UoL or with caring responsibilities are included. Our PGR induction
 provides support in areas such understanding the PhD journey, literature reviews, research
 methods and writing. We ensure that all students are aware of expectations, procedures and
 training opportunities, and embed themselves within the School research culture. Our PRES
 data indicates that an average of 84% of PGRs in the census period took advantage of
 professional development opportunities.

 Financial Investment and Support
 Nearly half of our PGRs receive funding, including international Government scholarships (20)
 from nations such as Saudi Arabia, Malaysia, Oman and employee sponsorships (3). Fourteen
 of our students are funded through the college as Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTAs) or
 Graduate Research Assistants (GRAs) and two through CAMEo. In this REF cycle, the
 University has invested £255,676 in GTA and GRA studentships and a further £182,425 in fee
 waivers or other scholarships in Media PhDs.

 The development and integration of PGRs has enhanced the activities within our research
 clusters leading to collaborative outputs with staff, through conference papers (Dikwal-Bot &
 Mendes), book chapters (Dikwal-Bot & Mendes; Karatzogianni & Ferra), journal articles
 (Ditchfield & Lunt; Karatzogianni & Ferra; Matthews & Cameron; Matthews & Onyemaobi;
 Zsubori & Das), books (Chen & Lunt) and edited books (Karatzogianni & Ferra). PGRs with
 support from academics organised over 15 events since 2014, most notably the 2016 MeCCSA
 Post-Graduate Network conference, and the annual NDiMS (New Directions in Media and
 Sociology) Conference for PGRs and early career researchers. We have also developed a PGR
 open access journal, for(e)dialogue. Our PGRs play an active role in the university by forming
 support groups for those working on sensitive research areas such as sexual violence,


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 migration, and trafficking for students and staff from criminology, geography, and sociology. Our
 PGRs have secured jobs at UK Russell Group Universities (Leeds, Nottingham), prestigious
 international universities, and UNESCO and Human Rights Watch organisations.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income
 Our strategy in this census period has been to diversify funding sources and significantly
 increase research grant income, positioning ourselves as a strongly performing School that
 creates opportunities for ECRs, and funding time for staff to deliver world-leading research with
 impact. Across the 2021 REF cycle, we have secured £1.381m (£749k more than in REF 2014,
 and above the sector average of £1.1m). Our grant income increase includes 51 new grants
 awarded since 2014, up from 12 grants in the previous cycle (a 425% increase). These figures
 evidence how our research environment supports a thriving grant ecology.

 While a few senior staff generated most of the grant income for REF2014, we now have a wider
 range of staff gaining grant funding, including ECRs building track records of grant capture
 success. Indeed, 23 of the 40 awards secured in this period were from Assistant Professors.
 Research income has increased over the census period because of improved support
 structures, infrastructure, mentoring and a more transparent and ambitious grant capture
 strategy. Consequently, we have one application per FTE compared with 0.3 in the last REF
 period and have achieved a 30% increase in the proportion of staff securing single or multiple
 awards (from 28% to 40% of staff) and a 35% increase in the average size of grants awarded
 (from £34k to £51k). We have achieved this by supporting staff through the cycle of developing
 funding bids, from identification and discussion of early ideas at research mentoring meetings,
 diversifying our portfolio, providing mentoring through the research clusters and a supportive
 review of grant applications.


              1.2


                1


              0.8


              0.6


              0.4


              0.2


                0
                     13/14     14/15        15/16   16/17   17/18    18/19    19/20


                          Figure 3 – Number of funding Applications per FTE

 Our success in diversifying funders, includes awards from organizations and charities such as
 the Creative Diversity Network (2), the Fire Service Research & Training (1), Stillbirth and
 Neonatal Death charity (1), Innovate UK (1), and International Media Support (1). A number of

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 these projects are on-going and will continue to underpin our research income and impact in the
 next period (Kviat, Moylan, Karatzogianni, Mendes). As we look ahead, we anticipate
 continued trajectory upward, experiencing a 50% growth in external income since 2016/2017,
 with many more and higher-value applications in progress.

              10
               9
               8
               7
               6
               5
               4
               3
               2
               1
               0




                                             Funding Sources


                   Figure 4 – Number of Grant Holders this REF Cycle by Funder

 Infrastructure
 Our unit’s successes are supported by the coordination and integration of internal unit-based
 and institution-wide infrastructure and facilities. In total, the unit has spent £290k of income
 allocated by the School, including from grant overheads, on research-related activities since
 2014, a doubling since REF 2014.

 We have communicated an integrated research strategy across the whole School adopting clear
 lines of governance and responsibility linking the School Research Committee to the School
 Management Board and research cluster leads to media researchers. The Research Committee
 is responsible for allocating pump-priming funds to academics and organising mentoring and
 review processes for research development and grant applications.

 We incentivise success in grant capture by allocating a share of grant overheads to develop
 research and impact activity and grant income generation. In the REF cycle, the percentage has
 changed. We reduced the allocation of overheads to PIs from 50% to 10% making the rest
 available through the School Research Development Fund (RDF) to increase research support
 across the School, particularly amongst our ECR staff. The School allocates approximately
 £20k/year to support research initiatives in the School. In addition, all staff have access to an
 annual staff development budget to attend international conferences or support research
 collaboration (approximately £70k per year for the unit). Examples include grant writing support,
 grant/publication planning, fieldwork, conference expenses, publication/OA costs, specialist
 equipment/software, meetings to develop impact/KE and evidence capture for impact/KE.

 We give preference to early career staff and those making their first application, or for grants
 over £100k and applications intended to leverage funding elsewhere. In the census period, our
 unit allocated £48k to support Media research. This has resulted in the development of new
 research, grants and collaborations such as Touri’s travel expenses to develop research on

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 organic food networks in India, resulting in several outputs and impact work (ICS3), and
 Gong’s research with expecting Chinese mothers in the UK, resulting in two grant applications
 (one successful), two journal articles, and fostering an open and inclusive research environment
 by involving a PGR in active research.

 In addition, funds are available through the University and College to cover travel expenses,
 conference presentations, grant development, research fellows, impact and engagement
 activities, and other “pump-priming” activities (IES 2.3). In the census period, staff have been
 awarded £172k from these funds, supporting activities such as start-up funds for a project on
 news reporting and changing political construction of energy issues (Hansen & Matthews), use
 of technologies during humanitarian crises (Ong), and representations of minorities in
 community radio (Moylan).

 At University level, cross-disciplinary, collaborative research is supported through LIAS and
 CAMEo, which award seed funding to bring international collaborators to UoL, create cross-
 disciplinary networks (‘Tiger Teams’) and networks. These have resulted in interdisciplinary
 collaborations, including with non-academic partners (e.g. IBM), leading to multiple outputs and
 events which prioritize public engagement beyond the academy.

 Academics have also made four successful applications worth a total of £37k to the University’s
 Impact Development Fund (IDF), and three to the College Research Impact Development Fund
 (£3k). These funds have supported impact around digital literacy lessons for feminist activists
 (Mendes ICS1), digital literacies in the museum sector (Parry ICS2), promoting sustainable
 development, communication and Alternative Food Networks in India (Touri ICS3), a video
 game education summit connecting with key stakeholders including developers, human
 resources staff, recruitment companies, and policy-makers at (Harvey) and enhancing maternal
 health information for Chinese migrants in the UK (Gong).

 Members of the Unit (Gong, Lunt, Mendes, Parry, Touri) have secured £20k from the 2019
 ESRC Impact Accelerator Award (£1m) to support impact development from research
 applications (IES, 2.3). Our staff (Marsden, Mendes) have furthermore secured this funding to
 host events at the ESRC Festival of Social Science on topics such as on ableist privilege in
 cultural work, and developing digital feminist activists.

 A supportive infrastructure has been aided by £2.2 million institutional investment to the unit
 from the College and University to support excellence in research and scholarship (see IES).
 Funding has been spent on new posts, travel, equipment, resources and research support (e.g.
 RAs). Staff have strategically targeted these centralized funding opportunities for research pump
 priming, leading and developing interdisciplinary research institutes and networks. Most notably,
 supported by £1.4m, we have seen the establishment of interdisciplinary cross-institutional
 research institutes (CAMEo, led by Banks, and Karatzogianni) and research networks.
 Supported by senior colleagues in our unit, Chen led a university-wide Leicester Artificial
 Intelligence Network of colleagues from 10 different departments and all three colleges, funded
 by £30k institutional investment. The Network, has hosted six events since its launch in 2018,
 and members of the network were commissioned in 2019 by the European Union Agency for
 Safety and Health at Work to write a report on AI and the future of work.

 Facilities
 Our unit has directly benefitted from £800k investment from the University, College and School.
 In 2016, following the merger of Media and Communication with Sociology, the new School

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 received over £300k institutional investment to refurbish a new building. Staff are co-located with
 all research staff having their own offices, PGRs with two dedicated spaces, and access to
 several common areas. The School also benefitted from £30k of investment in a Media Lab with
 iMacs for research and teaching, and a technician post. The School was awarded £75k central
 infrastructure funding for a Data Lab and software to conduct Big Data research.

 The unit is supported by the David Wilson Library which offers state of the art facilities to
 researchers and graduate students, and extensive library resources such as archives and
 special collections. Staff and students in this unit have benefited from £35k of REIF funding (see
 IES) to access the online Women and Social Movements Library, containing nearly 400k pages
 of primary source documents related to women’s public activism around the globe from 1600 to
 the present. This resource has supported ground-breaking research undertaken by staff and
 PGR students, particularly those taking a historical look at feminist activism (Kay, Mendes). In
 2017, the unit secured £28k to purchase the last part of the Digital Archive of British
 Newspapers allowing access to the complete package, and in 2019 £50k to update the digital
 newspaper archive, including the Los Angeles Times, the Sunday Times, and the Financial
 Times. We also secured access to The Telegraph Historical Archive (1855-2000) worth £41k.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 In the current census and with the transition to the School of Media, Communication and
 Sociology the focus has been on broadening the horizons of research in terms of funding, impact
 and collaboration across the university and beyond. This has been achieved by establishing and
 engaging in networks, research groups and via CAMEo to deliver interdisciplinary collaborative,
 impactful research initiatives with academics in other universities and non-academic partners.

 Our diverse staff base, from 13 nationalities, is crucial in supporting our commitment to
 conducting interdisciplinary, collaborative research on ‘real world’ problems with impactful
 outcomes across the Global North and South. Staff have worked with national and international
 organisations such UNICEF, the Council of Europe, UN Women, UNESCO, the NHS, BFI and
 Cancer Research UK. Indeed, our success in grant income generation is built upon major
 collaborative international projects including Karatzogianni’s ‘DigiGen’ project (with Oslo
 Metropolitan University, Panteion University of Social and Political Sciences, University of
 Vienna, Universitat de Girona, Universitatea Babeș-Bolyai, Tallinn University and The University
 of Paderborn), Ong and Lunt’s ‘Tech4development network’ (De Salle University), Harvey’s
 ‘Reconfiguration in Games’ (York University, Canada), and Veltri’s ‘Re.Cri.Re’ project (Ludwig
 Maximilian University of Munich). With research outputs made open access via Figshare since
 2019, 27k downloads of our scholarly outputs have been accessed by scholars in 90 countries.
 For example, Mendes et al.’s 2018 publication on #MeToo has been downloaded over 34k
 times.

 Partnerships, Networks & Collaborations
 Supported through University funding, academics in media and communication have developed
 multiple international and cross-disciplinary partnerships, networks and
 collaborations. Somerville used £4.5k to travel to Kenya to work with colleagues from the
 Technical University of Mombasa resulting in several forthcoming articles exploring Al
 Shabaab’s media channels to recruit women into terrorist networks. Mendes using an AHRC
 Follow on Funding for Impact and Engagement application, worked with colleagues at UCL,
 Kent, and a range of third-sector organisations to develop digital defence and activism lessons


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for secondary school students and teachers which are currently being rolled out across the UK
 (ICS1).

 UoA members have also been proactive in gaining external financial support to develop
 partnerships. Puppin’s AHRC ‘UK-China Creative Industries Partnership Development’ project
 (2019) explores and develops relationships amongst advertising agencies in the two nations,
 leading to subsequent publications. Bain was part of the Jean Monet funded project ‘External
 Images of the EU as a Normative Energy Player’ (2014) in collaboration with scholars in New
 Zealand and Europe, resulting in several publications. Five academics secured GCRF grants in
 media and development. For example, funded by the Hellenic Foundation for Research and
 Innovation, Touri (2019-2022) collaborates with Aristotle University of Thessaloniki leading to
 academic outputs and educational activities for Journalism professionals in
 Greece. Lunt secured funding from an institutional GCRF-QR grant to organise a workshop and
 network of researchers and NGOs on community media in Malawi. Stemming from this event,
 the group submitted a Newton Fund grant application to work with community radio stations on
 the reporting of COVID-19 in Malawi. Several projects developed by Lunt, Noske-Turner,
 Ong, and Tufte in communication for development developed research partnerships UNICEF,
 Tech4Dev and Communication 4 Development (C4D). This work reflects our strong interest in
 the social outcomes of communication policy and practice.

 Members of the UoA have also been proactive in obtaining funding to develop collaborative
 research networks. Das used a small grant from the University, matched with departmental
 research funds, to develop a successful AHRC network bid to launch the Consortium on
 Emerging Directions in Audience research (CEDAR) in collaboration with the University of
 Bergen and 29 researchers across Europe (2016-2018). The project resulted in a monograph, a
 report and several other publications. Gong, gained a University LIAS Tiger Team award, to
 form a network of scientists working with NHS trusts across the UK to roll out services enabling
 Chinese migrants to access maternity services (2017-2018). Osman has been part of the EU-
 commissioned international collaborative research project ‘Research and Evidence Facility’ on
 Migration in the Horn of Africa supported by the EU Trust Fund to explore media’s role in
 migration patterns and violent extremism (2019-present).

 Disciplinary Contribution
 Media academics at UoL play key roles in sustaining the discipline through subject associations,
 and organizations beyond the academy. For example, UoA members were founding members of
 the International Association for Media and Communication Research and continue to play a
 significant role in the association. This includes hosting the Annual IAMCR conference in 2016,
 drawing 2k delegates from around the world (chaired by Lunt). Hansen and Karatzogianni both
 organized pre-conferences at the 2016 IAMCR. In 2017, Lunt organised a post conference in
 Segovia of the IAMCR2019 Conference in Madrid on Mobile Socialities which fed into a
 Routledge Companion contract. Lunt, Hansen and Mendes have also acted as Chairs for
 IAMCR sub-sections.

 Fourteen staff held roles in other subject associations, including Matthews as a stream
 coordinator for the BSA (Media Study Group), Somerville as vice-Chair (2012-2016), and Chair
 (2016-2018) of the Organizational and Strategic Communication Section of ECREA,
 and Miazhevich as a member of ECREA’s Executive Board member (2016-2020). Hansen is an
 active member of the IAMCR Working Group on Environmental Issues, Science and Risk
 Communication and is Chair of the international research network on Media, Communication
 and Energy. Serafini is co-founder of the independent network Politically Led Art and Networked

                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Knowledge, and Smith is member of the ARCHER (A Representative Corpus of Historical
 English Registers) Consortium, a group of 14 universities in seven countries that are building
 and developing a digital resource that allows scholars to track changes in English across genres
 and time.

 Building on UoL’s reputation as a centre of excellence in media and communication scholarship,
 we have hosted over 65 events, symposia and conferences during the census period. Hansen,
 Forchtner, Matthews, Campbell and Puppin organised the International Conference on
 Communication and the Environment (COCE) in 2017. Forchtner organised a workshop
 attended by scholars from across Europe in Leicester on The Far Right and the Environment. In
 2016, Leicester hosted the annual MeCCSA Post-Graduate Network conference, led by a PGR
 student team supported by academic staff members (Banks, Harvey, Lunt, Mendes, Touri).
 Now in its 9th year, PGR media students organise an annual New Directions in Media and
 Sociology (NDiMRS) conference, attracting an average of 50 post-graduate students from
 around the UK and Europe. Colleagues have also organised five pre-conferences beyond those
 for IAMCR, including Davidson and Somerville, who organised pre-conferences at ECREA
 2018 and ICA 2019, and Serafini, who co-organised a symposium in Buenos Aires, leading to a
 co-authored an article for the journal Ecología Política, and an open access book.

 Colleagues contribute to the wider profession by editing major journals and book series and
 participating in peer-review and grant awarding panels. 11 academics sit on editorial boards of
 24 journals, and three academics (Hansen, Lunt, Karatzogianni) are the general editors of or
 on the editorial boards of book series. Furthermore, The European Journal of Cultural Studies
 was run through the University of Leicester from 2016-2018, with Wood as its Editor and Kay as
 Assistant Editor. Seventeen staff provide peer review for national and international funders from
 Europe, Australasia, the Middle East, North and South America. Thirteen staff have held visiting
 scholar positions at 22 institutions such as University of São Paulo (Karatzogianni), University
 of Pennsylvania (Lunt), University of Rhodes (Matthews), Fudan University (Harvey, Mendes),
 the University of Johannesburg (Tufte) and Copenhagen University (Veltri).

 Members of the unit have been consulted as media experts for various outlets, including BBC
 Radio 4 programmes Thinking Allowed (Wood) and Woman’s Hour (Mendes); BBC Wales, BBC
 Radio Leicester (Mendes, Kay), Radio Ireland (Mendes), BBC Sunday Politics (Puppin), BBC’s
 100 Women (Mendes), Rolling Stone Magazine (Harvey), Vice Magazine (Forchtner), Wired
 Magazine (Chen), KNON FM, Dallas, TX (Moylan), WHIV FM, New Orleans (Moylan), KPYT
 FM, Pascua Yaqui Reservation, Tucson (Moylan), The New York Times (Gies), The Guardian
 (Ong) and The Conversation (13 academics).

 Our staff have presented at 160+ conferences or symposia, delivered 75+ invited talks and 30
 keynotes in nations such as Australia, Brazil, Canada, Columbia, Croatia, Ireland, Germany,
 South Africa, China, France, India, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, USA, UK in the
 census period. Highlights include Mendes’ keynote at Cambridge University
 (2019), Lunt’s address at the Annenberg School of Communication
 (2015), Karatzogianni’s keynote at the University of Paris (2016), and Forchtner’s keynote at
 Lund University (2019).

 We have hosted scholars from around the world (Kenya, Brazil, Argentina, Hong Kong). In 2018,
 Morgner secured funding from the Rutherford Fund Fellowship scheme, to bring a scholar from
 the University of Nairobi, Kenya to Leicester for six months and Mendes secured funding from
 the University of Brasilia to bring a scholar here to work with her for six months.

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Broader Engagement
 Staff in our unit collaborate with a diverse range of stakeholders including museums, migrant
 groups, artists, charities, NGOs, government bodies, schools and educational institutions and
 the public, the NHS, Fair Trade organisations, Ofcom, and the BFI and Creative Diversity
 Network. In the REF period, we have offered over 50 public engagement and impact activities,
 many of which led to changes amongst individuals, organisations, and policies. For
 example, Rovisco acted as a member of the selection panel for the Arts Council funded
 programme ‘The Art of Migration’ which offered career development support and new work
 showcases for emerging artists with a migrant or refugee background. Gies acted as an expert
 to the Council of Europe’s Judicial Reform in Georgia project and delivered a report in March
 2018. Parry’s research has important implications for the museum sector in the US and UK,
 leading to tangible changes in practice amongst workers and creating an international
 community of academics, cultural organisations and professional bodies around museum related
 digital literacy (ICS2).

 Our staff have contributed to the economy and society by advising national and international
 governing bodies and institutions. Whiteman acted as an expert contributor to the Australian
 Government Office for Teaching and Learning for online research ethics. Wood provided
 consultation and content provision for the BBC’s history website, while several other staff have
 made consultation and policy submissions to various public and governmental bodies. For
 example, we have response to Ofcom’s consultation ‘BBC thematic review of representation and
 portrayal’ (Wood), the UK Commons Select Committee’s Inquiry into the Social Impact of
 Participation in Culture and Sport (Serafini), the Government’s Industrial Strategy Green Paper
 (Banks), and submitted evidence to the Labour Party’s Future of Work ‘Acting Up!’ Inquiry
 (Banks).

 Members of the unit have provided expertise to international bodies. For example, Gies advised
 on media and the judiciary, including consultation for the Council of Europe (CoE). The
 Montaigne Centre also invited Gies for Judicial Administration and Conflict Resolution (Utrecht
 University) to act as a respondent at the Conference for Procedural Justice and Legal
 Practice. Somerville was commissioned by UN Women to produce a report on communication
 for gender equality and provided evidence to the Department of Culture, Media and Sport’s
 Select Committee on ‘Homophobia in Sport.’ In 2020, Forchtner gave evidence to the Social &
 Democratic parliamentary group of the European Parliament on the far right and environment.
 We also build on a strong tradition in health communication (Hansen, Gong), enhanced by our
 environment with sociology to include engagement with the NHS and Cancer Research UK
 (Gong).

 Equal opportunities form a key part of our external partnerships, including Harvey’s role as on
 the Diversity and Inclusion Committee for the Higher Education Video Alliance, and the Digital
 Games Research Association, while Banks is a member of the Board of the disability-arts
 focused Attenborough Arts Centre Leicester. Also, Marsden works on an Arts Council England
 project mentoring BAME authors and writers.

 Local Community Engagement
 Media academics have also contributed to Leicester’s local community. Rovisco led an event at
 the Leicester Cathedral in 2018 ‘The Migrant and Refugee Crisis: Artistic and Civil Society
 responses’ which brought together academics, artists and refugees to shed light on refugee
 experiences. Under its ‘Cultural Publics’ programme, CAMEo has organised an average of 10

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 events per year (over 40 in total), including its well-attended Research Salons series, many of
 which are held off-campus in creative hubs such as Leicester’s Curve Theatre, Phoenix Arts
 Centre, and Attenborough Arts Centre. Through CAMEo, Banks co-led a new creative economy
 strategic research initiative funded by Midlands Innovation and is a steering group member for
 the Arts Council England-funded Midlands Higher Education and Culture Forum. All these
 events regularly attract and involve local creative workers, artists and academics, and diverse
 publics and communities, cementing CAMEo’s role as an open and inclusive platform for media
 researchers to work together and alongside peers from other disciplines and non-academic
 organisations.

 Prizes
 Further evidence of the external recognition of our work, staff have received awards such as an
 ICA top paper (Rovisco, 2016), Book of the Week from the Times Higher Education (Mendes,
 2015), the Philippine Social Science Council Excellence in Research Award (Ong, 2016), and
 the PRIDE outstanding book prize from National Communications Association (Somerville,
 2017). Zhu was awarded Popular Communication Top paper at the International Communication
 Association Conference (2020).

 Informing research-based curricula in degrees in Media and Communication
 Our staff have played key roles in informing research-based curricula. For example, Lunt was
 instrumental in establishing the MSc in Social Science Research for PhD training as a condition
 of UoL membership of the ESRC Midlands Consortium. Members of the Health, Communication
 and Well-being cluster have developed a CPD course with the University of Thailand on Health
 Communication. The course targets students, health professionals, and public members,
 drawing from theoretical discussions to map the field, and three case studies supported by the
 cluster’s active research. Lunt was also a member of the QAA Subject Benchmarking Group for
 Degrees in Media and Communication in 2016-17.

 Concluding Statement
 The 2021 REF period has been a period of substantial growth of our research environment,
 evidenced by a 54% increase in research income, 65% increase in PGR completions, and 78%
 increase in staff progression. For over 50 years, Leicester academics have played leading roles
 in media and communication scholarship, which has benefited the broader academic and civic
 communities we work with. We have and continue to develop local, national and international
 networks and collaborations, pushing the discipline forward, asking new questions about
 pressing social and political problems, and developing impactful outcomes that contribute to the
 economy and society. Through maintaining a commitment to a critical perspective on the role of
 media and communication in social justice, we have pursued projects addressing key social
 issues such as digital futures, media and gender, global media, media and the environment and
 media and security. Our research strategy reflects our commitment to nurturing and developing
 emerging talent while aiming for academic excellence through scholarship that has impact and
 social relevance. As we move forward into the next REF cycle, we will continue to respond to
 real-world problems, develop the breadth and depth of our research, initiate new collaborations
 and networks with other HEIs and beyond the academy across areas of production, content and
 consumption of media and communication.




                                                                                          Page 18
