Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Southampton

 Unit of Assessment: 10 Mathematical Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview: structure and context
 UoA10 within the University of Southampton (UoS) brings together colleagues from the School
 of Mathematical Sciences and the Department of Social Statistics and Demography. Our
 research covers a wide range of pure and applied mathematics, statistics, and applications, and
 its major strength is its distinctively collaborative, interdisciplinary, and impact-oriented ethos.
 We are committed to the ideals of equality, diversity, and inclusion in our efforts to create a
 supportive community of scholars (§2.2). The submission comprises 69 staff, 64.3 FTE
 (compared to 54.8 FTEs in REF2014), which provides a significant critical mass to support
 research across all represented fields. The increase in FTE is in a large part due to the success
 of our drive to attract strong early career researchers (ECRs) supported by the Royal Society,
 STFC, and EPSRC Fellowships (§2.1).
 Research within UoA10 is structured around the following research divisions: Applied
 Mathematics and Theoretical Physics (led by Skenderis), Operational Research (Fliege), Pure
 Mathematics (Theriault), and Statistics (Woods) which are located within the School of
 Mathematical Sciences, with Taylor as Head of School. Social Statistics and Demography
 (Tzavidis) is part of the School of Economic, Social, and Political Sciences (ESPS). Its inclusion
 within UoA10 follows from and exemplifies strong interdisciplinary links forged by our staff.
 To showcase the research across UoA10, and to promote and facilitate interdisciplinary
 collaborations within the University, nationally, and internationally, we support four international
 centres of scholarship and excellence. These are: CORMSIS (Centre for Operational Research,
 Management Sciences, and Information Systems, led by Currie), S3RI (Southampton Statistical
 Sciences Research Institute, Böhning), STAG (Southampton Theory, Astrophysics, and Gravity
 Research Centre, Skenderis), and CGTA (Centre for Geometry, Topology, and Applications,
 Brodzki).
 CORMSIS is one of the largest research centres of its kind in Europe, with around 50 academics
 from Mathematical Sciences and SBS. CORMSIS is a world leader in optimisation and
 stochastic simulation, with a strong focus on mission-oriented research, particularly in health,
 aerospace and transport. It partners with more than 100 organisations from the public sector and
 commerce to implement Operational Research (OR) techniques in practical situations, which is a
 key part of the UoA10 impact strategy. CORMSIS’s high-profile long-term collaborators include
 NHS Trusts, Boeing, Airbus, Babcock, Virgin Atlantic, Carnival Cruises, Royal Mail, Tesco and
 Ford.
 S3RI brings together statistical scientists from UoA10 and from Health Sciences and Medicine to
 collaborate on the development of core statistical methodology at the centre of a host of
 substantive applications. Southampton is recognised internationally as the UK’s leading centre
 for statistically-designed data collection via experiments and surveys, and more recently, in
 administrative data. We achieve impact of our research through strong strategic partnerships
 with external organisations, such as the Office for National Statistics (ONS).
 STAG was launched in 2013 to create new opportunities for interdisciplinary research through
 the affinities between research groups within Mathematical Sciences and the School of Physics

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Astronomy (UoA9). This strategy was vindicated as STAG is now a thriving, internationally-
 leading centre of excellence with a network of major international collaborations. These include
 the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory (LIGO), whose founders won the 2017
 Nobel Prize in Physics. Among STAG’s many activities is an innovative and intellectually diverse
 programme of outreach activities. A highlight of this programme is the STAG annual lecture
 series for the general public given by distinguished lecturers which included Nobel Physics
 Laureates: Gerard ‘t Hooft (2014), Brian Schmidt (2015), David Gross (2016), Rainer Weiss
 (2018), as well as Baron (Martin) Rees OM (2013), Jocelyn Bell-Burnell (2017), and Nathan
 Seiberg (2019). The lectures attract sell-out audiences, including a very strong participation of
 secondary schools.
 CGTA was founded in 2018 to connect the substantial core strengths in Pure Mathematics in
 geometry, geometric group theory, and topology with significant applications through applied
 topology. A CGTA Distinguished Lecture Series was inaugurated in 2019 with a lecture by
 Gunnar Carlsson, the founder of Topological Data Analysis. Early successes in this direction
 include the study of the topology of the lungs in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease
 (Brodzki), a spin-out company TopMD (Sanchez-Garcia) applying topology to improve the
 accuracy of disease diagnostics and a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) award (Brodzki);
 Southampton is now a recognised centre in the theory and practice of topological data analysis.
 Our staff make a significant contribution to the UK and international scientific community through
 active involvement with major funding councils and learned societies, editorships of international
 journals, and external peer review (§4.3). Service of this kind is encouraged and valued within
 the University career pathways.

 1.2 Research strategy
 Our mission is to cultivate a dynamic, collaborative, inclusive, and interdisciplinary research
 environment to create world-class fundamental research of significant impact, and to train young
 scientists to become leaders in their chosen fields.
 Our ambitions and plans for the assessment period were founded on the specific goals stated in
 the REF2014 submission which included:
    •   Enhancing the collaborative and interdisciplinary research environment;
    •   Building on our core strengths to diversify our research portfolio;
    •   Developing impact of our research;
    •   Consolidating our position as a leading centre for postdoctoral research and training.
 We have realised all of these strategic aims:
    •   Of over 1200 outputs created during the REF period, more than 90% are the results of
        collaborative work, and over 60% included international co-authors (§4.1).
    •   We have expanded and diversified our interdisciplinary portfolio and research capability
        through new research directions (e.g., applied topology), new appointments (§2.1), as
        well as activities of our research centres (see below) supported by a diverse group of
        research councils (§3.1).
    •   We have a thriving programme of impact creation (§1.4) which goes significantly beyond
        the submitted REF Impact Case Studies (ICSs), and we have a number of projects in
        development for the next REF.

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Our grant success (§3.1) enabled us to support more than 75 Postdoctoral Research
        Assistants (PDRAs) and eight Fellowships from the Royal Society, the STFC and the
        EPSRC.
    •   We have developed a rich portfolio of innovative outreach initiatives (§4.2) which form an
        important part of our impact strategy.
    •   We attract excellent candidates to our PhD programme and we graduated more than 130
        alumni (§2.4).
 Evidence of our international reputation includes the election to prestigious Fellowships of PWF
 Smith (British Academy) and Woods (American Statistical Association), and the award of the
 Royal Statistical Society West medal for official statistics to Pfeffermann. We are very proud
 that OR and Statistics were placed 37th in the 2020 QS World University Rankings. Andersson
 was elected President of the International Society for General Relativity and Gravitation. Jones,
 a member of LIGO and the Gravity group, shared the Special Breakthrough Prize in
 Fundamental Physics awarded for the discovery. Hoyle shared the 2020 Institute of Physics
 Rosalind Franklin Prize. Many more examples are provided in §4.3.
 Further evidence of the success of our research strategy is provided through the excellence,
 breadth and depth of the work of research groups and centres, which rest on the achievements
 of our staff. The following overview contains many examples of significant results obtained
 through collaborative and interdisciplinary work.
 The research of the Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics division is structured
 around the following main themes: Gravity, Strings and Holography, Continuum Modelling and
 Mathematical Biology. The Gravity and Strings groups are founding members of STAG.
 The Gravity group (Andersson, Barack, Gundlach, Hawke, Jones, Schmitt (who held an
 STFC Rutherford Fellowship until 2020), Vickers, and Pound (supported by a Royal Society
 University Research Fellowship from 2017)) made substantial contributions to the detection and
 analysis of gravitational waves and provided a firm theoretical foundation for gravitational-wave
 astronomy. It hosted 13 PDRAs, funded by grants from the ERC, STFC, EU Marie Skłodowska-
 Curie, and NWO.
 Andersson published (OUP 2019) a first comprehensive graduate text to outline breakthrough
 detection of gravitational waves from binary black holes in 2015 and merging neutron stars in
 2017. Barack helped develop a rigorous new method for calculating the gravitational self-force
 in Kerr spacetime needed for the ESA-funded space based LISA detector planned for the 2030s;
 Gundlach obtained important results on critical phenomena and gravitational collapse; Hawke
 developed a new efficient multiscale formulation for large scale simulations of relativistic
 resistive MHD in neutron star mergers; Jones made significant contributions to the LIGO project
 and the discovery of the gravitational waves (playing a central role in the search for continuous-
 wave sources); Pound pioneered new methodology for high-precision gravitational-wave
 science; Schmitt created a new way to describe real-world nuclear and quark matter in the
 interior of neutron stars; Vickers’ results extended the celebrated singularity theorems of
 Penrose and Hawking.
 The String theory and Holography group (Aniceto, Dias, Kennedy, Lobo, Mafra, O’Bannon
 (returned within UoA9), Skenderis, Taylor, Turton, and Withers) carried out internationally
 leading research in theoretical high energy physics with emphasis on string theory and
 holographic dualities. The work covered foundational issues of holography and their applications


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to black holes, cosmology and out-of-equilibrium systems. It includes studies of string theory
 amplitudes, and renormalisation and anomalies in Quantum Field Theory (QFT). This work
 overlaps with other groups within UoA10 (Relativity, Modelling, and Pure Mathematics), as well
 as with Theoretical Physics in UoA9.
 Aniceto’s results on integrability in AdS/CFT and on non-perturbative methods in QFT overlap
 with the work of Howls. Working on gravitational aspects of AdS/CFT, Dias obtained new
 localised black hole solutions in AdS5 x S5 and significant results on the strong censorship
 conjecture. Kennedy studied Casimir forces in inhomogeneous media. Lobo explored the
 behaviour of impurities in Fermi gases, and showed how topological invariants can be measured
 in certain two-dimensional lattice systems (Hofstadter strips). Mafra uncovered remarkable new
 structures in superstring scattering amplitudes. Skenderis pioneered applications of holography
 to cosmology and obtained the first observational evidence for a holographic description of the
 very Early Universe. Skenderis and Taylor discovered a new anomaly in supersymmetry, the
 first such result since the creation of supersymmetry. Taylor defined renormalised entanglement
 entropy in quantum field theory and holography and she elucidated the relation between
 generalised conformal structure of the SYK model and black holes. Turton obtained the first
 ever family of black hole microstate supergravity solutions that have large near-horizon throats,
 arbitrary angular momentum, and identified holographically dual conformal field theory states.
 Withers developed holographic methods for condensed matter applications and out-of-
 equilibrium phenomena, including the introduction of a simple model for momentum dissipation.
 Since 2013, the String theory and Holography group have obtained one STFC Ernest Rutherford
 Fellowship (Dias), three Royal Society University Research Fellowships (Mafra, Turton,
 Withers) and one EPSRC five-year Fellowship (Aniceto). It has also hosted two Marie
 Skłodowska-Curie Fellows (Caldarelli, Pang), and a Leverhulme Visiting Professor (Coriano),
 as well as 14 Postdoctoral Fellows funded by STFC, the Royal Society, Templeton Foundation,
 Leverhulme Trust and the Turing Institute. The group have also attracted international doctoral
 students funded by grants from CONACYT (Chile, Mexico) and the Chinese Scholarship
 Council, as well long-term visitors funded by INFN (Italy), CNRS (France) and EU COST
 networks.
 The research of the Continuum modelling and Mathematical Biology group (D’Alessandro,
 Greulich, Hoyle, Howls, MacArthur (joint appointment with Medicine, returned in UoA1),
 Richardson, Sanchez-Garcia (also Pure Mathematics) and Sluckin) is highly interdisciplinary,
 connecting with the physical, life and social sciences. Greulich demonstrated that oesophageal
 tumours grow due to a subtle imbalance in stem cell replication. Hoyle’s influential work in
 evolutionary biology showed how maternal effects evolve under environmental change.
 Richardson’s pioneering work on charge transport elucidated previously unexplained
 phenomena in perovskite solar cells. His work on lithium-ion batteries with General Motors and
 McMaster University is an important part of UoA10’s wider impact portfolio. Howls discovered a
 major new source of aircraft jet engine noise not captured by statutory noise control, and his
 novel exponential asymptotic results were subsequently found to arise in a variety of physical
 situations including black holes, nonlinear water waves, and continuum physics. D’Alessandro’s
 deep understanding of liquid crystals was used in the development of a new integrated device
 for characterisation of liquid crystals which is now being commercialised. The group also bridges
 intradisciplinary divisions: Sanchez-Garcia (with Brodzki, Niblo, and Wright) applied spectral
 graph theory to solve the challenging problem of blackouts in power grids, and with Greulich
 and MacArthur derived a criterion for stability of complex cooperative systems.


                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A unique strength of the OR division (Ahipasaoglu, Avramidis, Coniglio, Currie, Fliege,
 Nguyen, Phan, Potts, Qi, Zemkoho) is its substantial network of collaborations with more than
 100 industrial, business, and governmental partners. The high quality of our staff is recognised
 externally, most notably through an EPSRC Early Career Fellowship to Nguyen. Coniglio’s and
 Potts’ work with the RNLI highlighted potential efficiency savings of 50% in RNLI’s maintenance
 operations. Currie’s EPSRC-funded project optimised the pricing for vehicle tickets as well as
 packing on ferry services and the methods were implemented by Red Funnel. Fliege, in
 collaboration with the European Space Agency and Airbus, developed global and multi-objective
 optimisation tools for mission planning in the lunar environment as well for manned missions to
 Mars. Qi’s convex interpolation algorithm has been incorporated into NAG’s Financial
 Mathematics toolbox. Phan is the co-creator of COBRA, a software toolbox for the analysis of
 experimental molecular systems and quantitative prediction of biochemically stable molecular
 systems. The group hosted eight PDRAs.
 The main strengths of the Pure Mathematics division (Anderson, Brodzki, Grbic, Koeck,
 Kropholler, Leary, Martino, Minasyan, Niblo, Petrosyan, Renshaw, Sanchez-Garcia (joint
 appointment with Applied Mathematics), Spakula, Theriault, and Wright) in noncommutative
 geometry, geometric group theory and algebraic topology were augmented by applied topology
 and new opportunities for applications. The ambition of the group to build on its strengths and to
 create new expertise in applications motivated the creation of the new Centre for Geometry,
 Topology and Applications (CGTA, §1.1).
 Southampton is a recognised leader in Geometric Group Theory. Leary’s construction of
 uncountably many groups of type FP represents a major breakthrough; Kropholler (with
 Bridson) solved a 50-year-old question on the homological dimension of elementary amenable
 groups; Minasyan created a new research direction by proving (with Osin) that most groups
 acting on trees are acylindrically hyperbolic. Anderson found bounds on the Hausdorff distance
 within the moduli space of Riemann surfaces. Petrosyan, with Leary, discovered surprising
 bounds on the Bredon dimension of various groups that disproved a question of Ken Brown.
 Martino developed new metric techniques for the study of the outer space of a free product.
 In Noncommutative Geometry, Niblo and Wright (with Plymen) found an unexpected link
 between the Baum-Connes Conjecture and Langlands duality, and Brodzki (with Guentner,
 Higson and Nishikawa) gave the first constructive proof of the Baum-Connes Conjecture for
 groups acting on CAT(0)-cube spaces. Spakula answered a question of Roe for Property A
 spaces.
 In Algebraic Topology, Grbic (with Beben) introduced configuration space methods into the
 study of toric topology and polyhedral products, while Theriault solved a 50-year-old conjecture
 relating nilpotence and cocategory in homotopy theory. Koeck obtained significant
 generalisations of deep results in geometric Galois module theory.
 Members of Pure Mathematics organised activities around the world, including a six-month
 thematic programme at the Fields Institute (Theriault) and a one-month programme at the ICM
 in Singapore (Grbic). Pure Mathematics established two new research relationships:
 Southampton-Bielefeld in geometric group theory and Southampton-Kyoto in algebraic topology,
 both of which hosted reciprocal workshops. Pure Mathematics hosted thirteen PDRAs supported
 by the EPSRC, Leverhulme, Turing Institute, JSPS, and the Newton Fund of the Royal Society.
 The work of the Statistics division (Berger, Biedermann, Böhning, Dawber, Dodd, Durrant,
 Liu, Lu, Luna Hernandez, Ogden, Overstall, Pfeffermann, Sahu, PA Smith, PWF Smith,

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Tzavidis, van der Heijden, Woods, Wu, Zhang, Zheng) is facilitated by S3RI, and its members
 made major contributions to three ESRC Research Centres awarded to Southampton: the
 Administrative Data Research Centre for England (PWF Smith, Durrant, Zhang), the National
 Centre for Research Methods (Durrant, PWF Smith) and the Centre for Population Change
 (Dodd, PWF Smith). Statistics research is organised within six research themes: Survey Theory
 and Official Statistics, Survey Modelling, Design of Experiments, Statistical Modelling,
 Biostatistics and Actuarial Modelling. There is substantial collaboration and overlap between
 these themes, and their highlights are as follows.
 Design of Experiments: Overstall and Woods developed the first computational tools for
 practical Bayesian design of multifactor experiments for nonlinear models, which have become
 the gold standard comparator method in the field. Biedermann, with Mitra, pioneered a new
 strand of optimal design with incomplete or missing data, important in clinical and social
 experimentation. The group has been strengthened by the recent appointment of Ahipasaoglu
 with expertise in optimisation problems for the construction of efficient experimental designs.
 Survey Theory and Official Statistics: Tzavidis, Zhang, Pfeffermann, Luna Hernandez and
 Dawber created novel methods for small area estimation which resulted in new benchmarking
 and protocols for official statistics. The group also developed novel methodology for: analysing
 data collected via complex survey designs (Berger), estimation and inference under data
 linkage and linkage errors and methods for the analysis of social network data (Zhang), analysis
 of business survey data, the estimation of consumer price indices, and Census coverage (PA
 Smith).
 Survey Modelling: Durrant and PWF Smith have developed new methods for assessing the
 representativeness of surveys, which allowed the ONS to substantially reduce the number of
 response attempts for their Labour Force Survey.
 Actuarial Modelling: Dodd and PWF Smith developed Bayesian methodology for estimating
 mortality, which was used by the ONS in the production of the English Life Tables: Number 17.
 Biostatistics: Wu made substantial contributions to modelling the effects of interventions in the
 early phase of the COVID-19 pandemic in China and epidemic evolution in Brazil. Her work has
 informed WHO policies. The work of Böhning, Ogden and van der Heijden on meta-analysis of
 rare event studies was used for population estimation to estimate hidden infections of COVID-
 19.
 Statistical Modelling and Computation: Sahu’s improved predictions of air pollution in England
 and Wales created estimates at local authority level that have become a standard reference.
 Lu obtained new theoretical results for non- and semi-parametric spatial density estimation,
 including bandwidth choice and methods for dynamic models. Ogden created new methods and
 theory for inference for intractable likelihood models, Liu developed new methods for
 constructing exact confidence sets for univariate polynomial functions, and Zheng used variable
 selection confidence sets to rank genetic factors to model age-related macular degeneration.
 Since 2013, Statistics has consolidated and expanded its network of academic, industrial,
 government and third-party collaborations, including long-standing strategic partnerships with
 ONS, the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory and GlaxoSmithKline, a new partnership
 with Statistics Netherlands (University-level MoU signed 2019), and new collaborations with,
 among others, the Welsh government, Public Health England and Wales, QinetiQ, and the
 World Anti-Doping Authority. New academic collaborations have emerged from a strategic focus
 on core areas of Statistical Data Science, spurred by Southampton’s membership of the Alan

                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Turing Institute, including EPSRC-funded projects on active learning (Woods) with chemists and
 chemical engineers from Cambridge and Glasgow. We used diverse funding from EPSRC,
 ESRC, Horizon2020, MRC, industry and the Government to support 15 PDRAs.

 1.3 Interdisciplinary research
 The core of our interdisciplinary research is facilitated by our Centres and Institutes (§1.1)
 through a vast network of collaborations (§1.2, §3.1, §4.1). Furthermore, nine of our colleagues
 (Böhning, Brodzki, D’Alessandro, Greulich, Hoyle, MacArthur, Richardson, Sanchez-
 Garcia, Zemkoho) are members of the Institute for Life Sciences (IfLS) within UoS whose
 mission is to ‘catalyse interdisciplinary collaborative research, education, and enterprise’. UoA10
 also engages with the Alan Turing Institute through the UoS membership, and Brodzki,
 Greulich, MacArthur, Ogden, Qi, Sanchez Garcia, Smith, Taylor, Woods, and Zemkoho have
 been accepted as Turing Fellows from 2019, while MacArthur is ATI’s Deputy Programme
 Director for Health and Medical Science. We continue to make permanent appointments to
 support interdisciplinarity, e.g., O’Bannon will be appointed jointly with Physics at the end of his
 Fellowship to add to our existing appointment with Medicine (MacArthur) and an intradisciplinary
 post connecting Pure and Applied Mathematics (Sanchez-Garcia).

 In addition to the many examples of interdisciplinary projects (§1.2, §3.1, §4.1), we can name
 Hoyle’s work, who partnered with biophysicists to further our understanding of the mechanisms
 of DNA unwinding. Wu, in a collaboration involving the Max Planck Institute, ANU, Oxford,
 Auckland, Uppsala, and Radboud University, performed a large-scale study of Pacific languages
 which overturned a long-held assumption in linguistics.
 1.4 Impact strategy
 The drive to achieve impact is supported by the vibrant interdisciplinary and collaborative
 research environment described above. Creating impact is facilitated by the following
 mechanisms:
    •   Disseminating our research results of potential interest to industry partners through our
        substantial network of industrial collaborations;

    •   Exploiting a variety of funding including from non-research organisations (e.g., ONS,
        WADA, Ford, National Grid, Boeing);

    •   Using Impact Acceleration Accounts (IAAs) from EPSRC, STFC, and ESRC, pump-
        priming funds (UoS, IfLS), and KTP awards to bring our research closer to potential end-
        users;
    •   Engaging with interdisciplinary applications-oriented calls from research councils and
        building applications into appropriate grant proposals; and

    •   Developing a portfolio of innovative and varied outreach activities.
 Our strategy has brought significant success, as evidenced by our Impact Case Studies. We
 developed eight ICSs to an advanced stage, from which the final five were selected:
    •   Optimisation of Baggage Processing at London Heathrow Airport (Potts) brought
        substantial savings to Heathrow operations (£10M pa since 2016 in operational costs as
        well as over £20M reduction in capital costs);




                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Research on estimating mortality (Dodd, Smith) was incorporated by the ONS to
        develop the latest decennial life tables which are widely used in health care, social
        security, and insurance;
    •   van der Heijden and Böhning created new methods for national-level estimates of the
        extent of human trafficking that were adopted by the United Nations Office on Drugs and
        Crime to provide estimates for the Netherlands, Ireland, Romania, Serbia, and led to a
        significant policy change in the Netherlands;
    •   Novel statistical methodologies (Böhning, Liu) improved the detection of growth
        hormone misuse through their refinement of a biomarker test, approved by the World
        Anti-Doping Agency for use at all events governed by the International Athletics
        Organisation, from the Olympics to the World Athletics Championships;

    •   The work of PA Smith, van der Heijden, and Zhang informed the design of population
        censuses in the UK, the Netherlands, Ireland and New Zealand bringing significant
        quality improvements, process simplification, policy changes, as well as significant
        savings (£750K in UK alone).
 Our enduring collaboration with the ONS was expanded thanks to ONS funding to appoint
 Dawber and to support ongoing work by PWF Smith and PA Smith. Currie and Nguyen, with
 support from the EPSRC, improved the pricing optimisation in the transport sector, increasing by
 millions of pounds the revenues of partner companies Carnival, Red Funnel, and Virgin Atlantic.
 Fliege’s work with Boeing has brought substantial savings to MoD (£3.4M pa since 2018).
 Results on discontinuities in major government surveys (PA Smith, Tzavidis) were incorporated
 by the ONS, as well as by the Welsh government in its National Survey 2016-17 and evaluations
 of changes in the UK labour force. Tzavidis and Luna Hernandez are funded by the Foreign,
 Commonwealth, and Development Office as part of a large academic and non-academic
 consortium (Southampton awarded £300K) to work on developing methods for high spatial
 resolution estimates of extreme poverty, which is based on an earlier work supported by a
 £810K grant from the ESRC (Tzavidis, Luna Hernandez, Zhang, Berger). Richardson
 secured over £980K from the Faraday Institution, a key part of the UK Government’s Industrial
 Challenge Fund, for work on modelling battery performance and manufacture. D’Alessandro is
 part of a team that created a new device for testing the physical properties of liquid crystals
 which was purchased and is currently implemented by a major corporation (whose name is
 confidential). Sanchez-Garcia is a co-founder of a spin-out company TopMD which offers
 services and a software platform based on topological data analysis to the medical community.
 Kennedy is a member of the technical and income protection committees of the Continuous
 Mortality Investigation group at the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
 Brodzki, Currie, and Zemkoho received EPSRC IAAs, while Taylor and Vickers held IAAs
 from STFC, and Currie from ESRC. Potts holds a KTP award for coach and driver scheduling
 with Lucketts. Brodzki received the first KTP award (with AI Corporation for detection of
 fraudulent credit card transactions) at Southampton involving Pure Mathematics.
 We regard outreach as a very important pathway to impact creation, and we have developed a
 broad, varied portfolio of inventive activities which represent a significant contribution to the
 wider society and are described in detail in §4.2.
 Southampton has expanded its support for impact and engagement (REF5a§2.9) guided
 through the Public Engagement in Research Unit, and PublicPolicy|Southampton. UoA10 is

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supported by Industrial Liaison Officers, jointly appointed with SBS. Opportunities for impact
 creation in the healthcare sector will be strengthened by the appointment of the Head of the
 Healthcare Analytics group within SBS which will expand the range of collaborations between
 the OR division and SBS.

 1.5 Future strategy
 Our plans over the next five years include the following:
 Research: We aim to consolidate the core strengths and international leadership position of our
 Centres, Institutes, and research groups across UoA10. We will identify and explore new trends
 to create opportunities for interdisciplinary, collaborative research and enterprise. We will lead
 on UK and international data science initiatives, particularly through Southampton’s membership
 of the Alan Turing Institute. We will maintain engagement and leadership within research
 councils and professional societies, both nationally and internationally.
 Staffing: As permitted by the University finances, we plan to make strategic new appointments
 to support and expand the spectrum of our research while strengthening existing areas of
 expertise. In parallel, we plan to develop fully the potential of individuals, especially ECRs,
 through mentoring and support for applications for prestigious Fellowships and grants.
 Diversity: We will use new appointments to increase the diversity of our staff, and ensure that
 the principles of Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (§2.2) are integrated into all facets of activity of
 UoA10.
 Funding: We aim to increase the numbers of EPSRC bids and awards and identify and exploit a
 variety of external funding sources, including industrial funding.
 Impact and enterprise: We will develop impact from our research via existing and new inter-
 and intra-disciplinary collaborations, making use of IAA funding and diversifying the routes to
 impact of our research portfolio. We will maintain existing external links to non-academic
 partners, and develop new links, via consultancy and CPD activities in areas directly related
 to research strengths.
 Postgraduate research: We will grow a strong community of postgraduate research students in
 proportion to staffing numbers using a variety of funding routes including UKRI DTPs, Centres
 for Doctoral Training (CDTs), and industrial support.
 Facilities: We will work with the University to develop modern, flexible, and accessible
 accommodation for Mathematical Sciences to support our collaborative and interdisciplinary
 research, impact and enterprise initiatives, e.g., CPD courses, as well as research meetings.
 Embedding sustainability: We will work to embed environmental sustainability (REF5a§2.6)
 throughout our research, impact, and education. Our new facilities will be developed to support
 hybrid events, remote collaborations and research programmes.

 1.6 Open Research
 We support open research and open data ideals and policies of the national and international
 funding councils. UoS is a leader in supporting open research and Open Access publishing and
 archiving (REF5a§2.4), in particular all outputs are archived in the ePrints repository. In common
 with the wider community, we make use of the arXiv repository, and where appropriate, we use
 GitHub and similar to distribute code, data, and supporting information.




                                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.7 Research Integrity
 Members of UoA10 subscribe to the highest standards of academic integrity and research
 ethics. The Ethics Officer (Lu) is responsible for the implementation of the necessary
 requirements in the handling of data where appropriate, e.g., in medical statistics. All of our
 PGRs undergo compulsory ethics and research integrity training. Staff are encouraged to
 participate in the Faculty-organised ethics training events. Where appropriate, our research is
 approved by the University’s Ethics and Research Governance Online (ERGOII). All staff are
 required to complete an annual register of interests return in accordance with the UoS Conflict of
 Interest Policy.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Our staffing strategy aims to enhance our significant core research strengths, while increasing
 the diversity of our staff and creating new opportunities for interdisciplinary research with
 promising impact potential. All of our appointments are made through a rigorous and competitive
 process, and wherever possible, we make permanent appointments. We are committed to
 developing and retaining talented staff, and we welcome the opportunity of accommodating
 excellent scientists who joined us on prestigious Fellowships. The success of our approach is
 evidenced by growth from 54.8 FTE in 2014 to 64.3 FTE (10.5F, 53.8M) in this submission.
 UoA10 comprises 69 members (12F, 57M); 45% of our staff are UK nationals, and 55% from the
 EU/EAA and the rest of the world; 17% of our staff identify as Black, Asian, or Minority Ethnic.
 Our commitment to the long-term goal of increasing diversity guided all our recent appointments
 and promotions, and the overall rate of change is proportional to the available appointments. We
 are dedicated to ensuring equality of opportunity for all staff and fostering inclusion and diversity
 (§2.2).
 The appointments of Hoyle (Chair in Applied Mathematics) and Greulich strengthened the
 Continuum Modelling group. The OR division was considerably strengthened by the
 appointments of Ahipasaoglu, Coniglio, Phan and Zemkoho who bring new expertise in
 theoretical and methodological aspects of OR and provide focus on interdisciplinary,
 applications-driven research with strong engagement from end users. In Statistics, the
 appointment of Overstall has enhanced our leadership in Bayesian and computational design,
 while the appointments of Ogden, Zheng and Wu has brought new expertise in inference and
 estimation in mixed models, change point analysis and bioinformatics, and opened up new
 collaborative opportunities between the research themes on Design of Experiments and
 Statistical Modelling. The appointment of PA Smith and his subsequent promotion to Chair have
 strengthened and expanded our research base in Official Statistics and Sample Surveys.
 Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics received a significant influx of excellent ECRs
 supported by prestigious Fellowships. Dias and Schmitt were awarded STFC Ernest Rutherford
 Fellowships in 2014 and 2015, respectively, and have been appointed to permanent positions on
 the completion of their Fellowships. Mafra, O’Bannon, Pound and Turton joined Southampton
 supported by Royal Society University Research Fellowships; O’Bannon will be appointed jointly
 with Physics, and Mafra, Pound and Turton are on proleptic contracts, i.e. will be appointed to
 a permanent position at the end of their Fellowships. Aniceto is funded by a five-year EPSRC
 Fellowship from 2018-2023. Withers, a Royal Society University Research Fellow, joined us



                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (with a postdoc) in 2019. Lkabous was appointed in actuarial science (start delayed by the
 pandemic to September 2020).
 To recognise talent and achievement, fifteen (11M, 4F) colleagues were promoted to Chair, and
 sixteen (13M, 3F) to Associate Professorships. New appointments and promotions strengthened
 senior management and research groups following the departures of Ruostekoski and Ho in
 Applied, and Gilmour, Mylona, Mitra, Forster, Okhrati and the retirement of Kimber in Statistics.
 Appointments in OR were replacements for Batarra and Xu.
 We support the career development of our staff through annual appraisals (REF5a§3.1), and
 provide development opportunities through events organised within the UoA or through
 University and Faculty agencies. An example here is a recent series of workshops devoted to
 grant application and management processes. We operate an internal peer review system for
 grant applications, advising staff at all stages of the process. To support staff in their research,
 we operate a successful sabbatical leave system; over 60 periods of sabbatical leave were taken
 since 2014. For example, after focussing on teaching of actuarial science for many years,
 Kennedy used a sabbatical at Texas A&M University to restart his research in theoretical
 physics.

 2.2 Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI)
 Through our EDI strategy, we aim to create a community in which equality, diversity, and
 inclusion are inherent to all aspects of our activity. We have made significant progress in the
 implementation of good practice in EDI, which is realised through visible senior leadership,
 research-informed policies and customised staff training. When preparing our submission, we
 ensured that all staff have had the opportunity to input into this document, and we have followed
 Southampton’s REF code of practice (REF5a§3.9). In particular, our outputs portfolio includes
 19.3% of papers authored by women in line with our gender profile.
 Implementation of EDI in UoA10 is overseen by a dedicated committee, whose membership
 embeds diversity in its core. The School of Mathematical Sciences and ESPS both hold Athena
 SWAN Bronze awards, with Mathematical Sciences preparing for a Silver submission in
 November 2021.
 In 2017, we organised an EPSRC IAA-funded international meeting on gender in mathematical
 physics, which brought together scientists and gender experts to discuss effective EDI
 interventions. This meeting led to the founding of a permanent working group (GenHET) on
 gender at CERN theory, led by Taylor, which has several hundred members from around the
 world. We are very active in the work of WiSET (Women in Science and Technology) which is
 dedicated to promoting the work and achievements of female academics.
 EDI practices in supporting research
   •   We operate core hours policies, where the working patterns of part-time staff are taken into
       account in the scheduling of research meetings and seminar series.

   •   We provide support to ensure that postdoctoral researchers can fully benefit from parental
       leave; e.g. in 2019/20 two female PDRAs could return for a full year after maternity leave.
       This allowed them to receive the enhanced maternity benefits offered by the University (not
       just statutory pay) and gave them more time to develop their research.




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Staff returning from leave for physical or mental health issues have a reduced teaching and
       administrative workload, determined according to individual circumstances, to ensure that
       they have sufficient research time.
   •   Staff taking maternity leave or other extended parental leave are automatically awarded a
       sabbatical in the semester after they return to focus on their research.
   •   We are a sponsor of Women in OR and Analytics Network (WORAN).
   •   EDI is embedded into every aspect of our recruitment processes by debiasing the phrasing
       of advertisements, circulating advertisements via channels that target minority groups, and
       compulsory EDI training (including implicit bias).

   •   We worked with external coaches to develop customised training for staff on creating a
       collegial and supportive environment and on maximising the development of ECRs.
 Mental and physical health of staff
   •   We offer customised training (with Solent Mind) for group leaders on supporting group
       members with mental health issues.
   •   We discuss return to work plans with PGRs recovering from mental or physical health
       issues incorporating structured and scaffolded objectives, and encouraging regular
       meetings with their supervisory team and support services.
   •   Post COVID-19, individuals with physical and mental health requirements have priority
       access to campus facilities as well additional support through more regular COVID-secure
       in-person meetings.
 Support for individuals with caring responsibilities
   •   Our embedded culture of flexible and part-time working supports those with caring
       responsibilities, including a number of female and male staff and PhD students with
       childcare responsibilities.
 Research career development and mentoring
   •   EDI action plans, including those flowing from our Athena SWAN Bronze accreditation and
       our work towards Silver in 2021, ensure researchers from under-represented groups
       receive support in developing their research careers and applying for promotion.
   •   ECRs are offered meetings with senior academics to provide independent advice on their
       progress and research portfolio, highlighting potential funding opportunities, and
       developmental leadership roles.
 EDI culture
   •   All staff and PGR students can obtain funding to attend EDI related meetings such as
       ‘Women in Mathematics’ meetings and conferences.
   •   We provide support for the 2021 national Undergraduate Women in Physics conference to
       encourage more women in physics to pursue PhDs.

   •   Howls is University lead on EPSRC mobility DTP providing funding for those from under-
       represented backgrounds, mature students, students on secondment from industry, to
       study for a PhD on projects related to defence in association with industrial partners. The
       DTP uses industrial connections established through CORMSIS (§1.1).



                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Our use of EPSRC summer vacation bursaries to offer under-represented students a taste
       of research and encourage them to consider applying for PhDs has been successful in
       recruiting PhD students from lower socio-economic backgrounds.
 Members of UoA10 lead internationally on EDI issues in science, e.g., Dias, O’Bannon, Taylor
 and Skenderis were organisers of the “Third workshop on gender and string theory”
 (Southampton 2017), Taylor was a member of the organising committee of the “First workshop
 on high energy theory and gender” CERN 2018, and of the workshop “Promoting gender
 equality in physics: barriers and opportunities”, Weizmann Institute 2019.

 2.3 Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
 Support for ECRs is governed by the University’s compliance with the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers (REF5a§3.5). Within UoA10, the interests of ECRs are
 represented by the Postdoc Network, most of whose activities contribute to the implementation
 of the Concordat. The Postdoc Network organises regular meetings for ECRs which are
 designed to allow the exchange of information, providing support to ECRs, and enhancing the
 research environment of UoA10.
 ECRs are made aware of the Concordat through announcements as well as presentations and
 discussion at a dedicated meeting. Similar meetings are organised by the Postdoc Network to
 inform ECRs of the University’s EDI policy.
 We have implemented and maintain rigorous, fair, and inclusive selection and appointment
 practices in the recruitment of ECRs. All ECRs are assigned mentors from the senior staff. They
 undergo annual appraisal meetings, and are aware that they are eligible to apply for promotion.
 ECRs are aware of their rights to and benefit from flexible working, statutory rights, and
 maternity leave. UoA10 actively supports ECRs in this, and is proactive in resolving any issues,
 for instance, arising from contract timing which might prevent ECRs from benefiting from their
 rights.
 To ensure access to professional development training for ECRs mandated by the Concordat,
 regular sessions cover various aspects of career development and progression. Examples of
 recent events (2019/20) include: Applying for Research Fellowships (now annual); Careers
 outside Academia; Personal Development training workshop. ECRs are encouraged to actively
 participate in UoA10’s research environment, with support from their host research group.
 The views of the ECRs are important in shaping our research environment and culture, e.g., the
 session on Careers Outside Academia was arranged at the request of the ECRs.
 To deal with the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, we proactively implemented a wide
 range of solutions to support ECRs in the new working from home regime.

 2.4 Postgraduate Research Students (PGRs)
 UoA10 has a thriving PGR programme, which attracts excellent candidates. A total of 131 PhD
 degrees were awarded in the REF period. The gender split of our PGR alumni (41%F, 59%M)
 compares favourably with the HESA figure of about 30% female PGR students in mathematical
 sciences.




                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 PhDs awarded (FPE)

  2013-14      2014-15     2015-16     2016-17      2017-18     2018-19     2019-20      Total

    11.70       19.00       23.95        20.65       20.90       18.40        16.35      130.95

 UoA10 actively shapes PGR provision across the University of Southampton. Our staff are often
 co-supervisors with other Departments (e.g., 16 joint supervisions with SBS, as well as with
 Medicine, Chemistry, Physics, Psychology). Howls is the Director of UoS Doctoral College, and
 Sanchez-Garcia is the Faculty PGR Senior Tutor.
 Recruitment
 We are proactive in seeking out excellent candidates from diverse backgrounds. We participate
 in the national LMS Prospects in Mathematics meetings, we engage with students from leading
 Masters programmes, and we run Summer Internships supported by EPSRC, Ogden Trust and
 others. We organise an annual Postgraduate Recruitment Fair and PGR Open Days. We are a
 partner in a CDT in New Generation Computational Modelling, a £9.9M investment sponsored
 by EPSRC, industry and the University. We are also a partner in an EPSRC CDT on New and
 Sustainable Photovoltaics, and an STFC DISCnet data science CDT, and the ESRC South
 Coast DTP.
 All potential candidates are interviewed by at least two academics, who are required to undergo
 interviewing training which includes EDI issues and unconscious bias.
 The main source of funding support for our PGR students is in the form of UKRI DTA
 studentships (45%). In addition, we use UoA10 funds to provide further investment in our PGRs
 (25%). These two main streams are augmented by funds from institutional themes, including the
 Vice-Chancellor’s (VC) scholarships (12%), Institute for Life Sciences (5%), and external
 funders, including The Royal Society (7%), and other sponsors, e.g., Irish Statistical Office.
 Co-sponsors of the VC scholarships include Northrup Grumman, the Turing Institute, Scottish
 Forestry Trust, Urban Forest Research, Boeing, RNLI, ESA, Horizon2020. We also received a
 number of direct sponsorships for PhD places from Horizon2020, CONACYT (Mexico), Chinese
 Scholarship Council, and the Turkish and Brazilian governments.
 Supervision and progression
 In line with the University policy (REF5a§3.7), each student is supported by a supervisory team
 that includes a supervisor and a co-supervisor, plus additional experts if necessary. This system
 is designed to ensure that students have unimpeded access to a variety of expertise to shape
 their studies as their interests evolve. The supervisory teams also allow junior staff members to
 gain experience.
 Within the first three months from commencing, PGRs complete an Academic Needs Analysis
 (ANA) to identify training and equipment needs; each ANA is reviewed every year. The student’s
 progress is monitored through the online ‘PGR tracker’ that holds the record of training, courses
 attended, reports, and progress reviews. There is an annual progression review, with the
 Confirmation review (typically at the end of the second year) being the main step to the final
 preparation and submission of the PhD thesis.




                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Skills and research development
 Generic skills training is coordinated by the University Doctoral College (REF5a§3.7) in
 alignment with the UKRI Vitae Researcher Development Framework. Additionally, our PGR
 programme is enhanced through our association with the national training centres APTS and
 NATCOR, where Currie, Potts, and Coniglio have delivered lecture courses. Woods and
 Overstall have served on the APTS Executive Committee, with Woods also chairing the future
 planning committee. Furthermore, we are members of the MAGIC programme, a consortium of
 18 UK universities providing introductory lectures for PGR students. Our staff are regularly
 invited to develop and deliver MAGIC lecture courses (Brodzki, Gundlach, Koeck, Kropholler,
 and Skenderis) as well as many courses internationally (§4.3).
 Our PGRs are expected to participate in the relevant seminar series, some of which are run by
 the students themselves, as well as subject-specific workshops and summer schools.
 All PGRs have access to a dedicated part of Southampton’s Careers and Employability Service,
 which provides advice on and organises employability events discussing academic and non-
 academic career paths.
 Destinations
 Our PhD alumni embark on successful careers in academia, education, and industry. For
 example, Jacobs (PhD 2015) is a lecturer in Human Evolutionary Genetics and Bioinformatics at
 Cambridge (appointed July 2019), Wan (2014) is a Lecturer in Medical Statistics, Lancaster
 University, Lee (2016) is a Lecturer in Medical Statistics, QMUL, Ashton (2016) was a Research
 Fellow at the Albert Einstein Institute in Hannover and is now an Assistant Lecturer (since 2018)
 at Monash University, Australia; So (2018) is a PIMS Postdoctoral Fellow at the University of
 Regina, Canada. Robbins (2018) is a Senior Operations Analyst at Boeing, Harris (2015) an
 editor for Mathematical Sciences at the CUP. The list of employers includes IBM, Bank of
 America, Blue Brain, NAG (Numerical Algorithms Group), Biostrand (data science in biotech),
 and Cudos (cryptocurrency and data science).

 3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities

 3.1 Research income strategy
 Our staff submitted 385 grant applications totalling over £100M, and received 133 awards of
 over £25M. Our income was £19,748,190 (£10,857,535 in REF2014). The average annual
 income over the assessment period was £2,821,170 (£2.17M in REF2014).
 Our awards include six STFC consolidation grants and funding from the EU Horizon2020
 programme. We were awarded grants from the UKRI Research Councils and The Royal Society
 (69%), the EU and the ERC (13%), the Leverhulme Trust and other charities (6%), UK
 Government, local authorities, health and hospital authorities (6%), and industrial sponsorships.
 Research grant income of UoA10

   2013-14       2014-15       2015-16        2016-17      2017-18       2018-19       2019-20
 £2,917,414     £3,199,041   £2,516,045      £2,461,042   £2,876,529   £2,722,204    £3,055,915

 Our staff also support major bids originating from the University of Southampton. For example,
 Howls, as Director of Doctoral College, led a successful bid for £18M for Southampton’s EPSRC
 DTP with a further £1.8M for the Security and Mobility DTP pilot designed for PGR entrants
 directly from military and industrial roles to Mathematical Sciences. In addition, UoA10 members

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 actively seek funds from international organisations to run conferences and workshops. For
 instance, Taylor was granted £20K by CERN and £20K by Weizmann Institute to run workshops
 on EDI themes, while Theriault and Grbic were part of a team running a major programme at
 the Fields Institute in 2020 supported by a grant of $350K.
 The increase in grant income over this REF period testifies to the success of our strategy to
 secure funding for research. A central part has been an increased engagement with
 interdisciplinary calls that cross the traditional subject boundaries within UoA10, for example, a
 recent EPSRC New Horizons call (Zemkoho).
 All staff members are expected to apply for grants, and we support them through an expanded
 and rigorous internal review process at all stages of grant applications, from the initial ideas,
 grant finances, through evaluating draft proposals, to submission and responding to reviewer
 reports. We hold staff training events to discuss the scientific and financial aspects of grant
 applications. The financial aspects of grant preparation are supported through the central
 Finance Research Hub. Further advice and support in all facets of grant preparation is provided
 by Research and Innovation Services (RIS) (REF5a§1.5), including advice on specific grant
 schemes, and a dedicated office dealing with applications for EU funding. Over the assessment
 period, we have actively exploited new interdisciplinary opportunities, e.g., Brodzki secured a
 £1.2M grant under the “Making sense from data” EPSRC call that brought together a team of
 medical practitioners, statisticians, computer scientists, and chemists. Woods, in collaboration
 with DSTL, secured funding from the US Defence Threat Reduction Agency (£700K) to develop
 and implement disease models, and funding from GlaxoSmithKline (£300K) enabled the
 development and application of new design of experiments methods for biopharmaceutical
 studies.

 3.2 Research facilities
 Whilst most of our research does not require the use of large-scale external facilities, UoA10
 members contributed to the design of LIGO, which was at the centre of the discovery of
 gravitational waves. The Gravity group were granted access to major international observatories:
 Chandra ($29K in 2018-19), NICER (NASA), ($54K in 2019-20; $26K in 2020-21), XMM Newton
 (NASA) ($48K in 2019-21). In 2017-19, the Strings group were awarded a substantial amount of
 time and storage on the Distributed Research utilising Advanced Computing (DIRAC) facility
 which represents about £1.1M over three years.
 UoA10 members are users and supporters of the High-Performance Computing infrastructure
 (REF5a§4.2). At the centre of this facility is the IRIDIS cluster, one of the largest of its kind in the
 UK, which was an important part of our success in attracting the CDT in Next Generation
 Computer Modelling (2014-22) with Hawke as co-Director (2014-17) and then Director (2017-
 19). This facility is crucial for the computationally-intensive part of our interdisciplinary research,
 e.g., by the Gravity and Strings groups, as well as in Topological Data Analysis. Successful
 STFC infrastructure grants obtained by the Gravity and Strings groups have secured and
 supported dedicated nodes on IRIDIS. We have dedicated licences for specialist software
 including Maple, Mathematica, Matlab, and RShiny.

 3.3 Improving the working environment
 UoA10 is located in two adjoining buildings, with Statistics and S3RI partly based in an adjacent
 purpose-built facility. All staff have individual offices, with shared spaces provided for PDRAs
 and PGR students. The existing accommodation has been greatly improved with the investment
 of over £350K of UoS and UoA10 funds, which was used, among others, to create a dedicated

                                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 space for data science research, equipped with modern videoconferencing facilities for the
 delivery of MAGIC courses, CPD events, workshops and seminars. Furthermore, we used the
 available funds to provide health and disability adjustments to staff who need them.
 We have created a new flexible space in an adjacent building with a modern layout, breakout
 rooms, and state-of-the-art videoconferencing equipment which is used for workshops and
 seminars. It was also used with great success for the DataKind data dive events, and outreach
 events. For larger impact and outreach events, we use other UoA10 and University facilities. For
 example, the Mathematics Building hosts the Schools Mathematics Challenge, and STAG
 workshops for school groups, while the STAG lectures take place in the Turner Sims Concert
 Hall.
 Our success in attracting ECRs and PGRs, our recent appointments and our strategic plans to
 grow the UoA10 research base have put significant pressure on the available space. To realise
 our ambitions, the University’s 10-Year Plan (REF5a§2.2) includes plans for significant new
 investment in the UoA, including a new building for Mathematical Sciences. The plans for
 development, developed in consultation with staff and PGR students, include a flexible student
 centre space, a dedicated data science laboratory for CPD and enterprise activities, and state-
 of-the-art videoconferencing facilities for use in remote and hybrid research and impact events.
 Modern, innovative, flexible and accessible accommodation is central to our future strategy.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Major collaborations
 The collaborative and interdisciplinary ethos is central to our scientific and impact creation. We
 produced more than 1,200 outputs, of which more than 90% were the results of collaborative
 work; 75% of the outputs included collaborators external to Southampton, and 60% international.
 Our collaborators are based at 745 institutions in 56 countries including prestigious universities
 in the UK and worldwide (Oxford, Cambridge, Stanford, Harvard, Duke, MIT, Princeton), q
 companies (Novartis, General Motors, Roche, GlaxoSmithKline, Barclays), and governmental
 agencies (Bureau of Labor Statistics US, ONS, Met Office, Public Health England, Statistics
 Offices of the Netherlands, Sweden, Mexico). This level of collaborative activity is only possible
 through the active engagement of all our research centres, groups, and staff members.
 An important example, mentioned in §1.2, is Jones’s work within the LIGO-Virgo collaboration,
 whose epochal discovery of gravitational waves was rewarded with a Nobel Prize in 2017. To
 ensure the growth of this engagement, Andersson coordinates the Gravity group’s work with
 the LIGO-India collaboration and its Chinese counterpart Great Network.
 Fliege led a collaboration between Southampton, Airbus UK and European Space Agency on
 trajectory optimisation in the near-Moon environment that is a part of ESA’s four-mission
 programme which aims to return humans to the Moon. In the fight against Covid-19, Currie’s
 team created a template for modellers to support policy-makers in decisions on COVID-19
 lockdowns and distancing, resource management, and care. Their paper was viewed almost
 21,000 times. Many other examples are provided in §1.2.

 4.2 Major contributions to society and the outreach programme
 We contribute to society through our impact creation (§1.4), engagement with policy-makers,
 research councils, and the scientific community (§4.3), as well as through our very strong and
 varied portfolio of outreach activities.


                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Cipher Challenge, designed and managed by Niblo over the past 18 years, is a national
 competition for young codebreakers, which involves about 700 schools from across the UK and
 a small number of schools from overseas. About 3,000 teams take part each year, and in
 2019/20, 40% of the competitors, as well as the top three individual leaders, were female. The
 Challenge is sponsored by GCHQ, IBM, Netcraft and Trinity College Cambridge. Past sponsors
 included the EPSRC, The Royal Society, The Guardian, Winton Capital Management, Bletchley
 Park and the British Computer Society. The competition’s website offers an enrichment resource
 for teachers with lesson plans, notes on code breaking and related mathematics, links to books
 and media. In recent years, the winners have been asked to write up their solutions to the most
 difficult challenges, providing another useful resource for teachers and competitors aiming to
 sharpen their mathematical skills.

 Andersson, the author of a successful series of science-inspired books for children (Professor
 Kompressor), wrote a history of Einstein’s general theory of relativity, which was distributed to
 5,000 school children in India through a collaboration with LIGO-India, funded by a Newton-
 Bhabha grant, and was used to present Einstein’s ideas at public events in Mumbai, Bengaluru,
 Kolkata, and Delhi in 2019-20. He also designed an information leaflet “India listens to the
 Universe” distributed using the Newton-Bhabha grant to the residents neighbouring the location
 of the LIGO-India detector under construction. Skenderis featured in a documentary based on
 his work “Is the Universe a Hologram?” in Space’s Deepest Secrets made for the Science
 Channel and broadcast in the USA on 23 April 2019. Taylor received funding from STFC to
 support a programme of masterclasses and events for schools.
 In addition, STAG have a comprehensive outreach strategy, which includes the STAG annual
 lectures (§1.2), as well as a thriving series of events for schools. Colleagues regularly give
 lectures, masterclasses and organise or participate in events like Maths in Action, Pint of
 Science, Southampton Science and Engineering Day, New Scientist Science events, and many
 others. Taylor talked at a number of national events, including the Cheltenham Science Festival
 (2019); New Scientist Live events (2016-2018); The Guardian Live at the Royal Institution
 (2018). Her article on black holes in The Conversation has been viewed over half a million times,
 and republished around the world. Her articles on working with Stephen Hawking were published
 in The Conversation, The New European and many other international media. Furthermore,
 Taylor contributed a chapter to a German book “Stephen Hawking: Denken ohne Grenzen”
 (Thinking without Boundaries), which is a companion volume to the German edition of “A Brief
 History of Time”. Taylor has also been quoted in articles in The Times and The Guardian;
 interviewed by the BBC and filmed a documentary on Hawking with Sky (on general release in
 2021). In a different direction, Greulich developed a board game ('A Fate of Cells') that
 explores stem cell differentiation dynamics and presented it at the 2018 Southampton Science
 and Engineering Festival.

 4.3 Major contributions to the UK and international scientific community
 Members of UoA10 make significant contributions through membership of major scientific
 bodies, editorships of leading journals, keynote lectures, conference organisations, and many
 others.
 4.3.1 Prizes
 Jones received several prizes with the LIGO-Virgo Collaboration, including the Special
 Breakthrough Prize in Fundamental Physics (2016); Gruber Cosmology Prize (2016); Princess
 of Asturias Prize for Technical and Scientific Research (2017); Bruno Rossi Prize, awarded by


                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the High Energy Astrophysics Division of the American Astronomical Society (2017); and Royal
 Astronomical Society 2017 Group Achievement Award in Astronomy (2017). Hoyle was
 awarded the 2020 Institute of Physics Rosalind Franklin Prize as a member of the Physics
 of Life UK Network steering group. Woods received the Jack Youden prize for best expository
 paper in Technometrics in 2014 (with co-authors). Pfeffermann was awarded the Royal
 Statistical Society West Medal (2017); Julius Shiskin Award, Washington Statistical Society and
 American Statistical Association (2018). Richardson won the 2018 John Ockendon Prize for
 best publication in the European Journal of Applied Mathematics in 2016-17 for his modelling of
 perovskite solar cells.
 4.3.2 Service on Research Councils and Committees
 The high standing of UoA10 in the research community is recognised through appointments to
 research councils and committees: 26 of our colleagues (about 40%) have or had prominent
 roles on national and international research councils, committees, and advisory groups of major
 international research projects.
 Within the UK
 Niblo is a member of the EPSRC Strategic Advisory Team for Mathematics (2015-present), the
 EPSRC Science, Engineering and Technology Board (2020-2023) and EPSRC Future Leaders
 Fellowship Panel College (2020-present). He chaired the EPSRC Strategic Advisory Team for
 Mathematics (2017-2019). Andersson is a core member of the STFC PPRP (Large grant panel,
 2018-present). Currie is a member of the Research Committee of the OR Society (2018-);
 Hoyle serves on the IMA Research Committee (2015-present), the Scientific Board of the Smith
 Institute for Industrial Mathematics and Systems Engineering (2018-present), the steering
 committees of the Virtual Forum for Knowledge Exchange in Mathematical Sciences and the
 UKRI-funded Physics of Life network; she served on the LMS Council (2014-15). Howls is Chair
 of National Standing Committee of British Applied Mathematics Colloquium, Grbic is a member
 of the ICMS Programme Committee, and Fliege is a member of the Council of Mathematical
 Sciences. PA Smith chairs the Methodology Advisory Committee for Understanding Society, the
 UK's longitudinal household survey. PWF Smith served as Director of the Administrative Data
 Research Network (2016-2018) and was a Member of the Government Statistical Service
 Methodology Advisory Committee (2011-2016). Taylor was a member of the strategic review
 committee for the Scientific Computing Department of STFC (2017-2020), the Royal Society
 URF committee, and a member of UKRI Future Leaders Peer Review College. Tzavidis was
 elected to serve on the International Statistical Institute Council (2015-2019). Zhang is on the
 advisory board for Administrative Data Research Methods Programme of ONS. Fourteen of our
 colleagues (22%) are members of the EPSRC Peer Review College.
 Internationally
 Andersson was Elected President of the International Society for General Relativity and
 Gravitation in 2019, is a member of the International Advisory Board for the Max-Planck Albert
 Einstein Institute (since 2019), and served as external expert on the appointment committee for
 a new Max Planck Director in 2018. Barack is a member of the LISA Science Group for the
 LISA Consortium (2018-present) and of the management committee for the EU COST Action
 “Gravitational waves, Black Holes and Fundamental Physics”. Durrant is Chair and external
 expert on the standing GESIS Leibniz Institute for the Social Sciences committee of the
 integrated data collection and data infrastructure (2017-present). Pfeffermann is the National
 Statistician and Head of Central Bureau of Statistics, Israel. Skenderis is an external member of
 the expert panel of Research Foundation Flanders (FWO) (2013-2019). Taylor was on the

                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Denmark Independent Research Fund advisory panel (2016-2020); Swedish Research Council
 fundamental physics (NT3) panel (2019-2021); CERN theory advisory panel (2018-present);
 leader of CERN working group Gen-HET (2017-present). Theriault served on the Scientific
 Committee of the research programme GDR 2875 of CNRS in Algebraic Topology and
 Applications (2014-16). van der Heijden is Chair of the Advisory Council on Methodology and
 Quality, Statistics Netherlands (since 2015) and member of the Executive Committee of the
 European Statistical Advisory Committee of EUROSTAT (2019-present). Zhang is a Member of
 the Methodology Advisory Committee of Italian National Institute of Statistics.
 4.3.3 Key Journal editorships
 A total of 22 colleagues (about 35%) serve or served as Editors, Associate and Guest Editors,
 as well as members of Editorial Boards:
 Editors-in-Chief
 Böhning: Biometrical Journal (2015-present); Currie: Journal of Simulation (2016-present);
 Leary: LMS Student Text Series (2018-present); Qi: Asia-Pacific Journal of Operational
 Research (2016-present ); Peter W.F. Smith: Journal of the Royal Statistical Society C (2013-
 16, 2020-present); Skenderis: European Physics Journal C, directing a team of 40+ editors;
 Theriault: Proceedings of the Edinburgh Mathematical Society (2015-18);
 Associate Editors, Editorial boards
 Andersson: Proceedings of the Royal Society A (2014-2020;) Berger: Computational Statistics
 & Data Analysis (2018-present), Journal of the Royal Statistical Society B (2020-present);
 Biedermann: Journal of the Royal Statistical Society B; Fliege: Computational Optimization and
 Applications (2014-present), Applied Mathematics and Computation (2016-present),
 Optimisation Methods and Software (2020-present); Grbić: Homology, Homotopy and
 Applications (2018-present); Howls: Proceedings of the Royal Society (2009-2015), Digital
 Library of Mathematical Functions, US National Institute for Standards in Technology, (2016-
 date). Qi: Mathematical Programming Computation (2013-present), Journal of Operational
 Research Society of China, (2016-present). Skenderis: Universe; Paul A. Smith: Discussion
 Papers Editor for the Royal Statistical Society's three journals; Taylor: SciPost, Frontiers in
 Physics; Nguyen: Asia-Pacific Journal of Operational Research Tzavidis: Journal of the Royal
 Statistical Society A (2013-2017), International Statistical Review (2014-present), Journal of
 Official Statistics (2014-present); van der Heijden: Journal Statistical Modelling (2000-present),
 Advances in Statistical Analysis (2009-15); Woods: Technometrics (2010-present), SIAM/ASA
 Journal of Uncertainty Quantification (2017-present), Statistics and Computing (2019-present);
 Zhang: Harvard Data Science Review (HDSR).
 4.3.4 Membership of grant committees
 UoA10 members regularly serve on prioritisation panels for UKRI councils, national and
 international grant committees. Examples include the following:
 Barack: DFG “Cluster of Excellence” (2018); DFG Research Training Group proposal (2019).
 Brodzki: Vice Chair, EU FP7, Horizon2020 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship panels (2012-
 present).
 Durrant: ESRC Peer Review College (2014-present).
 Greulich: Programme grant review panel for a DFG (German Research Society) Collaborative
 Research Centre.


                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Niblo: Australian Research Council Assessor Panel (2015-present); EU Marie Skłodowska-
 Curie Fellowship panel (2016, 2017); EPSRC CDT interview panel November 2018; UKRI
 Future Leaders Fellowship interview panel (2020;) Leverhulme Prize award panel 2020; EPSRC
 New Horizons Panel D September 2020.
 Skenderis: Dorothy Hodgkin Fellowships selection committee, The Royal Society (2016-2019);
 Special Research Programmes committee, Austrian Science Fund (FWF) (2018).
 Taylor: STFC Ernest Rutherford Committee (2016-2018); Royal Society University Research
 Fellowships committee (2018-2021); UKRI Future Leaders panel (2019), EU Horizon2020 Marie
 Skłodowska-Curie and COFUND Fellowship panels (2017-2021).
 Woods: EPSRC Mathematical Sciences Programme Grant Committee (2017) and New
 Horizons panel (2020); Canadian Natural and Engineering Sciences Mathematical Sciences
 Evaluation Group (2019-2021).
 EPSRC prioritisation panels: Grbic (2019), Hoyle (2016), Leary (2019), Niblo (2014,2018).
 4.3.5 Fellowships
 UoA10 attracted a number of prestigious individual Fellowships: STFC 5-year Ernest Rutherford
 fellowships for Dias, Schmitt, Royal Society University Research Fellowships: Mafra, Pound,
 Withers, and a Royal Society Tata University Research Fellowship for Turton. Aniceto,
 Nguyen were awarded five-year EPSRC Fellowships. The following have been accepted as
 Turing Fellows: Brodzki, Greulich, MacArthur, Ogden, Qi, Sanchez Garcia, Smith, Taylor,
 Woods, and Zemkoho, from 2019, while Leary held a Leverhulme Fellowship 2016-2017.
 In recognition of their contributions to their disciplines, PWF Smith was elected a Fellow of the
 British Academy in 2019 and Woods a Fellow of the American Statistical Association.
 4.3.6 Main invited lectures and conference chairs
 The majority of UoA10 staff are regularly invited to speak at major international events, and a full
 list of invited talks runs into the hundreds. Notable examples include:
 Keynote and plenary talks
 Barack: General Relativity & Gravitation (2016), “50 years of the Kerr metric” (Potsdam 2013);
 D’Alessandro: “Nice Optics 2016”; Hoyle: British Applied Mathematics Colloquium 2017,
 Canadian Society of Applied and Industrial Mathematics Annual Meeting 2019, LMS Mary
 Cartwright Lecture (2017); Luna Hernandez: First Latin American ISI satellite meeting in Small
 Area Estimation 2015; Pfeffermann: 24th Annual Morris Hansen Lecture, Washington (2015);
 Pound: Capra Meetings 18-21 (2015-2018), 100 Years of General Relativity (Fields Institute,
 2015), LISA Consortium #3 (Marseilles, 2018); Sahu: 2nd Bilbao Data Science Workshop (2017);
 PWF Smith: 22nd GSS Methodology Symposium (2017); Skenderis: 10-12 invited lectures per
 year, including ESI, Vienna (2017), Crete regional meeting in string theory (2017), The Many
 Faces of AdS/CFT, Princeton, USA (2017); Iberian Strings (2018), Indian Strings (2018),
 Gauge/gravity 2018, Supergravity 2019; Taylor: 10-12 invited lectures per annum which
 includes Fields Institute (2017); Banff Research Centre (2018); String Phenomenology (2018);
 Gauge/Gravity Duality (2018); KITP Santa Barbara (2018); Turton: NORDITA, (2016), Perimeter
 Institute, (2017), YITP Kyoto, Japan (2017), Eurostrings, London (2018), CERN (2018); Woods:
 2016 Hunter Conference on Industrial Statistics; Zhang: 2019 Italian Conference on Survey
 Methodology; 2019 Spanish Conference on Statistics and Operational Research, 2020 Ken
 Foreman Lecture of the Australian Statistical Society.


                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Invited conference lectures
 Brodzki: BIRS (Banff), Frontiers of Applied Topology, 2017; lecture series on applied topology
 at CIMAT, Mexico, (2018); Dias: Gravity Spring Conference, (2019); Grbic: Topology,
 Combinatorics and Mathematical Physics, Moscow, 2018; XIV Serbian Mathematical Congress
 (2018); ICERM, Brown University, 2016; Howls: CERN (2014); BIRS (2015); NIST Maryland
 USA (2016); RIMS Kyoto (2016); IST Lisbon Portugal (2016); KITP Santa Barbara (2017),
 ICMS Edinburgh (2019); Jones: GEMMA (Italy, April 2018); International Pulsar Timing Array
 meeting (South Africa 2016); CompStar meeting, (Turkey, 2016); Koeck: XV workshop on
 Geometry and Number Theory, Germany, December 2017; Kropholler: Polyhedral Products in
 Geometric Group Theory, Fields Institute, May 2020; Leary: Two Oberwolfach meetings (2015,
 2020); Geometric Group Theory, MSRI, 2016; Martino: Hanna Neumann Conjecture, Bilbao,
 2015; Minasyan: Groups with hyperbolic features, ETH Zurich, 2019; Geometric Group Theory
 at Infinity, Bielefeld, 2018; Niblo: Large Scale Geometry, Fields Institute 2018; Petrosyan:
 Manifolds and groups, Oberwolfach, 2020; Polyhedral Products in Geometric Group Theory,
 Fields Institute, 2020; Sanchez-Garcia: Theory and applications of Topological Data Analysis,
 Oxford, 2019; Discrete, Continuous Models in the Theory of Networks, Bielefeld, 2017; Schmitt:
 “Holographic dense QCD and neutron stars” Paris (2017); “QCD at nonzero baryon density”
 Moscow, (2017).
 Conference chairs
 Barack: Co-Chair, Thematic program on GR at Fields Institute (2015); Schmitt: Co-chair at
 “Quark Confinement and the Hadron Spectrum”, editions XIII (Maynooth, 2018), XII
 (Thessaloniki, 2016), XI (St Petersburg, 2014); Woods: Programme Chair for 2020 Royal
 Statistical Society International Conference; Conference Chair for the 2015 workshop “Designed
 Experiments: Methods and Applications (DEMA)” in Sydney, Australia.
 4.3.7 Refereeing
 Most UOA10 members serve as referees for leading journals in their research areas, and about
 35% serve as referees of grant proposals for EPSRC, STFC, ESRC, Leverhulme, Royal Society,
 the European Research Council, the EU Maria Skłodowska-Curie programme, as well as
 national research agencies of many countries: NSERC (Canada), Max Planck, the NSF (USA),
 National Science Foundations of Armenia, Austria, Belgium, Chile, Denmark, Finland, France,
 Germany, the Netherlands, Ireland, Israel, Poland.
 4.3.8 Contributions to PGR training
 UoA10 firmly believes that PGR education, in the UK and internationally, is a key contribution to
 the international scientific community. UoA10 members are regularly invited to speak at or
 organise such events, and the list below highlights some examples.
 Andersson and Pound lectured at PGR Summer Schools at ICTS Bangalore, India (2017,
 2019); Barack delivered invited lectures at Kavli Summer School on Gravitational Waves
 (Cambridge 2019); Dias, Pound gave invited lectures at ICTP PhD Schools, Sao Paulo (2017,
 2018); Grbic, Kropholler, lectured at postgraduate schools at the Fields Institute, 2020. Howls
 acted as advisor on strategic review of Maths PGR provision at Imperial College, 2018. Leary
 gave post-graduate lectures at Geometric and Asymptotic Group Theory, Spain, 2017; Pound
 was invited to lecture at Yukawa Institute (Kyoto, 2018); Schmitt gave invited lectures at PhD
 events in Spain (2019), Italy (2018); Austria (2016); “Neutron stars: gravitational physics theory
 and observations” Portugal (2016); 27th Engelbrecht Summer School, South Africa (2016).
 Skenderis lectured at International School on "Amplitudes and Cosmology, Holography and

                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Positive Geometries" Italy, 2019; “Theoretical Frontiers in Black Holes and Cosmology”, Brazil,
 2015. Taylor and the String Group organised STFC-funded (inter)national PhD school on
 Strings, Gauge Theory and Holography, Southampton (2019); Taylor delivered lectures at the
 Mandelstam School in South Africa in January 2020, one of the main southern hemisphere
 events of this type; Theriault gave invited lecture series at ICM 2014 Satellite Conference in
 Algebraic Topology, (Dalian, 2014) and at the Vietnamese Institute for Advanced Study in
 Mathematics (2019); Turton lectured at the Summer School in Mathematical Physics, Belgium
 (2016); Woods, Overstall and Ogden have all lectured on the Academy for PhD Training in
 Statistics since 2013, with Woods and Overstall also serving on the Advisory and Executive
 Committees, and Woods chairing the Future Planning Committee.
 4.3.9 Conference organisation
 Examples of the conferences and workshops organised by members of UoA10 include:
 Anderson: Joint Mathematics Meeting of the AMS/MAA, 2017;
 Fliege: 1st and 2nd IMA/ORS conference on Mathematics of Operational Research (2017, 2019);
 Grbic: Combinatorial and Toric Homotopy, Singapore 2015;
 Leary: Polyhedral Products in Geometric Group Theory, Fields Institute, May 2020;
 Niblo: MSRI Workshop, 2016; Newton Institute Workshop, 2017;
 Theriault: Programme organiser, Fields Institute 2020; Mapping spaces in Algebraic Topology,
 Kyoto, 2018; Unstable Homotopy Theory, Fields Institute, 2015; 29th British Topology Meeting,
 Southampton, 2014;
 Skenderis, Taylor, and the Strings Group: annual Southampton meetings on “Holography,
 gauge theory, and black holes” (2014-present);
 Zemkoho: Organiser of (Bilevel) Optimization, Data Analysis and Forecasting (BODAF 2017).




                                                                                           Page 23
