Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Canterbury Christ Church University (CCCU)

 Unit of Assessment: 31. Theology and Religious Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1. Context and Structure
 Canterbury Christ Church University (CCCU) is a teaching-led research-active member of the
 Cathedrals Group which expresses its Church of England Foundation and faith-based institutional
 distinctiveness in promoting the common good through our work with communities and charities
 and by making significant contributions to the intellectual, cultural, social, spiritual and economic
 life of the communities we serve. UoA31 fully subscribes to these core values, which reflect the
 history and provenance of the university.

 Our research practice informs our pedagogy and we strive to foster a positive and rigorous learning
 environment. We teach two undergraduate degree programmes, BA in Theology and BA in
 Religion, Philosophy and Ethics. The postgraduate provisions include an MA by Research in
 Theology and Religious Studies and MPhil/PhD. Currently, 13 registered postgraduate research
 students are supervised by staff in the UoA.

 For most of the REF period, UoA 31 was based in the School of Humanities, a grouping created
 in 2015 as one of three Schools in the Faculty of Arts and Humanities. From 2020/21 it will be part
 of the newly created School of Humanities and Educational Studies in the Faculty of Arts,
 Humanities and Education. UoA 31 comprises 6 researchers (5.6 FTE) in Theology and Religious
 Studies: Khovacs, Law and Norman have particular expertise in Anglican Theology, Capper is
 a New Testament scholar while Burton and Diemling are scholars in Buddhist and Jewish Studies
 respectively. Three members of staff left the university in 2019: Beckford was Professor of
 Theology and Culture in the African Diaspora, Beckles-Raymond Senior Lecturer in Womanist
 Theology, and Scherer Professor in Religious and Gender Studies.

 1.2. Research and Impact Strategy
 Building on the objectives identified for REF2014, our research focused around three thematic
 clusters that allowed us to work collaboratively within the UoA and in interdisciplinary
 collaborations with researchers from other institutions. These are Black Theology (Beckford,
 Beckles-Raymond, Norman), Social Justice (Beckford, Beckles-Raymond, Burton, Capper,
 Diemling, Law, Scherer) and Anglican Identity (Khovacs, Law, Norman).

 We have proactively created impact through these clusters that has challenged established
 thinking, shaped new understandings and influenced public debates, as evidenced in our
 two impact studies, the establishment of the INCISE Research Centre, an inclusive approach to
 attract PGR students from under-represented minorities and by engaging with external
 stakeholders (such as Pentecostal churches in the UK and Jamaica, LGBT+ activist networks,
 chaplaincies at other universities) and heritage organisations (such as Canterbury Cathedral, St
 Augustine’s Foundation).

 The Unit’s strategic aims for this census period, as identified in our REF 2014 submission, were:

 a. enhancing the research environment by creating research time for staff with significant
 responsibility for research:


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have used internal research funding effectively to offer study leaves to all staff in the unit via
 approval of a research proposal by the School’s Research Committee. All staff benefitted from at
 least one semester-long period of study leave in the census-period, resulting in a total of 42 peer-
 reviewed outputs.

 b. increasing the quality of outcomes:
 Research activity was managed through the annual appraisal system, workload planning and
 annual research interviews for all academic members of staff. Overseen by the School’s Director
 of Research, these discuss how research plans can be developed and supported effectively.
 Internal research funding was used strategically to mentor and support colleagues, enabling staff
 to attend conferences to present their research findings and develop academic networks,
 undertake research trips and attend writing retreats.

 c. increasing PhD completions:
 By providing high quality support to students, including researcher and career development and
 fully integrating research students into the research environment of the Unit, we were able to more
 than triple the number of PhD completions from four reported in REF2014 to 13 in the current
 census period, six of which were funded by a full university scholarship.

 d. establishing a track record for attracting external funding:
 To bolster sustainability of our research environment, staff participated in grant-writing workshops
 organised by the School and Faculty and submitted, individually and in collaboration with other
 institutions, both nationally and internationally, 18 bids in total to external funders. External funding
 recorded in HESA returns has increased from £0 in the REF 2014 submission to £99,966 in the
 current census period. An additional £19,000 was secured from sources not reported through
 HESA.

 e. providing flexibility for research initiatives that respond to new opportunities:
 Internal research funding was used to respond proactively to new research opportunities. It
 allowed colleagues to attend conferences, undertake research trips and regular library trips in
 London, Cambridge and Oxford, purchase new research-related equipment and books and fund
 teaching cover to gain research time. We developed new projects with external collaborative
 partners, including the Jamaican Bible Project and the Black Anglican Identity project, leading to
 creative outputs, an online exhibition and publications.

 f. establishing a research centre in Social Justice and Religion:
 The INCISE (Intersectional Centre for Inclusion and Social Justice) (2016-2019) was conceived
 as an international research hub to facilitate research on inclusion and social justice. In total, 46
 associate members across the university were affiliated with the centre, including twelve
 postgraduate students. INCISE hosted an annual lecture series, convened workshops and
 international conferences and its director edited the book series Queering Paradigms. Four
 international Senior Visiting Research Fellows contributed to the centre by giving lectures,
 collaborating in the development of new research bids and research projects.

 g. building national and international research networks with institutions and NGOs
 working on social justice projects:
 INCISE collaborated with a number of international constituencies in the form of the Queering
 Paradigm network (ICS31.02). Beckford nurtured relationships with national institutions and
 organisations as outlined in ICS31.01. The UoA is situated minutes away from Canterbury

                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cathedral. Khovacs, Law and Norman have established links with Canterbury Cathedral and the
 Diocese and regularly contribute to the Canterbury Theological Seminar. Ongoing cooperation
 with colleagues from the Cathedral Archives has led to conference participation (Norman) and the
 development of a new research project on Black Anglican Identity that was supported by internal
 research funding and by a grant from St Augustine’s Foundation (Norman). Khovacs collaborates
 with the Ministry Division of the Church of England on an ongoing basis. See also sections 4.1
 and 4.2.

 1.3. Strategic priorities for 2020-2025
 The UoA is managing change, actively developing opportunities within a new, forward looking
 restructured Faculty. The merger with the Faculty of Education will open up new opportunities for
 interdisciplinary research and collaborative projects through the creation of new strategic and
 structural connections with impactful areas in Education. It provides us with the opportunity to
 reassess our strengths and develop a new research and impact strategy to bolster the UoA going
 forward.

 Our strategic priorities include: a) collaborations leading to impactful interdisciplinary research
 projects; b) further investment in building a community of research students; c) expansion and
 development of research and knowledge exchange based on the UoA’s location and heritage.

 a. use of strategic collaborations leading to impactful interdisciplinary research projects
 in Religion and Education, Religion and Public Health and Spiritual Care:
 The newly formed Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Education will host two well-established
 research centres in Education Studies that make natural partners for the UoA. These are LASAR
 (Learning about Science and Religion) and NICER (National Institute for Christian Education
 Research). The UoA already has existing collaborations with joined PhD supervision and some
 cross-faculty teaching but is developing closer collaborations that will lead to funding applications
 in the field of Religion and Education with the view to create opportunities for post-doctoral
 researchers and a joint taught Master programme (see section 1.3.b.).

 The establishment of the first medical school in Kent and Medway (KMMS) was approved in 2018
 and jointly launched by Canterbury Christ Church University and the University of Kent, admitting
 its first student cohort in 2020. This makes CCCU the only Cathedrals Group University with a
 Medical School. It provides new opportunities for developing research collaborations on Religion
 and Public Health. The global pandemic has highlighted the need to identify and support research
 in public health that has the potential to create high impact potential for long term development.
 Members of the UoA are discussing a research collaboration with Hynes (Lead for Medical Ethics
 at KMMS) and colleagues at other institutions.

 In addition, we are developing a chaplaincy apprenticeship for NHS chaplains in cooperation
 with KMMS and the university chaplaincy and a linked research project in Spiritual Care as an
 area of pastoral and applied theology, which has particular relevance during the current pandemic
 and its impact on mental health.

 Both collaborations draw on the particular strengths of CCCU as a university with a religious
 foundation and a strong ethos of public service and will create opportunities for research and
 impact for the UoA that will assess the role religion plays in medical care and public health, leading
 to the development of new research expertise, collaboration with new stakeholders and lasting
 impact in the provisions of health services in the NHS.

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 b. further investment in building a community of research students:
 In collaboration with the two existing research centres in the Faculty, LASAR and NICER, the
 chaplaincy and the KMMS (see section 1.3.a.), we are developing a joint taught Master
 programme that will draw postgraduate students from the existing networks of secondary-school
 teachers these centres have, our own undergraduate student body and chaplains wishing to
 further their career. The aim of this new PGT provision is to foster an intelligent community of
 learning and scholarship and offer a route to PhD research, thereby supporting the recruitment of
 suitable PGR students. These collaborations will increase the sustainability of our UoA, develop
 our expertise in Religion and Education, Religion and Public Health and Spiritual Care and
 Chaplaincy and create impact by collaborating with stakeholders in primary and secondary
 education, the NHS and chaplaincies, and engagement with external bodies via advisory roles
 and consultancy.

 c. expansion and development of research and knowledge exchange based on the UoA’s
 location and heritage:
 The UoA is situated on a UNESCO World Heritage site in an institution with a distinct faith
 foundation and heritage, providing unique opportunities for research and knowledge exchange
 related to sacred space and spiritual environment. CCCU as a university is fully committed to
 sustainability and was ranked the 17 th most sustainable university in the UK in 2019. We are
 developing expertise in environmental ethics and religion and sustainability. Our research in
 this field will allow us to build collaborations with colleagues across the Faculty who work in
 sustainability, which is a key focus for the university. We are organising a series of workshops (the
 first will take place in July 2021 on Religion, Sustainability and Justice), the intended outcomes of
 which will be peer-reviewed publications, joint funding bids and the production of teaching
 resources for teaching environmental ethics in higher education that bring together pedagogical
 research, religion and sustainability.

 We will also build on our globally significant faith heritage location and Anglican foundation through
 the exploration of Anglican thought and culture. Norman is developing a collaborative research
 project with Jude Nixon at Salem State University (US) to publish a two-volume critical edition of
 selections from the Victorian preacher Henry Parry Liddon’s diaries, including critical introduction
 and critical apparatus, that are preserved in the Pusey House archives. Kick-started with internal
 research funding, this project further develops our expertise in Victorian Anglican Studies.

 1.4. Open research environment
 We view open access as an important part of academic research and as a Unit we have 100%
 compliance with REF 2021 open access requirements. We have embedded the institutional open
 access policy in our research support structures (REF 5a). Alongside the journal articles in scope
 of REF 2021 open access rules, we also provide full access to other types of research outputs in
 our institutional repository Research Space where permitted by publishers, and full citation details
 where copyright restrictions still apply. These include practice-based research outputs (The
 Jamaican Bible Remix) as well as sample book chapters. INCISE and the Queering Paradigm
 network, led by Scherer, have established their own YouTube channel which offers access to 37
 videos from lectures and other activities as open access educational resources. The most popular
 of these videos has attracted over 2,269 views from audiences worldwide. Diemling serves on
 the editorial board of Medaon, a peer-reviewed open access journal in Jewish Studies.



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.5. Research Integrity
 The UoA fully subscribes to a culture of research integrity and adheres to the university’s Research
 & Enterprise Integrity Framework. Our research aims to be interdisciplinary, collaborative and
 inclusive, without compromising academic rigour. Law has taken an institutional leadership role
 as chair of the University’s Research Ethics Panel that scrutinises and reviews research proposals
 and ensures that academic research by staff and students is carried out according to appropriate
 ethical, legal and professional standards.

 2. People

 2.1. Staffing strategy
 The Unit’s overall staffing strategy is to foster and support research career progression and
 development at all levels, underpinned by a culture where we actively promote collegiality, equality
 and respect. Our vision is of an inclusive, transformative, and humane research culture, respectful
 of diverse viewpoints and listening to alternative perspectives, working to develop knowledge of
 value to our shared communities, including issues of social justice and the common good.

 At the time of the census date, UoA 31 comprises 6 researchers (5.6 FTE) in Theology and
 Religious Studies, four theologians (4 FTE) and two religious studies researchers (1.6 FTE): two
 staff are at Senior Lecturer level (Burton, Khovacs), one is a Principal Lecturer (Norman) and
 two are Readers (Capper, Diemling). Law is the Dean of Chapel and based in the Chaplaincy.
 To ensure the sustainability of the UoA in terms of staffing, we are strategically developing new
 collaborations with colleagues across the university working in adjacent subject areas such as
 Education, Medical Ethics and the Chaplaincy (see section 1.3). This will support the development
 of new research initiatives and allow us to maintain and grow the volume and breadth of research
 in our respective subject disciplines.

 All staff in the UoA are appointed on permanent research and teaching contracts with clear
 expectations linked to having significant responsibility for independent research which are
 delivered through appraisals and workload profiling as set out in the University’s Code of Practice.
 All staff are allocated time for research in their Academic Workload Profiles.

 The unit operated a transparent system of research leaves, whereby all staff were eligible to apply
 for leave every three years and each individual application was assessed by members of the
 School Research Committee. Research leave was usually timed within any given academic year
 so that it fits in with individuals’ research plans to facilitate the completion of publications and
 projects or the initiation of new ones. This was achieved by using internal research funding for
 teaching cover and by careful timetabling. The outcomes from research leave were monitored in
 the annual research interview. Each member of staff has an annual interview with the School
 Director of Research, at which research plans are discussed, annual objectives are reviewed and
 agreed for the coming year and personal objectives are aligned with the research objectives of the
 UoA and the institution as a whole. Each member of staff has an annual appraisal, carried out by
 a member of staff with line management responsibility in accordance with the university’s policy.

 2.2. Staff development
 The support of the only new appointment in the census period was a strategic priority: Beckles-
 Raymond was appointed as Senior Lecturer in Womanist Theology in 2015. Beckford and
 Diemling mentored her as an early career researcher. Internal research funding enabled her to
 speak at 14 conferences and workshops nationally and internationally to enable her to disseminate

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 her research and to increase her academic network effectively. During her tenure at CCCU,
 Beckles-Raymond published three peer-reviewed articles and book chapters, supervised two PhD
 students as first supervisor (mentored by Beckford as chair of the supervisory panel), organised
 two international symposia and secured £2k funding from Being Human, the UK’s national festival
 of the Humanities.

 All staff have access to the University-funded research internships scheme which pays a bursary
 for an undergraduate research assistant to work on a staff-led project for a period of ten weeks.
 Two staff projects benefitted in this way during the census period.

 CCCU has a transparent process for academic promotion and offers development support before
 applying for promotion. The university signed the new Concordat to Support Career Development
 of Researchers and has committed to extend the principles of the Concordat to all staff on teaching
 and research contracts. Career pathways for part-time staff are the same as for full-time staff.
 Beckford was promoted from Reader to Professor in 2014 and Diemling from Senior Lecturer to
 Reader in 2015, following external scrutiny processes. Beckford’s promotion to a Chair in
 Theology and Culture in the African Diaspora enhanced his public profile as one of the leading
 Black Theologians in Britain (see ICS31.01). Diemling took on leadership roles in the university
 (Subject Lead, REF co-ordinator, School Director for Research) and served as a member at the
 University’s Promotion Panel.

 The University is committed to the health and wellbeing of all staff and university policies support
 staff to develop a healthy work-life balance. In addition to policies to support maternity, parental,
 shared parental, compassionate and dependants leave, the flexible working policy allows staff to
 formally request changes to working patterns, hours, home-working or job share, among others.
 On the census date, one member of staff worked part-time to achieve a better work-life balance.

 The university takes a pro-active approach towards supporting the health and wellbeing of staff
 and students. The Mental Health and Wellbeing Framework is a partnership between staff, student
 union, Chaplaincy (Law), and human resources and organisational development, offering
 activities to promote a physically and mentally healthy environment. The Chaplaincy, led by Law,
 in particular has supported both staff and students across the university during mental health
 crises, particularly during the pandemic. Staff in the UoA have attended specialist staff
 development training on mental health awareness and supporting colleagues and students who
 experience mental health difficulties.

 During the pandemic, staff were supported in working from home by being offered technical
 equipment, flexibility in working hours and advice on health and safety. While the situation proved
 challenging in some ways (for example, access to books and other research materials stored in
 offices), it has also led to some effective work practices (such as more focused online meetings
 or increased use of remote technology) that are likely to be retained. All staff were required to
 undergo online Health and Safety training to raise awareness of safely working from home.

 2.3. Research students
 We consider research students to be an integral part of our research environment. One of the
 aims for 2014-2021 was to increase the number of PhD completions in line with the university’s
 educational and research objectives. In the census period, 13 PhD students completed their PhDs,
 more than tripling the number of completions in comparison with REF2014. Four of these students
 passed their viva with no corrections, indicating the high calibre of these students and the quality

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of supervision they receive. Ten students gained a PhD in Christian Theology (with a particular
 focus on Anglican Studies and Black Theology), one PhD was in Biblical Studies and two in
 Religious Studies. Eight students gained a Master by Research degree. While Religion,
 Philosophy and Ethics recruits stronger at undergraduate level, more postgraduate students opt
 for Theology, indicating our strength and supervisory capacity in that area.

 The significant rise in recruitment and completion rates was achieved by careful recruitment, an
 effective system of progress monitoring and an annual review with a clear working plan for the
 following year. In line with university policy, all MA by Research students receive regular feedback
 tutorials with their supervisors and have at least one formal review of their work prior to the
 submission of their thesis. Similarly, all MPhil/PhD students receive regular supervision and
 undergo formal 6-month and 12-month reviews of their work by their supervisory panels followed
 by annual reviews thereafter; and a final review three months prior to submission.

 Building on this success, we are currently developing our taught postgraduate provisions by
 offering a route into PhD research via a taught Master programme in collaboration with colleagues
 from the Chaplaincy, Educational Studies and Medical Ethics (see section 1.3.b.).
 In order to recruit students each year, the Graduate College issues an open call for applications
 within and beyond the institution. The College offers a range of bursary packages. including full
 funding for three years (fees and maintenance) awarded in a competitive process. Between 2014
 and 2020, six doctoral students (four male/two female; an additional female student declined) in
 Theology and Religious Studies received full university scholarships. In addition to this, the Faculty
 of Arts and Humanities funded fee-waivers for doctoral research students, one of which was
 awarded to a Theology and Religious Studies student during the current cycle.

 Research students are fully integrated into our research environment. They are expected to
 attend, as well as present at, the School’s research seminars and were affiliated members of the
 INCISE research centre. They are represented in School’s committee structure and thus in
 decision making processes in the UoA.

 We support their future employability by fostering their skills as researchers and teachers:
 Theology and Religious Studies PGR students who teach as part of their scholarship are
 encouraged to gain a University Certificate in Academic Practice and an AFHEA affiliation to
 develop their teaching skills. All doctoral students are prepared for their postdoctoral careers by
 supporting them to attend conferences and research seminars, and all students who completed
 their PhD in the current cycle presented at least at one conference in the UK or internationally
 (Germany, Netherlands, US and Jamaica). All students in receipt of a CCCU doctoral scholarship
 receive an additional grant of £500 towards research expenses each year. Theology and Religious
 Studies students who are not recipients of University scholarships are also able to apply to a
 central fund in the Faculty for research grants each academic year, funded through internal
 research money.

 PGR students are also mentored in developing their publication career. In 2018 they published
 seven and in 2019 six peer-reviewed journal articles and book chapters, including in Heythrop
 Journal, International Journal of Philosophy and Theology, International Journal of Žižek Studies,
 Collingwood and British Idealism Studies, New Blackfriars and Modern Theology. Koltaj’s PhD
 was published with Palgrave in 2019 (with an afterword by Žižek). Brown, currently a Research
 Fellow at Queen’s University Belfast, published his PhD thesis with Sacristy Press in 2019.
 Norman and Rhamie (Senior Lecturer at Newbold College of Higher Education) have secured

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 book contracts with Brill for their revised theses. Patten was awarded a fully funded Independent
 Scholar Fellowship from the Independent Social Research Foundation in December 2020.

 2.4. Equality and diversity
 We are fully committed to fostering a working, learning and social environment that is collegiate,
 inclusive and supportive and free of harassment or discrimination. Our staff numbers are too small
 to compare them in a meaningful way with the provisional EIA analysis (REF 5a), but our staff
 have contributed in a number of ways to the equality and diversity agenda at the institution and
 implemented them at unit-level. We follow institutional policies and initiatives in relation to equality
 and diversity as well as wellbeing and mental health (REF 5a). Our key objectives are: to ensure
 that equality and diversity are reflected in our decision-making processes and committees as well
 as in our wider work and strategies; to attract, retain and develop a diverse staff and student body;
 to be flexible and adaptive to the needs of our staff and students; and to raise awareness of
 equality and diversity considerations.

 The unit adheres to the University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy in recruiting and
 supporting all staff and research students. Staff involved in the recruitment panels for colleagues
 and research students have received University training in equal opportunities, diversity and
 inclusion, as have all staff with line management, appraisal and supervisory responsibilities.

 We are flexible and adaptive to the needs of our staff and students. For example, through
 individual research plans and the appraisal system we offer tailored support for staff, including
 those with protected characteristics. We organise meetings for times in the day that fit in the
 schedule of staff and research students with caring responsibilities.

 CCCU has been an Athena SWAN Charter Member since 2015 and attained an institutional
 Bronze award in November 2016. Staff in the UoA contributed to achieving an Athena SWAN
 Bronze award in 2019-20 in the School of Humanities, reflecting the unit’s commitment to gender
 equality. Diemling, Burton (representing PT academic staff), and Lawson (as postgraduate
 representative) served on the School of Humanities’ Athena Swan Working Group.

 Beckford chaired the School of Humanities’ Equality and Diversity Committee (2015-2019). Staff
 have also been active in a staff-led groups, such as the Women’s Network, the BAME Network,
 CCCq (LGBTIQ Staff Network) and the Interfaith Council, all of which inform the University’s
 Equality, Diversion and Inclusion Committee. Members of the Unit have contributed to institution-
 wide initiatives, including ‘Expect Respect’ (promoting inclusive campuses, free from harassment)
 and ‘Closing the Gap’ (addressing BAME inequalities and decolonising the curriculum).

 The appointments of Beckford and Beckles-Raymond increased the number of PGR students
 from under-represented minorities. During Beckford’s tenure, two Black students completed their
 PhDs (one passed with no corrections), two Black PhD students recruited and supervised by
 Beckles-Raymond submitted in early 2021. Of all our current PGR students, 50% are from an
 ethnic minority.

 In the census period, the unit developed a particular focus on Black Theology (led by Beckford
 and Beckles-Raymond) and members of the staff made an important contribution to ‘de-colonize
 the curriculum’ by setting up a BA Theology based in London that was primarily aimed at Black
 Pentecostal students and ran between 2014-2019 and critically reflected on the colonial heritage
 of Christian theology (see ICS31.01). It was recognised by a University Team Teaching Prize in

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2017 for ‘the innovative and transformative nature of the programme and how it clearly links with
 widening participation’, and led to the organisation of two workshops with national and
 international speakers, one peer-reviewed academic output reflecting on this teaching experience
 and a number of students from this cohort pursuing postgraduate qualifications. A key vision of
 this programme was to engage African and African-Caribbean students with academic theology
 as a liberatory and transformative experience.

 The INCISE research centre, led by Scherer, fostered research, postgraduate involvement, grant
 applications and public activities investigating the construction of gender and sexuality(-ies),
 religion, ethics and faith, health (mental health, disability and wellbeing) and socio-economic
 justice and sustainability.

 Beckford, Beckles-Raymond and Scherer have informed national and international discussions
 on racial and sexual equality, inclusivity and social justice by their publications, media work and
 the impact of their research (section 4; ICS31.01 and ICS31.02).

 All staff in the UoA are submitted to the REF. In terms of the preparation of this REF submission,
 the processes described in the REF Unit Code of Conduct were strictly adhered to, and this was
 independently audited by REF Panel convenors. All panel members completed the University’s
 on-line module about avoiding bias in evaluating research. The criteria for inclusion and process
 of inclusion in REF was made transparent to staff through staff meetings, individual management
 meetings, and dissemination of written material.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. Income
 One of the aspirations expressed in our REF 2014 submission was to establish a track record of
 attracting external funding. HESA research income has increased from £0 in the previous REF
 cycle to £99,966 in this period. An additional £19,000 was secured from two charities for a
 Research and Knowledge Exchange project.

 Our key strategies for generating research income were diversifying our funding sources; boosting
 capacity by targeted staff development initiatives; using internal funding to kick start and support
 income generation activities, including study leave; seeking research collaborations with
 colleagues from other institutions and applying for research funding as part of larger research
 projects; actively engaging with training provided by the university, including a number of grant-
 writing workshops.

 We applied to different funding bodies and for varied sizes of grants. In the census period, we
 submitted bids to these funding bodies: AHRC (Beckford, Scherer), Being Human (Beckles-
 Raymond), Church of England (Law), ESRC (Beckford), Ford Foundation (Scherer), Ho Family
 Foundation (Scherer), Leverhulme Trust (Norman, Scherer), UKRI (Law), Sociological Review
 Foundation (Scherer), Society for Research into Higher Education (Scherer), St Augustine’s
 Foundation (Norman), Wellcome Trust (Diemling; Scherer), in collaboration with colleagues from
 the University of Kent (Scherer), Birmingham City University (Beckford), Coventry University
 (Beckford), Coventry and Durham (Law), Hull and Sheffield Hallam (Norman), SOAS, Oxford and
 Granada (Diemling).




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In total, we secured: £89,835 by Law, with colleagues from Coventry and Durham, for the
 Chaplains on Campus project from the Church Universities Fund; £8,131 by Beckford for an
 AHRC Networking Grant for the Blackness in Britain project (with Birmingham City University);
 £2,000 from the St Augustine’s Foundation for the Black Anglican Identity project by Norman.
 Beckles-Raymond was awarded £2,000 funding from Being Human, the UK’s national festival of
 the Humanities, but declined due to personal circumstances. Beckford successfully secured
 £5,472 as co-investigator in the ESRC project Life on the Breadline in collaboration with Coventry
 University, which was subsequently transferred to another HEI after Beckford’s departure.

 An additional research and knowledge exchange project benefited from external funding from
 income sources not returned as research in HESA (not listed in REF4). £15,000 from the Bible
 Society in the UK and West Indies and £4,000 from the Pentecostal Credit Union financed the
 production of The Jamaican Bible Remix Project (Beckford), an interdisciplinary theological studio
 album. This project was initially supported by a Faculty Knowledge Exchange Award of £2,000
 that was used strategically to produce the first studio track in collaboration with the producer Tony
 Bean (5AM Studios) to demonstrate the potential of this project and secure additional external
 funding.

 The competitively awarded Faculty Knowledge Exchange Awards also supported the international
 Queering Paradigm 7 conference (£500, Scherer) in the Cayman Islands (see ICS31.02) and the
 Klatovy Project (£2,000) Diemling).

 The quality of research in the UoA has been recognised internally via the competitive and peer-
 reviewed Faculty of Arts and Humanities’ Research and Knowledge Exchange Awards. In 2015,
 Diemling received a Faculty research prize for a peer-reviewed article on Jewish dietary laws and
 Social Justice and, in 2018, Burton received a prize for his monograph Buddhism: A Contemporary
 Philosophical Investigation (Routledge 2017). Each prize winner was awarded £500 in additional
 funding towards their research or knowledge exchange expenses which was spent on new
 computer equipment and books.

 Within the UoA, our research has benefitted from internal research funding throughout the census
 period with an average budget of approximately £35,500 allocated to the UoA with significant
 autonomy in how the money was used, based on applications from individual members of the staff,
 their specific research plans and their fit with the overall research strategy of the unit. The money
 was used to cover teaching for study leave, to kick-start specific research projects, to fund
 research trips and field work, aid conference organisation and subsidize publishing costs,
 conference attendance of PGR students, the purchase of books, computers and tablets, the
 scanning of unpublished primary sources and other research-related costs. Research projects that
 were pump-primed with internal research funding include the Jamaican Bible Remix (studio and
 recording costs) and, more recently, the Black Anglican Identity project. Overall, this targeted and
 strategic support of research activity allowed us to fund teaching cover to free time for research to
 produce 42 peer-reviewed outputs and one theological studio album with accompanying music
 videos, present 36 lectures nationally and internationally, enable all our research students to
 attend at least one conference, organise nine conferences and workshops and initiate new
 research initiatives which will lead to future research outputs.

 Looking forward, we aim to expand our collaborations across the School and Faculty and draw on
 the expertise of two Faculty-based research centres with significant experience of securing


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funding (NICER and LASAR) in the areas of Religious Education and Religion and Science, to
 further develop our capacity to successfully attract external funding.

 3.2 Infrastructure
 The university has committed to a long-term £150m Estates Masterplan with considerable
 investment across the campus (see REF5a). Our UoA has benefitted from investment made in the
 following areas:

 The university’s Research and Innovation Funding Unit (RIFU) supports members of the UoA
 seeking to secure funding for their research and knowledge exchange activities. The team has
 helped us to identify appropriate funding bodies and supported us in developing 18 bids proposals
 in total, ranging from £2,000 to £352,894 from major funding bodies to small charities. RIFU has
 developed a ten-step guide that steered us through the process, has communicated on our behalf
 effectively with collaborative partners and helped with the costing of bids.

 The Graduate College monitors and co-ordinates the registration, review and training of all
 research students. The Dean of the Graduate College reports to the Research Degrees Sub-
 Committee, which meets each semester to monitor postgraduate progress. The Graduate College
 supports PGR students with dedicated work, creative and social spaces and a comprehensive
 research training programme to which members from the UoA regularly contribute.

 The overhaul of the research management system, Research Space, in 2018 has improved the
 effective management of research carried out at the university. It hosts the institutional repository
 for open research, records ethics approval, supervision, training, quality assurance and
 management of PGR students and the identification, development, approval and delivery of
 external funding for research. It allows us to manage our own data efficiently and easily and keep
 track of the progress of our research students, therefore contributing positively to the completion
 rate of PhD students.

 3.3. Facilities
 Researchers in the UoA have single-occupancy offices that house their extensive personal
 libraries and other research materials that are essential resources for their research and
 knowledge exchange activities and that are readily and regularly made available to colleagues
 across the UoA and our research students.

 The £23.5m Augustine House Library, which won the prestigious Society of College, National and
 University Libraries (SCONUL) Design Award in 2013, houses a wide range of print and electronic
 resources, such as access to over 19,300 academic journals (REF 5a). The Library subscribes to
 more than 342 specialist online resources in our subject areas. It also hosts some stock from the
 former St Augustine’s Missionary College Library, a specialist theology library that was situated in
 the Cathedral precinct until the 2010s. Research students and staff also benefit from the expertise
 of a dedicated Humanities librarian.

 Staff and research students also make extensive use of Canterbury Cathedral Archives and
 Library, home to Canterbury Cathedral’s medieval archive (which holds a UNESCO Memory of
 the World award), and an extensive collection of ecclesiastical material. St Martin’s Church, the
 church in longest continuous use in England, and the ruins of St Augustine’s Abbey, a major
 English Heritage tourist site in Canterbury, are adjacent to the university campus.



                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Thanks to Canterbury’s excellent travel connections with London, members of the unit are able
 make regular visits to the British Library and the London Library. These research trips are partly
 funded by internal research funding.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Structured around our main research clusters, Anglican Identity, Black Theology and Social
 Justice we have established the following academic and non-academic collaborations and
 contributions:

 4.1 Non-academic partnerships and contributions
 In line with institutional strategy (REF 5a), we aim to deliver national and international impact with
 our research, make a positive contribution to society and engage with religious communities and
 lay groups locally, nationally and internationally. We have done this by giving a voice to
 marginalized groups and communities (research foci Social Justice and Black Theology) and
 making a contribution to Anglican identity as part of our university’s mission (research focus
 Anglican Identity).

 Giving a voice to marginalized groups and communities:
 Beckford’s multi-disciplinary work has a strong focus on public engagement. One prominent
 strand is ‘theology in action’ in the production and presentation of TV and radio documentaries for
 the BBC (see ICS31.01). In the current census period, Beckford produced a theological studio
 album that accompanied by music videos drawing from the Jamaican New Testament (JNT). The
 Jamaican Bible Project made an original contribution to social and racial justice in collaboration
 with the MOBO (Music of Black Origin Award) winning music producer Tony Bean (5AM Studios)
 and the Bible Society in the UK and the West Indies. It was described by one reviewer as ‘the
 rhythmic proclamation of a social justice gospel draped in Black’ that will not only change the
 listener’s view of the Bible, God, or Black life, it will change the listener’s life. This project is sonic
 salvation.’ (Powery, 2018). The impact was achieved by introducing Christian communities in
 Britain and Jamaica to the project and by engagement with mass media. A BBC World Radio
 Documentary, produced and narrated by Beckford, was originally broadcast to mark Jamaican
 Independence Day in 2017 and reached a global audience.

 Established in 2008, the Queering Paradigms (QP) Network, led by Scherer, has brought together
 a diverse and global community of academics, activists and professionals, with a focus on action,
 social justice, and the production and enhancement of knowledge and understanding of queerness
 by shaping public and political debate and contributing to a wider public understanding of LGBTQ+
 rights and issues (see ICS31.02). It is affiliated with the INCISE research centre that engaged with
 local and international faith and a ‘Community Arts and Communication’ series of events (see 4.2.
 for conferences and lecture series). The centre hosted a diverse range of national and international
 speakers, including the third Dupseng Rinpoche (Nepal).

 Other projects include Khovacs’ work with asylum seekers with the national charity Welcome
 Boxes at St Peter’s Church, Eaton Square, London. He published his theology of welcome in a
 book chapter. Our work on the ethics of food resulted in a workshop on God, Food and Justice
 with Mama D. from the UK Food Sovereignty Movement and Rev. Dr Tammy Williams
 communities (2015, Beckford), a workshop on Vegetarianism and Buddhism with the London-
 based Fo Guang Shan Temple (2019, Scherer) and a peer-reviewed journal article (Diemling).



                                                                                                   Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Making a contribution to Anglican identity:
 Law co-authored with Aune (Coventry) and Guest (Durham) an in-depth study of chaplaincy in
 British universities, Chaplains on Campus: Understanding Chaplaincy in UK Universities (2019),
 which was funded by the Church Universities Fund (£89,835 allocated to CCCU). It resulted in a
 detailed report of their findings and a shorter online resource for Church University Chaplaincies.
 This report will, according to Revd Garry Neave, National FE and HE Advisor of the Church of
 England Education Office, form ‘the core material for chaplaincy planning within the Church of
 England over the next 5-10 years’. Furthermore, at an operational level, the Report has been the
 basis for training and development sessions with 50 newly appointed HE chaplains in 2018 and
 2019 and was used in 2019 to date by four Anglican dioceses to shape their own reviews of
 chaplaincy to five different HEIs and in negotiations with two universities who were considering
 new provision. Finally, the report has also had an impact on the leaders of the 15 church
 foundation universities, the Cathedrals Group with around 100,000 students that provide, among
 many other things, almost 25% of all new teachers. The report has helped these leaders to identify
 and communicate their distinctive ethos and approach, based on their foundation and on their
 particular contribution to education and to society (Neave, testimonial, provided to Prof Aune, 12
 Nov 2019).

 The Black Anglican Identity project (Norman, postdoctoral researcher Vannerley) explores the
 history of Saint Augustine’s Missionary College, founded in 1848 and situated in close vicinity to
 CCCU, that trained 422 missionaries until the end of the 19 th century. The project sheds light on
 Anglicans from colonial territories who studied Theology in Canterbury. It resonates with current
 debates about #BlackLivesMatter because it makes hidden histories of non-white Anglican
 missionaries public and aims to raise public awareness of the diversity of Anglican identity. In
 collaboration with McGown (Lead for Arts and Culture at CCCU), the artist Bex Glendining, a
 CCCU alumna, was commissioned to produce images for a media campaign to celebrate Black
 History month in October 2020. McGown is seeking additional funding from the Heritage Lottery
 Fund. A student research intern, funded by CCCU, will work in spring 2021 to prepare educational
 materials for local schools and develop a small exhibition during the Lambeth Conference, the
 global meeting of bishops of the Anglican Church (postponed to 2021).

 Engaging with religious communities and lay groups nationally and internationally:
 Public engagement and wider contributions to the economy and society are seen in the Unit’s
 engagement with a number of outside stakeholders, including Anglican, Baptist, Buddhist, Jewish,
 Methodist and Protestant groups. Beckles-Raymond has contributed to the International
 Women’s Day Youth Forum (2018), Diemling has presented to German Jewish and Protestant
 lay organisations (Leipniz-Akademie, Mainz (2015), Evangelische Akademie, Berlin (2015),
 Janusz Korcak Academy, Munich (2016), Evangelisches Bildungs-und Tagungszentrum Bad
 Alexanderbad (2018) and to Christian, Jewish and Interfaith Groups locally (Thanet & District
 Reform Synagogue, 2016, St William’s Church, Walderslade Village, Kent (2016) and Canterbury
 Interfaith Group (2018). Khovacs was the keynote speaker at the annual Linlathen Lectures
 (Ottawa, Canada) in 2016. Norman is working with the St Augustine’s Foundation on the Black
 Anglican Identity project. Scherer is the Vice-Chair of the International Lay Buddhist Forum (2014-
 ) and serves as one of the Academic Governors, School for Asian Medicine (Boppard, Germany;
 2015-). Scherer has worked with various Buddhist lay groups internationally and disseminating
 information about Buddhism nationally (International Lotus Sutra Seminar, Musica Sacra
 International, Germany); Quarterhouse (Folkestone) and presented in the House of Parliament
 twice (2018). Khovacs has served as theological consultant for the Diocese of Canterbury for arts


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 commissions on prayer and spirituality material (Conversations at the Crossroads, Christian
 Publishing) in 2016 and 2017 and on a Ministry Division Panel.

 Our engagement includes sharing our expertise with media outlets. For Beckford’s ongoing work,
 see ICS31.01. Beckles-Raymond collaborated with Beckford on Doping, Diving and God (1x25
 min) BBC World Service, 2016; she spoke about ‘The Importance of Philosophy and its Teachings’
 in the Inspirit programme on BBC Radio London (Jan 2017) and produced a podcast on ‘Mixed
 Race Identity’. Diemling consulted for the BBC Religion website (2016), German television (WDR,
 2017) and the London Evening Standard (2018). Scherer was interviewed for The Restaurant
 Insider, ozy.com, Diva Magazine and Lotus News Features (2016) and has contributed to the
 Lonely Guru Podcast (2018).

 4.2 Academic collaborations and contributions
 All staff in the unit make an active contribution to the subject disciplines of Theology, Biblical
 Studies, Religious Studies, Buddhist and Jewish Studies and have expanded their involvement in
 research collaborations, networks and partnerships to ensure the vitality and sustainability of their
 research.

 Beckford collaborated with Kehinde Andrews at Birmingham City University in an AHRC
 Networking Grant, Blackness in Britain: Beyond the Black Atlantic (2016-2018, total grant value
 £36,338; share received by CCCU: £8,131). The project’s aim was the creation of a research
 network of Black British academics and artists to address the marginalisation and under-
 representation of Black scholars in British academia. Outcomes of the project include the
 foundation of the Black Studies Association, four conferences and the development of the first BA
 in Black Studies at Birmingham City University in 2016/17.

 We have provided leadership in the work of subject associations and learned societies:
 Diemling served as member of the Committee of the British Association for Jewish Studies
 (Treasurer, then Bulletin Editor) from 2006 until 2017. Scherer has been on the American
 Academy of Religion (AAR) Religion and Sexuality Unit Steering Committee since 2015.

 We have organised and hosted conferences and workshops, many of which are multi and/or
 interdisciplinary. INCISE hosted a lecture series on Islam and Social Justice (2016/17), Critical
 Suicidology Conference (2016), a lecture series Religion and Science: Epistemic Insight and
 Identity (with CCCU-based research centres NICER and LASAR) (2017/18) and a series of lunch
 time seminars on Buddhism & Social Justice (2017/18), leading to the development of several
 research bids. Law convenes the Cathedral Theology Seminar in collaboration at Canterbury
 Cathedral. Beckles-Raymond organised a symposium on Faith, Philosophy and Social Justice
 (2016) and a conference on Theology and Philosophy in Action (2017). Scherer was a member
 of the organising committee of Queering Paradigms 5 in Quito, Ecuador (2014), Queering
 Paradigms 6, University of Winchester and CCCU (2015), Queering Paradigms 7 (Caymans),
 Queering Paradigms 8 (Vienna) and co-organiser of Critical Suicidology 2.0 at CCCU (2017),
 leading to edited volumes in the Queering Paradigms Series.

 Our contribution to the research base has been acknowledged by the following fellowships and
 honorary roles. Diemling is an Honorary Fellow, Parkes Institute for Jewish/non-Jewish
 Relations, University of Southampton (since 2015). Law was awarded the first Distinguished
 Fellowship Award by the Board of Voting Trustees of the Colleges and Universities of the Anglican
 Communion (CUAC) (2019). Norman is on the Steering Committee for the Centre for Anglican

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Studies at the University of Kent. Scherer has held a number of Visiting Professorships, including
 the Numata Visiting Professor of Buddhist Studies at McGill in 2014-2015, Mewar Visiting
 Professor of Buddhist Studies Delhi in 2015, IAPS Visiting Professor Kuala Lumpur in 2016,
 Visiting Professor Gender Studies, University of Cologne in 2017 and Visiting Professor of
 Buddhist Studies at BUL Nepal in 2017. Beckles-Raymond and Diemling are Senior Fellows of
 the Higher Education Academy.

 Members of the unit currently serve on the editorial boards of the following journals: Buddhist-
 Christian Studies (Scherer), Contemporary Buddhism (Burton), Medaon (Diemling), Religion
 and Gender (Scherer) and Religions (Scherer). Scherer is the editor of the Queering
 Paradigms book series (Peter Lang, since 2011) and the QP in Focus book sub-series editor
 (Peter Lang, since 2016). We regularly review the research of others, including grant proposals
 (Israel Science Foundation) and book proposals (Anthem Press, Bloomsbury, De Gruyter, Wayne
 State University, Wiley Blackwell); we have peer-reviewed for international journals, including
 Contemporary Buddhism and Philosophy East and West, International Journal of Christianity and
 Education, Journal of Jewish Studies, Journal of International Migration and Integration, Leo
 Baeck Institute Yearbook, and have written book reviews for a range of international journals,
 including Central Europe, Common Ground, English Historical Review, Journal of Indian Council
 of Philosophical Research, Journal of Inklings Studies, Journal of Theology & Sexuality, and
 Medaon. Scherer was on the Peer Review College of the AHRC (2014-2019).

 We have acted as external examiners for PhD viva examinations at the universities of Bristol,
 East Anglia, Kent, Kings College London, Leeds, QMUL and Winchester. Khovacs served as
 external examiner for the MA Theology and the BA Ministerial Theology, Ripon College Cuddeston
 (2014-2019), for the Dioceses of Guildford & Salisbury as external examiner for South Central
 Regional Training Partnership, West of England Ministerial Training Course 2014–2018 and as
 external examiner for the Cambridge Theological Federation and Anglia Ruskin University in 2016.
 Norman is currently the external examiner for the PG Taught Masters in Theology at York St John.

 Members of the unit have been invited to give keynote lectures nationally and internationally.
 Beckford gave a keynote lecture at the annual conference of the British Sociological Association
 Sociology of Religion Study Group in 2016 at Lancaster University and delivered the F.D. Maurice
 Lectures at Kings College, London, in 2019. Scherer’s keynote lectures include the Numata
 Public Lecture (2014, Montreal, Canada), and at the 2015 International Conference for the 20th
 Anniversary of the Publication of 'Literature and Religion' (2015, Seoul), the International
 Conference of the Korean Society for Literature and Religion (2016, Seoul) and the Global
 Federation for Nepali Literature (Canterbury) in 2018. In the census period, we have given 36
 invited lectures at national universities, including Cambridge, Durham, Oxford, and at international
 institutions in Austria, Canada, the US, Germany, India, Italy, Jamaica, Malaysia, Nepal, Trinidad
 and Sweden.




                                                                                             Page 15
