Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Institution: Aston University
  Unit of assessment: UoA 21
  Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

  Context and Structure
  Aston has a strong and distinguished tradition of public sociology, founded on public engagement
  with civil society organisations, political activists, and policy makers. The Sociology Unit of
  Assessment (UoA) corresponds to the Department of Sociology and Policy (DoSP), which sits
  within the School of Social Sciences and Humanities (SSH), which is part of the College of
  Business and Social Sciences (Figure 1) (Institutional Level Environment Statement [ILES] 2.1).
  Our research in sociology has grown in recent years following significant investment in Sociology
  and Policy staff. This strategic investment has centred on building a collaborative and
  interdisciplinary research ethos, underpinned by a dynamic culture of public engagement and
  knowledge exchange that speaks to local, regional, national and global publics. Our aim is to
  foster an enabling and inclusive environment for rigorous empirical research, underpinned by
  methodological innovation and diversity, which addresses issues of real-world importance.

  Figure 1. The Location of the UoA within the College of Business and Social Sciences




  The Department’s foundations are built on a diverse student population, comprising a high
  proportion of regionally-based and first-generation university students, and a majority BAME
  student intake (ILES 1.6). In line with the University’s Mission, these foundations have enabled
  major strategic investment in the Department’s staff base during this REF period. At the time of
  REF2014, the sociology group comprised 8 staff, three of whom contributed to the Area Studies
  REF2014 submission. For REF2021, the Sociology UoA now comprises 18 (17.8 FTE)
  researchers. In turn, this strategic investment has produced a step-change in the scope and
  scale of sociological research at Aston, creating a strong platform for the Department’s staff to
  make our own first REF submission.


                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  While the recruitment of staff has been guided by research excellence (ILES 1.2), our strategy
  has sought to organise research capacity around six groupings with overlapping membership
  and interests. These interconnections are central to the sustainability, cohesion, and vitality of
  the UoA as a whole. The groupings are:

     1) Children and Young People - work, labour and economic life, political activism (Mizen),
        time-use, the family (Mullan), youth culture (Popov, Soytemel, Stamou);

     2) Gender and Sexualities - contraception, drug-use, reproductive care (Geampana),
        reproductive rights (Hayes, Lowe, Page), religion (Page, Pilcher), leisure (Pilcher), work
        and employment (Pilcher);

     3) Health and Society - evidence-based policy (Fooks), public health governance, the
        commercial determinants of health (Godziewski and Fooks), health technologies, clinical
        trials (Geampana), bioethics, health policy (Paton), public participation, lay experience,
        service delivery (Tritter), sexual health (Lowe, Pilcher);

     4) Migration and Diversity - asylum seekers, citizenship-making, social movements
        (Maestri), southern Russia and North Caucasus, (Popov), belonging, housing
        (Soytemel), critical citizenship, national identity, post-nationalism (Tonkiss);

     5) Social and Cultural Inequalities - social movements, protest strategies, activism (Hayes,
        Lowe, Maestri, Mizen, Page, Popov), Islamophobia (Mills), cultural identity (Popov,
        Soytemel, Tonkiss, Stamou, Schimpfössl);

     6) Social Power and Elites: media and communication (Mills, Schimpfössl, Mullan); elite
        political influence (Fooks, Mills, Schimpfössl, Godziewski).

  These groupings are organised within an over-arching interdisciplinary Research Centre, the
  Centre for the Critical Inquiry into Society and Culture (CCISC). The result of a strategic initiative
  taken during the 2008-14 REF cycle, CCISC is one of a handful of interdisciplinary research
  centres in the UK, bringing sociologists together with researchers from the Departments of
  English, History, Languages and Translation, Politics and International Relations, and from Aston
  Business School and Aston Law School. The Centre offers a series of resources to support the
  UoA’s research (financial, organisational, administrative, and intellectual), and has three
  organising objectives: to create a bridge between research, policy, and social practice; to
  facilitate inventive interdisciplinary research contributing to the public understanding of major
  social issues; to evaluate the evidence base for policy and practice.

  As well as providing support for UoA staff, CCISC has therefore encouraged the growth of a
  wider sociological research environment across the University. The Centre further facilitates
  collaboration and networking beyond Aston, supports public engagement and impact activities,
  and is an incubator for innovative research around interdisciplinary clusters. Within CCISC, these
  clusters organise autonomously around specific projects or activities, according to particular
  needs and opportunities. This is consistent with our bottom-up approach to fostering
  interdisciplinary and collaborative research projects (ILES 2.9).

  Research and Impact Achievements
  Decisions on staffing, collaboration, funding applications, project development, and publication
  are informed by the University’s strategy to pursue research that is interdisciplinary,
  collaborative, excellent, and sustainable (ILES 2.3). The UoA implements this strategy by
  emphasising three interdependent strands of activities: 1. fostering the excellence and public
  recognition of Aston Sociology; 2. strengthening interdisciplinarity and international collaboration;
  3. developing the impact and public understanding of Aston sociological research.
      1. Excellence and Public Recognition. Several forms of support have been introduced
         and/or further developed during this REF period at Departmental, School, and University

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        level to strengthen the public recognition and excellence of Aston sociological research
        (Section 2). The benefits of this strategy during the REF cycle include UoA staff
        publication of 12 monographs, 120 peer-reviewed journal articles, 11 edited books, and
        54 book chapters. These sit alongside 8 edited special issues, 111 papers at overseas
        international conferences, and 48 (non-CCISC related) academic blog posts.

        A further focus of our research publication strategy is non-academic audiences and
        engagement with our research users and beneficiaries. In this REF period, these
        activities extend to TV (13), radio (39), and newspaper interviews (44), authored
        newspaper articles (34), non-academic blog posts and online articles (54), and podcast
        interviews (15). Consequently, our research is now widely reported and/or cited in
        newspaper (including online) articles (228), and colleagues routinely deliver talks to non-
        academic audiences (89 in the UK; 9 overseas). A dedicated CCISC blog (from 2017)
        also helps sustain our research’s visibility (2017) by sitting alongside the institutional
        CCISC website, which attracts just over 9,000 unique visitors a year.

        Many of these engagement markers indicate the importance we give to high-quality
        research, which is further evident in the publication of several well-received monographs
        with leading academic publishers, among them Schimpfössl’s prize-winning ethnography
        Rich Russians. UoA staff also regularly publish in leading journals in sociology and the
        broader social sciences, a number of which have been shortlisted for prestigious awards
        (Fooks and Mills, Lowe, Tonkiss).

     2. Interdisciplinarity and International Collaboration. The UoA’s embedding of
        interdisciplinary working and international collaboration has produced notable successes.
        This is exemplified by Popov’s (with Soytemel, Tonkiss, Stamou, Fooks) Horizon 2020
        Cultural Heritage and Identities of Europe’s Future (CHIEF) project. CHIEF is rooted in
        an international network which brings together researchers from political science, media
        and communication studies, psychology, religious studies, history, social anthropology,
        film studies, and educational sciences. Other examples include: Lowe and Pilcher’s NHS
        funded project on the sexual health of sex workers (medics and psychology); Hayes’
        research on narrative and power in the criminal trials of social movement activists (law
        and political science); and Mizen’s ESRC research on precarious youth employment
        (social geography, business studies, economics, history). Paton (appointed April 2020)
        will further strengthen this through her involvement in interdisciplinary research team of
        neonatologists, health economists, and biostatisticians. Fooks and Mills have recently
        begun working with scholars in computer science and data analytics on conflicts of
        interest in biomedical research and UK elites.

     3. Impact and Public Understanding. Our focus on research with impact and public
        engagement is supported by the School’s now-well established infrastructure. This
        includes an Impact Director and Deputy Director, and an Impact Steering and Strategy
        Committee mandated by the School Management Committee to encourage and enable
        impact across the School. All staff are encouraged to develop impact portfolios,
        irrespective of whether they develop into REF impact case studies, and are supported by
        a series of impact workshops. Impact has also been embedded into the School’s study
        leave (ILES 3.11) and promotion policies (ILES 3.3). This is supported at University level
        by the appointment of a full-time Impact Manager and Impact Officer located in the
        Research Knowledge Exchange (RKE) Department (ILES 4.12), and an Impact
        Acceleration Fund to provide resources alongside organisational support (ILES 4.13).

        In line with the University’s Mission, this strategy has helped deepen our relationships
        with our research users and beneficiaries, and sharpen our engagement with political,
        policy, civil society organisations’, and professional bodies’ agendas (ILES 1.1). It has
        also aided the development of a strong impact activity portfolio from which our two Impact
        Case Studies for REF2021 have emerged. UoA impact stories not selected this time

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

         include Mills’ work on the democratisation and decentralisation of the BBC and the
         introduction of a digital licence fee; Paton’s work with The Royal College of Physicians
         (whose Ethics Committee she chairs) supporting the health workforce in maintaining
         good ethical processes during the COVID-19 pandemic; Popov, Soytemel and Stamou’s
         work with museums and other cultural organisations promoting community engagement
         through music and photography; and Tritter’s work with Public Health England promoting
         patient involvement in the delivery of health care.

         These impact activities complement our extensive public engagement work with a range
         of organisations, including: the Progress Educational Trust, Fertility Network UK, Royal
         College of Nursing, Ministry of Defence, Church of England, the Saltley Trust, Midlands
         Institute for Children, Youth and Mission, the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office, the
         U.S. Ambassy, and interfaith groups like the Women’s Federation for Peace. The
         research of UoA staff has also informed policy documents by major national and
         international organisations, like Public Health England, the Work Bank Group, and the
         World Health Organization; and has been cited in national and international legal
         judgements in the High Court of Australia and dispute settlement procedures of the World
         Trade Organization. UoA staff engage with wider audiences through our extensive
         contributions to major written and broadcast national and international news outlets,
         through to regional and local news organisations and the campaigning press. UoA staff
         routinely give talks to local, regional, and national groups and organisations, and
         participate in TV and radio interviews, and podcasts.

  Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact
  Looking forward, we will develop and strengthen our commitment to excellence, impact,
  interdisciplinarity, sustainability, and internationalisation. Building upon existing expertise, our
  key aim is to shape research agendas in health and society, gender, sexuality and inequality,
  cultural heritage, and the sociology of elites. To this end, we will:

     1) Further internationalise through cross-national networking and collaboration to develop
        innovative comparative research with a strong interdisciplinary emphasis. We have an
        excellent basis for this through our existing international networks (Section 4) and to
        which our newly appointed colleagues will further contribute. For instance, Geampana is
        already exploring potential links on contraceptive risk and risk communication with
        researchers from McGill and Gonzaga Universities and the U.S. National Institutes of
        Health. Likewise, Fooks and Godziewski are in the early stages of work with
        epidemiologists, urban planners, health promotion academics and practitioners,
        nutritionists, health geographers, and political scientists on the commercial determinants
        of health. This will be supported by seed-funding allocated at College-level, through the
        Research Centres, and via the University’s International Collaboration Fund (ILES 2.9).

     2) Strengthen our funding base to add further depth and sustainability. We will do this by
        utilising University, College, and external small funding opportunities (e.g. the British
        Academy) to support the development of large, interdisciplinary grant applications and
        leverage our international networks to facilitate opportunities via overseas funders.
        Current examples are Godziewski’s UACES (academic association for Contemporary
        European Studies) successful application to support an EU health governance network,
        as the foundation for an application for a Jean Monnet Network with Erasmus and
        Amsterdam Universities; Page’s partnership with Deakin University on a joint application
        to the Australian Research Council (Discovery Project) for a project on young people and
        religion; and Popov’s work to develop the CHIEF network of European researchers for a
        further application under the Horizon Europe Programme.

     3) Invest in existing research groups to expedite internal and external collaborations, build
        capacity in the new research centres and strengthen links across the University. From
        summer 2021, the UoA will launch a new Centre for Health and Society, co-directed by

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

         Paton and Fooks, and supported financially and administratively for the first three years
         by the College. The Centre will build on the UoA’s investment in staff expertise to develop
         health and healthcare research and inform policy and practice; foster its interdisciplinary
         and cross-College/University membership; and establish a strong user focus. At the same
         time, Departmental staff (Maestri, Tonkiss, Popov, Soytemel, Hayes) will join colleagues
         from the Department of Politics and International Relations within the School’s new
         Centre for Migration and Forced Displacement which, again, possesses a strong
         interdisciplinary and international orientation.

     4) Expand the audiences for our work, and optimise our engagement with research users,
        to better shape social and policy agendas. Work aimed at strengthening our engagement
        is already in train. For example, UoA staff (Schimpfössl, Paton) have contributed to the
        College’s new professionally produced Society Matters podcasts, in which staff discuss
        their research. More generally, staff have produced short, professionally supported
        videos to promote discrete projects and the College has commissioned the
        Conversation’s Managing Director, Matt Warren, to work with UoA staff (Godziewski,
        Paton, Schimpfössl) in disseminating their research to a wider audience.

  Section 2. People

  Staffing Strategy
  In line with the growth of the University’s FTE (ILES 1.3), staff recruitment has significantly
  expanded the breadth and depth of the UoA’s research. Alongside teaching expertise and
  quality, our recruitment prioritises existing or potential excellence that adds strength in the key
  areas of our collective research strategy. During the assessment period, the DoSP made 16 new
  full-time permanent academic appointments, with eight departures. New appointments include
  one Chair, one Reader, one Senior Lecturer, and 13 Lecturers. Staffing strategy has been guided
  by three mutually reinforcing objectives: recruitment of mid-career and senior scholars to
  enhance research leadership; investment in early career researchers (ECRs) with outstanding
  potential; and the addition of complementary interests, methodologies, and perspectives to
  facilitate collaborative, interdisciplinary, internationally relevant research. We now have a
  cosmopolitan, outward facing, and multilingual staff group of Austrian, Turkish, Russian, British,
  Canadian, Luxembourgish, and Italian nationalities whose research is national and global, and
  increasingly collaborative (Section 1).

  We detail research support for staff below but note here that the results of this strategy have
  been evident in career progression. Six internal promotions have been achieved over the census
  period: two to Reader (one female) and four to Senior Lecturer (three female), including two
  colleagues recruited at Lecturer since 2014. The current staff profile is now more evenly
  distributed, with two Professors, two Readers, five Senior Lecturers, and seven Lecturers (five
  of whom are ECRs). All permanent research-active lecturing staff have balanced workloads
  (33.3% teaching, 33.3% research, 33.3% administration), irrespective of their seniority, and as
  calculated using the School’s workload model. All staff have one timetabled research day per
  week during term time to support research continuity across the busiest teaching times of the
  year. Reflecting the University’s commitment to flexible working (ILES 3.7), one Senior Lecturer
  is employed as 0.8 FTE.

  A further measure of our growing success is the appointment of two fixed-term Research Fellows
  (one still in post) to work on externally funded research projects, and nine fixed-term Teaching
  Fellows (two still in post) during the REF period. All Teaching Fellows possess PhDs, are active
  researchers, and receive active career support. This includes full integration into our research
  culture and practice, a mentor, up to £1,500 p.a. research and conference support, peer
  support/review of research and funding applications, and engagement with the University’s ECR
  Forum, including targeted careers advice and individualised career interviews (ILES 3.13-14).
  The effectiveness of this is evident in the success of all our Teaching Fellows in securing


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  subsequent academic appointments at leading Higher Education Institutions in the UK and
  overseas.

  Staff Development
  The University supports staff career development, including training and development courses,
  pathways to Higher Education Academy (HEA) recognition, and mentoring (ILES 3.9-10, 4.5).
  SSH and DoSP further support staff research development at all career stages, including:
     1) A continuous “My Development Conversation” (MDC) process, held with HoD (Hayes),
         to agree development targets and plan career development (ILES 3.8). MDC is used to
         agree balanced workloads and ring-fence research time; assess individual research
         activities and objectives; and identify training needs. The MDC is a genuine conversation,
         and is supported by rolling one-to-one meetings with the Departmental Research Director
         (DRD - Fooks) to provide bespoke research planning, and support for public and user
         engagement. It is not School practice to set annual minimum research output targets.

     2) A formalised, transparent, and generous study leave policy that permits application for
        one semester (i.e. six months) of leave in seven, subject to an agreed research plan and
        final report approved by the DRD, HoD, and School Management Committee. ECRs may
        apply for their first period of study leave a semester early (ILES 3.11). All but two full-time
        permanent members of staff (Mizen, Popov) in post prior to 2015 have had two periods
        of study leave during the current REF period.

     3) A School-wide workload system (from 2015) to allocate fair teaching loads. Amongst
        other things, this provides for a weekly term-time research day free of teaching or
        administrative meetings; and allows variations in teaching allocation to be smoothed out
        over time.

     4) An annual individual research support allowance of up to £1,500 p.a. to fund fieldwork,
        conference attendance, or other research related expenses. This is a marked increase
        from £400 in 2014/15 and is also available to Teaching Fellows.

  In addition, the School provides support through several further initiatives available on a
  competitive basis. These include:

     1) From 2017/18, support to complete a monograph through a semester of teaching relief
        (Page, Schimpfössl);

     2) Seed-funding for large grant applications (also from 2017/18) for international and
        national networking, short-term teaching buyout, or essential pilot work. This initiative
        supported Popov and colleagues’ successful H2020 CHIEF application;

     3) A similar facility up to £3,000 (from 2018/19) to complement support from the University’s
        Impact Accelerator Fund (ILES 4.13);

     4) An annual long week-end writing retreat (introduced in 2017) at Bamford Quaker
        Community in Derbyshire, oriented towards ECRs, and including a women only event in
        2018, to encourage collaboration and provide research mentoring.

  These measures are complemented by a range of smaller-scale initiatives supporting career
  development and progression:

     1) Core funding for School research centres (£5,000 p.a. in 2017/18 rising to £15,000 in
        2018/19) to provide, inter alia, seed-corn funding for fieldwork/research projects,
        networking, methods training, and impact. For example, CCISC funded two two-day
        workshops on multiple correspondence analysis/field analysis delivered by Bühlmann,
        University of Lausanne, to support CHIEF and Mills’ work on elites;

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     2) Peer review support for published outputs undertaken by a small, gender balanced group
        of staff, which meets three times a year, and provides tailored individual feedback and
        departmental reflection at an end of year ‘awayday’;

     3) Bespoke advice from the DRD and supportive peer review of draft research grant
        applications, consistent with the University’s Policy for Peer Review (ILES 4.5);

     4) Presentations of work-in-progress at departmental and CCISC seminars;

     5) School financial support for staff exchanges with the University of Auckland, which saw
        Page travel to New Zealand in 2018 and Professor Alan France’s return visit to Aston in
        2019.

  Career development is further supported by staff access to University-wide support (ILES 3.13-
  14), including: a) DoSP staff participation in the annual University Grant Writing Programme
  (ILES 4.15) which concludes with the drafting of a final research application (Schimpfössl); b)
  nominations to the University’s International Visiting Scholars Fund (IVS - formerly Distinguished
  Scholars Scheme) (Section 4) to promote international research networking and collaboration
  (ILES 2.9); c) University provision of (social) media engagement to raise research visibility and
  promote public engagement and impact.

  Where appropriate different sources of support are co-ordinated to leverage their value. CCISC,
  for example, supported Page’s participation in a roundtable discussion on sexuality and religion
  at the Association for the Sociology of Religion in Seattle in 2016 with Heather Shipley (University
  of Ottawa) and Pam Dickey Young (Queen’s University). Dickey Young has since visited Aston
  under the IVS Fund and continues to collaborate with Page. Page has also subsequently
  published a monograph with Shipley, aided by the support for monograph writing, and both
  currently have a joint article under review. Likewise, Popov received School support for large
  grant applications to visit Dusan Deák at Comenius University, Slovakia, who was then invited
  to Aston under the IVS Fund as part of the development of the successful CHIEF EU’s Horizon
  2020 application.

  Further career development support, strategically mapped to the Vitae Framework, is also
  offered to newly appointed ECRs beyond that provided by the University (ILES 3.14). This is
  especially important given our investment in ECRs with significant research potential. In addition
  to the career support detailed above, ECRs can access: a) a start-up research fund of £5000; b)
  a reduction in their teaching and administrative workload for the first three years of appointment;
  c) the ability to apply for their first study leave period one semester early; d) pairing with an
  experienced mentor in line with University policy (ILES 3.9), to advise on publication strategies,
  grant applications, and career development; e) peer support and review from an experienced
  staff member with a track-record of successful research funding applications; and f) membership
  of the School’s ECR Forum (chaired by an ECR staff member), which represents ECRs on
  School committees and on the University Early Career Researcher’s Forum. The School ECR
  Forum further organises School-wide reading groups and seminars, and participates in the
  University ECR Forum (ILES 3.13).

  Research Students (PGR)
  The UoA has a lively and growing community of post-graduate student researchers, some of
  whom are supported by full or fees-only School doctoral studentships. During the assessment
  period, the UoA has achieved 8.25 doctoral awards (REF4a). This figure comprises 7 women
  and 3 men who have successfully completed their PhDs, some of whom were co-supervised with
  colleagues from other UoAs. At the end of 2020, a further eleven PGR students (eight women
  and three men) were being supervised by UoA staff. We have had no research-based
  professional doctorate students during the assessment period.



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  A key objective is to provide PGRs with an immersive, high quality scholarly environment by
  integrating them closely into the UoA’s research culture. At the institutional level, PGRs receive
  support from the Aston Graduate School (ILES 3.15), which is responsible for programme quality
  and PGR training in a range of research and transferable skills. PGRs are also supported by the
  School’s Director of Research Degree Programmes (DRDP), who organises induction, monitors
  progress and quality, and organises core research methods training (see below). The DRDP also
  oversees the organisation of the School’s annual PGR-student conference, which is coordinated
  by two PGRs. Pastoral support for research students is offered by a dedicated PGR-Tutor.

  The University has been a member of the ESRC Midlands Graduate School Doctoral Training
  Partnership since 2016. At School level, membership is focused in the Area Studies and
  Business and Management pathways. As a consequence, all the UoA’s research students are
  required to undertake research methods training in all core ESRC requirements on a School-
  wide programme: Research Design, Philosophy of Social Science, Qualitative Research
  Methods and Quantitative Research Methods. A UoA staff member (Pilcher) convenes the
  qualitative methods module, and UoA staff contribute to this and to the Philosophy of Social
  Science module. While our PGRs thus already benefit from existing DTP membership, our
  strategy is to add a sociology pathway to the DTP in the post-REF period.

  All PGR students carry out a training needs analysis carried out with their supervisor, to agree
  an individually tailored training programme. The training needs analysis is revisited at the
  beginning of each year of study and all PGR students must complete 90 hours of additional
  research methods training beyond the core modules during their full-time or part-time
  registration. This includes access to the annual training programme provided by Aston Graduate
  School (ILES 3.17), which includes courses supporting Qualifying Report preparation, academic
  writing, and viva preparation. Our PGRs can also access training from the University’s Library
  Services (ILES 2.14), such as advanced literature searches, measuring publication impact,
  EndNote and citation training, and journal publishing. All PGRs complete the Introduction to
  Learning and Teaching Practice course run by the University’s Centre for Learning Innovation
  and Teaching Practice. The University-wide Centre for English Language and Communication
  provides additional English language tuition for international PhD students whose first language
  is not English (ILES 3.19). Career support is provided to PGRs by the Careers and Placement
  Department. PGR students have access to support for their well-being and mental health from
  the University’s Enabling Service (ILES 3.17).

  At School level, PGR students are integrated into our research culture in several ways. All PGRs
  are encouraged to join one of the School’s research centres giving them access to research
  networks, seminar and workshop activities, centre-funded initiatives, and experience of a wider
  university research culture. By their final year at the latest, all are expected to have presented
  their research at a centre seminar/workshop and/or the UoA’s seminar programme. PGR
  students can also access up to £1000 over their registration period for conference
  presentation/attendance, fieldwork and transcription costs, summer schools and research
  methods workshops, and further training. All PGRs have shared office space located on the
  same corridor as UoA staff to encourage further informal opportunities to participate in academic
  life. The School also provides resources for the SSH PGR annual conference. This is organised
  and run by PGR students and provides experience of conference planning and organisation,
  issuing calls for papers, reviewing submissions, selecting abstracts, and organising streams and
  panels. Our PGRs are further integrated into the UoA through opportunities to gain higher
  education teaching experience, which is remunerated at a set hourly rate. Finally, PGR students
  are encouraged to stand for election as student representatives with membership of the School’s
  Research Committee and the University’s Graduate School Management Committee, thus
  providing opportunities to learn about university administration and workings of a higher
  education institution (ILES 3.18).




                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Equality and Diversity
  The UoA is committed to creating a positive research culture that is both diverse and inclusive
  in ethos and orientation, and which offers all staff the same opportunities to achieve their full
  potential. We believe we have made good progress towards this, but we are aware that
  significant further work is required. In particular, and as the Table below details, following the
  departure of two senior colleagues we now lack female staff at Reader or Professor levels; and
  female colleagues outnumber male colleagues at lecturer and senior lecturer levels. Despite
  efforts to diversify our staff group, including prioritising candidates from ethnic minorities on short-
  lists, we currently have no BAME staff in post. Like the University (ILES 1.2), this is a priority for
  DoSP as new posts become available.

  Table 1. The Gender Composition of Staff in the UoA

                                                        Male         Female
                            Professor                   2             0
                            Reader                      2             0
                            Senior Lecturer             1             5
                            Lecturer                    2             5
                            Research Fellow             0             1
                            Total                       7             11

  We have made significant equality and diversity progress in other areas. The University holds a
  Silver Athena Swan award since 2018 (ILES 3.6) and SSH successfully applied for an Athena
  Swan Bronze award in 2020. UoA staff members (Fooks, Mizen, Page, Tritter, Hayes)
  contributed to the preparation of the application, and were involved in working groups established
  to analyse staff and student data and review School-level processes governing equality and
  diversity. The working groups confirmed good practice around maternity, paternity, and adoption
  leave, flexible working, and support for colleagues returning from leave through a 15% reduction
  in teaching and administrative responsibilities (ILES 3.7). UoA staff have taken up these
  opportunities, including:

      1) Two female colleagues took maternity leave during the REF period, with a third taking
         two periods of adoption leave. Leave was supported by a positively-evaluated Keep-in-
         Touch (KIT) process that includes up to 10 paid KIT days to help colleagues on leave
         remain connected to the intellectual life of the UoA and support their return to full duties.

      2) Support for flexible working via applications to move to part-time working. During the
         assessment period, one female staff member moved to a 0.8 contract following adoption
         leave.

      3) All UoA staff with caring responsibilities can apply for timetabling restrictions that identify
         periods when they are not available for teaching. A clear policy has been developed to
         ensure parity and fairness in approving these requests. Furthermore, no meetings are
         scheduled before 9.15am or after 4pm.

  Analysis by the School’s Athena Swan working groups also revealed several issues on which
  action has been taken at School level:

      1) Since 2014, 12% fewer women applied for research grants compared to men, and women
         were 5% less likely to submit successful applications. To help address this issue, the
         School launched an all-female writing retreat at the Bamford Quaker Community (see
         above).
                                                                                         Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     2) Analysis of the gender composition of the School’s major committees revealed that men
        tended to be over-represented on the School’s Management, Research, and Promotions
        Committees, and under-represented elsewhere. In response, measures were taken to
        increase female participation on the Research Committee and to encourage male service
        on teaching and learning committees. As a first step, Chairs of all major School
        Committees were asked to develop measures to improve the gender balance and to
        reflect on gender-bias in chairing Committee meetings. To support this, a half-day training
        programme on gender bias in chairing meetings was held for members of the School’s
        Management Committee in June 2017. Female representation on the Research
        Committee increased from 21% in 2017 to 43% in 2018, and by 2019/20 47% of members
        of the Research Committee were female. Since 2017, the School’s Promotions
        Committee has a policy of strict gender balance.

     3) Equality and diversity have been increasingly embedded into all administrative
        processes. They are standing items on all School Committee agendas. The School’s
        Equality and Diversity Committee was strengthened in 2019/20 and its Chair now has full
        membership of the School’s Management Committee and reports annually to the School
        staff meeting. Since 2016, unconscious bias training has been mandatory for staff serving
        on appointment panels. While single gender appointment panels have not been
        convened in practice, they are now formally prohibited.

     4) As part of our Athena SWAN commitments to support female colleagues’ career
        progression and increase the number of women in senior positions, we are currently
        establishing an enhanced mentoring scheme for female colleagues, to support career
        planning and their engagement with the promotion process.

     5) The location of our HR partner within the School to provide ready access for support on
        equality issues and to ensure that HR policies, including those supporting staff with caring
        responsibilities, are clearly communicated and implemented.

  Importantly, our commitment to equality and diversity has been integrated into preparations for
  REF2021. For this REF return, Aston committed to a 100% submission of eligible staff. Section
  D of our Code of Practice sets out the process for selecting outputs, with the peer review process
  for outputs set out in more detail in its Appendix 6. UoA staff participated in three School-wide
  workshops to explain these processes, and those involved in selecting outputs underwent EDI
  training developed in conjunction with Advance HE. Our selection of published outputs for our
  submission took gender, ethnicity, and career stage into account, and the inclusive nature of our
  return is reflected in our final Equality Impact Assessment (conducted January 2021), which
  showed no significant differences.

  Our Individual Circumstances process (Code of Practice, Appendix 7 and 8) was run centrally
  through RKE, and the unit level reduction (REF6b) submitted for this UoA reflects the inclusivity
  of our return. In line with our commitment to inclusivity, all colleagues submitting a declaration of
  individual circumstances were invited to indicate if they wished to be contacted by an HR
  Business Partner to discuss their circumstances, and any support that they may require.

  Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

  Income
  Our research income for the REF period totals £836,337. The UoA’s strategic aim is to develop
  our research through more effective external grant capture to sustain the scope and scale of our
  research activity, and to develop further our commitment to research excellence. This aligns
  closely with the University’s Research Strategy (ILES 2.4). During the REF period, UoA staff
  secured 30 externally funded research grants with a total value of £1,394,541, which we feel
  represents a strong performance from a new UoA and emerging DoSP that has invested in a
  high proportion of ECRs. 65% of Category A and B staff secured external research funding during

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  the REF period, including six (Mills, Page, Pilcher, Tonkiss, Schimpfössl, Soytemel) recruited as
  ECRs. This success, we believe, demonstrates the effectiveness of a strategy focused on
  recruiting strong ECRs who are likely to emerge as future high-profile principal investigators.
  Success in securing grant funding is underpinned by the research support we offer to staff
  generally (see Section 2), and will continue to drive our research strategy into the next REF
  period.

  In line with University and School strategy, we have sought to diversify our funding base to
  increase research sustainability, targeting both traditional research funders (EU, ESRC, British
  Academy, Leverhulme Trust) and alternative sources of research funding (charities, local
  government, NHS). Among the more substantial grants secured by UoA staff were:

     1) European Commission: ‘Cultural Heritage and Identities of Europe's Future (CHIEF)’.
        £918,267, 2018-2022 (Popov, Soytemel, Tonkiss, and Fooks).

     2) European Commission: ‘MYPLACE - Memory, Youth, Political Legacy and Civic
        Engagement’. £59,395, 2015-2016 (Mizen).

     3) Economic and Social Research Council: ‘Precarious Pathways to Work’. £57,483, 2018-
        2020 (Mizen).

     4) Cancer Research UK: ‘Low Visibility Tobacco Industry Political Activity and
        Contemporary Tobacco Regulation’. £42,477, 2015-2016 (Fooks).

     5) Leverhulme Trust Fellowship: ‘Care-less Spaces: Prisoners with learning difficulties and
        their families’. £38,890 2016-2017 (Rogers).

     6) University Hospital Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust: ‘Improving the sexual health of
        'online' sex workers in Birmingham’. £38,728, 2016-2017 (Lowe and Pilcher).

  Infrastructure and Facilities
  Research support infrastructure has been fundamentally remodelled since 2014 at University,
  School, and Department levels. As we detail below, the University established a dedicated
  Research and Knowledge Exchange (RKE) Department to advance research strategy and
  enhance and rationalise research support (ILES 1.3).

  Overall responsibility for research in the School lies with the Associate Dean Research (ADR,
  Mizen) who reports to the Executive Dean and the College Management Committee and chairs
  the College’s main Research Committee. The ADR is also a member of the University’s
  Research Committee. The ADR works closely with the School’s academic Departments and
  research centres, which are also key to the College’s collaborative, interdisciplinary research
  culture (Section 1). Within SSH, the ADR supports the four Departmental Research Directors
  (for this UoA, Fooks), DRDP, PGR Tutor, and the School’s Impact Directors (Section 4), each of
  whom is a member of the College’s Research Committee. The DRDP deals with all matters
  related to PGR students, works closely with Aston Graduate School and represents the College
  on the University’s Graduate School Management Committee (ILES 3.16). DRDs further support
  researchers by organising peer review of draft publications and funding applications (ILES 4.5),
  advising on publication strategies and open access requirements (ILES 2.15), research integrity
  and ethics (ILES 2.12), and developing individual impact strategies.

  The College also has a research office comprising a Senior Research Manager, Research
  Manager and Research Administrator and provides additional support for the organisation of
  conferences, workshops, and other research events. As of 2019, the admission and progression
  of PGR students across the University is administered by Aston Graduate School (ILES 3.16).
  The College has a dedicated full-time Strategic Funding Manager (SFM) working out of RKE to
  provide funding and application support, information, bespoke briefings, and engagement with

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  the wider funding landscape (ILES 2.9, 4.5-6). Our SFM also organises weekly School-based
  drop-in opportunities during term-time and runs regular research funding surgeries. A further
  dedicated full-time SFM from RKE provides similar support for all European and international
  research applications. We receive support from the central University team responsible for
  research integrity and research ethics (ILES 2.11-12). From winter 2020/21, a new College
  research ethics board will operate, chaired by a UoA staff member (Paton) who is an expert in
  social research ethics. A dedicated specialist from the University’s Library and Information
  Service (ILES 2.14-15) offers advice on all issues related to open data, open access and
  copyright, and access to and searches of library resources.

  Facilities
  Each staff member has an office situated along the same corridor, with a bookable meeting
  space and shared kitchen. PGR students from the UoA have access to open plan office space
  situated adjacent to UoA staff offices, to help further their integration. In addition, our PGRs can
  access the Aston Graduate School teaching and common room, including kitchen facilities.
  These facilities were specifically designed to support PGR student well-being and to foster
  University-wide opportunities to socialise and exchange ideas and information (ILES 4.2).

  This suite of changes has further underpinned Aston’s investment in sociological research. We
  have fostered collaboration around shared interests that has brought together different
  conceptual, methodological, and disciplinary approaches, and has helped link PGR students and
  ECRs to more established colleagues. The results of this are illustrated by:

     1) a growing number of publications jointly authored by UoA staff (e.g. Fooks and Mills;
        Mills, Mullan and Fooks; Tonkiss and Stamou; Lowe and Page; Fooks and Godziewski;
        Lowe and Pilcher);

     2) joint research projects on cultural reproduction (Popov, Fooks, Soytemel, Tonkiss), social
        movements and political activism (Hayes and Lowe), women’s reproductive rights (Lowe
        and Page) and sex workers (Lowe and Pilcher);

     3) joint funding applications (e.g. Popov, Fooks, Soytemel and Tonkiss; Lowe and Pilcher;
        Maestri and Hayes; Maestri, Hayes, Popov and Soytemel); and

     4) joint public engagement activities (e.g. Paton, Lowe, Maestri and Fooks’ joint submission
        to the House of Commons Women and Equalities Committee Inquiry into the impact of
        COVID-19 on people with protected characteristics).

  Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  Research collaborations, academic networks and partnerships
  Collaboration is one of the four principals of Aston’s research strategy (ILES 2.3), along with
  excellence, impact, and sustainability. During the assessment period, the UoA and the School
  have aimed to develop stronger collaborative research relationships at national and international
  levels. At School level, the new role of Associate Dean International provides support for the
  development of international networks and collaborations, and access to allocated funds for their
  development. Under this initiative Tritter, for example, led the UoA’s involvement in a series of
  collaborative events with colleagues from Örebro (Sweden) around our mutual interests in health.

  Collaborative, international, and interdisciplinary working is also an organising principle of
  financial and in-kind support for research provided by SSH and CCISC (Section 2), and a key
  part of the mentoring provided by the Head of Department (HoD) and Department Research
  Director (DRD) (ILES 3.9). CCISC has funded a series of workshops, one-day conferences, and
  symposia bringing together overseas scholars, civil society groups, and academics from multiple
  disciplines, including: development and governance in Latin American (involving scholars from
  sociology, economics, modern languages, international relations, business, and public policy);

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  nationalism and the making of ethnicities (sociology, history, European studies, international
  relations, cultural and social anthropology); approaches to discourse (sociology, public policy,
  English, politics, linguistics, and business communication). This has produced long-lasting
  collaborations leading to important research outputs. A CCISC-funded workshop on Religion,
  Gender, and Sexualities (Page and Pilcher), for instance, led to a recently published edited
  collection (Embodying Religion, Gender, and Sexuality, Routledge) with researchers from The
  Netherlands, Belgium, Australia, and Morocco, working across sociology, social anthropology,
  cultural anthropology, theology, and English literature. Equally, a jointly funded workshop by
  CCISC and British Academy/Leverhulme Trust explored journalistic practices in different post-
  communist countries (attended by social and cultural anthropologists, and linguists) and led to a
  special issue of European Journal of Communication (“Self-censorship narrated: Journalism in
  Central and Eastern Europe”) and forthcoming special issue in Journalism.

  These achievements sit alongside invitations to UoA members to participate in academic
  dialogue through invited academic talks in the UK (90) and overseas (55), and keynote
  conference invitations (11 in the UK; 12 overseas), including the National Australian Health
  Promotion Association Conference (Scarborough), the Vectors of Present Russian Development
  Conference (Moscow), and Collective Behavior and Social Movements Conference (Chicago).
  CCISC research clusters (Section 1) are also designed to work as hubs for like-minded scholars
  to collaborate internationally. During the current REF period, 15 colleagues from overseas
  universities and research institutions (e.g. University of Maastricht, Curtin University, and Deakin
  University) have joined the centre as associate members.

  International collaboration has been further strengthened by support for overseas conference
  participation (128 papers), publications with colleagues from overseas institutions (43), externally
  funded projects involving colleagues from institutions overseas (9), and participation in
  international networks. The success of our strategic emphasis on the development of
  international networks and collaboration is also evident in visiting fellowship/professorship
  positions at non-UK institutions, including: Yale (Tonkiss); Flinders (Lowe); Maryland (Mullan);
  Tampere and Curtin (Fooks); Deakin (Page); Sciences Po Lille (Hayes); the University of
  Education and the University of Energy and Natural Resources, both Ghana (Mizen); and the
  Universitat Internacional de Catalunya (Maestri).

  The UoA has, in turn, welcomed 17 visiting fellows, 11 of whom have been invited to Aston under
  the University’s International Visiting Scholars Fund, including: Dr Olga Shevchenko (Williams
  College, USA), Dr Dusan Deák (Comenius University, Slovakia), Dr Igor Kuznetsov (Kuban State
  University, Russia), Dr Bühmann (University of Lausanne, Switzerland), Dr Sharron Fitzgerald,
  (Ludwig Maximillian University, Germany), Professor Pamela Dickey Young (Queen’s University,
  Canada), Dr Margarita Kuleva, Professor Elena Omelchenko, and Dr Guzel Sabirova (Higher
  School of Economics, Russia) and Dr Arseniy Svynarenko (University of Tampere, Finland).
  While resident at Aston, these scholars have presented their research, provided support to PGR
  students, and worked on collaborative publications and funding applications.

  Importantly, our publications profile comprises a growing range of collaborations. Over the REF
  period, we produced 74 peer reviewed research outputs with non-Aston, UK-based partners, and
  43 with overseas scholars. CHIEF, for example, involves colleagues from academic and
  research institutes in India, Turkey, Georgia, Latvia, Slovakia, Croatia, Spain, and Germany.
  Maestri collaborates on a project funded by France’s Agence Nationale de la Recherche
  (“Marginalization/Inclusion: Regulatory Policies Effects in the Long Run. The Case of Romanian
  Roma Migrants”), which includes researchers from Italy, France, and Spain; and which has led
  to a forthcoming edited collection. Other examples of our international collaboration include:

     1) long-standing research on working and street children with the University of Education,
        Winneba, and the University of Energy and Natural Resources, both Ghana (Mizen);



                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     2) Popov’s collaboration with the Centre for Youth Studies in National Research University
        Higher School of Economics in St. Petersburg, Russia; and

     3) research on ‘Big Food’ with members of GECI-PH, an international collaboration of
        academics and civil society actors centred on the commercial determinants of health
        (Godziewski and Fooks).

  Relationships with key research users and beneficiaries
  A second cornerstone of Aston’s research strategy (ILES 2.3) is impactful research. We are
  committed to embedding our research users and beneficiaries in the formulation, conduct, and
  dissemination of our research. The clearest example of this is our two impact case studies, but
  these are only the most prominent examples of user relationships from which other impact case
  studies could have been presented. This includes Mills’ extensive involvement as Vice Chair with
  the Media Reform coalition on the future of public broadcasting; and Tritter’s long-term work with
  Public Health England as Chair of PHE’s High England Equality Forum around their public
  involvement strategy.

  Other examples of our strong relationships with research users include Paton’s role as Chair of
  the Royal College of Physicians Committee on Ethical Issues in Medicine and as a trustee of the
  Institute of Medical Ethics. Mizen was also co-founder of the Midlands Youth Labour Market
  Forum and is a member of the Research Expert Forum of the international NGO, the Consortium
  of Street Children. Other UoA staff have fostered key relationships with a wide range of research
  users and beneficiaries, including: Amnesty International, Friends of the Earth, Netpol (Hayes);
  Voice for Choice (Malta), No More Shame (Gibraltar) (Lowe); the British Pregnancy Advisory
  Service (Lowe and Geampana); the European Public Health Alliance and NCD Alliance
  (Godziewski); the Church of England (Page); and Transparency International (Schimpfössl).

  Contributions to the research base, economy and society
  UoA staff have made a strong contribution to sociology and to the social sciences more generally
  through the following activities.

  Colleagues are widely represented among the editorial offices and boards (7) of leading
  international journals and book series. Hayes is the joint editor of Environmental Politics and
  consulting editor of Social Movement Studies, where he was editor-in-chief until 2015 and editor
  until 2017; Mizen is editorial board member of Adolescents; Mullan is Managing Editor of The
  Journal of Time Use Research; Paton is an associate editor of BMC Medical Ethics. Mizen
  previously completed two terms as editorial board member of the British Sociological
  Association’s journal Work, Employment and Society, including two years as its Deputy Chair
  (2017-2018). Pilcher was editorial board member of Sociological Research Online (2015-2018).
  Hayes is editorial advisory board member of the Amsterdam University Press book series Protest
  and Social Movements.

     1) All UoA staff have acted as peer-reviewers of academic articles during the REF period,
        covering over 50 journals across the social sciences. Examples include: the American
        Sociological Review, the British Journal of Sociology, Childhood, Children and Youth
        Services Review, Children’s Geographies, Development and Change, Discourse,
        Ethnography, Journal of Youth Studies, The Sociological Review, Sociology, Subjectivity,
        Globalization and Health, the American Journal of Public Health, Social Science and
        Medicine, Sociology, Policy Studies, BMC International Health, and Human Rights.

     2) Staff have reviewed work for over 20 different book publishers, including Bloomsbury,
        Oxford University Press, Palgrave, Routledge, Sage, and Polity.

     3) Colleagues have contributed peer review expertise to Research Councils and other
        research funders (21 different funders in total). These include the British Academy,
        ESRC, The Leverhulme Trust, the Wellcome Trust, Cancer Research UK, the European

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        Commission, the Swiss National Science Foundation, and the Social Sciences and
        Humanities Research Council of Canada.
     4) Colleagues have acted as external examiners for 19 PhDs at wide range of UK and
        overseas institutions (e.g. the universities of Sydney and Rennes, Rutger’s University,
        ULC, and Queen’s University, Belfast).

     5) Staff have lent their expertise to leading researchers in their respective fields through
        membership of Steering Committees (9) of major projects funded, among others, by the
        Wellcome Trust, Swiss National Science Foundation, and ESRC.

     6) Staff have assumed leading roles in professional and scholarly associations during the
        assessment period. Mizen, for example, is Sociology sub-panel member for REF2021
        and formerly an Executive Committee Member for the International Sociology
        Association’s Research Committee 53, The Sociology of Childhood. Page was the
        Convenor of the BSA’s Sociology of Religion Study Group between 2015-2016.

  In addition to the public engagement work outlined above, colleagues have made the following
  contributions to the economy and society:

     1) UoA staff have performed a wide range of advisory and consultancy roles for third sector
        organisations (9 in total). Third sector organisations assisted include UK organisations
        (e.g. Hillz Fm (Soytemel), the Herbert Art Gallery and Museum (Popov), Public Health
        England (Tritter), overseas nationally based organisations (e.g. the Ryabkov Foundation,
        Moscow (Schimpfössl), the Shiloh Project, Auckland (Page), the National Heart
        Foundation, Jamaica (Fooks) and international organisations (e.g. the Consortium for
        Street Children - Mizen).

     2) Finally, colleagues have performed advisory and consultancy work for a range of regional
        and national government organisations. Mullan, for example, provided expert advice to
        the Well-being Team at the Office for National Statistics and the Scottish Government on
        analysing and interpreting time-use data. Equally Soytemel and Popov are advisors to
        the West Midlands Violence Reduction Unit on the relationship between youth cultural
        needs, young people, and the police in Coventry’s most deprived neighbourhoods.
        Finally, Schimpfössl has provided advice to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office on
        the economic and security implications of Russian Oligarchs in the UK and the potential
        ramifications of sanctions on Russia.




                                                                                         Page 15
