Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution:
University of Essex
Unit of Assessment:
17 – Business and Management Studies
1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Unit context and structure

Essex Business School (EBS) is a distinctive research community that has more than doubled in
size since REF 2014, maintaining and developing a range of areas of excellent research. All staff
belong to one of five subject groups based across our Colchester and Southend campuses:
Accounting; Finance; Management and Marketing (M&M); Organisation Studies and Human
Resource Management (OSHRM); and Strategy, Operations and Entrepreneurship (SOE).

Our established research strengths include: accounting in emerging economies; work,
organisation and society in the global economy; banking and financial modelling; and
entrepreneurship and innovation. We have an international reputation in research on workplace
inequalities and injustices, including in developing economies, and on global sustainable supply
chains.

The School has been focussing on the key strategic objectives set out in its REF 2014 document:
1) delivering cutting-edge, critical research; 2) ensuring research income streams and
multidisciplinarity; and 3) establishing new research centres. EBS academics have also developed
and grown their research strengths in the strategic priority areas stated in the REF 2014
document: corporate governance, econometrics and sustainability.

Interdisciplinary and cross-cutting research areas in the School include firm/entrepreneurial
financing, emerging markets and gender and work. Social justice research has emerged as a
distinctive feature of EBS multidisciplinary research, with examples including public and third
sector engagement; working with disadvantaged groups and contributing to a social justice
campaigning agenda.

In line with the above strategy, a substantial number of strategic investments in new senior
appointments have enhanced our research strengths. Examples include gender and leadership
(Kelan), public sector accounting (Steccolini), services and digital marketing (Malhotra),
international business (Allen) and supply chains (Kumar). This has resulted in a sustainable
expansion of the scale and scope of subject groups, and the consolidation and development of
new research centres. Expanding the School’s leadership capacity, this strategy has enabled all
staff, including early career researchers (ECRs), to enhance their potential through greater
opportunities for research collaboration, network and engagement.

We take pride in our track record in Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) grant
success. Notably, this includes a £5.1m grant on Smart Data Analytics for Business and Local
Government, a project spearheaded by the University of Essex (2014-2019) and co-ordinated by
EBS.

A new zero-carbon building, completed in 2015, has provided vital space and facilities for the
continued growth of the School at our Colchester campus, as anticipated in the REF 2014
document. It has created many opportunities for research synergies and a spatial expression of
EBS community ethos and values. The building – which offers both private and open spaces,
meeting rooms and research collaboration areas – has provided precious momentum to shape our
research identity and environment for academics and research students. It has given opportunities
to forge linkages and collaborations with entrepreneurs, employers and policy-makers. This has led
to a vibrant research culture and expanded our international reputation for generating and
disseminating excellent research.

The School’s objective that ‘all research staff will produce a substantial body of work of at least 3*

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
quality’ has underpinned our current achievement of submitting 96% of FTE staff, of which 32% are
early career, to REF 2021. Following the REF 2014 submission, EBS formulated and implemented
a strategy to ensure that activities remain research led. The most recent EBS Research Mission
and Strategy document (2017-2022) clearly states our commitment to increasing the visibility
and reputation of the School’s research.

EBS strategically encourages an interdisciplinary, collaborative approach, promoting interactions
among academic staff across the School. Building on the REF 2014’s assessment that ‘much of
our work is interdisciplinary’, the School fostered further interdisciplinary collaborations and
activities through the Impact Academy set up in 2017. It has also supported the creation of new
interdisciplinary centres, including the Centre for Accountability and Global Development and the
Essex Centre for Macro and Financial Econometrics, to better facilitate interdisciplinary
collaborations across the full range of subjects. This strategy resulted in both centres achieving
sustained successes in generating external funding, for example, from the Economic and Social
Research Council (ESRC), The Leverhulme Trust and the UK-India Education and Research
Initiative (UKIERI).

Consistent with our interdisciplinary ethos, membership of EBS research centres is open to all
School and University academics. This flexibility also reflects the School’s and centres’ aim to
support a sustainable approach to interdisciplinary research activities, focusing on the
interconnectedness and complexities of contemporary global challenges. Our centres support
research activities through seminars – by external invited speakers, internal staff and research
students, and workshop programmes, among other scholarly events including international
conferences. Many EBS staff contribute to multiple centres. The centres are described in Table 1,
below, and they all operate in Colchester, except Research on Entrepreneurship, Innovation,
Management and Internationalisation (REIMI), based in our Southend campus.

Table 1 University of Essex research centres hosted at EBS

 Centre for           CAGD was created in 2017. Consistent with the strategy outlined in REF
 Accountability and   2014, the School has made strategic investments in the growing
 Global               interdisciplinary areas of sustainability, governance and global
 Development          development. The CAGD works towards global development through
 (CAGD)               rigorous research and engagement with the policy community that
                      complements the existing accounting, reporting, regulation and governance
                      research strengths and expertise embedded within the Essex Accounting
                      Centre.
 Centre for           Established in 2017, CES is an interdisciplinary, cross-faculty hub for
 Environment and      research in all aspects of sustainability science at the University of Essex.
 Society (CES)        This is part of the School’s wider commitment, articulated in the REF 2014
                      document, to focus strategically on sustainability as a priority area of
                      research.
 Centre for Work,     Founded in 2012, CWOS brings together interdisciplinary research on
 Organisation and     work, society and organisational life. Since REF 2014, the Centre has
 Society (CWOS)       enhanced its strengths in qualitative research with a largely critical
                      orientation, increasing its capacity in research on ethics, social justice and
                      corporate social responsibility, and on lived experiences of work in the
                      global economy.
 Essex Accounting     Established in 2011, EAC conducts distinctive world-class research, with
 Centre (EAC)         particular excellence in accounting research applied in developing
                      countries, in various areas of accounting, including social responsibility and
                      corporate governance; management accounting change; development,
                      corruption and accountability; and reporting, regulation and capital markets.
                      Since REF 2014 the Centre has strengthened all sub-disciplines and
                      expanded decisively in the area of public sector accounting.
 Essex Centre for     In line with the strategy outlined in REF 2014, the School has invested in a
 Macro and            well-defined research strand of econometrics with a focus on quantitative

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Financial            methods in finance and economics. ECMFE was founded in 2013 under
 Econometrics         the name ‘Essex Centre for Financial Econometrics’ and has established
 (ECFME)              strong links between researchers in EBS and the world-class Economics
                      Department at Essex. The Centre aims to conduct and publish world-
                      leading research in macro and financial econometrics.
 Essex Finance        EFiC was created in 2003 to promote internationally renowned, high-quality
 Centre (EFiC)        academic research in areas such as asset pricing, banking, behavioural
                      finance and financial modelling. Members of the Centre have established
                      numerous links with industry and worked closely with national and
                      international regulators and policymakers. Since 2014 EFiC has continued
                      to consolidate its established international reputation for research in
                      banking-related areas.
 ESRC Business        BLGDRC was created in 2014 through ESRC funding, as a national centre
 and Local            of expertise for data users across academia and industry. Led by Sena
 Government Data (Principal Investigator and Director of the Centre) and Coakley (Co-
 Research Centre      Investigator), this interdisciplinary, cross-faculty research Centre is part of
 (BLGDRC)             the ESRC Smart Data Analytics for Business and Local Government
                      project to spearhead research into financing local economic growth and to
                      foster knowledge exchange and user engagement activities with small
                      businesses and local government through data analytics innovation
                      vouchers. The Centre has strong links with other University departments,
                      particularly the School of Computer Science and Electronic Engineering,
                      that became the host in June 2019.
 Research on          Established in 2017, REIMI’s research – with contribution from members of
 Entrepreneurship, the Strategy, Operations and Entrepreneurship Group and beyond, builds
 Innovation,          upon links established through earlier work in the ESRC Business and
 Management and       Local Government Data Research Centre. The Centre is well known for
 Internationalisation international business research on emerging-market multinational
 (REIMI)              enterprises (MNEs) and their entrepreneurial strategies in
                      internationalisation; non-market strategies; technology management; talent
                      management; and MNEs’ corporate social responsibility activities.

1.2 Research governance

As noted earlier, EBS is divided into five subject groups. The average group size in 2020 was 21
members of staff. The School’s research leadership structure was reviewed in 2015 to ensure
greater group-level support for research activity in a dynamically developing and growing School.
Each group has an Associate Research Director (ARD) who, where appropriate, also acts as the
Director of the subject-specific research centre. The ARDs collaborate with the respective Heads of
Group (HoGs) in planning, organising and monitoring research activities. The UoA lead is the
Director of Research (DoR). A School-level Director of Impact (DoI), who is also Deputy Director of
Research (DDoR), works closely with the DoR and leads the School’s Impact Academy.

The DoR, DoI, and ARDs are members of the School Research Committee that meets at least
once each term to discuss, plan and evaluate research and impact-related strategy and activities.
Other key members are the School’s Ethics Officer, group-level ECR representatives and the EBS
Equality and Diversity Co-ordinator. A dedicated research administrator supports the Research
Committee’s activities. At the School level, the DoR and DoI, in collaboration with members of the
Research Committee and University research managers (funding, impact and knowledge
exchange), organise an annual Research and Impact away day.

Figure 1 illustrates the EBS Research Governance and Activities Structure. Research centres
support research activities for each of the subject groups and are central to ensuring the vitality
and sustainability of our research and impact environment, and generating excellent research
outputs, impact and funding applications. They are also a platform for establishing ties with other
groups and departments, providing an infrastructure for the interdisciplinarity of research.
Academics are supported in developing emergent strands of research excellence (e.g. gender at

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
work) through seminar series and other centre activities and events.

1.3 Research and Impact Strategy

EBS’ main research strategic objective is to be recognised as one of the leading, sustainable,
research intensive university business schools in the UK and globally. Overall, since REF 2014, it
has grown from 53 to 121 academic staff across our Colchester and Southend campuses.

In REF 2014 the UoA’s stated five-year objectives were: i) to continue to be internationally
recognised for cutting edge and critical research that both advances theory in academic disciplines
and has relevance for practice, ii) to improve performance in securing external research funding,
particularly through larger, multi-disciplinary applications, and iii) to continue strategic growth of the
School’s research portfolio by consolidating and developing new Research Centres into Centres of
Excellence around areas of research prioritised for expansion.

At the heart of this strategy was the aim to develop and expand, in a sustainable way, with the
expectation that all research active staff will produce a sizable body of internally assessed work at
least at 3* level. At the end of the REF 2021 cycle, this was substantially achieved as 96% of such
staff had at least one research output internally rated at 3* or above. These successes were
supported by an emphasis on research-led education and professional practice. Strategically the
School has also delivered high-quality postgraduate research (PGR) students training and
supervision (section 2.2).

The achievement of the strategic objectives outlined in REF 2014 is evidenced by the creation of
the new interdisciplinary research centres referred to above (e.g. CAGD, CES, ECFME); by the
considerable growth in grant applications, and grant capture, by individual staff members or jointly
with colleagues, and by the organisation of large cross-disciplinary events, such as the
International Corporate Governance Society Conference in October 2019.




                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Figure 1 EBS Research Governance and Activities Structure


        Research                                                         Director of Research
       Environment
        Structure                                   Director of Impact (Deputy Director of Research)


                              Associate               Associate                Associate                     Associate                   Associate
                              Research                Research                 Research                      Research                    Research
                               Director                Director                 Director                      Director                    Director




                                                                                  Management and Marketing




                                                                                                                                           Entrepreneurship Group (*)
                                                                                                              Organisation Studies and




                                                                                                                                            Strategy, Operations and
      Research




                                                                                                                Management Group
   Governance and                Accounting Group




                                                                                                                 Human Resource
                                                         Finance Group
     Resources




                                                                                          Group
              Subject
               Groups




                             Centre for Accountability and Global Development
 Research and Impact
                             Centre for Environment and Society
      Activities
                             Centre for Work, Organisation and Society
    and Outputs
                             Essex Accounting Centre
                             Essex Centre for Macro and Financial Econometrics
           Centres
                             Essex Finance Centre
           Impact
                             ESRC Business and Local Government Data Research Centre
            Academy
                             Research on Entrepreneurship Innovation Management and Internationalisation

(*) Formerly MSE (Management Science and Entrepreneurship)


In line with our main strategic objective described above, the following points summarise our
priorities, articulated in the EBS Research Mission and Strategy (2017-2022) document:

          maximise the quality of research output and increase the number of eligible REF staff
          improve the impact of our research beyond academia
          strengthen the research environment and the quality of support
          increase external research income
          enhance reputation and number of citations
          foster infrastructure and resources assigned to research

Each of these priorities reflects our objectives to continually improve on what we are already doing
and to produce a vibrant and sustainable research environment. This has also been possible
thanks to the consistent appointment, throughout the entire REF period, of highly talented ECRs.

EBS has maintained a commitment to advancing knowledge by producing theoretical and empirical
research that has social and/or economic relevance and that is published in excellent quality,
international, peer-reviewed outlets. Our goal, expressed in the Research Mission and Strategy,
is to enable all academic staff to be research active at an international standard. By comparison,
the percentage of FTE category A staff submitted to REF 2014 was 50.46% with 98.8% of our
submissions assessed as being of international quality and 68.5% rated world leading or
internationally excellent. To fulfil its mission of empowering all academics to produce excellent
research, the School has promoted an exciting, collaborative and nurturing research culture.
Examples of how this works in practice include: involving ECRs in research projects, PhD
supervision and grant applications, and co-organising events such as the Research and Impact
away day, research centre seminar series and workshops.


                                                                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Compared to REF 2014, the proportion of staff from ethnic minority backgrounds has increased
significantly (by 33%, see Section 2.3). Guided by an ethos of mutual support and collegiality,
the School values a culture of collaboration, one that reflects trust and respect among colleagues
at different career stages. For example, we integrate PhD presentations into centres’ seminar
series; and there are many examples in the School of research outputs that involve EBS
collaborations, including joint work between senior staff and ECRs. EBS is also committed to
transparency, as manifested through ensuring that research active staff are collectively included in
decision-making structures and processes associated with research management often drawing on
research expertise (e.g. in equality and inclusion).

To ensure appropriate standards of research conduct and integrity, all proposed projects involving
human participants are reviewed by the EBS Ethics Officer, a role held by an experienced
researcher. The Ethics Officer provides advice and authorisation for projects fostering research
ethics amongst staff and students, following the processes set out by the University Research and
Enterprise Office (REO). S/he also delivers presentations on research ethics to undergraduate
(UG) and postgraduate taught (PGT) students, thus helping them build research skills. Before
completing their application for ethical approval, our PhD students learn about ethics and reflexivity
in a dedicated module on research philosophy, methodology and methods. Supervisors review
these applications before submission. The Ethics Officer sends out communication on research
ethics to all staff at the start of the academic year and then, throughout the year, organises
sessions on the topic, for example, as part of the Research and Impact away days.

Our commitment to a ‘new impact strategy’ stated in the REF 2014 document is a key element of
the School’s current research mission and strategy. We have used many initiatives to improve the
impact of research beyond academia. The main vehicle was the Impact Academy (IA) launched in
2017. The Academy reflects EBS’ mission to enhance the broader strategic thinking about impact
embedded into the School’s research activities. It is based on three principles: i) helping to
develop impact case studies (including, and also beyond, those intended for REF submission),
ii) targeting support for impact project applications, and iii) impact mentoring. The IA conducts
regular impact workshops and clinics. These clinics, which have generated a keen interest in
impact among our colleagues, encourage the development of an impact case study. The IA has
regularly supported colleagues’ impact activities through competitive funding from the School’s
research budget, workload allowances, and through media training by external consultants.

EBS staff working on impact case studies are given the opportunity to apply for funding from ESRC
Impact Acceleration Accounts (IAA) and Global Challenges Research Funds (GCRF), as well as
from the Pro-Vice Chancellor (Research) and the Executive Dean funds. Over the REF 2021
assessment period, a total of £188,050 was awarded to EBS staff in funding for different activities:
active engagement, such as for the organisation of a workshop; impact fund; secondment fund; or
‘Challenge Labs’. The latter are facilitated events where businesses and other organisations are
invited to identify business problems and work with our researchers to develop solutions. Typically,
the largest amounts have been awarded for impact activities (up to £15k in one award). All this
support generated an enormous momentum on impact, which resulted in 14 cases, providing
not only the potential for wider case selection for REF 2021 than the previous cycle, but giving rise
to further outreach and publicity activities.

The School has continued regional and international business and policy engagement through the
activities of its research centres. The IA has succeeded in developing sustained relationships with
local, national and international stakeholders. It initiates further impact activity through invited
presentations that encourage a strategic shift in impact management with a long-term perspective.
In particular, the School has further developed a substantial impact through the links with national
and international organisations. Nationally, through EBS research, local health and social care
providers (e.g., the Essex County Council) have benefitted from adopting of more distributed ways
of managing the integration of previously separate care services. Internationally, EBS research
has informed the policy process, for example, at the International Labour Organization and Food
and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations; UN strategy in relation to youth-led enterprises
and disaster management; Australian Government and New Zealand Treasury, scaling up of

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
financial inclusion through the International Cooperatives and Mutual Insurance Federation and
developing public accountability reforms in the Indian state of Kerala and Nepal.

One salient objective in the REF 2014 Environment Statement was to enhance support for
knowledge exchange collaborations and user engagement with industry partners. EBS is
strategically supported by an Advisory Group that includes senior industry members, many of
whom joined as a result of engagement with the ESRC BLGDRC Centre. Members of the Centre
developed links with equity crowdfunding platforms (e.g. Seedrs and SyndicateRoom) and
submissed to the Treasury Select Committee on Small Business Finance in March 2019. As a
result, Coakley also produced an Innovation Voucher funded report on ‘Equity funding of small
business in Essex’ in November 2019. This informed the establishment of the Angels@Essex
platform in the Innovation Centre in May 2020 – a key initiative developed to drive forward
business in the region by giving start-ups access to Angel investment opportunities. In 2020, the
University was awarded University Enterprise Zone (UEZ) status by Research England.

Between 2014 and 2020, nine international conferences and 22 workshops were organised in
the School (see Table 2, below). These allowed the School to achieve its objective of increasing its
visibility and reputation while strengthening its position and profile as a leading UK business
school. EBS colleagues have also been involved in organising events overseas, such as the
Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR) Endless Summer Conference on Financial
Intermediation (co-organiser Kokas annually since 2018 in Cyprus and Greece) and the
International Symposium in Finance Conference (co-organiser Vlastakis annually since 2018 in
Crete).

Table 2 Selected events organised in EBS

 Events                                              Date              Organising centres
                                                                  (journals linked to the event)
 Conferences
 Annual Conference in Banking and Finance         2019, 2018,       EFiC (European Journal of
 with PhD poster sessions                         2017, 2016      Finance; Journal of Corporate
                                                                             Finance)
 International Corporate Governance                  2019          EFiC, EAC, CAGD, CWOS,
 Conference                                                                    REIMI
 with PhD development workshops and                              (British Journal of Management)
 roundtables
 Recent Developments in Equity                       2018                ESRC BLGDRC
 Crowdfunding
 Accounting and Accountability in Emerging           2018            EAC, CAGD (Journal of
 Economies (biannual)                                                Accounting in Emerging
 with one-day doctoral colloquium                                   Economies; Sustainability
                                                                  Accounting, Management and
                                                                         Policy Journal)
 Critical Realism and Accounting                     2016         EAC (Critical Perspectives on
                                                                          Accounting)
 Workshops/ Symposia
 Essex-Birkbeck PhD student workshop              2019, 2018                  REIMI
 Predictive Regression Models (ESRC                 2019                     ECFME
 funded)
 Financial Fragmentation and Small Business          2019                      EFiC
 Financing Workshop (British Academy)
 Interdisciplinary Perspectives on Populism          2019                     CWOS
 Witches, WAGS and Wideboys: Gender,                 2018                     CWOS
 Class and Place
 Finance for All (ESRC Social Science                2017                     CAGD
 Festival)

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Future of Feminism in Business and              2017                     CWOS
 Management Education (BAM funded)
 Management Control Association on Strong            2017                       EAC
 Structuration Theory
 Modelling with Mixed Frequency and                  2017                     ECFME
 Aggregated Data (ESRC funded)
 Financial Intermediation Network for                2017                      EFiC
 European Studies (FINEST)
 Cointegration and Multivariate Time Series          2016                     ECFME
 Modelling (ESRC funded)
 Gendered Inclusion: Interdisciplinary               2016                     CWOS
 Methodologies
 International Corporate Identity Group (ICIG)       2016                     CWOS
 Symposium
 Work, Organisation and Precarity                    2015                     CWOS
 Paper Development Workshops
 Journal of World Business                           2018                      REIMI
 Journal of International Business Policy            2018                      REIMI
 British Accounting Review                           2016                       EAC

An important part of ensuring and showcasing the vibrancy of our research and impact
environment is the use of networked communication platforms. As well as ResearchGate and
Google Scholar, we use other forms of mediated communication to enhance research interactions
via social networking sites and video sharing platforms, including Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and
YouTube. For example, Bloom’s podcast ‘Another World is Podable’ has had 2000+ individual
listens in the six months since it began, along with being featured on leading public listening
platforms like Spotify. Other colleagues have dedicated websites to showcase the progress of their
impact work such as Holt’s ESRC-funded ‘Trickle Out Africa’ project (http://www.trickleout.net).

As noted above, the School is divided into five subject groups: Accounting; Finance; Management
and Marketing (M&M); Organisation Studies and Human Resource Management (OSHRM); and
Strategy, Operations and Entrepreneurship (SOE) - see Figure 1. However, throughout the
majority of the current REF period (i.e. up until 2018-19), EBS was organised into four subject
groups: Accounting; Finance; Management, Marketing and Organisation (MMO); and Management
Science and Entrepreneurship (MSE). In September 2017, as a result of the substantial growth in
the number of staff and students across different sub-disciplines of management, the MMO group
was divided into two new subject groups: M&M and OSHRM. Further, in June 2020, the Southend-
based MSE group was renamed as Strategy, Operations and Entrepreneurship (SOE), to better
reflect the current composition of staff research interests and educational provision of the group.
Whilst subject groups are the key organisational unit in EBS, research activity – as already
explained – is supported through the research centres hosted by the School (see Table 1). While
these centres are group-based, they are interdisciplinary in their ethos and activities.

For reasons of presentational clarity, below we bring together the highlights of the School’s
research and impact achievements and strategic focus under the five subject themes outlined
above. These are: i) accounting; ii) finance; iii) management and marketing; iv) organisation
studies and HRM; and v) entrepreneurship, innovation and internationalisation.

THEME 1: ACCOUNTING

EBS is internationally renowned for its research on accounting in emerging economies;
sustainability; governance (corporate or otherwise); gender; global development; public sector
accounting; and regulation and reporting. The EAC and the CAGD support the research activities
and organise events including a bi-annual conference (since 2018). Accounting in emerging
economies has consolidated as a distinctive field of academic research, particularly conducted by
drawing on critical and qualitative perspectives. The School’s leadership in these areas resulted in

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the founding of a specialist research journal, the Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies
(Uddin: Editor-in-Chief; Soobaroyen: Associate Editor). In global development, Arun led an
international team on ‘mainstreaming the financial inclusion agenda’ attracting nearly £200k from
UKIERI. Public sector accounting is emerging as a research strength within the School, driven by
the appointment of Steccolini (Joint Editor of Financial Accountability and Management and Guest
Editor of special issues on the topic in high impact journals such as Public Administration). The
growing reputation of the School in accounting is evidenced by publications in top tier journals,
such as work on gender in public services in Accounting, Organisations and Society (Agrizzi), the
role of networks in consumption expenditure in Sociology (Arun), the effect of acquisitions and
mergers on employees in British Journal of Management (Azimjon), specialist CEOs and IPO
survival in Journal of Corporate Finance (Pham), and private management and governance styles
in a Japanese public hospital in Social Science and Medicine (Uddin). The success of the
engagement with development practitioners and policy-makers resulted in three impact cases on
public sector accountability in India and Nepal (Adhikari, Arun) and a fourth case study on
sustainability issues in Sri Lanka (Jayasinghe).

THEME 2: FINANCE

Finance research at EBS is world-leading in the areas of banking and corporate/behavioural
finance, and financial econometrics. Research activity is supported by the EFiC whose
international reputation further increased in this REF cycle, also thanks to its conference held
annually since 2016. An established area is banking with internationally excellent research on
competition, performance (Girardone, Kokas) and stability (Markose, who also developed an
impact case on network models). This area has been enhanced further with appointments at
senior (Fiordelisi) and ECR level (Filomeni, Wang). Emerging research focuses on board diversity
both in banking (Bermpei, Sarkisyan) and non-financial firms (e.g. ECRs Cai and Li), as well as
responsible banking and financial inclusion (Liñares-Zegarra). EBS finance staff publish excellent
research in corporate finance (Bose; Instefjord), behavioural finance (Coakley; Verousis) and
empirical asset pricing (Kontonikas; Symeonidis). The study of commodity markets is another
strength of EBS finance research, as demonstrated, for example, by Kellard’s publications and
impact case. Financial econometrics has grown substantially and built research bridges with the
outstanding Economics Department through the joint research centre (ECFME). Evidence of world-
class research is found in work on time-series analysis and volatility (Taylor) and forecasting
(Korobilis, Panopoulou; Price). ECFME is particularly successful in terms of ESRC grant income
(£601k) led by Taylor. Finance group members’ excellent research has been published in top tier
journals, including Annals of Statistics (Taylor), Econometric Theory (Taylor), Journal of Business
and Economic Statistics (Hallam; Taylor; Zhao), Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis
(Fiordelisi), Journal of Financial Intermediation (Fiordelisi, Instefjord), Journal of Econometrics
(Price, Taylor), and Journal of Monetary Economics (Lamla). Many finance researchers actively
engage with the financial industry and regulators / policy-makers both in the UK (Royal Bank of
Scotland, Bank of England) and internationally (European Central Bank, Federal Reserve and
Bank for International Settlements).

THEME 3: MANAGEMENT AND MARKETING

Management and marketing research at EBS is wide-ranging, and, together with research in
organisation studies and human resource management (see below) has contributed significantly to
areas of research in which EBS demonstrates its distinctive identity as a ‘socially conscious’
business school. The research and impact activities of both M&M and OSHRM staff are supported
by the Centre for Work, Organisation and Society (CWOS). M&M staff publish in and edit world
class journals such as British Journal of Management, Journal of International Business Studies,
Journal of World Business and Organization Studies, and have authored international monographs
in leading academic presses (Bloom, Fowler). M&M researchers also contribute to developing the
management discipline, as exemplified by Śliwa who since 2016 has co-convened the Critical
Management Studies stream of the British Academy of Management conference and is actively
involved in journal editorship. The breadth and social focus of research conducted under the M&M
theme is also demonstrated by Holt’s impact case on social enterprises and informal economy

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
businesses in Africa and Brazil that helped shape United Nations’ strategic priorities around global
challenges. Recent appointments have added to the vibrancy and vitality of management research,
as exemplified by Bloom, who is working on a ‘social future building’ project funded by the Northern
Ireland Executive Office for creating a new augmented reality; and Rao-Nicholson with research
expertise on strategy, innovation and sustainability in emerging markets. Other appointments since
REF 2014 have also further strengthened marketing research, such as Malhotra, in the area of
services marketing, applying consumer behaviour to the burgeoning problem of gambling among
younger adults and university students as part of a funded project by the British Academy. A range
of promising new sub-themes and projects are emerging as part of the M&M theme, including
commons-based value creation and critical and post-capitalist management (Barros; Bloom;
Fowler; Śliwa); processes of internationalisation, ‘smart development’ and decolonisation (Ahonen;
Harris; Reynolds; Um).

THEME 4: ORGANISATION STUDIES AND HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT

EBS research in organisation studies and human resource management is well known for its
critical orientation. As mentioned above, its vibrancy is supported and showcased through the
Centre for Work, Organisation and Society which acts as a catalyst for innovative and critical
research and has organised many events over the REF 2021 cycle, often in partnership with
regional organisations such as the Essex Literary Festival and Essex County Council. Consistent
with the ethos of both the School and CWOS, OS and HRM researchers embrace
interdisciplinarity, bringing in perspectives from a variety of disciplines from philosophy to gender
studies, history and sociology that promote research collaboration across the University and
beyond. They publish world-class research and contribute to the editing of a range of leading
journals, including a range of leading journals, including British Journal of Management, Human
Relations, Organization Studies, and Work, Employment and Society. OSHRM research is also
published in the form of monographs by leading publishers (Tyler) as well as those based in non-
anglophone contexts (Cirella). Throughout this REF cycle, the School has invested in new OSHRM
staff, through both senior and ECR appointments. An example of the former is Kelan, a leadership
and gender expert who joined EBS in 2018 and currently holds a Leverhulme Trust Major
Research Fellowship (approximately £189k). Examples of ECR appointments include Hales (OS),
who completed an ESRC-funded PhD at EBS in 2017, and whose research interests include
gender and sexuality in organisations, and lived experiences of work; and Cirella (HRM), who
trained as a researcher in Italy and Sweden before joining EBS in 2015, and whose research
focuses on leadership, change and transformation, as well as organisational creativity. OSHRM
research currently focuses on eight related streams: Collective creativity and innovation; emotional
and aesthetic aspects of work and workplaces; gender, sexuality and embodiment; integrated
health care, workplace wellbeing and mental health; job insecurity and its consequences across
cultures; organisational change, transition and leadership; sustainability, ethics and corporate
social responsibility, and work, employment and learning in the global economy

THEME 5: ENTREPRENEURSHIP, INNOVATION AND INTERNATIONALISATION

Research activities in entrepreneurship, innovation and internationalisation, conducted by staff in
the Strategy, Operations and Entrepreneurship (formerly MSE) group are supported by the REIMI
centre, based in Southend. The creation of REIMI in 2017 heralded a new, ambitious phase of
research, leveraging earlier investments in staff, databases, methodologies and local networks to
deliver novel research in migrant entrepreneurship, innovation and firm internationalisation. One
aim was to generate benefits in terms of knowledge exchange and collaborations from the links
with local businesses and local government established in 2014 through the ESRC-funded
Business and Local Government Data Research Centre (BLGDRC; the PI and Director of the
centre, Sena, was based in Southend). The group has grown expertise in international
management, entrepreneurship and innovation, enhancing its reputation in the areas of R&D
management (e.g. J. Fernandez de Arroyabe), patents (Athreye), emerging-market firms’
internationalisation (Demirbag), sustainable supply chains (Kumar) and comparative analyses of
renewable-energy firms (Allen). New research areas have emerged, including big data, data
analytics, social entrepreneurship, refugee entrepreneurship and corporate social responsibility

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
activities. Members of REIMI actively contribute to thought leadership, for example Kwong, whose
work on refugee entrepreneurship has tapped into a vast non-governmental network with the aim
of disseminating knowledge and providing training to refugees and other disadvantaged groups
(e.g. autistic entrepreneurs). Areas of national knowledge exchange activities include Athreye’s
work with the UK Intellectual Property Office on patent policy towards small firms and universities,
and Kim’s secondment with County Hall (Chelmsford) where she helped to shape policy to raise
the level of R&D expenditure in the Essex region (funded by the South East Local Enterprise
Partnership).

1.4 Future strategic objectives for research and impact

EBS is committed to continuing to follow its ambitious strategic path set out in REF 2014, namely,
to produce empirical and theoretical research of the highest quality that has a strong social and
economic relevance. Since 2014, excellent research carried out across each of the above five
themes has contributed to this aim, demonstrating the interdisciplinary and collaborative ethos of
the School.

A number of significant developments and investments illustrate how this commitment supports the
School’s research and impact environment, leading to the emergence of new research and impact-
related priorities that we plan to focus on in the next REF period. These are deliberately
interdisciplinary – as it is expected that researchers will go beyond themes’ boundaries – and can
be summarised as follows:

(1) The development of research centres that have gathered momentum in EBS in recent years
    and are expected to enhance the overall School’s research profile and activities in the areas of:

      Organisational change management
      Commons development and values
      Fintech and sustainable finance
      Gender and work
      Publicness and resilience

(2) Building on the success of the School’s IA by:

      Investing in an ‘impact nursery’ with the aim of nurturing impact from all research projects,
       irrespective of funding source, and expanding further the equality and diversity of
       researchers involved in impact activities and case studies.

(3) Building on recent significant successes in the School, consolidating external funding activity:

      Strategically apply for large collaborative funding grants once rich research networks are
       established in the areas outlined in (1) above.
      Continue to develop bridges with industry and organisations in the region, to increase
       contract and collaborative research opportunities.

2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

EBS staffing strategy is to recruit and retain high quality, highly skilled and ambitious research
active academics who can produce excellent, interdisciplinary research. We aim to recruit and
retain a mix of early career, middle-level and senior researchers in various academic fields. This
approach is conducive to building a vibrant and sustainable research and impact environment, and
to fostering the development of a community of researchers whose research agenda can be
leveraged (e.g. through joint publication and funding) and sustained. In this way, EBS also
encourages organic progression leading to more senior roles and ensures that the research
agenda is not dependent on one or very few individuals.

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

That 99% of full-time staff are research active attests to this and enables the School to sustain
delivery of high-quality research-led education aligned to the key objective to achieve excellence in
research and a transformative educational experience. One per cent of staff are teaching-only as
most academics are recruited on ASER (Academic Staff with Education and Research) contracts.
ASER staff are allocated dedicated time to devote to research in their workload model (one third of
the overall workload allocation) and are expected to contribute to the School’s REF return.

As part of the School’s structures of support for our researchers, EBS offers all research active
staff the opportunity to apply every six terms in post for one sabbatical term, in line with University
policy. A standard sabbatical is a term of uninterrupted study that enables researchers to finalise
projects, set out foundations for future work and/or visit other institutions. Consistent with the
School’s Research and Impact Strategy, applicants need to present a plan to produce high quality
publications. Staff are also encouraged to apply for research funding during their study leave, and
to engage in impact activity. Distinctively, every new colleague is eligible to apply for study leave
during their probation and staff continue to accrue eligibility while on parental leave (evidence of
our commitment to equality in research support). A total of 176 research sabbatical terms (25 per
year on average) have been granted over this REF cycle.

Research interests are central to selecting new staff, in line with the School’s mission to carry out
research that makes a difference to the economy and society. As noted above, the School has
expanded rapidly since REF 2014, with 68 new appointments. At professorial level we have both
strengthened existing areas of excellence (e.g. Fiordelisi in banking; Rao-Nicholson in
management) and offered new expertise in strategic areas that are building a reputation in the
School (e.g. Kelan in leadership and gender; Steccolini in public sector accounting).

The School’s culture reflects the University’s focus on social action that defines the ‘Essex Spirit’
and that makes researchers ‘activists, advocates, change-makers, innovators and reformers’
(University of Essex Research Strategy Document 2019-2025). We have seen that the focus on
research excellence and transformative education that has a positive impact on business and
society is also conducive to producing research of internationally recognised quality and to
attracting high calibre academics.

EBS staff development policies complement and integrate those set at Faculty/University level.
From induction to one-to-one mentoring and other activities to targeting specific skills, the School
provides a wide array of opportunities for individual staff development. In addition, to retain existing
staff, financial benefits such as increments and bonuses, sabbatical terms or time for knowledge
exchange opportunities (via consultancies) are supported and encouraged. Examples of
substantial initiatives in this context include delivery of workshops on academic writing skills, paper
development workshops and developmental sessions on the politics and practicalities of academic
publishing by members of CWOS (Hancock, Roper, Tucker, Tyler 2016-2020).

The School appoints a mentor to each ECR to provide guidance and to support the intellectual
growth and professional development. The mentor supports the researcher up to completion of
probation and then to first promotion stage, with further co-mentoring operating by arrangement.
Notable mentoring examples include Adhikari (achieved permanency and promotion to Senior
Lecturer and recently Reader; author of a REF 2021 impact case study), Hudson (mentored to
permanency and promotion to Senior Lecturer, elected to Work, Employment and Society editorial
board) and Tucker (mentored to early permanency and promotion to Senior Lecturer, co-author of
a REF 2021 impact case study).

Termly ‘InSite’ skill building workshops for both doctoral students and ECRs focus on research
skills development (e.g. Matlab) and support the development of our research capacity. The
Accounting and Finance groups also organise regular ‘Brown Bag’ lunch time seminars – a forum
where colleagues discuss their early ideas for projects, share work in progress on papers and
research grant applications, and potential new collaborations with other colleagues, including
research students. These workshops have led to successful research grants (e.g. Adhikari) and

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
publications.

There are other examples that demonstrate that EBS’ commitment to support staff goes
beyond formal mentoring. ECRs receive advice on their research strategies and support crucial
decisions, such as which journals to submit to, how to position papers well, and how to write a
successful response to reviewers. For example, the Accounting group’s annual research away day
offers the opportunity for half the group to present their papers and the other half to discussing
these papers (and swapped the following year).

SOE (formerly MSE) has encouraged much collaboration between senior and early career
faculty in both co-authoring papers and editing special issues. Former lecturer Sengupta co-edited
with senior colleagues Sena and Demirbag a special issue of the British Journal of Management
on big data in management sciences. ECR Tasavori’s research collaboration with established
researcher Kwong has helped her develop key research skills and expand her research network.

Equally, OSHRM holds ‘new recruits’ events to develop synergies and support between mentors
and ECRs. In addition, experienced colleagues review journal submissions/revisions as well as
funding applications to provide developmental feedback (including of rejected papers/applications),
to identify and support re-submissions to alternative journals or funders. OSHRM members also
organise annual presenting and publishing workshops held by editors/board members in the group.

The relatively newly formed M&M group has created five new research working groups, bringing
together colleagues with common research interests. These have been developed through
consultation with colleagues across the group with the emphasis on creating spaces for shared
and innovative research that combines the group’s strengths in management and marketing. Each
of these internal research working groups is led by two ECRs. The group has also piloted a digital
‘slack’ resource to encourage virtual discussions, ideas sharing, and potential cross-group
collaboration.

Another channel for development is senior faculty introducing other members of staff to a wider
network of scholars through distinguished visiting scholars. For example, following his 2017 visit
at EBS, Cantwell from Rutgers University invited Marra to spend her study leave at Rutgers to
collaborate with him on a research project; in 2018 Cumming (Florida Atlantic University)
presented a keynote address at an event organised by the BLGDRC and also delivered a seminar
open to all staff and research students that gave rise to new collaborations.

EBS has clear frameworks for helping staff complete probation and work towards their first
promotion. The expectation in terms of research output is to have a minimum of two 3* papers
accepted for publication by the end of the three-year probationary period. To support this, regular
(at least termly) meetings are held with mentors. Similarly, mentors work closely with the relevant
ARDs, HoGs and professorial staff to plan an achievable path for promotion and successful
progression in their field. Over the current REF cycle, 71 colleagues completed probation. Further
evidence of successful support includes the promotion to Senior Lecturer of 20 colleagues. In
terms of diversity, 52% of all internally promoted staff have been female; 69% international; and
26% Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic.

Each year, all EBS research active staff are allocated a fixed £1,000 to support research and
impact activity (e.g. conference attendance). This is complemented by three calls for additional
conference funding per year up to a total of £3,000, aimed at supporting attendance at well-
established events that foster quality feedback and networking. The School also issues two
competitive calls for Research Committee awards that are essentially pump-priming research
funds (currently up to £800). Priority is given to promising research projects where the applicant
has an intention to fund pilot studies that will likely result in external grant applications.

Naturally, the COVID-19 pandemic has affected the EBS research environment. In the short term,
some of the structures of support described above have been put either under strict monitoring
mode or on hold. In May 2020 we drew up a COVID-19 Research and Impact Strategy document

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
where we stated our commitment to mitigating the effects of the pandemic on different groups of
staff, and on our ability to generate impactful research. For example, we have invited more
experienced staff members to support and work with ECRs who wish to develop grant proposals
for projects exploring COVID-19-related phenomena.

2.2 Postgraduate research students

PGR students have a central part of the research community and culture of the School. It is an
important aspect of the School’s strategy to promote a supportive and strong research culture
for PGR students leading to a range of careers, for example in industry, and particularly
encouraging and enabling applications to Lectureship positions if planning to stay in academia.
This process can also result in fruitful collaborations as evidenced by co-authored research papers,
often linked to PhD supervision. For example, in Finance, Taylor supervised Astill, and they co-
authored two articles published in high quality journals (Econometrics Reviews and The
Econometrics Journal). Astill successfully applied for a Lecturer position in EBS; he has since
progressed to Senior Lecturer level. Another example is that of Hales who was an OSHRM PhD
student. After completing her doctorate, Hales co-authored two high quality journal articles with her
former supervisor Tyler and secured a Lectureship in the OSHRM Group.

All our research students are PGRs, including those in the first year of the integrated programme
and have not yet started working on their thesis. In this REF cycle we have attracted nearly 280
PGR students in total. The vitality and sustainability of our doctoral programme is indicated by an
average of 20 students per year completing successfully their PhD, compared to 15 over the
previous REF cycle. The School is proud of its diverse PhD student population: for example, in the
academic year 2019-20, 35% were female, of which 85% were from outside of the UK and 70%
from an ethnic minority background.

EBS benefits from funding opportunities available for PhD students as the University of Essex is
the co-ordinating institution of the South East Network for Social Sciences (SeNSS), an ESRC
Doctoral Training Partnership consisting of 10 UK universities that promotes ‘inventive and
inclusive social science research training and collaboration’. Support for PGR students is provided
by the EBS PGR Director, who co-ordinates the work of five Associate PGR Directors (one for
each subject group), with the assistance of the PGR Officer. To enhance the sustainability of PGR
recruitment, the EBS has formed new partnerships in the PhD area with Northwest University
(China) and Tec de Monterrey (Mexico), and continues to expand the range of studentships
available to our students, with four new Essex funded studentships planned for 2021. Essex is a
lead partner in the EU’s EDU-RES development programme, linking EBS with a number of YERUN
(Young European Research Universities) institutions in developing joint PhD programmes, an
initiative that is of particular importance in the post-Brexit environment. EBS is thus developing a
growing international reputation for its PhD programmes.

The standard structure of the PhD programme at EBS is three years. Candidates can also apply
for a place on an integrated four-year programme where they study towards a Master of Research
(MRes) degree in the first year. Students are typically assigned two supervisors, one senior
(who has previously supervised to completion) and one less experienced (who also gains valuable
supervisory experience and benefits from mentoring throughout the co-supervision) and a chair for
the Supervisory Panel. Full-time students are required to attend two formal Supervisory Panel
meetings per academic year and supervisions at least once a month. All research students follow a
structured approach that allows them to progress by reaching specific ‘milestones’. Once a year,
PhD students present their work to academic staff and fellow PhD students.

Postgraduate research students are usually affiliated to a specific subject group and can belong to
more than one research centre. The integration of PGR students in the subject groups and
research centres provides important mentoring opportunities for students and enriches the subject
groups and centres. All EBS subject groups carry out a number of activities aimed at facilitating
PGR students’ participation. They organise research methods training workshops referred to as
PhD ‘InSite’ Workshops, which take place twice per academic year, and include sessions by both

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
guest speakers and internal staff. All PGR students are expected to attend weekly research
seminars organised by each group/centre, as well as regular away days and one-day internal
conferences. The seminar series provides a platform for doctoral students to present and discuss
their ongoing research projects, to receive timely and constructive feedback, to build intra- and
inter-group research collaborations at EBS, and to learn from the experiences of external faculty
invited to present their research.

EBS groups organise over 60 seminars each year, inviting as speakers a range of researchers
from different sub-disciplines as well as research leaders, journal editors, editorial board members,
and potential co-authors of research projects. The groups also create opportunities for both staff
and PGR students to engage with guest speakers by organising workshops tailored to the needs of
ECRs and doctoral students (e.g. publication strategies by editors), one-to-one sessions and
meetings during their visit.

Research students are also encouraged to be involved in subject group-specific research away
days. For example, in the Accounting group, all final year PhD students are invited to participate in
the event, and to provide input into the discussion on the research strategies of the centre. Since
2014, an annual research conference, at which all PhD students present their work, has been held
for doctoral candidates in the M&M and OSHRM groups. PhD students organise the event, chair
sessions and appoint academic discussants to provide developmental feedback on all
presentations.

PGR students also benefit from external conferences and other events organised and hosted by
the subject groups/centres across the School. The conferences and workshops normally reserve
one or two sessions for doctoral students, increasing opportunities for international research
engagement, networking and collaboration. Examples can be found in Table 2.

They can also take advantage of ‘Proficio’: a professional development scheme, unique to Essex,
offering an innovative and very flexible training programme. Students are allocated £2,500 of
Proficio funds for the duration of their PhD for academic and professional development and are
free to decide how to spend them, including paying for conference attendance (up to £700). Many
Proficio courses are offered by University of Essex academics but if a student has a particular
development need which cannot be met by the current offering, they can use these funds to pay for
external courses.

PGR students are offered the opportunity to apply to work as Graduate Teaching Assistants
(GTAs). GTAs benefit from a dedicated training programme and developmental supervision. Our
PGR students come from diverse backgrounds: some have not had organisational experience
beyond being a student, others register on doctorates as a path towards a new career or
enhancement of an existing career. In recent years we have had several completions by women
who decided to undertake a PhD to facilitate career transition or to return to the labour market after
a career break when they were bringing up children. Also, especially in Accounting, we have had a
number of PhD students who are established academics but who chose to do a PhD at EBS to
enhance their career. Most students at EBS complete their doctorates within four years: in 2018/19
our PhD completion rate was 82% and many have found positions as lecturers in universities both
in the UK and overseas. For example, former Accounting PhD student Adwan is now Lecturer at
the University of Sussex; Ozili is employed by the Central Bank of Nigeria; Finance PhD Sha’ban is
Lecturer in Banking and Finance at the Al-Zaytoonah University in Amman (Jordan). In
management, Manalsuren is now Lecturer at London South Bank University, and Hyde pursues a
successful career in higher education leadership and is currently Deputy Dean of Suffolk Business
School.

2.3 Equality and diversity

The School’s Equality and Inclusion commitment states:



                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       EBS is a place where staff and students recognise each other as valued members
       of the School and wider academic community, working together with mutual respect
       and integrity. We value a working and learning environment in which people are
       free to be themselves. The School respects the multi-dimensional lives of all its
       members and is committed to creating and supporting a learning and working
       environment in which staff and students can flourish in all aspects of their work and
       lives.

The School promotes a culture of integrity and respect for each other’s research styles,
disciplines, intellectual perspectives and approaches. EBS academic staff are very international
(74% originate from outside of the UK) and the School is relatively diverse in terms of age, race
and gender. Over 36% of staff are 46 years of age and above (compared to 21% in REF 2014);
black and ethnic minority staff are well represented (48%, compared to 36% in REF 2014). The
male to female staff ratio is similar to that of students in all subjects and is currently at 3:2,
although this varies by subject group. For all EBS PGR students the proportion of male on average
is 58%, with M&M and OSHRM being the most equal (around 50%). There is a strong presence of
women in senior research and leadership positions in the School. We count eight women
professors in all subject groups (35% of professorial roles). In addition, the Director of Research,
Director of Education, Director of Accreditation and the PGR Director are currently all women.

In May 2020, the School was granted an Athena SWAN Bronze level award in recognition of its
commitment to gender equality. More than 20% of academic staff in EBS conduct research on
gender, covering gender-related issues relating to topics such as leadership and governance,
technology, entrepreneurship and workplace bullying. To support this research in the future, a
research group on Gender and Work was established in 2020. It will provide a focal point for
research on gender and work that currently takes place across all subject areas; this is a distinctive
feature for a UK business school environment.

In REIMI, there is an increasing focus on female entrepreneurship, particularly in the context of
entrepreneurship by disadvantaged groups (led by Kwong). In addition, several members are
Academic Fellows of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD), and have
presented research at annual CIPD conferences (e.g. Barratt, Hancock, Hudson, Tucker, and
Tyler), including research on gender, race and ethnicity, disability and LGBTQ issues. These
conferences were hosted by the OSHRM group in May 2018 and 2020. Examples of research
informing equality work includes: Kelan acting as an advisor for Women’s Empowerment Principles
(UN Women and UN Global Compact) and as a research expert for Global Diversity & Inclusion
Benchmarks: Standards for Organisations Around the World, and Tyler presenting research on
equality to the Department for Work and Pensions in September 2018. In May 2016 Taylor became
an Athena SWAN national assessment panellist; in June 2020, Śliwa was elected the first Vice
Chair of the British Academy of Management for Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity.

CWOS also organises an annual event on International Women’s Day. In March 2019, Kelan, Tyler
and PhD student Clarke presented research and hosted a discussion with UG, PGT and PGR
students to showcase research on gender in management education.

Kelan and Śliwa have co-edited a special issue of Organization focusing on a critical exploration of
organisational inclusion. Girardone, Kokas and Wood, in 2019 included the topic ‘Diversity and
Women in Finance’ in the EFiC 2019 Conference with a combined submission option to the
Journal of Corporate Finance.

The School also supports and develops a research infrastructure that puts its commitment to
equality and inclusion into practice. Evidence of this can be found in: i) the recent (May 2020)
establishment of the Decolonising and Diversification of Business Education Working Group and
the Anti-Racism Working Group, ii) ensuring unconscious bias training of all colleagues involved in
the internal REF preparation process, iii) initiating work on an EBS Guide to Inclusive Events, and
iv) ensuring that remote working and conference attendance are supported appropriately for
people with caring responsibilities, hence concentrating in core working days and hours, also in

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
line with the School’s Athena SWAN objectives.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income

The School’s core strategy has been to align our average research income per FTE to similar
average in benchmark Business Schools, in line with the University’s Research Strategy through
work allocation model (WAM) provision and research budget allowances. Since 2014 the School
supported the submission of 209 applications for approximately £17.7m, of which 29% were
successful and overall, generated over £4.7m in research grant and contract income.

Our strategy has been to concentrate on quality funding sources, such as the ESRC, where we
have been very successful (73%). We have also received funding from the British Academy, British
Academy of Management, British Council, Campaign to Protect Rural England (CPRE), Czech
Science Foundation, European Commission, European Regional Development Fund, Japan
Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS), Leadership Foundation for Higher Education,
Leverhulme Trust, Newton Advanced Fellowship (Brazil), Newton funds, Nuffield Foundation,
UKIERI and the World Bank. Many of these sources are in line with our objective to produce
distinctive research with a social purpose.

It is part of the School’s strategy to grow our research income through securing more funding from
UK research councils (UK Research and Innovation), EU agencies and international bodies.
Business and Management are known to be challenging fields in which to gain grants, especially
from ESRC where success rates are relatively low. Nonetheless, the School has managed to
sustain a successful track record over the REF cycle. A selection of the larger grants awarded
include:

      The £5.1m ESRC Business and Local Government funding that was part of the ESRC Big
       Data Network. A Centre was funded for five years (2014-2019) led by the University of
       Essex together with the Universities of Kent and East Anglia. The £2,739,621 funding on
       ‘Smart Data Analytics for Business and Local Government’ was led by PI and Centre
       Director: Sena (Co-I: Coakley).
      Taylor has been PI on ESRC grants for £320,458 on: ‘Investigating Structural Change in
       Predictive Regressions with Applications to Forecasting Stock Returns’ (2018-2021); and
       £280,582 on ‘The Analysis of Non-Stationary Time Series in Economics and Finance: Co-
       integration, Trends Breaks’ (2015-2017) (jointly with Economics).
      Arun has led a UKIERI grant for £199,878 on ‘Mainstreaming of the Financial Inclusion
       Agenda in India’ (2017-2020).
      Kelan has been awarded a Leverhulme Trust Major Research Fellowship for £189,496 on a
       project entitled: ‘Shaping the Future of Work: Digitalisation and Gender’ (2019-2023).
      Kwong is leading the ‘Accelerating Women’s Enterprise’ project financed with £146,298 by
       Interreg France (Channel) England programme of the European Commission’s European
       Regional Development Fund (2018-2021).

In terms of Management Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (mKTPs), the School has been very
successful in receiving funds for important projects, including:

      Allen (Lead) and Bhankaraully, in collaboration with ‘The Finishing Line’, a supply chain and
       logistics company to support their diversification strategy into new products, services and
       markets (£180,351; awarded July 2020).
      Um (Lead), Homayounfard and Wijethilake, in collaboration with Laser 24, a laser cutting
       firm, to increase the firm’s productive efficiency and performance (£216,234; awarded May
       2020).


In addition, Śliwa (PI) is leading a project on ‘Equality, Diversity, Inclusion, and Respect in

                                                                                                  Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Business and Management Higher Education Institutions’ funded by the British Academy of
Management (£24,662; awarded April 2020). She was also Co-I with Kelan to a £26,413 ESRC
grant for seminar series on ‘Exploring Gendered Inclusion in Contemporary Organisations’ (2015-
2018).

EBS researchers also benefit from the support offered by Eastern Academic Research Consortium
(ARC) between the universities of Essex, East Anglia and Kent for projects focusing on sustainable
development. In 2019 for example, two projects were funded on: the effects of the EU Directive on
sustainability reporting (Gaia, Girardone) and ethical consumerism (Tucker).

Research income generation is one of the School’s strategic objectives. The School’s expectation
is that every staff member contributes to a funding application as either a PI or Co-I at least once
every three years. As noted above, the sabbatical scheme is designed, in part, to support this. The
same expectation is also embedded in probationary documents. EBS’ research income strategy
rests on probationary mentoring and promotion criteria being used to support the following: use of
individual research allocations to undertake pilot research; use of sabbaticals to prepare
applications; annual monitoring via probationary/promotion review meetings and Annual Research
Plans; use of Research and Enterprise Office and internal (group and School) review process to
provide developmental feedback. ECRs are mentored and guided when making applications and
are encouraged to apply for School and Faculty awards.

In many cases senior staff members have involved ECRs in their bids. One example is that of Arun
who, in addition to senior colleagues Girardone and Markose, involved ECR Bose as Co-I on a
project about Mainstreaming of the Financial Inclusion Agenda in India (UKIERI). Another example
of supporting an ECR is found in the former MSE Group: in 2017, Demirbag has successfully
raised money from the British Academy in collaboration with ECR Tasavori to study emerging
market mergers and acquisitions.

3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

EBS is committed to providing support, resources and infrastructure for fostering high quality
and relevant research that advances the knowledge and practice of different organisations. In
addition to the £21m EBS building that opened in 2015 and offers purpose-built academic space
conducive to research generation (e.g. collaborative work-spaces, conference facilities, a state-of-
the-art Bloomberg trading room), a £12m Innovation Centre building next to EBS opened in 2019 in
the Knowledge Gateway, offering opportunities to connect researchers with new business and
space to showcase research.

Research is also sustained in the context of the wider University. As mentioned in Section 1.3, the
University’s Research and Enterprise Office team has a crucial role in offering advice and
support to identify, secure and manage research funding and commercialise academics’ work
(consultancies and Knowledge Transfer Partnership opportunities). In addition, they co-ordinate
research planning and provide frameworks for research governance and ethics. REO also has a
crucial role in supporting impact generation and preparation of impact case studies.

All researchers contribute to the University’s Institutional Repository, through the Research
Information System (RIS), which is managed by REO and supports our strategy for open access to
published research. Since January 2014, the UoA counted 986 live journal articles of which 72%
green open access and 11% gold open access.

The School collaborates closely with the Library research support team that also advises and
supports literature searching, copyright, publishing (including open access publishing) and
citations. To maximise research performance and be competitive, the School regularly reviews, in
collaboration with the subject librarian, the research infrastructure needs by conducting a bi-annual
survey of databases, books, journal titles and software. Expanding the coverage of these
resources has proved very important, especially as the School grew significantly and new expertise
has been acquired in areas that were less well represented in the past. This process has implied

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
significant investments and has been supportive of creating a sustainable and vibrant research
environment.

The Library offers access to high quality facilities and services and the total Business and
Management holdings are 54,049 books and printed items. This is in addition to a total of over
48,000 e-books and 40,840 journals and databases including BankFocus, Bloomberg, BoardEx,
Business Source Ultimate, CRSP, Eikon, EMIS, Filings Expert, Mintel Academic, Orbis, Passport
and WRDS. The School’s contribution to accounting and finance databases in this REF cycle
amounted over £1.3m. In addition, the School spent nearly £35.4k for a high-power computing
cluster to run specialist software (Stata, Matlab, Gauss) used for modelling high-frequency data.
For some of these investments the School has taken advantage of the funding opportunities
available at the University and Faculty level, such as the Pro-Vice Chancellor (Research) Strategic
Fund. All researchers also have access to the University’s Software Hub that allows all academics
and students to obtain instant access to a variety of software such as Nvivo, which is essential for
our qualitative researchers.

The UK Data Archive – the largest provider of digital data for research – is another facility hosted
by the University of Essex. Our researchers benefit from the opportunity to receive training and
access to a vast collection of social, economic and population data. Another important resource
hosted at Essex that has benefited a number of our researchers is the ESSEXLab: a modern
experimental laboratory facility for social science experiments.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Collaborations and networks

EBS places a particular emphasis on creating an interdisciplinary collaborative research
environment that promotes interactions among academic staff within the School and cross-faculty.
The School aims to develop and encourage working practices, collaborations and opportunities to
improve the impact of research beyond academia. One related objective is to consolidate national
and international links and networks that increase the potential for the School to research and
develop connections and relations to address common issues and pursue impact globally.
Empirical research based in EBS often spans multiple countries and continents in its scope. For
example, Kellard’s research has a wide international reach as it contributes to the evidence base
used by commodity dependent countries (mainly low-income countries) to formulate their strategic
economic policies. Equally, Wood’s research has helped improving management practices in
Brazil, Ethiopia and South Africa.

Our target to be in the top 20% for impact in the relevant Unit of Assessment (UoA) has been
ambitiously pursued by continually strengthening the activity of the School’s IA through the three
principles described above in section 1.3. As part of this aim, the School endeavours to
collaborate with partners both within and outside academia, and to focus on research that
makes a difference to the economy and society through benefits to business and public policy.
Our engagement with industry and research impact work in the UK have strengthened links, for
example, with Essex and Kent police forces (Hancock, Tucker and Ahonen on mobile policing
technologies), the Essex County Council and the NHS (Harris and Tucker on organisational
resilience in primary health and social care; and Hudson on the management of mental health at
work).

Long-established collaborations with institutions across the globe have been instrumental in
developing impactful research. For example, Adhikari’s collaborations dating back to 2001 with the
Financial Comptroller General Office and Ministry of Finance in Nepal were vital for his research
work on the Nepalese public sector accounting and the subsequent development of the country’s
first accounting manual. This research also contributed to reforms in the Indian state of Kerala,
through the implementation of a competency framework that ultimately improved public service
delivery and accountability. Another notable example includes the links built over two decades by
Markose with financial supervisors (Bank for International Settlement) and central banks both in

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
UK and overseas, particularly the Reserve Bank of India. Markose’s research has a considerable
ongoing policy impact with national and international recognition for her data-driven agent-based
network models for systemic risk management.

The School’s research in the area of sustainability in emerging economies has also provided
the basis for two impact cases. Jayasinghe’s case study focuses on research that will help the
Ministry of Disaster Management in Sri Lanka to formulate a new policy framework and
accountability strategy that meets the needs of central and local governments, NGOs, national and
international Agencies, and civil society. In addition, Arun’s links with the International Cooperative
and Mutual Insurance Federation proved central for his research on micro-insurance that spans
five countries, covering a population of over 10 million. His project on financial inclusion and
development has impacted on the development of women ‘start-up’ entrepreneurs in Bihar (India)
and underpinned the development of a gender framework for running rehabilitation camps in
emergency contexts.

The external links of EBS staff also ensure the sustainability of our impact generation activity. Our
researchers are involved in a range of collaborations and networks with different organisations and
are conducting impactful research with a strong potential for generating future impact case
studies. These include Kunter’s work at the Woodford Creative Hub, of which she is co-founder,
whereby she uses visual ethnography to address community issues and organises events that
draw on her research skills (e.g. photographic competitions with local schools, and arts trails in
order to showcase different experiences and life histories). Another example is a new publicly
available and free app, developed by a team led by Bloom, that enables people to redesign their
present and futures through innovative Augmented Reality 3D mapping technology, allowing
community members to share ideas about how to improve where they live and work today as well
as shape what it will be tomorrow. The ‘Shared Futures’ app is the first step in the broader creation
of a Community Planning Toolkit designed by Belfast Interface Project, the University of Essex,
Animorph, The Open University, and the Cobra Collective UK to enable communities to co-create
positive change.

The School also has strong links with scholarly societies such as the Money Macro Finance
(MMF) Society (Price is currently one of four members of the executive team and Trustee) that
has, for example, sponsored the 2018 MMF-EFiC Conference in Banking and Finance. Our
network base also has been strengthened thanks to the Essex International Visiting Fellowships
that allowed us to invite nine eminent scholars to visit EBS to undertake a period of research
between 2016 and 2019. For example, Cutcher (Sidney) has twice been a Distinguished Visitor in
EBS (in 2012 and 2017). This collaboration is the basis of a network of long-standing collaborators
at the universities of Essex (Hancock and Tyler) Glasgow, Lancaster, Monash and Sydney that has
resulted in publication of two of the special issues referred to in Table 4 and four of Tyler's
publication outputs.

4.2 Editorial activities

Many EBS staff contribute to the School’s research base by carrying out significant editorial
activities as editors, associate editors and guest editors for highly ranked international journals.
Table 3 gives an overview of selected editorial activities by research theme.

Table 3 Senior Editorships (selected)

 Journal                                                 Editorial activities (current Board
                                                         Members unless otherwise stated)
 Academy of Management Review                            Hancock (2018-20)
 Accounting Forum                                        Soobaroyen; Gaia; Baboukardos
 Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal         Steccolini
 Asia Pacific Journal of Management                      Demirbag (Senior Editor 2018-)



                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 British Journal of Management                           Demirbag; Kelan; Kellard; Marra, Śliwa
                                                         (Associate Editor 2018-); Wood (Co-Editor
                                                         2014-19)
 Econometric Reviews                                     Taylor (Associate Editor 2008-)
 Econometric Theory                                      Taylor (Co-Editor 2007-)
 Econometrics and Statistics                             Taylor (Associate Editor 2016-19)
 Econometrics Journal                                    Taylor (Associate Editor 2007-16)
 European Journal of Finance                             Coakley; Fiordelisi; Girardone; Kellard
 Financial Accountability and Management                 Steccolini (Co-Editor 2019-); Uddin
 Gender, Work and Organization                           Kelan (Associate Editor 2015-); Tyler
                                                         (Associate Editor 2007-)
 Human Relations                                         Hancock
 Industrial and Corporate Change                         Athreye (Associate Editor 2013-)
 International Journal of Human Resource                 Allen
 Management
 International Journal of Operations & Production        Kumar
 Management
 International Small Business Journal                    Kwong
 Journal of Accounting and Management Information        Uddin
 System
 Journal of Accounting in Emerging Economies             Uddin (Founder and Editor-in-Chief 2010-)
 Journal of Banking and Finance                          Fiordelisi (2012-15); Girardone (2013-17)
 Journal of Business and Economic Statistics             Taylor (Associate Editor 2020-)
 Journal of Financial Stability                          Fiordelisi
 Journal of International Business and Policy            Athreye (Area Editor 2016-23)
 Journal of International Management                     Demirbag (Consulting Editor 2020-)
 Journal of the American Statistical Association         Taylor (Associate Editor 2018-2020)
 (Theory and Methods)
 Journal of Time Series Analysis                         Taylor (Editor-in-Chief 2013-)
 Journal of World Business                               Demirbag
 Management International Review                         Demirbag
 Management Learning                                     Śliwa (Associate Editor 2015-); Kelan
 Organization                                            Hancock; Tyler
 Organization Studies                                    Hancock, Tyler
 Public Administration Review                            Steccolini (2016-19)
 Qualitative Research in Accounting and                  Steccolini
 Management
 Research Policy                                         Athreye (Advisory Editor 2013-)
 Work, Employment and Society                            Roper (Editor-in-Chief 2017-); Hammer;
                                                         Hancock; Hudson

Table 4 illustrates a selection of guest editorships by journal, staff member and topic.

Table 4 Selected guest editorships

                        Guest
 Journals                                  Topic                                           Date
                        Editor(s)
 Accounting,            Steccolini         Accounting for public services:                 2019
 Auditing &                                Reconsidering publicness in accounting
 Accountability                            research and practice
 Journal
 British Journal of     Demirbag,          Big data and firm performance                   2019
 Management             Marra, Sena
 European Journal of    Coakley,           Banks and markets in times of uncertainty       2020
 Finance                Girardone,
                        Kellard

                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Gender, Work and       Kelan             Exploring the emergence of moderate           2019
 Organization                             feminism(s) in contemporary organisations
 Gender, Work and       Tyler             Emotion, aesthetics and sexuality at work:    2020
 Organization                             Theoretical challenges and future
                                          directions
 International          Demirbag,         International human resource management       2018
 Journal of Human       Kwong, Wood       in contexts of high uncertainties
 Resource
 Management
 Journal of             Taylor            Recent advances in time series                2014
 Econometrics                             econometrics
 (Annals Issue)
 Journal of Empirical   Kellard, Taylor   Recent developments in financial              2016
 Finance                                  econometrics and empirical finance
 Journal of Financial   Fiordelisi        Financial intermediation and markets one      2018
 Services Research                        decade after the crisis
 Organization           Hancock, Tyler    Spaces and places of remembering and          2016
                                          commemoration
 Organization           Kelan, Śliwa      Critically interrogating inclusion in         2020
                                          organisations

International focus and indicators of esteem

In EBS the international focus of research (especially, but not limited to, research in emerging
economies) has led to many significant international scholarly networks and collaborations. The
School strategy encourages research that focuses particularly on emerging markets and
developing economic and social contexts.

In accounting, for example, past and current research projects cover five continents. This is
reflected in the publication records (co-authorship and subject matter), research grants and
international visiting fellowship. The group hosted visiting fellows from various countries, such as
China (Jianxi University), Mexico (University of Guadhalara), Pakistan (Lahore University) and
USA (University of Arkansas). Accounting researchers have also held visiting positions including
Columbia University (Gaia), University of Mauritius (Soobaroyen) and Shizouka University (Uddin).
The group’s active international agendas have also led to international standing. For example,
since 2017 Arun has been Chair of the academic Committee on Financial inclusion, International
Cooperative and Mutual Insurance federation (ICMIF). Jayasinghe is Panel Member, Accountability
and Governance Issues in Post-disaster Management (United Nations Sendai Framework Words
into Action implementation guides for accountability and governance, UNSIDR (2016-2021).
Soobaroyen was President (September, 2019-2020) of the African Accounting and Finance
Association; and was recently (April 2020) elected President of the British Accounting and Finance
Association (BAFA). Uddin is Founding Member of BAFA’s Special Interest group (SIG) on
Accounting and Finance in Emerging Economies. He was also panel member of the
Commonwealth Scholarship Commission in the UK from 2013-2016 and obtained a Fellowship
from the Japanese Society for the promotion of Science, in 2014-15. Steccolini is Founder and
Chair of the ‘Accounting and Accountability’ Special Interest Group, International Research
Symposium on Public Management; Chair of the Standing Scientific Committee (European
Accounting Association); Vice Chair of the EIASM conference on Public sector reforms in
Accounting and Management. She is also member of: the International Advisory Board, Public
Finance by Women (PFW); Research Group on Financial Resilience of Contemporary Cities,
University of Sao Paulo (Brazil); and Board of the International Research Society on Public
Management (Secretary). Several accounting researchers have given keynotes at international
conferences, for example, Uddin was keynote four times in this REF period at events in
Bangladesh (Social Science and Business Research); Poland (Corporate Governance in
Transitional and Emerging Economies, 2016); Japan (Accountability in Healthcare for Japanese
Health Care Professional); and Canada (Qualitative Accounting Research Symposium, 2017). The
quality of Steccolini’s research work on public management is increasingly being recognised in the

                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
relevant community as evidenced by two recent awards: BAFA Prize for the most outstanding
paper published in the British Accounting Review in 2018; and Emerald Literati Award: Accounting
Auditing and Accountability Journal Mary Parker Follett Award for Highly Commended Paper 2019.

In finance, since 2012 Fiordelisi is the founding President of the Financial Intermediation Network
of European Studies (FINEST). He was also an affiliated Senior Faculty member to Bocconi
Business School (Milan) and a panel member of the Italian Quality Research Assessment and of
the Committee for the National Scientific Qualification (ASN) for 2018-2020. He has held visiting
positions at the New York Federal Reserve (2017) and European Central Bank (2017, 2018, 2019).
Kellard is Chair of the Conference of Professors of Accounting and Finance (CPAF) at BAFA. He is
involved as methodologist in the Scientific Committee for the 2021 edition of the Academic Journal
Guide to be produced by the Chartered Association of Business Schools (CABS). Coakley and
Taylor are members of the Economics, Econometrics and Statistics panel. Girardone was visiting
scholar at the Bank of England in 2015-2019. She was also invited speaker at two international
conferences on bank regulation and risk at Brunel University (2018, 2019) and keynote at the
Corporate Governance & Risk Management conference (2019, Gallipoli, Italy). Kokas was visiting
scholar between 2017 and 2019 at Banco de Portugal, Bank of Finland, Bank for International
Settlements and Michigan State University. Markose’s policy engagement work is beginning to
influence wider debates on Artificial Intelligence. A keynote speech ‘The Digital Foundations of
Intelligence: How we became smart and protean’ was given in 2019 at Bio-Inspired ICT
Conference at Carnegie Mellon University, and at the 2019 C3 Complexity Symposium, University
of Sydney. She was also an invited speaker at the Bank of England Conference on The Impact of
Machine Learning and AI on the UK Economy, co-sponsored by CEPR and the Brevan Howard
Centre (Imperial College) in 2020. Taylor acted twice as keynote at the Bank of Portugal and
Rimini Centre for Economic Analysis (Italy) in 2016. Taylor was also invited to give keynote
addresses at Lancaster Management School (workshop entitled ‘Macroeconomic and Financial
Time Series Analysis’) and Brunel for the International Conference on Financial and Macro
Economics and Econometrics, in 2018. In 2019 he was keynote at the Econometric Society
Australasian meeting in Perth, German Statistical Association in Munich and Nordic Econometric
meeting in Stockholm. Both ECRs and senior staff members staff have obtained best paper
awards: for example, Sarkisyan received the EFMA (European Financial Management Association)
Capital Markets Best Paper Award in 2019. Taylor was elected in 2018 to a Life Fellowship of the
International Association for Applied Econometrics; a Fellowship and an Editorial Fellowship of the
Econometric Reviews; and a Plurima Scripsit award by Econometric Theory. In 2015 he received a
Doctor of Science (ScD) Degree by the University of Cambridge.

Researchers in management and marketing are also recipients of various awards. Examples
include: Reynolds (2018) a Winner of the ‘Editor’s Pick’ award in the Sage journal Organization
Studies; Murphy (2015) won the Academy of Marketing Annual Conference, Best Paper Award
(Consumer Culture Theory Track); Burghausen (2015) received Highly Commended Paper Award,
Emerald Publications; Malhotra (2018) received ‘Outstanding Reviewer’ award by the Elsevier
journal, Journal of Business Research; Barros (2020) won Best International Paper award in
Journal of Management History and Shuman Best Student Paper Award, Academy of
Management. Other esteem indicators include, for example, Śliwa as a member of the Council and
the Research and Publications Committee of the British Academy of Management. Since 2016,
she has been a stream co-convenor at the British Academy of Management Conference.
International visiting positions include, for example: Burghausen at Aarhus University in Denmark
in spring 2018; Śliwa (2018-19) at University of Auckland, New Zealand; and Åbo Akademi
University, Turku, Finland. Keynote presentations include: Śliwa (2019) at the 13th International
GEM&L Conference, Sheffield Hallam University, UK; and Śliwa (2018) at the Diversity Day at
Copenhagen Business School, Denmark.

OSHRM researchers at all levels hold UK and international positions. Recent awards include Kelan
(2019) for the Leading Article Award, International Journal of Management Reviews. Best paper
awards include: Tucker (2015) Academy of Management Annual Conference, Best Paper Award
(ODC division); Tyler (EGOS Best Paper award, 2016). Keynote invitations include Kelan (2015-
2020) Opening keynote speaker for ‘Women, Leadership and the UN’ United Nations System Staff

                                                                                          Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
College. Kelan (2017) was ranked 29th HR Most Influential Thinkers 2017, HR Magazine.
International visiting fellowships include: Cirella (2014 - 2015) Visiting Scholar at the California
Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo, CA, USA; Hancock (2015) Visiting Professor at the
University of Lapland, Rovaniemi, Finland; Kelan (2017-2018) Dahlem International Network
Professor for Gender Studies, Department of Management, Freie Universität Berlin, and Kelly, who
is an Honorary Associate of the Institute for Human Security and Social Change at La Trobe
University (2019-2020). This appointment was made on the basis of his work with the Institute for
Human Security and Social Change at La Trobe University in Papua New Guinea and Pacific
Island states. Since 2017, ECR Cirella has co-organised a track on Design, Innovation and
Organizations at the EURAM annual conference. Three members of OSHRM staff are co-
organising streams and the 2021 GWO (formerly 2020) conference, including Nash (ECR), who is
co-organising a stream on ‘Gendered spaces, places and temporalities of work’. A formal launch
for the recently formed (2020) Gender and Work research group will also take place at this
conference, to welcome non-EBS associate members.

SOE (formerly MSE) research, as already noted, focuses strongly on entrepreneurship,
innovation and internationalisation in emerging markets, with several researchers playing
prominent roles in journal administration in these areas (Table 3). Athreye has led work on
University Industry Technology Transfer with the World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO),
which compared the experiences of university knowledge exchange in six national contexts. She is
creating a toolkit for self-assessment of knowledge exchange policies for universities, which, once
completed, will be used by WIPO member states. Her paper on Open Innovation won the Best
Paper award at the Uddevalla symposium in 2016. Allen is the network co-organiser of the Society
of the Advancement of Socio-Economics (SASE); between 2012 and 2015, he was the
Communications Officer for the Academy of International Business (UK and Ireland Chapter). Li is
a member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of Small Business and Entrepreneurship (ISBE),
and a Board member of Chinese Economic Association. He briefs Chinese media regularly on
matters of Technology and Entrepreneurship in China. He received the Best Paper award at the
41st Institute for Small Business and Entrepreneurship Conference, held at Birmingham in 2018.
Further, Kim received the Best Paper award at the Sixth Frontiers of Business Research in China
International Conference in Beijing, China (2019) and at the Society of Open Innovation
conference in South Korea (2020). Demirbag has been invited speaker at several events in Turkey,
such as the Gebze Chamber of Commerce (2016), Istanbul Medipol University (2017) and Istanbul
University (2018). He was also keynote speaker at the 5th International Regional Development
Conference in 2019 (Malatya Turgut Özal University).




                                                                                           Page 24
