Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: KING’S COLLEGE LONDON

 Unit of Assessment: 17 BUSINESS & MANAGEMENT


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and structure
 This UoA constitutes King's Business School (KBS). KBS was founded as an independent Faculty
 within King's College London (KCL) in 2017. It is firmly rooted in the social science underpinnings of
 the former Department of Management (DoM), then part of the Faculty of Social Sciences and
 Public Policy (SSPP). Since the DoM's REF2014 submission, the UoA has rapidly expanded from
 40 staff members (36.2 FTE) to a vibrant community of students and 111 research-active faculty
 (108 FTE). Staff are members of one of KBS’s seven subject groups that often collaborate for
 research and impact: Accounting & Financial Management (A&FM), Banking & Finance (B&F),
 Economics (ECON), Human Resource Management and Employment Relations (HRMER),
 Strategy, International Management, and Entrepreneurship (SIME), Marketing (MAR), and Public
 Service Management & Organisation (PSMO). In addition, and recognising our social sciences
 allegiance, 7 additional colleagues from the Departments of Political Economy and International
 Development who specialise in the areas listed above are part of this UoA submission. With the
 overarching goal of driving cooperation across disciplines on important research themes, KBS has
 also established four research centres: CODA (Consumer and Organisational Digital Analytics),
 Finwork Futures (The Future of Financial Work), DAFM (Data Analytics for Finance and Macro) and
 QCGBF (the Qatar Centre for Global Banking & Finance).

 Since 2014, the former DoM, now KBS, has been on an ambitious journey of building a globally
 recognised business school, retaining and strengthening its focus on the quality and impact of
 research and embracing the wider societal purpose articulated in King’s Strategic Vision 2029 ‘to
 make the world a better place’. KBS is located in Bush House, state-of-the-art accommodation on
 the KCL Strand Campus in direct proximity to other faculties (e.g., SSPP, Law, Natural &
 Mathematical Sciences), which facilitates engagement in interdisciplinary projects (e.g., Luff’s
 multiple projects with Informatics, including the UKRI Trustworthy Autonomous Systems Hub). KBS
 is situated at the heart of 'business London’ and close to centres of government and finance.
 Through the KBS Champion for London, KBS research is firmly linked to local London boroughs
 (Westminster, Southwark, Lambeth) with which KCL has dedicated alliances. Connections to
 Transport for London, London health services (e.g., Guy’s and St. Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust),
 the Mayor’s office, charities and social enterprises (e.g., research projects with Mercato
 Metropolitano and Garden Court Chambers) illustrate this local research engagement. Within the
 UK, close research connections have been developed with government agencies and other public
 bodies (including Bank of England, Office for National Statistics, the Confederation for British
 Industry), civil society organisations, such as the Equality and Human Rights Commission, and
 bodies bridging university research and public policy, such as the ESRC Innovation Caucus.

 The School is highly connected, benefiting from the advice of an international Advisory Council,
 which comprises 20 experienced and senior leaders from business and non-profit organisations,
 including Price Waterhouse Coopers, McKinsey, IBM and the NHS. We have relationships with a
 range of international businesses and institutions (e.g. Saatchi World Services and Barclays,
 through our cohort of Executive Fellows). We have developed partnerships with international policy
 bodies, including the International Labour Organisation and European Commission, and institutes,
 through the KCL African Leadership Centre. The School has forged international academic
 networks (e.g., the PLuS Alliance, which brings together the research expertise of KCL, the
 University of New South Wales and Arizona State University). Our global connections are reflected
 in our research; 62% of our scholarly output involves international collaboration.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research and impact strategy
 Our launch as a stand-alone faculty in 2017 was enabled by progress on the four key objectives
 outlined in the DoM’s REF2014 submission: (1) building research that has a sustained impact on
 academic, policy and practitioner communities; (2) extending scope by investment in key business
 disciplines, while drawing on disciplinary strengths across social sciences; (3) strategically
 recruiting a blend of senior professors with international research reputations and an expanded
 contingent of high potential early career researchers; and (4) enhancing our research infrastructure
 to support the needs of research staff at all levels, including doctoral students.

 Driven by KCL’s Vision 2029 (2017) and based on extensive staff, alumni and external stakeholder
 consultations, as well as current applications with international accreditation bodies AACSB and
 EQUIS, our refreshed KBS 2020 Vision and Mission statement emphasises ‘bold ideas to tackle the
 world’s major challenges’. Central to all research activities is our commitment to 4 key values:

 Rigour. ‘We welcome all sorts of research approaches carried out to high standards. Although we
 work closely with policy makers and practitioners, our work is independent and critical’.

 Relevance. ‘Our work is relevant to a huge range of people. We collaborate with private and public
 sector organisations, government departments, and regulatory bodies across the UK and beyond’.

 Inclusion. ‘We involve researchers at all stages of their careers, from PhDs to long-standing faculty
 members. And they don’t even have to be at King’s – we work with academics at universities
 around the world. We also collaborate with policy makers and practitioners – being based in
 London allows us to draw on a vast range of industry leaders’.

 Innovation. ‘We use innovative methodologies to tackle new issues. Our Research Incubator Fund
 is just one way we’re committed to our goals. The projects we fund often go on to become large
 scale, externally funded studies’.

 With these values at our core, we have pursued four strategic aims: (1) promoting research quality,
 (2) delivering on impact, (3) growing research income and (4) positioning research during the REF
 2014-2021 cycle.

 1. Promoting research quality. We aim to deliver research of the highest ethical status and
 integrity, aligned with the emerging principles of open research supported by the King’s Open
 Research Group Initiative (KORGI). We have systematically improved research mentoring
 processes through Performance Development Reviews and assigned mentors to early career
 researchers. We recognise that high quality publications, particularly in elite international journals,
 require disproportionally more effort and resources to produce. Therefore, we have built an
 environment with relatively low teaching loads, an established sabbatical leave scheme, research
 and impact mentoring and training, a professional journal editing support service, as well as
 extensive funding application support. Each academic member of staff now has a personal
 research account of GBP6,000 pa (pro rata) to invest in research assistance, equipment, datasets,
 conferences and networking. Brown bag lunches, paper development workshops, feedback circles,
 reading groups, writing retreats, thought leadership forums, and discussions on equality, diversity
 and inclusion (EDI) awareness in the design and execution of research have been organised
 across subject groups. We include and engage our doctoral students in all of these activities; each
 PhD student holds a personal training account of GBP1,500 pa to support their research and
 development. Our research centres actively promote research quality by organising regular
 research seminars and events that stimulate cross-disciplinary dialogue (e.g., the QCGBF Virtual
 Seminar Series). KBS also invests over GBP1m annually in databases and datasets, and over
 GBP1.3m per year in PhD studentships, plus additional funding for Covid-related extensions and
 hardship.

 2. Delivering on impact. We motivate staff to liaise with a wide variety of non-academic
 stakeholders and communities to address relevant societal issues. We have two, new posts
 (Associate Dean of Impact and Innovation [Grimshaw] and School Impact Manager [Bianchini])

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 dedicated to developing a coherent impact strategy across different pathways, increasing staff
 impact literacy, establishing connections with stakeholders, and offering practical advice and
 support to staff. KBS also provides designated funding to support the development of impact case
 studies (up to GBP2,000 per case) and offers workload abatement to facilitate work on strategically
 important impact initiatives. Our commitment to impact is evidenced by our REF Case Studies.
 These showcase the quality of collaborative engagement and impact with diverse non-academic
 organisations. For example, collaboration between Kapetanios and the Bank of England led to the
 adoption of new, improved forecasting models that deploy state-of-the-art statistical techniques.
 Other high-level economics research has seen the Office for National Statistics benefit from new,
 more accurate measures of economic performance (Weale, O’Mahony, Portes and de Coulon).
 KBS research has also directly impacted businesses, including new approaches to communication
 training adopted by the UK College of Optometrists (vom Lehn) and apprenticeship training in the
 United States (Fortwengel and Lewis).

 More broadly, KBS has implemented multiple impact activities to enrich the productive space
 between academic and external beneficiary and identify new research responses to defined needs.
 Activities include monthly ‘Impact seminars’ in which an external expert identifies key challenges
 and knowledge gaps and debates issues with KBS colleagues with the aim of developing new,
 sustained relationships. External organisations have joined colleagues as partners in research
 proposals (including the Ethical Trading Initiative and the International Labour Organization). KBS
 academics responded rapidly to the need to understand the social and economic impacts of Covid-
 19, resulting in a new ‘KBS Covid-19 Research Impact Papers’ series, each accompanied by a
 public workshop launch and/or significant media attention. In all these activities, KBS have
 demonstrated a strong capacity for developing and sustaining close partnerships with external
 organisations, from research design to implementation, and achieving valuable research impact as
 a result.

 3. Growing research income. We see the generation of research income not as an end in itself
 but as a means to foster interdisciplinarity, collaboration and connectivity. Based on the KCL
 research strategy, we actively encourage staff to generate research income from a wide variety of
 funding bodies, including, KCL internal initiatives (e.g., King’s Together, PLuS Alliance), charities
 and NGOs (e.g., Nuffield Foundation, Leverhulme Trust, Wellcome), funding organisations (e.g.,
 ESRC, UKRI, NIHR, European Commission), and through partnerships, consultancy and
 philanthropy (Leadership Foundation for Higher Education/Advance HE, Church of England, Office
 of Manpower). We have invested in dedicated support with costing, preparing and managing
 research funding at pre- and post-award stages. The research team organises capacity building
 workshops on key funding application skills and how to navigate a changing funding landscape.
 Research newsletters alert colleagues to opportunities. An application protocol has been developed
 with peer-feedback and mock interviews as key elements. The internal KBS Research Incubator
 Fund has been running since 2014 and supports activities geared towards generating external
 funding applications. Twenty-seven grants have been made to date; from 2019/20, the maximum
 award value was raised from GBP5,000 to GBP10,000 with an increased emphasis on research
 that works towards Research Council project grants and other larger funding schemes. As a
 stepping-stone to this seed fund, a new scheme, launched in 2020, supports the development of
 initial research projects and outputs across Research Groups in KBS, with a maximum award value
 of GBP5000.

 4. Positioning research. During a period of rapid growth, we have addressed the need to scale up
 our disciplinary base (particularly in areas of Economics, Finance and Entrepreneurship) and
 develop interdisciplinary themes. While recruiting a formidable number of leading researchers, we
 have planned for flexibility to allow our research agenda to be alert to emerging grand challenges,
 both in terms of research disciplines and paradigms. Our research output during the REF cycle is
 nested in business and management, but with strong ties to economics and social sciences and a
 variety of other subject areas:




                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Existing research strengths in qualitative research (e.g., interviews, participatory observation,
 ethnography) and experimental designs have been complemented with quantitative methods and
 techniques (e.g., econometric modelling, panel and time-series analysis, machine learning and Big
 Data analytics and text- and visual mining). Interdisciplinary research themes have been driven by
 KBS research centres since 2017. These include the future of work, data-driven decision-making in
 markets and organisations and central bank policymaking. Strategically positioning our research
 has contributed to funding success. FinWork Futures expertise has been crucial in obtaining a five-
 year project funded by the European Research Council (Evaluation Practices in Financial Markets),
 with colleagues from the University of Edinburgh and the London School of Economics, and a
 recently acquired ESRC award on Professional Hybridisations and Epistemic Practices of
 Cryptocapital (Preda). Similarly, the world-class research of the Banking and Finance subject group
 and DAFM’s affiliation with the Bank of England on central bank policy issues has been
 instrumental in obtaining a GBP15M donation from the Qatar government to stimulate research on
 the future of central bank mandates, including the role of green finance.

 Positioning is about understanding the interrelationship between the strategic aims of individual
 staff members, subject groups and the School. It requires aligning individual research aspirations
 with a coherent translation of strategic aims at the subject group level. In a competitive and
 connected funding landscape, grant application success is often based on the recognition of what
 individuals and groups are known for. Since 2017, each subject group has undertaken a strategic
 scoping exercise to collectively position their research profile in terms of strategic priorities (and
 develop a related action plan). These priorities capitalise on existing research expertise, while
 aligning our overall research and impact strategy with emerging domain-specific trends. Positioning
 research has enabled us to establish coherent relations between our research and impact strategy
 and the diverse range of subject group contributions to research, economy and society (detailed in
 section 4).

 Strategic profiles of Subject Groups

 Human Resource Management and Employment Relations
 Research in this group focuses on how the changing nature of work and employment affects
 individuals, organisations and society. Research spans three core themes (1) HRM and employee

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 wellbeing, (2) organisational behaviour and performance, and (3) employment relations. HRM
 research focuses on meaningful and purposeful work, gender, inequality and flexible working, job
 satisfaction, outsourcing, dirty work, absenteeism and employee turnover, in addition to careers and
 occupational regret. Within organisational behaviour, the research explores selection, assessment
 and development, social exchange relationships, organisational citizenship behaviour, motivation
 and proactivity, the psychological contract, leadership and learning styles and strategies. Research
 within employment relations is concerned with the form and development of contemporary labour
 markets, labour institutions and labour market performance, the role of trade unions, front-line
 service work, advanced digital technologies and decent work, skill development, internships and
 graduate employment.

 Strategy, International Management, and Entrepreneurship
 Research in this group focuses on developing theory, methods, and knowledge to advance our
 understanding of business and entrepreneurial activity in an international institutional context.
 Research comprises three core themes: (1) international business, and comparative business and
 management, (2) global strategies for sustainability and corporate social responsibility, and (3)
 knowledge-intensive firms, innovation, and appropriability. The first theme focuses on strategy
 formulation based on digital technologies, the changing organisation of multinationals, and
 frameworks of comparative corporate governance. The second focuses on transnational
 governance strategies in global supply chains, such as in the context of modern slavery and human
 rights and strategies towards corporate social responsibility and legitimacy in the digital economy.
 The third comprises research on knowledge-intensive business service firms, their innovation
 collaboration and appropriability strategies, as well as their forms of organisational learning.

 Marketing
 The research of the group comprises three strategic themes. Firstly, Data-Driven Decision-making
 focuses on the role that market-facing digital technologies play in achieving competitive advantage.
 The research aims at developing an in-depth understanding of customer attitudes and engagement
 towards technological innovations (e.g., Artificial Intelligence, Augmented Reality (AR), Virtual
 Reality, Robotics, Internet of Things, 5G networks). Secondly, the Integrated Brand
 Communications (IBC) theme explores consumer-oriented, stimulus-driven, and context-mediated
 brand communications, in both off- and online settings. The research addresses a variety of issues,
 including privacy concerns, advertising effectiveness and social media and the role of influencers.
 Thirdly, research relates to the intersection between Marketing and Health (and Social) care,
 focusing on reducing mental health stigmas, integration of social and health care and patient un-
 engagement with digital services.

 Economics
 Research in this group is built around five themes. Of particular strength is economic measurement,
 measuring GDP and welfare, the digital economy, productivity, human capital and migration. A
 second area is the econometric analysis of individual behaviour, especially related to labour
 markets, including education and transition from school to work, the economics of crime and of
 migration, including its impacts on housing, and the impacts of inequality, disadvantage and
 personality on employment and earnings. Health economics is another research theme,
 encompassing economic uncertainty/recessions and health outcomes, health impacts on human
 capital and public economics. The group’s research on political economy and economic theory
 includes industrial development and the political economy of development, political decision
 making, voting and public organisations, experimental and behavioural economics. In terms of
 macroeconomic research, the group’s work covers economic growth, including the impact of conflict
 and religion, central banking, monetary theory and finance and macro-econometrics.

 Accounting & Financial Management
 Group research fits into four broad themes; (1) Commensurability and accountability; (2) Financial
 reporting; (3) Financial management and investment; (4) Corporate governance. The first
 challenges whether accounting can remain objective by considering for example how we account
 for such things as the construction and dissolution of nations, access to medicine, and preservation
 of public spaces. The second assesses the quality of financial reports and how users react to them

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and involves research into equity valuation, while the third examines the determinants and effects
 of firm level corporate finance decisions such as dividend policy, capital structure, sequential real
 options, mergers and acquisitions, and the functioning of financial markets. Corporate governance
 considers the determinants and effects of corporate governance mechanisms such as board
 composition, executive pay, institutional investors, and corporate governance intermediaries.

 Banking and Finance
 The group’s research centres around four themes. The first is a focus on the analysis of big and
 complex datasets which are often unstructured and come from novel sources such as newspaper
 articles or individual banking transactions. Another focuses on exploring issues around banking and
 particularly central banking, exploring topics such as banking efficiency, and the effect of recent
 unconventional monetary and other policies on the macroeconomy and the financial system. A third
 is concerned with the presence and modelling of structural change in economic and financial data.
 This feature is acknowledged widely as one major cause of policy and forecast failures and the
 group aims to provide novel methods to account for structural change in a wide variety of modelling
 tasks. Finally, there is a focus on behavioural and household finance involving aspects of individual
 trading behaviour, exploring individual risk preferences using novel data, identifying systematic
 patterns in individuals’ choices, and examining how investor sentiment affects asset prices.

 Public Service Management & Organisation
 The group’s research addresses three broad themes: (1) New organisational forms in the public,
 private and third sectors, including a strong interest in public policy and public services; (2)
 Processes and practices of everyday organising, which examines changing practices of work and
 organising (including the relationship between humans and technology); (3) Theory and method in
 organisational research which covers ontology of social science alongside methodological
 innovations in ethnomethodology, video data, and organisational documents, so informing Themes
 1 and 2. The analysis of work practices proceeds in diverse settings including: health care, control
 centres, and cultural organisations (e.g. museums and galleries). Public policy interests emphasise:
 (i) health care and (ii) skills, further and higher education (both major clusters), alongside regulation
 and social enterprises.

 Strategic Profiles of Research Centres
 To achieve strategic aims of research quality, impact and income capture, our research centres
 have positioned themselves in terms of interdisciplinary research themes. CODA (Director, Barnes)
 was established in 2017 to become a global centre of excellence for digital analytics research,
 particularly as applied to business and sustainability problems. Key objectives underpinning
 CODA’s research strategy, include producing and disseminating world-leading research in digital
 analytics, applying novel insights to address concrete, practical problems, developing and applying
 state-of-the art analytical tools and techniques and synthesising a multidisciplinary approach.

 FinWork Futures (Directors Preda, Spence and Samiolo) was established in 2018 to investigate
 the future of financial work in relation to the global rise of digital technologies, the impact of which is
 felt across sectors, professional groups and organisational hierarchies. The research sheds light on
 the work of those who produce, use and regulate digital tools in finance and accounting, variously
 resisting or embracing them, but nonetheless altering global financial landscapes in the process.
 The Centre pursues, primarily, three strands of research: the impact of AI on auditing and what this
 means for professional judgement; how the ‘active’ fund management industry is responding to the
 rise of passive investing and algorithmic finance; and the rise of cryptocurrencies and what they
 portend for the hybridisation of expertise in the world of finance more broadly.

 DAFM (Directors Chortareas and Kapetanios), established in 2017, promotes rigorous analysis in
 finance and macroeconomics using advanced and theoretically rigorous quantitative methods as
 well as complex and large datasets. Areas of relevance include central banks, financial markets
 and firm behaviour. A further focus uses such methods to promote scenario and interval forecasting
 that explicitly incorporate the need to account for risk and uncertainty.

 The QCGBF (Director Aikman), established in 2019, is a research centre dedicated to the study of

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 central banks and the challenges they face in the global environment. It aims to develop cutting-
 edge research in all areas of central bank policymaking. The centre organises an annual
 conference, workshops and seminars on topics such as easing risks associated with financial
 technologies, cyber-attack threats, and policy implications of digital currencies.

 Future strategic plans

 Moving forward, we plan to further strengthen our research and impact strategy in relation to
 research quality, delivery of impact, and research income.

 To further promote research quality, we will continue to recruit high-calibre staff, including
 talented early career researchers (ECRs), to build capacity in targeted (inter)disciplinary areas
 (e.g., sustainability and analytics, machine learning and unstructured data, operations research).
 Additionally, we will establish a cohort of fixed-term contract Visiting Research Fellows. These
 internationally renowned scholars will contribute to research quality across our subject groups, have
 wide-reaching access to research networks, participate in teaching and mentoring on the doctoral
 program and co-supervise and host PhD candidates at their home institutions to promote greater
 mobility and contribute to an international experience for PhD students and ECRs. As a developing
 business school, we will continue to grow our international standing and expand our global impact
 through strategic collaborative partnerships with the PLuS Alliance and with our partner business
 schools (Luiss, Italy, Sciences Po, France, Shanghai Advanced Institute of Finance, PRC).

 We will continue to invest in core research facilities to reinforce our research ambitions. We will
 focus on supporting colleagues who rely on big data sets: AI applications and programming, mixed
 reality and biometric equipment and modelling computations, further expanding our links with
 Rosalind, KCL’s High Performance Compute Cluster platform. We will further develop our existing
 laboratory infrastructure and explore the use of virtual research labs for experimental and
 behavioural research. We will embed new investments in infrastructure (e.g., databases) within
 team structures in which multiple disciplines in the School will be represented to maximise research
 impact (e.g., Orbis Intellectual Property database). Finally, we will raise awareness and celebrate
 our research and impact success by creating a range of awards that reinforce strategic aims (e.g.,
 growing an EDI-related research agenda). Beyond utilising KCL’s Leading and Emerging
 Researcher Programmes, we will also offer bespoke grant development training aligned with the
 needs of KBS researchers.

 To expand our delivery on impact, we will grow the number of KBS research centres in accordance
 with existing research interests and relative to the School's growth and size and encourage KBS
 staff involvement in other interdisciplinary centres at KCL. We aim to bring KBS staff together and
 into collaboration with other KCL researchers on grand challenges such as: sustainability and social
 justice in global supply chains (Reinecke), reducing social and economic inequalities (e.g.,
 Grimshaw’s work with the ILO), attention studies (in collaboration with Arts & Humanities, IoPPN,
 SSPP, and NMS) and health services policies (e.g., collaboration on a King’s Together funded
 project on bridging the attainment gap in healthcare education). To grow our portfolio of research
 themes, we will join the Community for Responsible Research in Business and Management and
 explore deploying instruments like the UN Sustainable Development Goals Toolkit to serve as a
 platform for integrating responsibility and environmental stewardship in our research impact
 strategy.

 In relation to research impact, we plan to make EDI an inherent attribute of our strategic priorities
 (e.g., the Economic Impact of Gender Equality in conjunction with the KCL Gender Studies Working
 group). To ensure that BAME staff thrive within our research environment, we will build on the
 King’s mutual mentoring scheme that includes the participation of the Executive Dean and Faculty
 Operating Officer. In line with KCL's ranking as 9th in the world for social, environmental and
 economic impact, we will explore new impact measures, such as Positive Impact Rating (PIR) for




                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 business schools use tools for impact mapping and analysis (e.g., AltMetric), as well as using
 traditional measures such as our website and social channels.

 We aim to further integrate research and teaching activities to ensure cross-fertilisation and further
 develop our focus on impact (e.g., by proactively suggesting dissertation topics, engaging students
 and staff in collaborative projects, reviewing curricula against new research insights). We will
 broaden participation in King’s Undergraduate Research Fellowships (KURF), an introduction to the
 practice of research, giving students the opportunity to work with academic staff members on
 research impact projects. We will further expand the KBS consultancy project that allows students
 to develop their research skills by advising SMEs in our local boroughs.

 In relation to growing our research income, we will continue to encourage a larger number of
 applications to a broad range of funding schemes. We will invest in a Research Professor post, for
 an academic with an outstanding track record in research grant funding, to guide the development
 of grant proposals, and provide mentorship and expert advice on funding applications. We will
 corroborate this by investing in postdoctoral research fellow posts. We will invest in AI-based
 support tools (e.g., Impacter) designed to assist researchers in writing grant applications.

 Research funding is becoming noticeably more competitive. To support our ambitions, we will
 launch a series of staff development workshops called ‘Research Matters’. Four early trial sessions
 of these workshops have already been popular, attracting groups of 30-45 attendees even during
 the busy, immediate post-lockdown period. In these sessions, the focus was on understanding
 changes in Open Access publishing, open and team research and reproducibility, career
 development through Impact pathways, the role of EDI in grant applications, funding for projects
 with King’s ESRC Impact Acceleration Account, and costing for grants on Worktribe. In response to
 gender equality issues in research income capture, often a product of parental and caring
 responsibilities, we will launch an internal funding scheme to specifically support research by
 female academics.

 2. People

 Overview

 We have maintained a strategy of recruiting, supporting and retaining leading scholars at all levels
 and research domains throughout the 2014-21 REF cycle. Led by the Executive Dean, who chairs
 all appointment panels, and the Vice-Dean Academic Staffing (Ozkan) we have made strategic
 appointments in existing disciplines as well as in emerging research areas to ensure capacity
 building and succession planning. Since 2014, we have been able to successfully promote a
 substantial number of staff (see below). In promotions, collegiality and citizenship are explicit
 performance criteria, alongside strong research performance. Our staffing strategy can be
 characterised as a focused effort to grow a research community with a sense of purpose that is
 inclusive with respect to research support and development opportunities.

 Staffing strategy

 The KBS staffing strategy is supported by the research governance structure. Two Associate
 Deans (Impact and Doctoral Studies) roles and one Vice Dean Research (VDR) role enhance
 leadership capacity and strategy development and execution. With counterparts from across KCL,
 the VDR is a member of the College Research Committee (CRC). This provides a forum to
 benchmark and further develop KBS’ research strategy in alignment with the KCL vision and
 strategic research priorities. The VDR acts as a Research Integrity Champion to reinforce the
 School’s commitment to integrity practice, offering procedures for investigating and resolving
 allegations of research misconduct. This is supported by a team of Research Integrity Advisors
 (Reich, Lindley, Patrick). This team plays an important role in advocating the core message of
 integrity in research across KBS. Team members are a visible, low-threshold point of contact on
 matters of research (mis)conduct. Online workshops have been organised on integrity, ethics, fraud

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and other (un)intended consequences in research (with Stuart Ritchie, author of Science Fictions,
 among others).

 The research leadership is scaffolded by the research support team which includes a Faculty
 Research Manager (shared with the Law School) who oversees the School Research Manager, two
 Research Officers (one dedicated to the PGR community) and the School Impact Manager (shared
 with the Law School). A Research Development Manager contributed by the central Arts &
 Sciences Research Office works alongside this team. This team engages in supporting research
 funding applications, (inter)national conferences (e.g., the 2019 Economic Statistics Centre of
 Excellence), internal funding across subject groups, administration of sabbatical leave applications,
 supporting workshops and research and impact training, coordinating an international visitor
 programme and managing the doctoral program (see below). The research leadership and support
 team are joined by the Heads of Subject groups, Directors of the research centres, the KBS
 Executive Dean, COO and representatives of the PGR and ECR communities on the School
 Research Committee (SRC), chaired by the VDR, with four to five meetings per academic year.

 Since REF2014, 18 Professorial and Reader appointments have been made to bolster research
 leadership in a wider range of business domains (e.g., Marketing, Economics, Finance and
 Entrepreneurship), develop innovative research themes (e.g., the future of work, digitalisation), and
 deepen relations with policymakers (e.g., Bank of England), funding bodies and donors. Bailey,
 Bindl, Grimshaw and Reich, for example, have further strengthening HRMER’s strong reputation in
 topics of meaningful work, employment inequalities and comparative employment relations.
 Appointments in MAR (e.g., Barnes, Okasaki, de Ruyter) have extended the scope of the subject
 group to lead on digitalisation, innovative market-facing technologies as well as health care
 marketing, while maintaining strong roots in consumer sciences and marketing communications.
 SIME has been expanded (e.g., Asmussen, Filatotchev, Reinecke, Stephan, Miozzo), further
 strengthening its position in domains of international business and strategy, as well as in emerging
 areas, such as social entrepreneurship, innovation, governance, strategy and sustainability in
 international business. With Kapetanios, Ozkan, Aikman, Massacci and Monti, B&F has established
 itself as an authority in financial econometrics, data analytics, central banking and financial stability
 with expertise in financial crises, macroprudential policy, forecasting financial and economic
 variables, and the statistical underpinnings of portfolio management in the presence of large
 datasets. A&FM has further broadened its reputation in financial and investment management and
 corporate governance, while maintaining a strong link with sociology and exploring the theme of the
 future of work and the role of technology with Guest, Driouchi, and Spence. ECON has
 strengthened its position as a leader in economic measurement through the appointment of Weale
 and has expanded expertise in labour economics, wages and equality and immigration, crime, and
 unemployment (Bell).

 In addition, we have appointed 44 Lecturers and Senior Lecturers with excellent potential across
 disciplines and in reference to emerging research domains, such as health services, social
 entrepreneurship, sustainability, big data and AI, central bank policies and governance and
 employment; Fraser, Vandoros, Slade-Caffarel (PSMO), Gupta, Nerino, Wang (A&FM), De Coulon,
 Fosten, Morrow, Sa (ECON), Benassi, Park, Yang (HRMER), Etter, Gutierrez, Rebmann, Schad
 (SIME), Bernritter, Danatzis, Schweiger, Brooks, Plangger (MAR). The appointment of new staff
 has been accompanied by concerted efforts to retain experienced researchers (e.g., Bach,
 Chortareas, Deery, O'Mahony, Heath, Hindmarsh, Kessler, Luff, Ferlie, Brouthers, Preda, Walsh,
 West, Wolf) and internal promotions (Pratten, Vom Lehn) to simultaneously sustain research
 capabilities and leadership whilst supporting future development and succession planning.

 Staff development

 Central to KBS staff development is the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers (2019). In line with its principles, incoming staff members participate in inductions at
 College and School levels and are presented with information on strategic priorities and
 opportunities for career building through professional development. Specifically, the College’s
 Centre for Research Staff Development, Arts & Sciences Research Office and Organisational

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Development training courses are a comprehensive resource for the development of staff as well as
 a point of entry to research networks within the wider College. To build future leadership capacity,
 KBS researchers have been supported to engage with the KCL’s ESRC Impact Acceleration
 Account (e.g., Baeckstrom) and KCL’s Leading Researchers Programme (e.g., Vom Lehn, for more
 details see income section). Newly appointed staff members are offered a reduction in teaching and
 administrative workload of one third to assist them in managing the transition into permanent
 academic employment during their first two years of appointment. In addition, experienced staff link
 up with early- and mid-level career researchers to work on joint research and impact projects, for
 example: King’s Move project on gamifying physical exercise (Plangger and de Ruyter),
 publications in top journal outlets (Nerino and Guest) and Marie Curie Fellowships
 (Driouchi/Trigeorgis and Stephan/Zbierowski) as a path to research independence. Engaging
 proactively with major funders (e.g., UKRI, British Academy) is expected as well as promoted as
 part of our staff development strategy and probation and promotion requirements.

 Faculty status has enabled the School to develop its own probation and promotion criteria and the
 Executive Dean and Vice-Dean Academic Staffing are members of the University promotions
 committee. The School’s probation policy establishes clear standards of research excellence that
 staff are required to achieve, whilst providing intensive mentoring through probation periods.
 Criteria reflect a balance of teaching, research, and citizenship performance indicators in relation to
 seniority. Regarding research, colleagues must demonstrate their ability to contribute to KBS’s
 research strategy as independent researchers. Each new hire is assigned a senior academic in
 their area who acts as a probation adviser with bi-annual appraisals to discuss development needs,
 track progress and to provide additional career guidance. Managed support continues after
 successful completion of probation, with all non-professorial staff assigned a mentor to help
 develop their publication strategies, grow their research networks and discuss their training and
 needs.

 KBS puts particular emphasis on the development of individual competences. Personal annual
 development reviews (PDRs) are strongly focused on development needs. Completion rates on
 PDRs have been 100% since the launch of KBS and PDRs inform mentoring and promotions.
 Research impact is explicitly recognised in PDR forms and dedicated workshops are organised on
 key topics such as ‘Getting published in top journals’, 'Advanced data-analysis', 'Navigating the
 R&R process', 'Writing successful grant proposals', ‘Writing for Impact’, often in conjunction with
 editors of top journals and scholars with a funding track record. Organising such workshops is
 assigned to subject groups, under the auspices of Research Committee; several school-wide
 initiatives are organised in parallel. Regular writing retreats assist staff in making substantial
 research progress on key manuscripts and one-to-one statistical consultancy supports the use of
 advanced statistical methods. Staff are further encouraged to develop their network by taking part
 in the leading academic conferences (e.g., AOM, ASA, AMA, AMS EGOS) and, as noted above,
 generous personal research accounts provide funds to support this participation and other research
 activities. Additionally, each group receives GBP20,000 annually to stimulate research and
 scholarship development. Sabbatical leave is seen as a key mechanism enabling staff to
 strengthen their international research networks, work with renowned scholars and bring their work
 to the attention of international audiences. Academic staff can apply for one term’s sabbatical leave
 after six terms of service. They need to submit their plans to the Staffing Committee, outlining how
 their study leave fits into their overall career trajectory and report on outcomes.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 In line with King’s Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (EDI) Code of Practice, KBS is committed to a
 staffing strategy which contributes to a researcher base that is inclusive, diverse and reflective of
 equal opportunity. Everett, Vice-Dean Education, acts as the university’s academic lead on
 Inclusion Education and leads the Women@KBS women’s network. This network aims to create
 safe, empowering spaces to collaborate, as well as engage in discussions on equality. Directly
 contributing to the College’s successful renewal of its Race Equality Charter (Bronze), KBS has
 engaged in contemporary discussions on race equality through all-School race summits,
 ‘Conversations About Race’ and panel events for Black History Month, in addition to supporting

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 black and minority ethnic colleagues through structural inequality development programmes such
 as Stellar HE. Female members of staff constitute 39% of the faculty. Our commitment to
 international diversity is visible: 64% of academic staff have an international background. Our
 determination to empower women is evident in academic promotion data. Between 2017-20 60% of
 eligible academics promoted from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer were female. KBS fosters a culture of
 openness and disability support, evidenced by our investment in an inclusive education team
 across the subject groups. The percentage of research staff with disabilities (excluding those who
 chose not to share information) has increased from 1.8% in 2014/5 to 2.92%. Female staff are well-
 represented on our decision-making committees: Research Committee (50%); Doctoral Studies
 Committee (60%). Female academics are well-represented at the School’s Senior Leadership
 Team (45%) with three Vice-Deans/Associate Deans (VDE, VDS, AD Doctoral Studies) and three
 Heads of Group (ECON, HRMER, SIME). The School encourages staff at all levels to work flexibly
 through fractional contracts, flexible working arrangements and using career breaks. Staff who
 return to work after a prolonged period are supported by their Head of Group; staff who have been
 off work for a long time are re-integrated into the School by a phased return and a re-integration
 plan. Staff on maternity leave participate in return-to-work days and rejoin in a phased manner.
 The School recognises that staff retention amongst women is facilitated significantly by open-
 mindedness to flexible working and will continue exploring our colleagues’ experiences and
 suggestions. Our commitment to EDI is underpinned by our research. PhD qualifications awarded
 since 2017 include dissertations on female leadership, diversity and empowerment in accounting,
 finance and banking sectors. We ourselves (HRMER) conduct high impact research on inequalities,
 workplace flexibility and retirement from an intersectional perspective, which considers gender, age,
 disability and parental responsibilities. Recent articles published by colleagues have addressed
 mental health discrimination in business, employer liability for workplace stress, the risks to
 business and workers of precarious work and the gender pay gap in the United Kingdom.
 Collaborative activities include partnering with the University of Bath and Universität Konstanz to
 host a 2-day research conference on ‘Gender & Heterogeneity in Political Economy’ (2018).

 Research students

 The key aims of our doctoral programme are (i) to recruit top quality students making sure EDI
 criteria are consistently applied, (ii) provide the support and experience to enable those students to
 complete excellent research within time, and (iii) develop highly skilled researchers who move on to
 key positions in academia and beyond. Since REF 2014, there has been a step change in our
 ambitions and associated investment. The School makes a strategic investment of GBP1 million
 per year to fund PhD studentships, and the marketing of these opportunities has expanded the
 profile of the programme more generally, attracting a wider pool of excellent students. Faculty
 members are also able to apply for funds to recruit students through our Collaborative Scheme,
 which encourages staff to partner with non-academic institutions to foster opportunities for
 collaboration and impact, while enriching student training and experience. As a result, we currently
 have PhD partnerships with TravelPort, Teach First, Jupiter Asset Management, Liang O’Rourke
 and the Royal Academy. Seventy students have been awarded a PhD since 2014 and currently we
 have 136 full- and part-time students registered. Throughout the growth of our programme, we have
 continued to emphasise the quality of the intake, stabilising at around 25 new students per year
 (and accepting around 10% of all applications). Recently, we have also re-balanced the programme
 towards full-time and fully funded students. Eighty percent of our students are now full-time and
 over 60% of those students are funded by the School, the university, the ESRC, governments,
 charities or the ONS (which provides four studentships linked to the ESCoE). Conversely, part-time
 students remain an important contingent, helping to establish and sustain links with business and
 government.

 Our single-track PhD programme provides a framework that is both inclusive and flexible. It is
 designed to ensure students across the School work alongside one another, to be exposed to a
 range of research perspectives and to communicate their ideas across the wider School
 community. In 2019, we introduced a short course training programme for first year PhD students,
 which has been further revised and extended in 2020. This includes three compulsory courses
 which focus on fundamentals of research (including planning research projects, integrity and ethics,

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and conducting literature reviews), intensive research methods courses (accounting for specific
 requirements in each of the research groups and include foci on econometrics, qualitative and
 quantitative methods, as well as data analytics) and research communication skills. A suite of
 additional training options is available through the KCL Centre for Doctoral Studies, the ESRC-
 funded LISS-DTP (with Imperial and QMUL) and our informal network of London schools of
 management and business. All students are embedded within one of the seven School subject
 groups, providing access to subject-specific seminars, workshops, events, and academic networks.
 We run an annual Doctoral Research Symposium, at which all students can present their work to
 an audience of peers and faculty, chair sessions and join the organising committee. Students can
 apply for GBP2000 to organise their own workshop and every student on the programme has
 access to GBP1500 annually through our Research Support budget. As a result, in 2019/20, our
 students participated in over 40 international conferences and summer schools. Student mobility is
 important to us, with our students undertaking research visits and internships at UNSW, Invesco
 and the Bank of England. Our staff hosted visiting students from Copenhagen Business School,
 Paris Dauphine and Cornell. These opportunities are key to enabling the development of academic
 publications, with students publishing recent articles in Econometrics and Statistics, Business
 Horizons, Journal of Business Research, Journal of International Money and Finance, Journal of
 Banking Regulation, Journal of Public Economics, Economics of Education Review and Social
 Science & Medicine, Work, Employment and Society and the International Business Review.

 Students have at least two academic supervisors, each of whom must complete supervisory
 training to ensure that they provide high quality support. Student progress and needs (e.g., on EDI-
 related matters) are formally reviewed twice a year, with self-assessment by student, assessment
 by supervisory team and review by Associate Dean (Doctoral Studies). Students must also pass an
 upgrade examination between 9-18 months (FTE) on the programme. The examination features an
 upgrade report (usually 15-20,000 words) and a viva. The examination panel includes the
 supervisory team, an independent assessor, and a panel chair. We have student representatives at
 formal meetings at group, school, and university levels. Student satisfaction results improved in 6 of
 the key PRES themes from 2015 to 2019. Agreement with the statements on ‘overall satisfaction’
 improved significantly from 65% to 80%, ‘analytical skills’ from 76% to 90%, and ‘quality of
 induction’ from 64% to 80%. In addition, we train excellent researchers who move on to
 postdoctoral research and teaching positions at quality universities, such as University of Leeds
 (Jo, 2019), University College Dublin (Baker, 2017), Lancaster University (Chen, 2018), and Utrecht
 University (de Regt 2020). We also have a strong record of retaining PhD talent within the School,
 with seven students appointed to internationally competitive research and teaching positions in KBS
 during this REF period. Students also use their research expertise to move into senior
 appointments in organisations such as Tomorrow's Company (Brown, 2017), IBM (Salvadori, 2016)
 and the National Institute of Economic & Social Research (Samek, 2017; Espinosa Bustos, 2018).

 3.     Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Applications, awards & income

 Since 2016-17, KBS has been on an upward track with regards to grant applications. By 2017-18,
 with the transition from Department to Faculty/Business School complete and wave of new
 academic staff joining the Faculty, a substantial increase in applications occurred (from 8.5 in 2016-
 17 to 26.5 in 2017-18). By the end of 2019-20, the School had submitted 31.8 applications
 according to central records (which do not include outline stage submissions and applications for
 internal schemes such as King’s Together, which would push this number higher), buoyed by high
 staff interest in funding schemes aimed at addressing the new societal challenges of the Covid
 pandemic. Award numbers have increased from 4 in 2016-17 (worth GBP178,003) to 6 in 2019-20
 (worth GBP956,205). This comfortably exceeds the value for 2013-14 (GBP587,274).

 As the figure below illustrates, increased award numbers and value are translating into increasing
 income for the School from 2016-17 onwards:



                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                     Research Income & Award Value
  £1,200,000

  £1,000,000

   £800,000

   £600,000

   £400,000

   £200,000

         £0
                2013-14   2014-15   2015-16    2016-17   2017-18   2018-19   2019-20

                             Research income      Award value


 As noted elsewhere, the KBS strategy throughout this REF period has been to increase external
 funding while also diversifying our income sources. This strategy has been successful, and funding
 has largely been secured from schemes that pay 80%+ of full economic costs to maximise cost
 recovery. Some examples include:

          •    O’Mahony, Co-I, ESRC-funded Productivity Institute – circa GBP750k, 2020-21,
               consortium led by University of Manchester, overall value GBP32million
          •    Ferlie, Co-I, H2020 COGOV project – circa GBP700k, 2017-18, international
               consortium led by Northumbria University
          •    Preda, PI, ESRC project grant – circa GBP650k, 2018-19
          •    Benassi, ESRC New Investigator Grant – circa GBP155k, 2016-17
          •    Reinecke, British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship – circa GBP130k, 2019-20
          •    Kessler, Co-I, NIHR Policy Research Unit – circa GBP120k, 2017-18, collaboration with
               KCL colleagues in the Policy Institute
          •    De Coulon, BEIS-funded work on Centre for Vocational Education Research – circa
               GBP108k, research throughout 2015-20, with the Institute for Employment Studies and
               the National Institute of Economic & Social Research
          •    Wolf, Co-I, ESRC large grant – circa GBP80k, 2018-19, led by KCL colleagues in the
               School of Education, Communication & Society
          •    Rebmannn, Co-I, UKRI Centre for Research into Energy Demand Solutions Early
               Career Researcher Flexible Fund – circa GBP64k, 2019-20, led by UCL
          •    Spence, Leverhulme Fellowship – circa GBP55k, 2019-20
          •    Luff & Samiolo, Co-Is, UKRI Trustworthy Autonomous Systems Hub – circa GBP40k,
               2019-20, consortium between King’s, Nottingham and Southampton, overall value
               GBP14.5million
          •    Bell, Co-I, ESRC Centre for Economic Performance – circa GBP40k, 2018-19, led by
               LSE
          •    Barnes & Rashid, Co-Is, British Council Newton Fund Institutional Links – circa
               GBP37k, 2019-20, led by UCL
          •    Reinecke, contract research work with the Ethical Trading Initiative – circa GBP25k,
               2017-18

 Notable on this list is the number of collaborative grants of which KBS academics are a part,
 working both with external colleagues but also across Faculties at King’s. This approach has
 allowed KBS academics to contribute their unique expertise to multidisciplinary teams and gain
 experience on the kinds of large, challenge-led funding calls that are likely to represent a major
 segment of the funding landscape in the future. The Research team aims to support additional
 collaborative grant applications through cross-Faculty networking sessions that will be organised by

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Development Managers and be topically focused on large national and global challenges
 of multidisciplinary interest, such as sustainability and governance, drivers of and solutions to the
 climate crisis, the future of healthcare, the future of work and public services, and the societal
 impacts of rapid growth in AI technologies. Historically fellowships have not been a common feature
 of the DoM and KBS’s application profile, but the Research team have worked to make these
 funding schemes more well-known within the Faculty; in the last 2 years there have been 10
 fellowship applications to various schemes across the spectrum from early career to senior
 academics. Prof Spence and Prof Reinecke’s recent successes with the Leverhulme Research
 Fellowship and BA Mid-Career Fellowship schemes respectively have increased interest in
 fellowship options for colleagues requiring dedicated time to pursue individual research.

 Infrastructure and facilities

 In 2017, while preparing for its official launch as an independent faculty, KBS moved into the iconic,
 grade 2 listed Bush House, the former home of the BBC World Service which has become a focal
 facility on the KCL Strand campus. This bespoke accommodation has facilitated the co-location of
 all KBS staff. Notwithstanding a steady increase in the number of research students, the building
 provides dedicated PGR spaces and IT facilities that surpass RCUK guidelines. Research staff,
 professional services staff and PGR students work in close proximity, greatly contributing to an
 open and supportive research culture. IT facilities and access to fast-responding technical support
 staff assist with fostering vitality within this research environment. In addition to offices, teaching
 spaces and meeting rooms, Bush House contains larger and smaller collaborative spaces, breakout
 rooms and kitchen and coffee/tea areas. Bush House has an open plan space accessible to
 students and the general public from the Aldwych entrance called ‘The Exchange’. This facility is
 not only used for collaboration with artists and theatre companies, but also for collaborative
 research projects. For instance, in 2019, KBS hosted an experimental ‘pop-up lab’ in collaboration
 with London Business School to explore the development of a joint behavioural research laboratory.

 Another feature facility is the KBS Trading Room, a high-tech teaching and key research resource
 used by faculty and students from all disciplines. The room features 30 networked terminals with
 access to platforms and databases like Bloomberg, Thomson Reuters Eikon, Macrobond, WRDS,
 Fitch Connect and other vendor services. The Trading Room ensures access to the leading
 information management databases with full-time support of a database manager. KBS researchers
 collaborate with colleagues from across KCL (e.g., Informatics) in organising workshops in the lab.
 KBS has a structured programme of dissertation support for students in the room. They are
 assisted by KBS staff in retrieving, extracting and manipulating data for their work and this support
 is provided as part of the facility management. The Trading Room and its resources form a valuable
 contribution to KBS research activities. Planning and management of the database and software
 portfolio is overseen by the KBS Database Committee (Chair Guest), consisting of representatives
 of subject groups, the VDR and the COO. The Committee has access to GBP1.2m to support the
 running of the facility. To further facilitate data intensive simulations, we have invested in expanded
 server capacity that links KBS researchers to KCL’s High Performance Computer Cluster and cloud
 server platform Rosalind. This ensures longer term curation of research data, scalable storage
 opportunities and empowers researchers with greater control over their research resources, while
 using virtual (remote) access points.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Overview

 KBS aspires to deliver world-leading research that advances meaningful change within business,
 government and society. In line with the strategic aim of creating a culture of impact expressed in
 King’s Research Strategy 2017-2022, we have made a concerted effort to embed impact in the
 research of our subject groups by promoting and pump priming collaboration with a wide range of
 (non-academic) research users, beneficiaries and audiences. Beyond disseminating research
 findings, we aim to actively engage with stakeholders and communities in planning and executing
 our research and developing a shared understanding of its implications to ensure meaningful

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impact. In addition to events, knowledge hubs, podcasts, video and blogs, the KBS website
 features Connections, a space for discussing the issues and ideas shaping the economy and
 society with a wider audience. Initiatives like Connections are firmly rooted in a myriad of ways in
 which KBS subject groups have contributed to the research base and collaborated for impact during
 the 2014-21 REF cycle. How each group collaborates and contributes to the KBS strategy on
 meaningful research and impact is detailed below.

 Human Resource Management and Employment Relations (HRMER)
 Contributions to the research base
 Throughout the REF cycle group members have actively raised individual and group profiles by
 holding editorial posts at leading journals, including International Journal of Management Reviews
 (Bailey), International Labour Review (Grimshaw) and Industrial and Labour Relations Review
 (Benassi) and by serving on editorial boards of Academy of Management Review (Bindl), Journal of
 Applied Psychology (Bindl); Journal of Management (Bindl, Guest and Peccei) and Human
 Relations (Deery, Guest and Reich). Many members of the group regularly review for funders, such
 as the ESRC or NIHR. Several staff have edited special issues of top-tier journals, including Bailey
 (Meaningful work: prospects for the 21st century, Journal of Management Studies 2019) and Guest
 (Temporary employment contracts and employee well-being during and after the financial crisis,
 Economic and Industrial Democracy 2019).

 Prizes and awards have been granted to group members. Most notably, Guest has been awarded
 the Lifetime Achievement Award of the Dutch HRM Network and the Herbert Heneman Jnr Career
 Achievement Award from the Academy of Management (HR Division), the first non-American to win
 this award in its 27-year history. Other awards within the group include the Richard Beckhard
 Memorial Prize from the Sloan Management Review, an Emerald Citation of Excellence (Bailey),
 runner up for the Luis Aparicio Prize for Emerging Scholars (Benassi), nomination for the WES-
 SAGE prize for Innovation and Excellence (Deery and Walsh); finalist for the Ralph Goromy Best
 Industry Studies Paper from the Industry Studies Association (Benassi).

 The group is active in a wide range of scholarly networks, including AoM, EAWOP, and BAM and
 the Industrial Law Society. Bailey is elected Fellow of the AcSS and member of the BAM Council.
 Benassi is a member of the Executive Committee of SASE. Bindl is Representative at Large for the
 OB Division of the Academy of Management and Rodrigues is an executive member of the Careers
 Division of the Academy of Management. Group members are also active in international policy
 research networks, with strong links to UN agencies, the European Commission and the OECD.
 Grimshaw is collaborating with the King’s Policy Institute on the gender sensitivity of European
 policy responses to Covid-19. Members of the HRM group hold visiting appointments at the Max
 Planck Institute, Free University Berlin, University of Milan, the Institute for Economic and Social
 Research (Bologna); Tilburg University; Groningen University, Griffith University, ESSEC and
 Bocconi.

 Collaborating for impact
 Members of the group are strongly engaged in an impact agenda relating to their research. The
 group currently hosts a network of government departments interested in fostering well-being and
 has set up two practitioner networks (on the meaning and purpose at work and on the future of
 work). The group plays a leading role in hosting the London HR Connection network, a large and
 influential group of HR managers and HR consultants. Bailey is a member of the BEIS/Government
 Office for Science Working Group making recommendations to the UK Government about the
 future of work post-COVID. Other instances include Walsh’s research on the UK Gender Pay Gap
 Reporting Regulations in conjunction with Mercer Consulting; Deery, Walsh and Rodrigues’s
 research on the role of internships in assisting graduate entry into the labour market (with King’s
 College Careers Service); Clinton’s collaboration with the Church of England and Grimshaw’s
 cooperation with the ILO on the multi-dimensional employment inequalities associated with Covid-
 19. Benassi’s research collaborates with trade unions to examine how they can successfully
 bargain to protect workers’ interests and integrate workers’ skills and knowledge into production
 processes. Jackson collaborates with organisations such as the Met Police on developing more
 effective and fairer assessment processes and Grimshaw’s research for the International Labour

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Organisation contributes to international policy guidelines on minimum wages and gender pay
 equality. Recent research by Guest funded by the NIHR involved extensive collaboration with the
 Department of Health and hospital trusts to explore challenging issues such as staff retention,
 employment of temporary staff and bullying, while Guest and Clinton’s research on financial and
 non-financial rewards across the services has informed Ministry of Defense policy on attracting,
 rewarding and retaining military personnel. Lockwood’s research for ACAS examines dress codes
 legislation, workplace conflict and grievance procedures. Reich’s research on the development of a
 unified information standard for the UK NHS for the nine protected characteristics involves
 stakeholders across government, while Bindl’s research on motivation at work and job crafting is in
 collaboration with several UK government departments

 Strategy, International Management, and Entrepreneurship (SIME)
 Contributions to the research base
 During the REF cycle, group members have held editorial posts at highly ranked journals: Editor-in-
 Chief of the Journal of Management Studies (Filatotchev) and of Applied Psychology (Stephan),
 Field Editor of Entrepreneurship Theory & Practice (Stephan), Consulting Editor of the Journal of
 International Business Studies (Brouthers, Stephan). Group members edited special issues of
 Entrepreneurship Theory & Practice (Stephan), Strategic Organization (Reinecke), Academy of
 Management Perspectives (Filatotchev), Organization Studies (Reinecke), Journal of International
 Business Studies (Asmussen, Filatotchev), Human Relations (Reinecke), Journal of Management
 Studies (Filatotchev), Journal of Corporate Finance (Filatotchev).

 Members of SIME have won research awards; the Journal of International Business Studies 50th
 Anniversary research award (Brouthers and Filatotchev), and the best paper award by the
 Academy of Management (Rebmann). Group members are fellows in leading academic societies,
 including Strategic Management Society, Academy of International Business, British Academy of
 Management, and International Association of Applied Psychology.

 The group has built extensive research networks through international collaborations and exchange
 programs. Miozzo was Chair of the International Theme Committee of the Academy of
 Management (2017), which aims to support the understanding of the internationalization of
 business trade and investment. Stephan works with the European Commission and the Network for
 Business Sustainability to develop further understanding of how organizations can stimulate
 positive social change and in what contexts social enterprises emerge. Group members have
 visiting positions and research collaborations with staff at several international universities,
 promoting further opportunities for new research collaboration. These include the University of
 Amsterdam, Goethe University Frankfurt, Vienna University of Economics and Business, Texas
 Christian University, Claremont College, Copenhagen Business School, University of Buenos Aires,
 University of St. Gallen, and University of Passau.

 Collaborating for impact
 Members of the group have a strong commitment to developing research impact through their links
 with relevant policymakers and practitioners in several ways. The group focuses on sustainable
 innovation-led growth through and active role in the Innovation Caucus (funded by ESRC and
 Innovate UK), providing research insights to inform both innovation policy and innovation practice
 (Miozzo and Stephan). The group extensively collaborates with the Organization of Apprenticeship
 (USA) to address the labour market skills gap by identifying the value of inter-organizational
 networks (Fortwengel). Underpinned by research on corporate social responsibility, the group
 collaborates with social enterprises on fostering ambidexterity with regards to balancing social
 impact and financial sustainability (Gupta). As a direct impact, a large social enterprise in India
 transformed its job roles leading to an increase in both social and financial performance. Research
 by the SIME group has informed ethical trading strategies in global garment supply chains
 (Reinecke), by contributing to the development of a new model of labour governance in
 collaboration with the Ethical Trading Initiative. The research demonstrates the value of collective
 action amongst industry participants and labour representatives as well as of a more worker-centric
 approach to labour rights. Within the local London economy, members of the group collaborate on
 supporting the start-up of innovative businesses with King’s Entrepreneurship Institute (Miozzo and

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Stephan). Finally, members of the group serve on professional boards, including the Corporate
 Governance Board of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales (2011-2019)
 (Filatotchev).

 Marketing (MAR)
 Contributions to the research base
 Members of the MAR group have members have taken on senior editorial responsibilities: Editor-in-
 Chief of the Journal of Advertising (Okasaki) and the Journal of Advertising Research (West). MAR
 has made a deliberate effort to launch special issues of international journals in support of its
 central research themes: integrated care (European Journal of Marketing, de Ruyter), artificial
 intelligence (European Journal of Marketing, Barnes and de Ruyter), big data analytics for
 sustainability (Information and Management, Barnes), strategic enablement (Industrial Marketing
 Management, De Ruyter), branding in the era of fake news (Journal of Product and Brand
 Management, Plangger), augmented reality (AR) (Computers and Human Behavior, de Ruyter),
 digital technologies (Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, Plangger, Montecchi and de
 Ruyter).

 Tuncdogan received the Best Paper Award at the British Academy of Management (2015); Okasaki
 received the Yoshida Hideo Memorial Foundation Research Award by the Yoshida Hideo Memorial
 Foundation, Japan (2017-19). West won 2 best paper awards from the Journal of Advertising
 Research; Brooks was awarded the 2020 AMA Don Lehmann Award for the best paper in the
 Journal of Marketing and Danatzis won the 2018 Tiburtius Dissertation Award (Germany).
 Schweiger is the recipient of the 2019 Commonwealth Region IMTC Best Doctoral Thesis Award.

 Group members actively participate in various research networks. For example, de Ruyter leads an
 international group with researchers from Australia, Germany, the Netherlands and the UK on the
 use of augmented reality on the organizational frontline. Mukherji is co-lead on a project aimed at
 bridging the attainment gap and pathways to equality in healthcare education with the allied KCL
 healthcare schools. Okasaki participates in a collaboration/network with Peking University, China,
 through a project "Consumer acceptance of programmatic advertising", supported by the School of
 Journalism and Communication of Peking University. Okasaki is a member of “Center of Excellence
 Severo Ochoa” and “Unit of Excellence Maria de Maeztu”, Ministry of Science, Research, and
 Universities sponsored by the Spanish Government and he is a Principal Investigator in a research
 network on mobile commerce led by the Autonomous University of Madrid. All group members
 participate in key scholarly networks, such as AMA, AMS, EMAC, ANZMAC, ACR. Group members
 have visiting, adjunct appointments or honorary appointments in the Netherlands (de Ruyter), Italy
 (Montecchi) and Australia (Barnes, de Ruyter). De Ruyter is Fellow of the Service Leadership
 Institute of Arizona State University. Plangger is a fellow of the PLuS Alliance.

 Collaborating for impact
 Group members are strongly involved in evidencing impact of research. For example, research on
 the relationship self-regulation, gamification and reward design (Plangger, Montecchi and de
 Ruyter) is central to the King’s Move project on the design of systems that promotes exercise
 behaviour in which a consortium of 8 universities (led by King’s) and two start-ups (HiMotiv,
 OpenPlay) collaborate. Barnes has closely cooperated with VisitDenmark and Danish tourism
 operators on measuring the impact of the experiential value that customer-facing employees
 provide. De Ruyter has partnered with AR software provider Kabaq and Coffee Lovers group (the
 Netherlands) to apply research on AR based in food retailing. Barnes is involved in collaborations
 with technology companies on the Internet of Things (IoT) and big data processing to develop a
 secure framework for context-aware, spatio-temporal early warning services for the Hajj in
 collaboration with the University of Prince Mugrin (UPM), the University of Oxford and King Saud
 University and Hajj stakeholders. Members of the group regularly speak at practitioner conferences,
 seminars and events; for example, de Ruyter recently spoke on the impact of digital technologies
 on the patient experience and at various in-house leadership forums hosted by IBM, Lenovo,
 Celebrity Cruises and Expedia. Plangger addressed nudging at the Prime Minister’s and Cabinet
 Office. Montecchi invited as keynote speaker on digital marketing strategy at the HUGO BOSS
 Annual General Meeting, Switzerland.

                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Economics (ECON)
 Contributions to the research base
 The group provides significant input to the economic measurement community. O’Mahony, Weale,
 and De Coulon participate in the Economic Statistics Centre of Excellence (ESCoE), funded by the
 ONS. This initiative, which funds 4 PhD studentships, aids in developing innovative economic
 measures. O’Mahony and Weale served as Office for National Statistics Fellows and on the ONS
 Economic Statistics Working Group (ESWG). O’Mahony was elected to the Council of The
 International Association for Research on Income and Wealth (IARIW) (2016-2020) and is on the
 editorial board of The Review of Income and Wealth. The ECON group hosted the 2019 ESCoE
 annual conference. Bell was appointed as chair of the Migration Advisory Committee (MAC). He is
 journal editor of the Oxford Bulletin of Economics and Statistics. Dhillon was elected to the Council
 of the Royal Economic Society (2014-2019), is Associate Editor for the Journal of Public Economic
 Theory and Associate Editor for International Tax and Public Finance. She was a Jury Member for
 the 2018 Infosys Prize, which recognizes science and research in India. Weale was a member of
 the Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee from 2010 to 2016 and Piffer was the recipient of
 a Marie Curie Fellowship (2017-2019). Vezina is associate editor of the European Economic
 Review.

 The group is connected to organisations involved in economic measurement, including IARIW, the
 US based Conference for Research on Income and Wealth, the Brookings Institution and the
 OECD. Bell and Morrow conduct research for the Centre for Economic Performance and De Coulon
 collaborates with the Centre for Vocational Education Research (CVER). Dhillon, Morrow and Sa
 are affiliated with the Centre for Economic Policy Research (CEPR) and Weale and Sa are
 research associates of the Centre for Macroeconomics, at The National Institute of Economic
 Research (NIESR). Chortareas organised the Money, Macro and Finance Society annual
 conference (2017). Group members participate in international associations, such as the American
 Economic Association, the European Economic Association, the Econometric Society, the Society
 of Labor Economists, and the Royal Economic Society. Group members have affiliations with
 NIESR, the Institute for the Future of Labor (IZA, Bonn), the Leibniz Centre for European Economic
 Research (ZEW), Harvard University, and the Association for the Study of Religion, Economics,
 and Culture (ASREC). Fosten is on the organising committee for the International Association of
 Applied Econometrics (IAAE) conference, held at KBS. Vezina is affiliated with the Oxford Centre
 for the Analysis of Resource-Rich Economies (OxCARRE).

 Collaborating for impact
 Group members work closely with the ONS on developing value added tax records for measuring
 GDP, and on democratic measures of real income growth (Weale). O’Mahony works with ONS on
 human capital measures and with the CSO Ireland on productivity statistics development. De
 Coulon designed new measures of migration for the ONS. Bell advises the MAC on a post-Brexit
 immigration system for the UK and Sa’s work on the impact of immigration on house prices has
 influenced government policy in this area. Research on the impact of Heathrow flights on health (De
 Coulon, O’Mahony) featured in the national press in 2018. Morrow regularly attends TUC
 economics roundtables. O’Mahony has been involved in numerous EC-funded projects and
 regularly participates in EU policy discussions, including a policy workshop on productivity in the
 digital age in 2019. Fosten has advised NHS Improvement regarding nowcasting in the healthcare
 sector. O’Mahony, De Coulon and Weale, together with Grimshaw (HRMER) and Miozzo (SIME)
 are part of the recent ESRC funded Productivity Institute, coordinated by Alliance Manchester
 Business School, which addresses the government’s regional growth agenda.

 Accounting & Financial Management (A&FM)
 Contributions to the research base
 Group members currently hold or have held Editorial posts with a range of scholarly journals.
 Spence sits on the editorial boards of Accounting, Organizations and Society, The Accounting,
 Auditing and Accountability Journal, and Contemporary Accounting Research. Samiolo is a
 member of the Scientific Committee of the European Accounting Association Annual Congress, and
 the editorial board of Accounting, Organization and Society. Other group members have co-chaired

                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 scholarly conferences. Driouchi and Guest are co-chairs of the Financial Management and
 Accounting Research Conference. Trigeorgis (Chair) and Driouchi and Guest (co-organisers)
 organize the ongoing annual real options conference (currently in its 24th year). The group’s
 research is pursued in collaboration with other KCL faculties, including Informatics, the Law School
 and the Policy Institute. Group members collaborate on international research projects. All group
 members are active in wide range of formal scholarly networks (for example AFA, FMA, EFMA, and
 EFA). A&FM members are associated with external research; Driouchi is an academic associate of
 the Real Options Group, and Guest and Nerino are research associates at the Centre for Business
 Research at University of Cambridge.

 Collaborating for impact
 The group proactively pursues a strategy of fostering opportunities for members to link with relevant
 practitioner and policymaker communities. One important impact activity is the FinWork Futures
 Centre. The centre works closely with the Policy Institute at King’s looking for ways to contribute to
 policy and public debate on these issues and was involved in a King’s delegation advising No.10
 Downing Street on its strategy for jobs in the digital age. The Centre has an ongoing collaboration
 with Crypto UK, the industry body of blockchain and cryptoasset firms in the UK. It has helped
 organize a roundtable with the HMRC on the taxation of cryptoassets and is involved in a series of
 other activities regarding the regulation of cryptoassets. Globally, the centre collaborates with the
 FinTech Association of Hong Kong and with Japan’s Virtual Currency Exchange Association
 (JVCEA) on a series of projects regarding the global regulation of cryptoassets. Collaboration exists
 with both Crypto UK and the JVCEA is the impact of Covid-19 upon the crypto industry worldwide.
 Additionally, members regularly participate in roundtables and write for professional magazines on
 the transformation of audit. One notable contribution was a submission to the recent Brydon Review
 on the quality and effectiveness of audit (2019). Nguyen presented his research on financial
 intermediation at meetings organized by central banks and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
 Gupta collaborates with a law firm on the gender pay gap. Recent research by Guest and Nerino
 has been cited by leading proxy advisory consultants, the Harvard Law School Forum on Corporate
 Governance and Financial regulation, and the FT. This research project aims to inform the ongoing
 regulatory debate (US, EU, UK) on the role of proxy advisory firms in corporate governance.

 Banking and Finance (B&F)
 Contributions to the research base
 Members of the group have published in the most highly ranked journals in their fields such as
 Econometrica and Journal of Econometrics (Kapetanios) and Journal of Finance, Review of
 Financial Studies and Management Science (Andrikogiannopoulou and Papakonstantinou). There
 are members of staff that have received recognition of academic excellence in journals of their field
 such as awards and distinguished authorships (Kapetanios is distinguished author for the Journal of
 Applied Econometrics, has received the Multa Scripsit award (Econometric Theory) and has been
 awarded the Fellowship of the Journal of Econometrics. Members of the group are editors of top
 field journals such as, e.g., International Journal of Forecasting (Kapetanios) and regularly act as
 keynote speakers (Kapetanios and Ozkan) and presenters in highly regarded international
 conferences, the NBER Behavioral Finance conference, the CEPR Household Finance conference
 and the European Economic Association meeting (Andrikogiannopoulou), the European Finance
 Association and the Behavioral Economics Annual meetings (Papakonstantinou). Members of the
 group have refereed for top academic journals, e.g., Econometrica, JASA, American Economic
 Review, Journal of Finance, and Management Science. Research grants have been awarded to
 group members. For example, Leverhulme Research Grant (GBP10K, Andrikogiannopoulou, PI),
 Leverhulme Research Center for Wildfires, Environment, and Society (GBP10M, Papakonstantinou,
 Co-I) and an Amazon AWS Award (GBP60K, Andrikogiannopoulou, PI). Research developed by
 members of the group has received recognition and attention more widely. Examples include a fin
 tech prize awarded by centralbanking.com for research on text analysis, presented in a joint paper
 with staff at the Bank of England (Kapetanios) and the impact achieved by joint work of Kapetanios,
 Ventouri and staff at ABN AMRO, on the effect of Covid on economic activity in the Netherlands.

 The group has close associations with a variety of academics and policymaking networks. Chief
 among those is the central banking network. Many members of staff help and advise central banks

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (ECB, Bank of England) and other organisations (Eurostat, IMF) as well as co-organize events with
 central banks. Members also have links with the Institute of Finance and Financial Regulation, the
 CEPR Network for Household Finance and the NBER Behavioral Finance working group
 (Andrikogiannopoulou and Papakonstantinou). Members collaborate with researchers from top
 universities across the world, e.g., University of Southern California (Kapetanios), Imperial College,
 LSE, LBS, and Princeton University (Papakonstantinou), LSE, LBS, Cornell University, and Renmin
 University (Andrikogiannopoulou).

 Collaborating for impact
 The group organises a variety of prominent events either on its own or together with outside
 partners. Examples include the annual KBS Financial Markets conference (speakers have included
 top academics from Yale, LSE, Imperial and top professionals, e.g., Managing Directors from
 Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley) and the Big Data conference with the Bank of England. The
 group will host the 2020 IAAE conference, which is one of the largest and most highly regarded
 applied economics and finance conferences. As part of its activities promoting impact, the group
 has two associated research centres. The first is the Data Analytics for Finance and Macro (DAFM)
 (directed by Chortareas and Kapetanios) which aims to promote rigorous analysis in finance and
 macroeconomics using advanced and theoretically rigorous quantitative methods and complex and
 large datasets. The centre has close collaborations with policymaking institutions such as the Bank
 of England and Eurostat. It has already co-organized two conferences with the Bank of England on
 big data methods and will co-organize a third one in November 2020. The second research centre,
 closely aligned with the group, is the recently established QCGBF, which has been launched
 following a generous gift from the Qatar Central Bank.

 Public Service Management & Organisation (PSMO)
 Contributions to the research base
 Ferlie is General Editor of the Routledge Studies in Health Management monograph series. Fraser
 recently coedited a special issue of Sociology of Heath and Illness on health service change.
 Various group members are currently involved in large ESRC funded projects (see section on
 income). Heath received the 2015 EUSSET-IISI Lifetime Achievement Award for contributing to
 computing and informatics knowledge and also a best book award (International Society for
 Conversation Analysis for ‘Dynamics of Auction’, Cambridge University Press). Luff and Heath
 (2017) received a Lasting Impact Award (Computer Support and Cooperative Work in Social
 Computing Conference) for ‘Mobility in Collaboration’. Von Lehn won the 2014 Choice award
 (American Library Association) for his monograph on Garfinkel. Heath is a coeditor of ‘Learning and
 Doing: Social, Cognitive and Computational Perspectives’, a long-standing series (Cambridge
 University Press). Hindmarsh is coeditor of the organization and work section of ‘Sociology
 Compass’, and Von Lehn associate editor of ‘Symbolic Interaction’. Pratten is a coeditor of the
 Cambridge Journal of Economics. Vom Lehn was co-chair of the American Sociological Society’s
 ethnomethodology and conversation analysis section. Luff is on the Project Advisory Board, ESRC
 Innovation Caucus (2019). Kessler is an editorial board member of Human Resource Management
 Journal and Heath of the Journal of Visual Sociology (Sage). Heath is Visiting Professor at the
 University of Basel (2018). Hindmarsh was Visiting Professor at Leeds University (2014-17). Ferlie
 and Heath are AcSS fellows and Ferlie an FBA (2016). Wolf is a crossbench peer with research
 and policy interests in vocational education and training.

 Group members are active in national and international scholarly networks, such as ASA, CSCW,
 BAM and EGOS. Ferlie chaired SHOC, a health management-based learned society. Baeza was
 on NIHR’s Health Services and Delivery Research Programme board. Fraser is founding convenor
 of the annual International Social Outcomes Conference bringing together academics and
 practitioners in new approaches to outcomes based public and third sector delivery. Trenholm is
 international coordinator for the Women Entrepreneurship Knowledge Hub. Haber is Research
 Associate at CARR (LSE). Hindmarsh founded and coordinates a UK doctoral network on
 ethnomethodology and conversation analysis. Von Lehn manages the website of the Society for the
 Study of Symbolic Interaction. Slade-Cafferel links strongly to the Cambridge Social Ontology
 Group (as does Pratten) and associated Cambridge Realist Workshop. Pratten is a Research
 Associate at the Centre for Business Research.

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Collaborating for impact
 There are strong links with policy makers and practitioners. Wolf is currently on part time
 secondment to No. 10/Department for Education advising on skills policy. She led the Wolf Review
 of Vocational Education and was on the recent Augar Review of Higher Education. The Department
 of Health recently invested GBP5m in the KCL-based Policy Research Unit on the health and social
 care workforce. Kessler is an Associate Director, leading a project on nursing associates. An
 associated network of policy makers and practitioners meets regularly in KBS. The Office of
 Manpower Economics commissioned Kessler to review the impact of apprenticeships on
 recruitment and retention to inform the pay review bodies’ 2020 reports. Kessler also undertook
 evaluations for Health Education England on training and development of 400,000 NHS health
 support workers which helped refresh their Talent for Care strategy. Heath co-authored
 ‘Development of methods for the evaluation of visitor behaviour’, for the Wellcome Collection which
 is a series of reports, workshops and training programmes. Vom Lehn and Heath have partnered
 with the College of Optometrists on developing communications training. There are many industrial
 collaborations, such as with Arjo Wiggins, BBC and HP (Luff). Luff has undertaken various funded
 visits to Japan (National Institute of Informatics, NTT Japan, Ricoh).




                                                                                          Page 21
