Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Oxford
 Unit of Assessment: 18
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.1 Research in Law at Oxford

Oxford prides itself on being a home for outstanding legal scholarship across a broad range
of subject areas. Our size, and the value we place on staff autonomy, allow us to maintain this
breadth while taking active steps to retain our position as one of the world’s leading centres
for legal research in the face of a rapidly changing environment.

Our efforts have focused in two directions: first, extending our excellence in areas in which
our scholarship is already firmly established, in particular, analytical jurisprudence and private
law theory, and second, directing resources at three emerging challenges for legal
scholarship:
    (i)     global shifts in economic and political power that have required a change in the
            jurisdictional focus of our research;
    (ii)    new ways of approaching legal and regulatory problems that have demanded a
            change in the methodological focus of our research; and
    (iii)   global challenges, including climate change, AI, antimicrobial resistance, and the
            current pandemic, that require engagement with policymakers and practitioners,
            with respect to their legal and regulatory dimensions, and other forms of knowledge
            exchange.
We aim to recruit and retain the best people, leading us to renew our commitment to equality
and diversity. We also continue to believe that the best way of producing the highest possible
quality of research is to allow members of our community maximum autonomy to pursue the
research that interests them. We foster an engaging, supportive and inclusive environment
where excellence is produced through self-motivation and a culture of success, rather than
managerialist targets and performance metrics.


1.2 Context and Structure

Oxford’s UoA18 is centred on the Faculty of Law (‘the Faculty’) but includes legal scholars
employed in Oxford colleges and other departments. The Faculty is located in the St Cross
Building, which houses the Bodleian Law Library, the Dean’s Office, administrative teams
(including research support), the Centre for Criminology, Oxford Intellectual Property
Research Centre, and Institute for European & Comparative Law. The Centre for Socio-Legal
Studies is located in the adjacent Manor Road Building.

The Faculty is the largest unit in Oxford’s Social Sciences Division (SSDiv). Its submission
encompasses 138.23 FTE researchers. Oxford Law made close to a 100% return to
REF2014 (108.88FTE). Our 2021 submission reflects steady growth during this REF period.
The Faculty includes 25 early career researchers (ECRs). Eleven researchers in the UoA18
submission are based in other departments in Oxford (see Table 1).




                                                1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



              Table 1: Overview of strategic change in Oxford Law, 2008-2021

                                              RAE2008/         REF2014/         REF2021/
                                              2008             2013             2020
 Total FTE                                    103.5            108.88           138.23
 Professors                                   32               41               55
 % Female Professors                          16%              27%              36%
 ECRs                                         15               24               25
 UoA18 staff in other Departments             3                12               11
 Full-time Doctoral students                  115              190              197
 Part-time Doctoral students                  -                -                551
 Faculty funding for Postgraduate Research £52,530             £190,000         £352,872
 (PGR) students
 External research grant funding (REF period) £7.9m * (7       £6.3m       (5 £15.6m (6
                                              years)           years)         years)

Two structures support research within the Faculty (Figure 1). At the macro-level is the
Faculty itself, which determines strategic priorities, sets broad policy around research and
provides administrative support to individual academics and to the Faculty’s Research
Centres and Research Groups. At the micro-level, Research Centres and Research Groups
coordinate the activities of specific fields of research (see further below). They exhibit
considerable variety and enjoy a good deal of autonomy. The decentralization of legal
research in Oxford is a product of the organisational, pedagogical and disciplinary context.

The organisational context is a Faculty embedded within a collegiate university. Almost all
UoA18 researchers are members of both the Faculty and a college; most academic posts are
joint Faculty-college appointments; and many colleagues have their physical workspace in
colleges geographically dispersed across the city. This creates an obvious barrier to ‘top-
down’ or hierarchical organisation, but works to the advantage of ‘bottom-up’ research agenda
generation. All colleagues belong to at least two groupings of researchers—one within-
discipline, through the Faculty, and one across-disciplines, through their college, providing
especially rich opportunities for engagement and idea generation.

The pedagogical context is the outstanding ability of our students in our programmes, who
are taught intensively up to the research frontier. They ask searching and challenging
questions that provide a testing-ground for early-stage research.




1 The Faculty launched a part-time D-Phil pathway in 2015.



                                                     2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



                 Figure 1: The structure of research in Law in Oxford




The disciplinary context is the engagement of many Faculty members across disciplines.
Our colleagues interact with, e.g.:
    African Studies Centre,
    Blavatnik School of Government,
    China Centre,
    Computer Science,
    Continuing Education,
    Oxford Department of Education,
    Ethox Centre,
    Oxford Department of International Development,
    Oxford Centre for Practical Ethics,
    Oxford Cybersecurity Centre,
    Oxford Internet Institute,
    Oxford-Man Institute for Quantitative Finance


                                          3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


      Oxford Neuroscience,
      Faculty of Philosophy,
      Saïd Business School,
      Smith School of Enterprise and Environment,
      Sociology.

The dual networks facilitated by the collegiate system enable colleagues to locate
collaborators within other disciplines. Strategically, Oxford’s decentralized structure is a key
asset for generating exciting, innovative research ideas.

Effective scaling of research programmes is crucial to our dynamic research environment,
necessitating top-down structures to facilitate coordination. The Faculty’s Research Centres
have long embedded durable research agendas, distinct from the identity of individual
participants. They support staff and have their own budgets, used to organize research events,
including events targeted at policymakers, legal practitioners and members of the judiciary,
thereby facilitating knowledge exchange and pathways to impact.

During this REF period, a major strategic initiative was to implement new intermediate-level
Faculty institutions—Research Groups—to coordinate fields of research activity not
encompassed by the Centres. Given the heterogeneous needs of different sub-fields, the role
and significance of Research Groups varies, reflecting different balancing points between top-
down (planned) and bottom-up (emergent) organization. Minimally, they provide local
networks of opportunity, advice, discussion and support (e.g., mentoring and seminars)
through which the Faculty can strengthen the research culture and foster engagement by and
with ECRs and PGR students. The Research Group Chairs also provides a layered structure
for coordination between the Faculty’s strategic Research Committee (on which the Research
Group Chairs sit), Faculty research support personnel and individual researchers. This
facilitates greater success in research grant competitions. In more ambitious cases, the
Research Groups will incubate large-scale agendas that may ultimately generate new
research centres. We expect the scope of Research Groups to evolve over time; their
delineation is subject to review by the Research Committee every three years.


1.3 Research and Impact Strategy

Table 2 sets out the seven core goals of the Faculty’s research strategy for this REF period,
as identified in REF 2014, and summarises the strong progress made towards their
achievement. Highlights include:
 Significant growth in the Faculty as a whole, with strategic investments in recruitment of
   leading scholars in areas of traditional strength (e.g., Chang, jurisprudence; McFarlane,
   private law), in the legal and regulatory dimensions of global challenges (e.g., Rajamani,
   climate change; Burrell, antimicrobial resistance; Armour, Williams, law and AI), and in
   positions intended to extend our jurisdictional (e.g., Asian Law) and methodological
   (e.g., Socio-Legal, Mulcahy) footprint;
 Launch of a major new Institute in Human Rights (housed in a new building in Mansfield
   College and supported by £10.5million in endowment);



                                               4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   Major investment (£12.5million) in physical infrastructure in the Faculty’s premises in the
    St Cross Building;
   Doubling of external grant income from £6.3million to £15.6million, and growing
    leadership in large-scale interdisciplinary and international collaborative research projects;
   Major advances in embedding equality and diversity (E&D), including: (i) introducing
    dedicated organisational infrastructure (E&D Committee, Associate Dean for E&D, E&D
    officer); (ii) achieving external recognition via an Athena Swan Bronze Award in 2017;
    (iii) significantly improving the gender balance of Faculty roles, especially at the senior
    level; (iv) five well-funded PGR studentships targeted at BAME students;
   Ambitious and far-reaching restructuring of the Faculty’s co-ordination of research activity
    through the introduction of Research Groups;
   Significant      enhancement         of   administrative      support    for   research      and
    impact/engagement, with 23 Faculty members receiving ESRC Impact Acceleration
    awards;
   A knowledge exchange communications strategy, including three high-profile specialist
    blogs, social media and mailing campaigns; enhanced engagement with policymakers and
    the profession, helping to produce, inter alia, more than 200 judicial citations of Oxford
    scholarship across 16 jurisdictions (Figure 4).
   Introduction of a well-attended Faculty-wide seminar series to foster generalist
    engagement between colleagues across the wide scale of our Faculty endeavours—both
    human and geographic;
   Career development such that 15 Faculty members (11% of FTE) were promoted to
    Professor under the University’s Recognition of Distinction exercise;
   Implementation of a well-designed programme to support ECRs’ career development and
    integrate them into the Faculty’s research culture;
   Major investment in our PGR programme to incubate world-class projects against a
    backdrop of growing complexity and diversity of methodological expectations by: (i)
    redesigning Research Methods training; (ii) restructuring of admissions and supervision
    allocation; (iii) significantly increasing financial support to PGR students; and (iv) allocating
    studentships on the basis of financial need, offered on a 3-year basis.

1.3.1 Strategy development, implementation and monitoring
Research strategy at the Faculty level is formulated and overseen by the Research
Committee, chaired by the Associate Dean (Research), Barber, who sits on the Faculty’s
apex decision-making bodies—Law Board (overall policy and strategy-setting, to which the
Research Committee reports) and the Planning and Resources Committee.

1.3.2 Research integrity
The Faculty’s Research Committee, working through the Associate Dean (Research),
Associate Dean (Research Students) and the research facilitation team, ensures that all
research abides by the University’s Academic Integrity in Research: Code of Practice and
Procedure, and works with the Central University Research Ethics Committee (CUREC)
team on more complex projects. All researchers have access to the SSDiv’s new Epigeum
online research integrity course. We cultivate broad dialogue about research integrity and
good practice amongst both colleagues and PGR students. The SSDiv hosts a thrice-termly
discussion group engaging with live matters of practical ethics. The research facilitation team


                                                 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


also ensures open access and transparency, through the deposit of research outputs with
the Oxford Research Archive (ORA) and datasets with ORA and/or the UK Data Service
(UKDS) as appropriate.




                                          6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                            Table 2: Research strategic goals and indicators
Goal                 Indicators                     Evidence (over 2014-2020 REF period)               §
                                                    28% increase in FTE (from 108.88 to               1.2
                     Active recruitment of scholars
1. recruit                                          138.23); and strategic recruitment
outstanding                                         New posts in Asian Law, Socio-Legal               1.3
scholars with        Broaden jurisdictional and     Studies, and Quantitative Criminology;            2.1
diverse              methodological perspectives    strategic recruitment of staff who bring
backgrounds,                                        methodological diversity, e.g. Mulcahy
perspectives, and                                   Compulsory implicit bias training for             2.1,
talents              Foster and deliver equitable   recruitment;                                      2.5
                     recruitment practices          63% increase in female Statutory Professors;
                                                    22% increase in female Professorships.
                     Equality & Diversity           Establishment of Faculty E&D Committee,           2.5
                     embedded in Faculty            Associate Dean for E&D and E&D Officer;
                     organisational structure       Athena Swan Bronze Award in 2017.
                                                    Freedom for staff to develop own research         1.1
                     Value all research agendas
2. give [Faculty                                    agenda
members] equal                                       Human subject research must be approved          1.3.2
opportunities,                                       through Oxford peer-reviewed CUREC
                     Support compliance with
freedom, and                                         process
                     researchers’ ethical and data
responsibility for                                   Outputs deposited in Oxford Research             1.3.2
                     transparency responsibilities
their research;                                      Archive; Data sets deposited in ORA/UKDS
                                                     as appropriate
                     Regularise provision of                                                          1.2
                     support across all fields of    Restructuring of strategic research support      1.5
                     research                        into Research Groups;
                     Nourish individual research
                     agendas through research        New Faculty seminar series (generalist);         1.3
                     culture and internal            Enhanced Research Group workshops                1.5
                     engagement                      (specialist)
                                                     Internal research support fund: £100,000 per     2.2
                     Provide easy access to early-
                                                     annum; streamlined application process;          3.1
                     stage / pump-priming funding
                                                     £4,000 start-up grant
                                                     Faculty Mentor programme & Advisor               2.2
                                                     scheme
                     Active support for career
3. support career                                    Supported 15 colleagues to success in            2.2
                     development across the
development                                          University Recognition of Distinction (11% of
                     spectrum of faculty roles
                                                     total FTEs)
                                                     Established ECR support scheme                   2.3
                                                     Sabbatical as of right (1 term in 7 basis);      2.2
                                                     introduction of PGT half-options to facilitate
                     Make time for research and
                                                     the development of niche research-led
                     take steps to ensure that
                                                     modules; creation of new graduate
                     teaching and research
                                                     Classroom Assistant role to provide support
                     interests better align.
                                                     for technological and administrative elements
                                                     of course delivery.


                                                     7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                        Leadership in interdisciplinary   Many large RCUK and other funded                 3.1
                        and multinational research        collaborative programmes led in Faculty (e.g.
4. increase
                        initiatives                       AI for Law, AI in healthcare, Modern Slavery)
substantive
                                                          Dedicated funds to foster collaborations with,   4.1
interdisciplinary
                                                          e.g., Melbourne, NYU, HKU. Major
and international       Foster and support
                                                          collaborations delivered in the period (e.g.,
research                international cooperation
                                                          Asian Contract Law project involving 14
cooperation;            initiatives
                                                          countries and 150+ scholars, judges,
                                                          practitioners and policy makers)
                                                          Increase from £190,000 in 2014 to £353,000       2.4
                        Expand PGR studentships
                                                          in 2019
                        and increase leverage
5. increase                                               Move to primarily need-based, 3-year awards
scholarship funding                                       PGR Research Methods programme                   2.4
                        Increase opportunities for
for postgraduate                                          redeveloped to meet funding council
                        capturing external funding
research students                                         requirements
                        Promote diversity-linked          5 new BAME studentships (joint with              2.4
                        funding                           colleges)
                        Provide funding to facilitate     23 awards from SSD ESRC Impact                   3.1
                        impact                            Acceleration Account
                                                          New Communications Manager; blogging,            1.3
                        Support communications for
6. promote the                                            email, social media, alumni dissemination
                        research
impact of our                                             channels
research,               Foster policy impact through                                                       4.2
connecting              advisory/technical committee      Data from section 4.2
research and            work
practice                                                  E.g. AI for English Law partnerships;            4.2
                        Foster professional impact        lecturing to Judicial College; supporting
                        through partnership projects      colleagues who sit on public enquiries,
                                                          working groups and the like.
                                                          Associate Dean for Research; enhanced            1.3
                        Align organisational              Research Committee; New Research Group
                        infrastructure to support         structure
7. improve              research                          Increasing professional research support         3.1
research facilitation                                     capacity
and infrastructure      Improve physical                  St Cross Building Phase 2 Development            3.2
in Oxford.              infrastructure to support         (£12.5million)
                        research                          Bonavero Institute (£10.5million).
                        Increase external grant                                                            3.1
                                                          From £6.3million to £15.6million.
                        funding




                                                          8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


1.3.3 Impact and engagement
Since 2014, Oxford Law has taken steps to create and sustain a research culture that values and
rewards research engagement, knowledge exchange and impact. These include:
 Updating the Research Support Fund’s guidance (2018) to support/fund activities ‘that are
   likely to have impact, shaping policy or public debate’.
 Law’s research facilitation team promotes (in regular e-bulletins and weekly newsletters) and
   supports applications for impact funding. The SSDiv's ESRC Impact Acceleration Account
   manager provides strategic advice regarding the Divisional Impact Account, and 23 Faculty
   members were awarded Impact Acceleration awards (total value £288,818, see s. 3.1).
 Promoting colleagues’ involvement in policy-related advisory work, to facilitate pathways to
   impact;
 Celebrating research and impact. New grants and publications feature regularly in the internal
   weekly Dean’s newsletter, and are publicised on Twitter (@OxfordLawFac has 13,000 followers),
   on the Faculty website, through the termly e-bulletin (distribution 10,617) and the annual Oxford
   Law News (distribution 11,366), sent to a global network of Oxford Law alumni. This work is
   supported by the Director of Development, the Communications Manager, and two Web
   Development and Support Officers.
 The Faculty has also worked with the SSDiv’s dedicated Research Impact Facilitator who
   coordinates a cluster of departments to achieve significant policy engagement and impact around
   shared research themes (e.g. AI), facilitates interdisciplinary research, strengthens collaboration
   across departments around impact and engagement, and supports impact focused funding
   applications.

In 2019 Law enjoyed significant success in national impact awards:
     Minson won the prestigious ESRC Celebrating Impact Prize 2019 (see, s.2.4.5);
     Goold was Highly Commended for her work.
In 2018, Law enjoyed significant success at the O2RB Excellence in Impact Awards2 with winners
in all three categories:
     Overall Impact Champion (Condry);
     Excellence in Impact Award (Adams-Prassl); and
     Early Career Impact Champion (Minson).
The Faculty also enjoyed success at the 2019 University of Oxford Vice-Chancellor’s Public
Engagement with Research Awards (Viebach and Minson).

UoA18’s nine impact case studies align with our impact strategy in that they draw on a broad range
of research activity, depend on long-term collaborations and deploy a diverse range of pathways to
impact. They sit across key areas of research and engagement in Law: AI and law (Wachter);
business regulation (Hodges), constitutional law (Ekins), employment law (Adams-Prassl));
criminology (Bosworth, Condry and Hoyle), human rights (Fredman), and international law (Akande).




2
    Consortium comprising Oxford, Open University, Oxford Brookes and Reading Universities.

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.3.4 Research Strategy going forwards
The Faculty has started a wide-ranging process of reviewing its Research Strategy for the next
period. Key opportunities to further strategic research goals include:
 Optimising the functioning of the Research Groups via an iterative process alongside
    developments in research activity;
 Redeveloping the St Cross Building, with an ambitious Phase 3 programme to provide space
    to house research centres, ECRs and PGR students, and to enhance a supportive and
    collaborative research culture;
 Capitalising on lessons learned during the pandemic to embed appropriate technology
    infrastructure to facilitate hybrid online/in-person workshops and seminars which will increase,
    extend and diversify participation rates;
 Encouraging more members of our community to engage with research that addresses global
    challenges;
 Further enhancing administrative support for research and impact facilitation;
 Strategic thinking about how Law meaningfully engages with research users, and engages fully
    with co-design and knowledge exchange opportunities; ensuring that the skills associated
    with engagement (e.g. blogging) are acknowledged in appointments and promotions;
 Encouraging research agenda acceleration by targeting research support and internal funding
    to increase the proportion of faculty members participating in external grant competitions;
    facilitating grant-funded teaching buyouts;
 Pro-active coordination with SSDiv research support on larger interdisciplinary awards;
 Continuing to enhance PGR research training and career development, and build further growth
    in PGR funding;
 Further engagement with E&D targets by seeking an Athena Swan Silver Award;
 Actively fostering leadership in research agendas by encouraging colleagues to engage
    critically over the formulation of research questions through ‘early stage’ workshops, and making
    available internal funding targeted at transformative projects or methods.

1.4 Research Centres

Each of the Faculty’s five Research Centres has a Director, a management board (with
representatives from wider Faculty and SSDiv) reporting back to the Faculty, and administrative
structures that support grant applications, academic visitors, and projects. They enjoy significant
autonomy, but operate under the broad supervision of the Faculty, and utilize its administrative
support.

Bonavero Institute of Human Rights (founded 2016) fosters rigorous, multi-disciplinary research
on human rights and serves as a forum for global collaboration between scholars, policymakers and
practitioners. It represents a major investment by the Faculty and Mansfield College in human rights
scholarship and engagement. Located in a new building in the College, it consists of five full-time
academic staff (O’Regan, Micus, Lazarus, Atrey and Ghanea). It also hosts British Academy Global
Professor Martin Scheinin and five externally-funded postdoctoral researchers (Aristova, Butler,
Molavi and Trueblood). The Institute’s activities include: (i) an active research visitor programme, (ii)
an academic affiliate programme with nearly 40 affiliates from across the University, (iii) a resident
graduate student programme, (iv) a weekly ‘Bonavero Perspectives’ research seminar series during
term time, (v) publishing a series of Bonavero Reports, based on contributions to policymaking
processes in the UK and globally, (vi) hosting/ co-hosting many conferences, events and lectures
that are delivered or attended by globally renowned figures including Kofi Annan, Hillary Clinton,
Judge Robert Spano, President of the ECHR and Fatou Bensouda, Prosecutor of the ICC.

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Centre for Criminology organises research around seven substantive areas: Security, rights and
justice; Penal culture, policy and practice; Politics, legitimacy and criminal justice; Crime and the
family; Psychology, criminal justice and law; Victims and victimisation; and Criminal justice,
citizenship and migration. It comprises six full-time academic staff (Bosworth, Condry, Hoyle, Loader,
Mueller-Johnson, and Roberts), one visiting Professor (Singh Bhui), and a Senior Research Fellow
(Zedner). Centre staff and students hold an array of external grants, including ESRC, British
Academy, ERC, Leverhulme Trust, Open Society Foundations, Independent Research Foundation,
Halley Stewart Trust, and Wellcome Trust; The Centre hosts: (i) 10–15 research visitors yearly
(senior academics and practitioners); (ii) Border Criminologies, an international research network
focusing on the intersections between criminal justice and immigration; and (iii) Prisoners’ Families
Research Network (Condry); and (iv) Death Penalty Research Unit (Hoyle).

Centre for Socio-Legal Studies is at the forefront of theoretically-informed, empirical research into
the nature and role of law in society. Its researchers study law as a historical and culturally specific
mode of social organization that takes a variety of forms within and across societies. The Centre
brings together a wide variety of disciplinary expertise (including law, sociology, anthropology,
politics, international relations, economics, geography, and art history) to examine bottom-up
experiences of the legal system. It contains regional specialisms in Tibet, East Africa, Russia and
Eastern Europe. Staff and research students hold an array of external grants, including the ERC,
NERC, ESRC, British Academy and National Institute for Health Research. The Centre comprises
four core academics (Lange, Mulcahy, Kurkchiyan, Pirie) plus academics running programmes on
Civil Justice (Hodges) and Comparative Media Law and Policy (Stremlau). The Centre currently
houses four postdoctoral research fellows and each year welcomes between 10-15 research visitors.
Under its new Director (Mulcahy), the Centre’s research is organized around five clusters: Access to
civil and administrative justice; Law beyond borders; Regulation and governance; Law in a digital
world, and the Lived experience of human rights. A new Associate Professor post in socio-legal
studies was created and filled in January 2021.

Institute for European and Comparative Law comprises 10 academic staff, including the Director
(Häcker) and experts in French (Helleringer) and German law (Ungerer). It (i) provides a focus for
research in EU law and comparative law; (ii) has 18 Visiting Research Fellows; (ii) organises two or
three discussion groups each term; (iii) runs a vibrant academic visitor programme (typically 30 per
year), and (iv) facilitates exchanges and collaborations between Oxford researchers and colleagues
worldwide (section 4.1).

Oxford Intellectual Property Research Centre is a multidisciplinary centre with 12 academic
members drawn from law (Director: Burrell), economics, history and management. It is an important
hub for the dissemination of new research in the field, with a focus on providing opportunities for
engagement and pathways for impact for researchers from across the UK and beyond. It: (i) runs
two research seminar series with international speakers; (ii) runs regular conferences and workshops
(more than a dozen in the period), most of which have been aimed at a mixed audience that have
enabled members of the judiciary, specialist adjudicators and policymakers to interact with the fruits
of academic research, leading to greater engagement and creating pathways for impact (e.g.
prompted EUIPO funding of a Study on Voluntary Registration and Deposit Systems, March 2017).




                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.5 Research Groups

Reorganising the Faculty’s research infrastructure led to the creation of seven new Research Groups
covering research activities falling outside the remit of the Centres. The creation of these groups has
also allowed us to integrate HeLEx (which has a different history) into the Faculty’s structures and
processes.

Business Law (Chair: Armour) encompasses colleagues (Eidenmueller, Enchelmaier, Enriques,
Hare, Payne, van Zwieten, Wetzer) who work on a wide range of topics relevant to business, with a
comparative, international, and interdisciplinary scope. Research engagement is fostered by the
Business Law Workshop, an intense weekly external seminar series attracting world-leading
scholars, and a weekly internal doctoral student workshop. The group is highly collaborative, with
many outputs jointly authored by its members. Interdisciplinarity is furthered through strong links with
colleagues in other departments, notably the Saïd Business School, through joint delivery of the
interdisciplinary MSc in Law and Finance, the extension of a joint appointment to Morrison, and joint
supervision of doctoral students. Links with other departments (joint seminars and research
students) include the Blavatnik School of Government and the Oxford-Man Institute for Quantitative
Finance. Engagement with research users is fostered through the Oxford Business Law Blog, the
leading European real-time dissemination channel for research and policy insights about business
law matters. Impact is advanced by regular engagement with professionals (including law firms) and
policymakers.

Computers and the Law (Chair: Williams) provides a focal point for a burgeoning interdisciplinary
field uniting Law colleagues with other units including: Department of Computer Science, the Oxford
Internet Institute, Department of Education and the Oxford Cybersecurity Centre. The Group spans
public law, criminal law, employment law, business law, contract law, property law, competition law
intellectual property law and others, organizing around three major grant funded projects: (i)
Unlocking the Potential of Artificial Intelligence for English Law (UKRI); (ii) Realising Accountable
Intelligent Systems (EPSRC) and, (iii) Algorithms at Work (ERC and Leverhulme). Research
engagement occurs via two established seminar series. Interdisciplinarity includes supervising
research students and delivering a pioneering master’s course in Law and Computer Science. The
group’s trailblazing business engagement and knowledge exchange work includes working with
professional, policy and industry partners to co-create experimental training programmes for law and
technology, now crystallised into the Oxford LawTech Education Programme.

Family and Medical Law (Chair: Goold) brings together colleagues working on medical law and
family law (Herring, Greasley, Elves, Ferguson and Taylor), using interdisciplinary methods, and
collaborating with the Uehiro Centre for Practical Ethics, ETHOX, HeLEX, and the Legal Philosophy
Research Group. Areas of special focus include: abortion, child rights, vulnerable adults, mental
capacity, decision-making on behalf of children and gene drive technology. Members are also active
in public engagement projects (e.g., the My Body, My Life exhibition on abortion experience and the
law, produced with the Liminal Space and Open University, 2017, which has to date been staged in
Belfast, Edinburgh, Oxford, London and Nantes).

Health, Law and Emerging Technologies (HeLEX) (Chair: Kaye and Pila) was established 2009
in the Nuffield Department of Population Health by Kaye. It uses socio-legal methodology to
investigate how innovative technologies can be accommodated within existing legal and regulatory
frameworks, and has shaped best practice in health. HeLEX enlarged in 2017 to include a team from
Melbourne Law School and in 2019 joined the Oxford Law Faculty. The move builds synergies with
Faculty research on medical law and ethics (Foster, Greasley, Goold, Herring, Hoyano), regulation

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(Lange, Pila), law and technology (Adams-Prassl, Williams, Pila), IP (Burrell, Gangjee, Pila) empirical
research methods (Mulcahy) and data protection (Bonavero). HeLEX’s international research
collaborations integrate Law with the medical sciences, computer science and biomedical
technology (genomics, 3D printing, and regenerative medicine). HeLEX has ten embers of staff, 11
research students, and over 50 active Research Associates; has established the ELSI 2.0 network
in genomics; has hosted 25 academic visitors; and received funding from diverse sources including
UKRI, the EU, Innovative Medicines Initiative, Leverhulme Trust and the Wellcome Trust. It is not
strictly a Centre because of its funding model.

International Law (Chair: Redgwell) researches across a diverse range of public international law
areas and benefits from deep connections with scholarship in allied fields (including human rights,
environmental law, and legal philosophy), as well as with scholars in the Blavatnik School of
Government (Akande), Continuing Education (Ghanea), and Refugee Studies (Costello). It currently
comprises seven academics (including Jackson, Rajamani, Sarooshi, Tzanakopoulos), two
postdoctoral researchers and 35 research students. The group hosts an annual lecture, regular
seminars, and an International Judicial Internship programme.

Legal Philosophy (Chairs: Edwards/Perry) represents an area of distinctive strength in Oxford and
the largest cohort of jurisprudence scholars in the world. It encompasses 16 academic staff (including
Chang, Endicott, Green, Steel), eight postdoctoral researchers, and a strong cluster of research
students. Gardner was a key member of this group until his untimely death in 2019. The group runs
the termly Philosophy, Politics, and Law Colloquium, the monthly series Oxford Seminars in
Jurisprudence, and hosts the H.L.A. Hart Lecture Series and Visiting Fellowships. Students run the
Jurisprudence Discussion Group and the Feminist Jurisprudence Discussion Group.

Private Law (Chair: McFarlane) is a beacon in the common law world, with unparalleled strength
across all core areas of private law. Among its researchers are internationally renowned figures in
contract law (e.g. Burrows, Cartwright, Collins, Chen-Wishart, McKendrick, Peel, Whittaker), tort law
(e.g. Bagshaw, Dyson, Gardner, Goudkamp, Nolan, Steel, Stevens), restitution for unjust enrichment
(e.g. Burrows, Scott, Stevens, Swadling) and property law, broadly conceived (e.g. Bright, Douglas,
Green, McFarlane, Nair, Rostill, Swadling and Televantos). The Obligations Discussion Group is
very active and well attended. Notable is the high number of researchers (16) in property law, their
adoption of a wide range of methodologies (doctrinal, philosophical, socio-legal, and empirical), and
their success in grant funding competitions including Oxford’s Fell Fund and the EPSRC. They
engage regularly through the Property Law Discussion Group. Members of the Group edit the
interdisciplinary Housing after Grenfell blog (Bright) and the Property Law Blog (McFarlane), which
are widely read and foster engagement with the world beyond academia.

Public Law (Chair: Endicott) is a fulcrum for coordinating the research of more than 40 academics
in Constitutional and Administrative Law, Civil Procedure and Evidence, and Environmental Law.
The Group supports research seminars by Faculty postholders, ECRs, research students, and
visiting speakers through a new forum, as well as our ongoing Discussion Groups (Environmental
Law, and Procedural Justice and Evidence). The Group provides advice and support for research
funding applications (and the research ethics process), mentoring, research induction for new
colleagues, and support for collaborative research projects.




                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

2.1 Staffing Strategy

We aim to strike a balance between preserving the breadth of our expertise, maintaining capacity in
longstanding areas of strength and developing capacity in areas of strategic focus. The Dean (Chen-
Wishart) and the Vice Dean (Teaching and Recruitment) (Khaitan) work with the Research
Committee to identify new and emerging recruitment priorities, leading to the creation of new
positions in Asian Laws, Socio-Legal Studies and Quantitative Criminology.

A particular focus of staffing strategy has been to encourage more women to apply:
    Selection panels engage in an active search and encourage women meeting the selection
        criteria to apply;
    Vacancies are advertised on blogs/listings which may be particularly read by women (e.g.,
        feminists@law);
    Further Particulars are reviewed on an ongoing basis to ensure they are explicit about the
        support provided for those with caring responsibilities, such as part-time and flexible working
        patterns, and resources such as the University’s Returning Carers’ Fund (see Institutional-
        level ES);
    All Faculty representatives on selection panels undergo unconscious bias training;
    Short-listed candidates are provided with information about Oxford’s more idiosyncratic
        features (e.g. organization of teaching) to counter the disadvantage that unfamiliarity may
        pose in the recruitment process.

During the census period, five women (Chang, Dagan, Häcker, Mulcahy, O’Regan) were recruited
to Statutory Professorships, Oxford’s most senior academic posts. The Law Faculty has 18 such
posts in total and seven are now held by women. In total, 42 per cent of Category A staff submitted
under UoA 18 are women.

Oxford University retains an employer-justified retirement age, which contributes to turnover. Many
retired colleagues continue to contribute to our research environment by participating in discussion
groups and seminars, and informally mentoring colleagues and graduate students, e.g., Cartwright,
Craig, Paul Davies, Freedland and Zuckerman. For example, Honoré, who retired in 1987, was an
active member of the Jurisprudence subject group until his death in 2019.

2.2 Staff Development and Support

The Faculty provides a supportive and structured process for colleagues that encompasses the
following elements:

Induction: This programme includes meetings with the administration team, the research support
team, a 1:1 with the Vice Dean (Personnel) (Scott), and, in normal times, a welcome lunch with the
Faculty.

Mentoring: Mentors are appointed for Associate Professors in their Initial Period of Office (five
years), Career Development Fellows, and other staff in temporary research focused roles. All
mentors receive training and support from the Vice Dean (Personnel) and the Associate Dean
(Research), who offer advice on research, publications, and balancing the different aspects of the
job. An advisor system pairs new faculty staff with more senior colleagues who can read and offer
comments on draft work and advise on publishing, promotion and career planning. The Dean is also

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
pro-active in encouraging and advising individuals on applications for Recognition of Distinction
promotion and professorial merit pay.

Research support: The University gives start-up grants to new permanent postholders (£4,000) and
statutory professors (£30,000). Ongoing internal support comes from: (i) University competitive
internal research funding schemes, including the John Fell Fund3 (Law staff have received £559,595
in Fell funding in the period (see section 3.1)); (ii) Colleges, which support research through (often
generous) travel and equipment allowances and library resources; (iii) the Faculty Research Support
Fund (RSF) of £100,000 per annum. The RSF has, for example, provided ongoing support for
Goold’s medical law research enabling her to produce six papers, two edited collections, significant
engagement work (including a video on abortion), leading to a British Academy grant of £10,000.
The RSF also supported Goudkamp and Nolan’s research on tort law, funding statistical analysis for
their book, Contributory Negligence in the Twenty-First Century. In 2020, the Faculty allocated an
additional £20,000 to the RSF to support colleagues whose work has been disrupted by the
pandemic.

Protecting research time: A key focus is ensuring that research time is protected alongside what
can be a demanding teaching schedule:
 The Oxford system allows unparalleled flexibility in scheduling tutorials; the Faculty employs
   a dedicated timetabling officer to ensure flexibility around lecture and seminar scheduling, whilst
   safeguarding the quality of the student experience.
 Staff are encouraged to align their teaching and research interests, e.g., the recent
   introduction of half-options into our postgraduate taught programmes facilitates a greater range
   of research-led modules.
 A recent initiative to appoint graduate Classroom Teaching Assistants to manage the
   additional demands of online and hybrid teaching, supporting the technological and
   administrative elements of course delivery, while providing PGRs with an additional source of
   revenue (strict limits protect PGRs’ research time).
 Research time is protected through sabbaticals as of right on a one term in seven basis (there
   are three terms annually).
 Colleagues assuming burdensome offices (e.g Associate Deanships) are given generous relief
   from teaching, as are those assuming ad hoc duties (e.g. being on the REF panel, overseeing
   admissions reform).
 The Dean and Vice Deans actively monitor workload to provide targeted support for those
   consistently exceeding their teaching hours.

Support for career development: Associate Professors are promoted to Professor through the
Recognition of Distinction process. This is accompanied by a pay rise and access to the professorial
merit pay scheme. The process is rigorous, requiring reports from five external referees. The Dean
mentors colleagues through this process, advising on when to apply and how to put forward the
strongest application. Between 2016-2019 fifteen candidates were promoted, seven being women.




3 See see Institutional Environment Statement, s. 2.6.


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.3 Support for Early Career Researchers (ECRs)

Oxford Law currently has 25 postdoctoral researchers (funded by the British Academy, Leverhulme
Trust, Newton International, Research Centres, and College Junior Research Fellowships). We aim
to build capacity in the field and to nurture ECRs in the following ways:

Induction and mentoring: All fixed-term staff go through the Faculty induction programme. Each
ECR has a trained mentor who comments on draft work, advises on research strategy, and supports
the researcher’s career development. For researchers on externally-funded projects, their mentor is
someone other than the Principal Investigator. Building on current University frameworks, the Faculty
also implements a robust Personal Development Review to ensure that ECRs are supported in their
posts and future career plans.

Resources: All fixed-term researchers receive office or desk space. The Faculty has established
new dedicated postdoctoral research space in both the St Cross and Manor Road buildings. Fixed-
term postdoctoral researchers can apply to the Research Support Fund and the Fell Fund.

Training and peer support: The Faculty organises a regular programme of events and seminars
tailored to ECRs, e.g., on ‘good’ mentoring, impact and engagement, blogging, academic publishing,
and career planning. Additional support is provided across the six research centres, and includes
mentoring by Centre directors to plan careers and apply for research grants, and regular ECR events
and peer support meetings. Support is also provided by the SSDiv in the form, e.g., of grant
application writing workshops. Fixed-term researchers are part of a Faculty ECR Group that meets
twice per term to offer training and peer support.

Representation: ECR representatives serve on key Faculty committees including Law Board,
Equality and Diversity and Research Committee.

Career development: The Faculty supports ECRs to secure research funding in their own name,
and another post when their current one ends. This is provided by mentors and by the Law Faculty’s
research facilitation team. Postdoctoral researchers in Law have gone on to obtain permanent posts
at other universities – e.g., City, Durham, LSE, Monash, Queen Mary, Reading, UCL, and
Westminster.

2.4 Support for Graduate Researchers

Oxford’s Law postgraduate research student community is one of the largest in the legal world.
In 2018-2019, the Faculty received 638 applications for doctoral study. In 2020, 197 full-time doctoral
students were registered in the Faculty (144 Law, 26 Criminology, 27 Socio-Legal Studies). This
represents modest growth on total numbers in 2014 (190), reflecting tight University restrictions,
capping Law at 36 annually. In 2019, following a redesign of the Faculty’s Research Methods training
and a doubling of the financial support provided to PGR students, the Faculty won 14 more places
(from a total of 50 available across the entire University for all PGT and PGR programmes) in an
internal Oxford competition. This success reflects the exceptional quality of our applicants and the
additional investments the Faculty has made in their support.

In 2015, Oxford Law introduced a new part-time pathway to its DPhil programmes in order to widen
access. The Faculty now also has 55 part-time doctoral students.




                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Funding
Oxford Law has made major progress in increasing PGR funding. In October 2014, the Faculty
allocated approximately £190,000 to support PGR students; by October 2019, that figure had
increased to £353,000. Nine out of the 36 DPhil students commencing in 2019 had full scholarships,
and 99 of the doctoral students registered in 2019/20 had partial awards (compared with 39 in
2015/16). We have pioneered a needs-based funding scheme, and moved to allocate the majority
of financial support on a three-year, rather than an annual, basis to allow recipients to plan their
finances when accepting an offer.

We have continued to secure funding through Research Council Scholarships (the Faculty is a
member of the ESRC Grand Union Doctoral Training Partnership which made 31 awards to
Criminology and Socio-Legal Studies during the REF period) and the Oxford-Cambridge AHRC
Doctoral Training Partnership (19 awards). We also maintained a steady supply of Clarendon
scholarships (14 awards).

In 2020 the Faculty awarded a new Black and Minority Ethnic DPhil studentship in Criminology for
UK resident students, in response to under-representation in the graduate research community. A
further four such scholarships for DPhil Law students were created; the first awards will be made for
2021 entry. The Faculty is committed to introducing an enhanced Graduate Teaching Assistants
(GTA) scheme to further the provision of fully-funded opportunities for doctoral study.


Training
All PGRs have at least one supervisor plus a college advisor, who is also a Faculty member. At the
end of their first year, students submit a 10,000-word research paper and a research proposal for
their Qualifying Test, conducted by two assessors who are also typically involved in the Confirmation
of Status process in the third year of a student’s studies, designed to ensure that their project is on-
target for successful completion. One of the two assessors normally acts as the internal examiner of
the final thesis.

In 2019, following a major internal review, the Faculty significantly revamped its research methods
training involving, in part, a restructure of the compulsory Course in Legal Research Method (CLRM)
for first year doctoral students. The CLRM provides a rigorous grounding across different research
methodologies relevant to students’ projects. The course concludes with a one-day conference at
which students present their emerging research.

The second major innovation was the Research Method Electives (RMEs). Currently, these include:
Advanced Doctrinal Methods, Legal Theory, Qualitative Methods, Quantitative Methods, and
Rational Choice Theory; further additions are likely. In the next five years, we plan to extend the
training in empirical legal research and analysis. The Centre for Socio-Legal Studies collaborates
with the American Bar Foundation, Berkeley Centre for Law and Society and RegNet (ANU) to
construct a tailored online training course for researchers in socio-legal studies. A seed-corn grant
has been received from the ESRC to support this initiative. The Faculty also plans (on the back of
recent large-scale research on Computer Science and Law) to develop training for research students
in advanced computational methods that offer enormous promise for the analysis of legal texts, in
particular natural language processing.

A third component of the new PGR training is a programme of Career Development Workshops,
stimulated in part by the Athena Swan Action Plan (see further s.2.5), open to research students
across the duration of their studies. The Faculty also supports student-led events such as the
Research Students’ lunch for doctoral students to meet informally and encourage inclusiveness. The
                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Faculty plans to create a peer mentoring system among research students of different years using
the current research group framework and support mechanisms. Additional advice, training and
(peer) support is available through the SSDiv, which offers courses on various aspects of research
methods, research integrity, project management, fieldwork, writing and skills communication, well-
being, and teaching. Access to additional research training is coordinated between the student and
their supervisors, who complete an ongoing training needs analysis for the duration of the
doctorate.


Engagement and research culture
Graduate research in the Faculty is supported by 33 student-led Discussion Groups, which the
Faculty supports with a budget of £5,500 per year. All operate with a broadly similar mix of students
presenting papers on their research, discussing readings, and running sessions on publishing and
career development. The new Research Group structure aims to embed research students further
into the relevant academic communities and help develop wider networks of engagement, feedback
and support. In some cases, this function will be served through existing Discussion Groups—each
of which is aligned with either a Research Group or a Research Centre—and in other cases they are
being generated de novo. The Research Groups will also invite PGR students to some external
workshops, and run internal workshops as fora for engagement between PGR students and Faculty.

The Faculty has recently received generous donations, allowing us to offer annual recognition for
the best DPhil thesis (Subedi Prize) and the best DPhil thesis on Law, Philosophy and Politics
(Berggruen Prize).


Career Destinations
During the REF period, 253 students have graduated with DPhils from the Law Faculty (none are
research-based professional doctorates). Many have secured permanent academic posts, e.g., at,
Bristol, Cambridge, Cape Town, Central European University, Hong Kong, KCL, LSE, Madrid,
Melbourne, NUS, NYU, Oxford, Otago, Queen Mary, Queensland, Renmin, Sheffield, UCL, and
Waikato. Others have taken up careers in government (e.g., the Swiss Mission at the Council of
Europe), NGOs (e.g., the Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy, Delhi), and the legal profession.

Box 1 exemplifies what has been achieved by the Law Faculty’s support for PGRs and ECRs, and
for impact and engagement work by young scholars.


                                       Box 1
         Case study: Shona Minson - From doctoral student to ESRC Impact Prize

 Minson undertook ESRC-funded DPhil research in the Centre for Criminology (2014-2017).
 Her research analysed the place of children in maternal sentencing decisions in England
 and Wales. She explored the status of children of prisoners and engaged with children and
 their carers to assess the impact of maternal imprisonment, and interviewed the Crown
 Court judiciary to examine sentencing practice.
 In 2017/2018 the Faculty employed Minson as the Research Officer on an ESRC Impact
 Acceleration Award funded project - Addressing the Impact of Maternal Imprisonment:
 Developing Collaborative Training' - in association with the Prison Reform Trust and Condry.
 It built on her doctoral work and provided information, in the form of films, to sentencers and
 legal professionals to aid consistency and understanding in maternal sentencing decisions.
 An additional film was made for women themselves facing sentence.


                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Minson shared her findings with the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Human Rights
 (JCHR) in March 2018, with particular regard to the state’s duty to protect children from
 discrimination as a consequence of the status or activities of their parents (UNCRC, Article
 2). In consequence, the JCHR held an enquiry into the right to family life of children whose
 mother is imprisoned. Her research has been referenced frequently in parliamentary
 debates and has informed Government policy, including the June 2019 Farmer Review on
 strengthening female offenders’ family relationships.
 In April 2018 Minson was the Early Career Impact Champion in the O2RB Excellence in
 Impact for her innovative films on the impact of maternal imprisonment. She won the 2019
 University of Oxford Vice Chancellor's Public Engagement with Research Award. In
 July 2019, she was recognised by the ESRC Outstanding Early Career Impact Prize.
 Minson is currently a British Academy Postdoctoral Fellow at the Centre for Criminology
 where she is researching the impact of parental supervision in the community following both
 custodial and non-custodial sentences, from a child rights' perspective. In 2020, a book
 based on her thesis – Maternal Sentencing and the Rights of the Child – was published by
 Palgrave.




2.5 Equality and Diversity (E&D)

The Faculty is racially diverse: its academics come from 30 countries and its administrative staff from
nine. The current Dean was born in Taiwan and immigrated to New Zealand; the two Vice-Deans
hail from South Africa and India.

The Faculty was awarded Athena Swan Bronze status in 2017, and has established the following
structure to oversee the implementation of the Action Plan:
     In 2017, we created the roles of Athena Swan Coordinator and Race and Equality Officer. In
       2020, these roles were subsumed into the portfolio of the new Associate Dean (E&D), a post
       created to ensure that E&D is mainstreamed into all Law Faculty activities by having the E&D
       lead ‘in the room’ whenever major decisions are considered. A new E&D Officer further
       supports our E&D work.
     The Faculty established an E&D Committee that meets twice a term and reports to Law
       Board. This includes representatives of ECRs and research students.
     In 2020, the E&D Committee agreed a thirty-point ‘Race Equality Plan’ and identified the
       office holder or committee tasked to deal with each one.

The Faculty has taken the following steps to implement the Athena Swan Action Plan:
   Actively promote E&D issues. A regular series of workshops for Professional and Research
      support staff provides a forum for discussion, e.g., workshops on parental leave.
   Reviewing and analysing our data on E&D, including race, gender, and disability.
   Showcasing E&D on the Faculty website, supported by the E&D Officer.
   Strengthen the induction programme for all staff and improve the mentoring system for
      academic staff.
   Enhance postgraduate training and support to ensure that Oxford Law promotes as diverse a
      culture as possible (see above).
   Ensure that female academics and ECRs are well-represented among speakers at the Faculty
      Research Seminar series.



                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Establish Oxford Women in Law, a network for Oxford graduates working in the law to discuss
      career issues, particularly those facing women, to share experiences, and to enhance their
      relationship with each other and Faculty. There is also an allied Oxford Women in Law Student
      Group. The Faculty has also established the ‘100 Years of Women in Law at Oxford’ project
      to tell the stories of women who have studied law at Oxford.
   Establish an annual high-profile Equality Lecture delivered by Baroness Hale in 2018, Haben
      Girma (a disability rights attorney and the first deaf-blind graduate of Harvard Law School) in
      2019, and by Kendall Thomas (Nash Professor of Law, Columbia University) in 2020.
   Enable Faculty members to take advantage of support provided at University level. The
      current and former Law Dean both serve as mentors on the Senior Women’s Mentoring
      Network.
Oxford Law has also had some success in redressing the imbalance between male and female
employment patterns:
    In 2015/16 only 19 per cent of Statutory Professors in the Faculty were female; by
       2019/2020, this had risen to 39 per cent.
    This rebalancing is also evident in the Recognition of Distinction promotion process as a
       result of concerted efforts to encourage and support women to apply. In 2015/2016, 27 per
       cent of academics with the title of Professor were female. By 2019/2020 this had risen to 36
       per cent.

We are also pressing ahead with other E&D initiatives, e.g.:
   A Black Graduate Students Network, which:
          o hosts a Discussion Group, and social events; and
          o aims to scale up to incorporate Black undergraduates and alumni to create a
              supportive vertical structure.
   The Oxford University Disability Law and Policy Project develops initiatives that bring
      new perspectives to analysis in law and policy.
   Herbert Smith Freehills Disability Law Moot that has been running since 2014.
   Supporting the Decolonising the Law Discussion Group.

      A workshop on Diversifying the Curriculum, which resulted in a ‘Curriculum Health
       Check’ being carried out by teaching groups.
      Partnering with the Africa Oxford Initiative and various Oxford colleges to create the AfOx
       Law Fellowship for academics holding full-time positions in an African institution to
       conduct research at Oxford.
      A rich programme of events for Black History Month and LGBT+ History Month.
      Acknowledging major religious and national celebrations in our communications, beyond
       Christmas and Easter.

2.6 Process for Selection of Research Outputs

The process employed by the Faculty – which conformed to the University's REF Code of Practice -
was agreed by Law Board in March 2018, following a wide consultation in the Faculty. The Board
established a REF Reading Committee composed of 12 senior professors in the Faculty covering as
many areas of legal specialism as possible. Seven members of the Committee were men, five
women. The Committee was chaired by the Faculty REF Coordinator, Loader. The REF Coordinator
ran information sessions open to all staff to discuss the REF process, and the Committee has
communicated regularly with Faculty throughout the preparation process.



                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Output selection was a rigorous process to ensure parity of treatment across all researchers. In June
2018, all eligible Faculty were asked to nominate up to five publications for consideration for REF
submission, together with up to a further three works in progress. They were asked to rank the
nominated publications. All the nominated publications were read, reviewed and graded by two
members of the REF Committee, or if necessary by one REF Committee member and another senior
member of the Faculty. These scores were then moderated by the REF Coordinator. A further call
to nominate publications was issued in early 2020 to catch outputs that were missed in the original
call. Outputs in our final submission were selected according to the minimum criteria of one per Cat
A staff and on the basis of research excellence.

All outputs were given a REF score by the UoA18 REF Coordinator based on the grades and reviews
of the readers. A review of the draft output submission was made by the REF Coordinator to assess
the distribution of outputs by gender and career stage. The output pool was then reduced to the final
pool of 346 outputs. The distribution of outputs across the UoA18 submission can be found in table
3.

                             Table 3: Distribution of UoA18 outputs

 No. Papers submitted         0         1         2         3         4         5
         Staff
        Cat A                 0         60        26        27        13        16

   Female (not ECR)           0         16        10        12        9         8
    Male (not ECR)            0         24        13        14        4         8

     Female ECRs              0         11        3         1         0         0
      Male ECRs               0         9         0         0         0         0

  Female Cat B (no
        ECRs)                 0         0         1         0         0         0
 Male Cat B (no ECRs)         0         2         0         3         2         0




 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Research income

Oxford Law values high-quality research whether or not it requires significant funding and our
researchers seek grants to pursue their research from the most appropriate sources, irrespective of
whether full economic costs are recoverable. They are supported in seeking the best source of
funding by the Research Committee and the Research support administrators. During this
period, 81 members of the Law Faculty have been awarded 119 research grants from external
funders. 25 of these grants were led by others (some other departments in Oxford, some other
universities) with Oxford Law staff as co-investigators.

Research income in Law from external sources has grown steadily during the REF period. In 2008-
2013 the Faculty received HESA-recognised research income of £6,296,573. The corresponding
figure for 2013/14 - 2019/20 is £15,634,805. Table 4 and Figure 2 show the flow of research income
over the REF period:

                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                               Table 4 – Law research income

                    2013/4                                          £2,318,608
                    2014/5                                          £2,473,712
                   2015/16                                          £2,027,700
                   2016/17                                          £1,844,943
                   2017/18                                          £1,696,018
                   2018/19                                          £2,572,131
                   2019/20                                          £2,701,693
                     Total                                          £15,634,805




                           Figure 2: UoA18 External research funding


                             OUA18 Research Income 2013 - 2020
            £3,000,000

            £2,500,000

            £2,000,000

            £1,500,000

            £1,000,000

              £500,000

                   £0
                         2013/14   2014/15   2015/16   2016/17   2017/28   2018/19   2019/20




Since 2013/14, Oxford Law has sought to diversify its sources of external research income (as Figure
3 below shows) and has secured 119 different research awards from 49 funders. These have
included: ESRC, AHRC and EPSRC; the British Academy and the Leverhulme Trust; the European
Research Council and the Australian Research Council; The Independent Research Foundation,
The Open Society Foundation, and The Oak Foundation.




                                                                                               Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                          Figure 3 – Sources of Law research income




Research Councils funding
Oxford Law members secured 55 new awards from UKRI (including the British Academy) during the
REF period, of which 19 were for early career fellowships. The UKRI research income in the REF
period was £5.3 million. Grants held during the period include:
     ‘Place, Crime and insecurity in Everyday life’ (Loader), with researchers at Keele, Edinburgh
       and UCL (ESRC), £1,008,401 100% FEC (£255,723 100% FEC for Oxford Law);
     ‘MaRIUS: Managing the Risks, Impacts and Uncertainties of droughts and water’ (Lange,
       Grecksch) (Natural Environment Research Council), £2,606,714 100% FEC (£422,298 100%
       FEC for Oxford Law);
     ‘Working with Information, Creation of Knowledge, and Energy Strategy Deployment
       (WICKED) in Non-Domestic Buildings’ (Bright) in partnership with Oxford Mathematics,
       Engineering Science, e-Research Centre, and Environmental Change Institute (EPSRC
       (2014-2016)), £615,726 100% FEC (£87,768 100% FEC Oxford Law);
     ‘Enhancing Democratic Habits: An Oral History of the Law Centres’ movement’ (Mulcahy)
       with partners from Queen’s University Belfast and the British Library (AHRC), £1,019,661
       100% FEC (£832,929 100% FEC for Oxford Law);
     ‘The Political Economies of School Exclusion and their Consequences’ (Condry and
       Ferguson) with researchers from the Oxford Departments of Education and Psychiatry, and
       Edinburgh, Cardiff, Queen’s University Belfast and LSE (ESRC large grant). £2,550,850
       100% FEC (£116,693 100% FEC for Oxford Law)




                                                                                          Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Several UKRI awards to Oxford Law are in artificial intelligence, big data and law, including:
    ‘Realising Accountable Intelligent Systems’ (Williams) in collaboration with computer
       scientists at Aberdeen and Cambridge (EPSRC), £1,366,572 100% FEC (£141,913 100%
       FEC for Oxford Law);
    ‘Harnessing the Power of Global Data to Support Young Children's Learning and
       Development: Analyses, dissemination and implementation’, (Fredman) in partnership with
       Oxford Department of Psychiatry, Witwatersrand, Hong Kong, Harvard, Pennsylvania,
       California, Nebraska, and New York Universities (ERSC (Global Challenges Research
       Fund)) £2,030,145 100% FEC (£115,224 100% FEC for Oxford Law);
    ‘Ensuring the benefits of AI in healthcare for all: Designing a Sustainable Platform for Public
       and Professional Stakeholder Engagement’, (Kaye) in collaboration with the Botnar
       Laboratory (Oxford) and Osaka University, Japan (ESRC/Japan Science and Technology
       Agency). ESRC award £507,999 100% FEC (£493,594 100% FEC for Oxford Law)

An especially ambitious project is summarised in Box 2.



         Box 2: Unlocking the Potential of Artificial Intelligence for English Law
 The Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund’s (ISCF) Next Generation Services Research
 Programme and UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) funded this project for two years
 (2019-2020) (£1,652,842 100% FEC (£893,817 100% FEC for Oxford Law). It is run
 by researchers in Oxford Law Faculty (Armour, Adams-Prassl, Williams) in close
 collaboration with Oxford researchers in Economics, Computer Science, Education and the
 Saïd Business School.
 This research explores the potential and limitations of using artificial intelligence (AI) in
 support of legal services. AI’s capabilities have made enormous recent leaps; many expect
 it to transform how the economy operates. In particular, activities relying on human
 knowledge to create value, insulated until now from mechanisation, are facing dramatic
 change. Legal services contribute to the economy both through revenues of service
 providers and through benefits provided to clients. Yet, beyond the law’s role in governing
 economic order, the legal system is more fundamentally a structure for social order. It sets
 out rules agreed on by society, and the limits of politicians’ ability to enact these rules.
 Consequently, the stakes for AI’s implementation in UK legal services are high. If
 mishandled, it could threaten both economic success and governance generally. If executed
 effectively, it is an opportunity to improve legal services not only for export but also for
 citizens and domestic small businesses. This project seeks to identify how constraints on
 the implementation of AI in legal services can be relaxed to unlock its potential for good.
 The project has, to date, produced 13 articles accepted for publication in peer-reviewed
 journals; 24 conference presentations; 12 white papers for users; 38 user presentations
 (including plenary sessions at Legal Geek and the European Commission’s Quality of
 Legislation seminar); engaged 17 user organisations in collaborative co-creation, and
 leveraged £450,000-worth of in-kind contribution through project participation from partner
 and user collaborations. It also supplied written Evidence and Workshop for a House of
 Commons Justice Committee Report, Court and Tribunal Reforms HC 190 (2019), at pp.
 73-76, and 79.




                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
UKRI Strategic Priorities funding
The Bonavero Institute of Human Rights works with a multidisciplinary team within Oxford as part of
a new Modern Slavery Policy and Evidence Centre (the MSPEC) funded by the UKRI Strategic
Priorities Fund (total funding £10million). The MSPEC is a consortium of six academic organisations
led by the Bingham Centre for the Rule of Law. The other organisations are the Bonavero Institute,
the Rights Lab at the University of Nottingham, the Wilberforce Institute at the University of Hull, the
Centre for the Study of International Slavery at the University of Liverpool, and The Alan Turing
Institute. The Centre is funded and supported for a five-year period by the AHRC with support from
the ESRC, and funding awarded by the UKRI. The four main research areas of the Centre are:
preventing modern slavery; understanding survivor needs and enhancing victim support; modern
slavery in business supply chains and effectiveness of legal enforcement measures. The research
facilitated by the MSPEC seeks to inform policy responses aimed at eradicating modern slavery.


European Union funding
The EU research income in the REF period was £3,114,408. Oxford Law has been awarded three
European Research Council grants. Three of these have been ERC five-year Starter grants:
    ‘Subjectivity, Identify and Penal Power: Incarceration in a Global Age’ (Bosworth)
      €1,204,237,
    ‘The Politics and Practice of Social Media in Conflict’ (Stremlau) €1,499,474, and
    ‘Rethinking Employment Law for a world of Algorithmic Management’ (Adams-Prassl)
      €1,496,130.

Bosworth’s award formed the platform for the formation of the Border Criminologies research
network (see s. 4.1). Additionally, Akande was a senior team member on an ERC grant for ‘The
Individualisation of War: Reconfiguring the Morality, Law and Politics of Armed Conflict’ (PI Welsh,
Oxford, Politics and International Relations); and the Centre for Social Legal Studies was host to an
ERC Consolidator grant held by Holden.


Research Foundation funding
Charitable foundation research income in the period was £1,912,142. Faculty members secured 30
research awards from charitable foundations, of which eight were early career fellowships. Awards
included:
     Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship on ‘Achieving Copyright Balance through the Structure
       of Tangible Property’ (Mysoor);
     Leverhulme Trust research project grant for a study of ‘The Effects of Competition Law on
       Economic Inequality’ (Ezrachi) £138,651;
     Philip Leverhulme Prize for Adams-Prassl, £100,000.
     Open Society Foundations Project Grant for ‘Immigration Detention in Italy and Greece:
       Safeguarding Human Rights at Europe’s Southern Frontier’ (Bosworth) 100,000USD,
     mid-career research fellowship from the Independent Social Research Foundation for a study
       ‘In search of a better politics of crime’ (Loader) £54,235,
     Chen-Wishart’s Asian Contract Law project, supported by the National University of
       Singapore and Ministry of Education Research Grant (approx. £250,000), and National
       Taiwan University (£50,000).


Internal Oxford funding
The Faculty has secured significant internal funding from the Oxford University John Fell Fund (41
awards totalling £559,595), and the ESRC Impact Acceleration Fund (23 awards totalling £288,818).


                                                                                               Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Research administration team plays a vital role in the research application process (from
alerting Faculty members to funding opportunities, through pre-grant preparation with costings and
internal reviewing, to post-award support with ethics clearance, project management and pathways
to impact). In 2020, the Faculty agreed to create a second full-time Research Facilitator post with a
particular focus on working proactively with (especially early and mid-career) Faculty members to
foster and support external research funding applications. We also plan to appoint a part-time impact
champion. We will recruit to both roles in 2021 when the Covid-induced recruitment freeze is thawed.


3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

St Cross Building
The Faculty and the wider University invested £12.5million in improving the St Cross Building. The
redevelopment – completed in January 2017 – created new purpose-built space for the Centre for
Criminology and new dedicated space for the Institute of European and Comparative Law, both of
which include open plan workspaces for research students and officers for academic visitors. This
went some way towards our long-term objective of consolidating the Faculty on a single site. We
enhanced the AV provision in many of our teaching rooms, so that we can record lectures for
teaching purposes and so that these rooms can be used to involve external participants in research
seminars. We also created a much-needed cafe/social space to encourage interaction among both
graduates and staff. Improvements were also made in the library and to the accessibility of the
building.

During the next five years, significant further development is planned in anticipation of the English
Faculty moving out of the St Cross Building in 2024. We aim to consolidate the Faculty and its
research centres into one space, by creating space for the Centre for Socio-Legal Studies and
HeLEX; improve access and provision for staff and students with disabilities; improve teaching
facilities, collaborative and social spaces; provide workspace for Law research students on a par
with that already provided in Criminology and Socio-Legal Studies, and create a research centre for
postdoctoral researchers.


Bonavero Institute of Human Rights
The Faculty and Mansfield College entered into a joint initiative to establish the Institute. The College
raised £10.46million for a purpose-built building from alumni and philanthropic sources. These
donations were invested into the University endowment fund and now support the running of the
Institute through two trust funds.


Libraries
The Bodleian Law Library is located in the St. Cross Building and holds over 550,000 volumes, the
Bodleian’s collection of UK Official Papers, and currently a European Documentation Centre. The
Law Library is a reference-only library and is arranged across four floors, offering 400 reader seats
and a reservation service for dedicated research desks. An extensive refurbishment project in 2015-
16 improved library accessibility and the library now offers two IT rooms, three small discussion
rooms, a seminar room, study carrels and a graduate reading room. The Library provides advanced
training on legal research skills and legal databases, and supports the Faculty with their research
and open access initiatives. New research students are encouraged to contact the four research
support librarians for practical advice on literature searching, reference management, open access,
etc. Over 80 ‘LibGuides’ provide information about the different parts of the Library’s collections
which contain materials from almost 90 jurisdictions including legal deposit materials, academic and
professional resources and 100 legal databases. Faculty and graduate students working in
                                                                                                Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Criminology and Socio-Legal Studies also benefit from the large collection of books and journals
held in the Social Sciences Library in the adjacent Manor Road Building (a multi-disciplinary
collection of over 200,000 volumes). Thirty College law libraries with core law reports, journals, and
monographs offer convenient resources to academic staff, close to their College offices. Faculty and
students also use All Souls College Library which holds 15,000 Law items.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Academic Networks and Collaborations

Faculty members contribute to wide-ranging academic networks and collaborations. Some involve
inter-disciplinary working with researchers across the University; others involve projects conducted
jointly with researchers at other institutions across the globe.


Collaborations across Oxford
These include:
    The Business Law Group and Oxford tax lawyers working with researchers in the Saïd
       Business School (‘SBS’). These collaborations have led to joint publications of books and
       articles; an annual Symposium and doctoral conferences; joint supervision of doctoral
       students, and successful grant applications (see Box 2 above).
    The Bonavero Institute (O’Regan, Heyns, Lazarus, Stubbins-Bates) has worked with the
       Blavatnik School of Government (Akande), leading to for e.g. Akande’s co-edited
       volume, Human Rights and 21st Century Challenges: Poverty, Conflict and the
       Environment (OUP, 2020).
    The Oxford Intellectual Property Research Centre and scholars in History (Charters and
       Graham) collaborated on changing understandings of ‘public knowledge’ across the
       eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. This shaped Burrell’s grant from the Elizabeth Blackwell
       Institute for Health Research, Wicked Prizes? Incentivising Innovation in AMR through
       Alternatives to the Patent System (with Kelly (PI, Bristol Law) and Viens (Global Health
       Policy, York University, Toronto)).
    Anne Davies chairs the Procurement of Government Outcomes Network at Blavatnik.

Collaborations across the globe
We are active across Asia, Europe, Africa and right around the world:
    Chen-Wishart leads a six-book project, Studies in the Contract Laws of Asia, that involves
      contributions from over 150 scholars, judges, practitioners and policy makers from 14
      jurisdictions (China, Japan, India, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia,
      Philippines, Indonesia, Myanmar, Thailand, Cambodia, and Vietnam). The first three volumes
      were published in 2016, 2018, and 2020.
    Chang runs the Rutgers Workshop on Chinese Philosophy, a biennial workshop bringing
      together leading work in Chinese and Western philosophy; she also co-created the
      UPDirectory, a searchable database of Anglophone philosophers from underrepresented
      groups in philosophy at www.theupdirectory.com.
    Zhou is founding advisory board member of the Asia Pacific Legal Innovation and
      Technology Association; Member of the World Economic Forum Expert Network (China,
      Justice, and Blockchain); technical Lead of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office China
      Business Environment Programme; Special Advisor, Great Britain China Centre;
      Advisor, Asia Society Policy Institute Belt and Road Initiative Taskforce; and Senior
      Consultant, International Labour Organization Asia-Pacific Office.

                                                                                             Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Institute of European and Comparative Law runs a vibrant academic visitor programme
       (close to 200 visitors from all over the world stayed between two and six months) and
       facilitates the Faculty’s collaboration with a range of European institutions. Every year, it
       hosts a Stockholm Centre Oxford Fellow and a Paris Visiting Fellow. It maintains regular
       exchanges with the Max Planck Institute for Comparative and International Private Law, the
       Law Faculty of the University of Seville, and the University Rome 1 La Sapienza. The
       Institute’s longstanding collaboration with French colleagues has led to the publication of
       several books accompanying (and in turn impacting) on the ongoing reforms of the French
       Civil Code, e.g., the ‘official’ English translation of the new provisions governing the law of
       obligations since 2016, commissioned by the French Ministry of Justice, was drawn by
       Cartwright and Whittaker in collaboration with Bénédicte Fauvarque-Cosson (Judge at the
       Conseil d’Etat).
      Oxford Human Rights Hub publishes daily blogs, 700-word analyses of cutting-edge human
       rights developments by expert contributors from across the globe (23 countries). It provides
       top-quality legal materials free online to a global audience (17,800 Twitter followers, 22,000
       unique website views monthly). It features podcasts and videos, write policy submissions,
       and run the open-access, peer-reviewed University of Oxford Human Rights Hub Journal.
      Centre for Criminology hosts Border Criminologies, an international network of
       researchers, practitioners, and those who have experienced border control. The network is
       directed by Bosworth, with associate directors in the US, Norway and the Netherlands. It runs
       a regular series of seminars and conferences, while hosting and attracting visiting academics
       and students. It operates an active blog, which in 2018-19 was read by over 120,000 people
       across 170 countries. The Blog has regional editors in South Asia and Latin America. It has
       international partnerships with the Border Crossing Observatory (Monash), the Department
       of Criminology and Sociology of Law (Oslo), and the European Border Communities
       Research Group at Leiden. In 2016, Border Criminologies won ‘OxTalent’, a University
       award for outreach and public engagement. The Centre for Criminology also established
       the Global Criminal Justice Hub to develop and support ties between staff and research
       students in Oxford, Leiden, Leuven, Pompeu Fabra (Barcelona), Hong Kong, Melbourne and
       Monash. The Hub hosts staff and student exchanges between partner institutions, runs early
       career writing conferences, and has facilitated the visit to Oxford by three Global Criminal
       Justice Fellows from Indonesia, Pakistan and China.
      Business Law Group has a strategic alliance with Columbia Law School with a faculty
       exchange component that has flourished into a number of joint conferences and research
       projects, including Principles of Financial Regulation (2016) (co-authored by Oxford and
       Columbia faculty members, publication followed by a conference in New York about the
       structure of financial regulation). It also hosts the active, peer-reviewed Oxford Business
       Law Blog, which attracts contributors from across the globe and receives an average of 2840
       unique page views per post.

4.2 Contributions to Economy and Society

The Faculty has made particular efforts to enable researchers at all career stages to build and sustain
relationships with non-academic partners. Engagement with legal practitioners and policymakers is
now embedded in Oxford Law, and our researchers at all levels contribute in various ways to the
development of legal practice and public policy. The benefits of the support provided can be seen in
the nine impact case studies submitted to REF2021, engagement described above (e.g., Oxford
Human Rights Hub, and Border Criminologies at s.4.1), and below.



                                                                                              Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.2.1 Contributions from established post-holders
Influencing judicial decisions
Our research is frequently cited by appellate courts around the world, and in some cases has
fundamentally shaped legal development. Figure 4 shows the aggregate frequency of judicial
citations of Faculty members’ research over the REF period. These include citations in the appellate
courts of an extraordinary range of jurisdictions (Australia, Canada, Cayman Islands, Delaware,
England and Wales, European Union, European Court of Human Rights, Germany, Hong Kong,
India, Israel, Malaysia, New Zealand, Singapore and South Africa). The research of Oxford Law
academics is frequently cited by the UK Supreme Court. Examples include citations of Steel in
Michael v Chief Constable of South Wales Police [2015] UKSC 2, [179]; Herring in Montgomery v
Lanarkshire Health Board [2015] UKSC 11, [108]; Swadling in Akers v Samba Financial Group [2017]
UKSC 6, [15, 45, 46, 50, 51, 55]; Goudkamp in Darnley v Croydon Health Services NHS Trust [2018]
UKSC 50, [23]; Stevens in Prudential Assurance v Revenue and Customs Commissioners [2018]
UKSC 39, [71]; and McFarlane in Manchester Ship Canal Company v Vauxhall Motors [2019] UKSC
46, [65]. Chen-Wishart’s work on the enforcement of one-sided variation of contracts illustrates the
depth and geographical reach of Oxford’s legal scholarship. Her work has: (i) provided detailed
critique of the current law (cited in New Zealand, Singapore and Canada); (ii) proposed the
elimination of the consideration requirement in one-sided contract variations (adopted in New
Zealand and Canada); and (iii) alternatively, proposed retention of consideration via another analysis
(adopted by the UK Court of Appeal).

In 2020, Burrows, who has taught and researched at Oxford for many years, was appointed Justice
of the UK Supreme Court. Most judges are appointed from the Bar rather than academia, and it is
unheard of for an academic to be appointed directly to the UK Supreme Court. Burrows is widely
believed to be the academic most frequently cited in the English courts, and his impact on the
development of the law has been unparalleled. He will now have a direct influence on the future
direction of English law through his judgments in the Supreme Court. He remains an Associate
Member of the Faculty. Burrows, Chen-Wishart and others have lectured to the Judicial College of
England and Wales.

           Figure 4: Judicial Citations of Oxford Law Faculty publications, 2014-20




                                                                                             Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Influencing Law Reform and Policy Debates
Oxford legal academics make frequent contributions to the law reform processes and policy debates,
by making written submissions to public enquiries, giving evidence to Parliamentary committees and
engaging in various forms of public service. Box 3 provides two illustrations.



                   Box 3: From Climate Change to Algorithmic Collusion

 Example 1: Rajamani works on the legal and regulatory challenges of climate change. In 2015
 she was part of the UN Climate Secretariat's core drafting and advisory team for the 2015
 Paris Agreement. As part of this team, she drafted compromise language in the sweet spot
 between the redlines of states, thereby helping craft language that facilitated the eventual
 agreement. She also drafted language for the decisions leading up to the Paris Agreement
 from 2011 (Durban Platform Action, the decision that provided the mandate for the Paris
 Agreement negotiations). Rajamani has since convened a series of workshops with
 Mission2020 that bring together climate litigators, scientists and academics who can provide
 an evidence base for claims; formed part of a legal team for a small island state exploring
 options for international climate litigation. Rajamani is also the co-ordinating Lead Author for
 the Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change's Sixth Assessment Report (chapter on
 international cooperation).

 Example 2: Ezrachi’s co-authored book (with Stucke, Tennessee, Law) Virtual Competition:
 The Promise and Perils of the Algorithm-Driven Economy (Harvard 2016) offered a first
 detailed account of the impact of algorithmic collusion and discrimination on markets and
 consumer welfare. It has had a profound impact on the development of enforcement agenda
 by competition agencies worldwide, and is considered the key authority on the subject. One
 reviewer, Frank Pasquale, described it as ‘a ground-breaking, critical work – a major
 contribution to the field of competition law.’ The research brought to light the possible risk of
 algorithmic tacit collusion, the possible use of algorithms to foster behavioural discrimination
 and the effects of platform market power on privacy, exploitation and data harvesting. The
 ensuing debate brought the topic to the attention of competition agencies and other policy
 bodies, leading to working groups on the subject, developments of screening methods, work
 by scholars to model possible collusion by algorithms, and work by enforcement agencies.


Faculty members served on councils/advisory groups/expert working parties, including for the
following organisations / as part of the following reviews:
      Arbitration and Conciliation Advisory Service (Anne Davies),
      Advancing Mental Health Equalities Taskforce (Tidball),
      British Library – National Life Story Collection (Mulcahy & Liberman),
      Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (Hodges),
      European Banking Institute (Enriques),
      European Commission (Armour),
      Institute for Fiscal Studies (Freedman),
      IP Australia (Burrell),
      Law Commission on Intermediated Securities (Payne),
      Lord Chancellor’s Advisory Committee on Private International Law (Dickinson),
      Ministry of Justice (Dickinson),
      Nuffield Council Working Party on Biodata (Kaye),

                                                                                              Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Office of the Czech Prime Minister (Havelkova),
      Office of the Greek Prime Minister (Tzanakopoulos),
      Office of the High Commission of Human Rights (Fredman),
      Office of Tax Simplification (Freedman),
      Royal College of Child and Paediatric Health (Goold)
      Strategic Review of Policing in England and Wales (Loader),
      UN Special Rapporteur on the Right to Privacy's Task Force on Privacy and the Protection
       of Health Data; Ethical, Legal and Social Implications (Kaye),
      UNIDROIT Working Group on Digital Assets and Private Law (Zhou),
      World Bank (Mou & Zhou),
      World Economic Forum (Akande & Wachter),
      World Intellectual Property Organisation (Gangjee).

Faculty members also serve as trustees/board members of, e.g.:
    Human Fertility and Embryo Authority (Herring),
    JUSTICE (Mulcahy),
    Sentencing Council for England and Wales (Roberts),
    Howard League for Penal Reform (Condry),
    Oxford India Centre (Lange),
    Equal Rights Trust (Fredman).

Faculty members who have given expert evidence to Parliamentary committees in the period
include: Adams-Prassl, Fisher, Fredman, Hodges, Rowbottom, and Webster. Members of the
Faculty have also engaged directly with legislative processes. For example, Khaitan worked with
Indian legislators to help draft The Anti-Discrimination and Equality Bill 2017, which was
introduced into the 16th Lok Sabha (India’s lower house) on 10 March 2017. Although this Bill lapsed,
it has helped put the need for antidiscrimination legislation back on the political agenda in India.

Our staff have also been invited by governments to contribute their expertise to legal teams, e.g.,
Sarooshi (part of the team advising the UK Government on the Parthenon Sculptures / Elgin Marbles)
and Higgins (part of Australia’s delegation at both Appellate Body and Panel hearings in the WTO
plain packaging litigation).


Covid and Sustainability
As part of our commitment to ensuring Oxford law speaks to global challenges, senior staff
(Enriques, Fisher and McFarlane) arranged a Faculty webinar on 5 June 2020, The COVID-19
Crisis: Legal, Policy and Ethical Challenges with over 20 papers delivered by members of our
community, ranging from Statutory Professors through to DPhil students. The webinar was attended
by more than 400 unique visitors. Associated publications have appeared both in academic journal
articles (e.g. (i) Fredman, Reeves (Oxford Sociology) and Campbell (Birmingham Law) (2020) 20
International Journal of Discrimination & the Law 183 (exploring the role of equality law in addressing
inequalities created and exacerbated by Covid; (ii) Burrell and Kelly (Bristol Law) (2020) 71 NILQ 89
(examining calls for the establishment of a prize fund for Covid research)), and in blogposts,
e.g. Foss-Solbrekk (DPhil candidate) (looking at patents and the affordability of Covid-19
Treatments). Longer term projects have also commenced, e.g., (i) Eidenmüller, van Zwieten and
Sussman on the efficacy of emergency measures to support businesses in financial distress; (ii)
Mulcahy’s ESRC project Virtual Justice: enhancing accessibility, participation and procedural justice
in family courts and tribunals during the COVID-19 pandemic.


                                                                                              Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The Oxford Sustainable Law Programme (SLP), established in 2020, is a joint initiative with the
Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment and directed by Wetzer. It is a multidisciplinary and
action-oriented research programme, by a global team of leading experts from across the University
and beyond, focused on leveraging the law as a tool to catalyse the sustainability transition. The
current focus is on attribution science and the law, systemic legal interventions, climate risk
governance, and net zero compliant legal architectures. In each, the SLP partners extensively with
governments, NGOs, and private sector parties around the world. The SLP delivers cutting-edge
thinking for the sake of action, impactful education, and meaningful engagement with stakeholders.

4.2.2 Contributions from early career researchers (ECRs)
ECRs are encouraged and actively supported to produce work with significant real-world impacts.
Their successes include:
    Stubbins-Bates (Merton College Junior Research Fellow, Early Career Fellow at the
       Bonavero Institute of Human Rights, and Research Fellow at the Oxford Institute for Ethics,
       Law and Armed Conflict) who researches at the intersection of international human rights law
       and international humanitarian law, where the two co-apply in armed conflict. Her work has
       been cited in: Joint Civil Society Report to the UN Committee against Torture on the UK's 6th
       periodic report (which included a recommendation, drawn from her work to '[d]evelop a
       methodology for assessing the effectiveness of training programmes' for the prevention of
       torture and ill-treatment); Committee against Torture's Concluding Observations, May 2019;
       and the December 2020 decision by the International Criminal Court Office of the Prosecutor
       (OTP) on the situation of the UK in Iraq.
    Jasini (ESRC Global Challenges Research Fund Postdoctoral Fellow) worked on an ESRC
       Impact Acceleration Award project Advancing the Impact of Victim Participation at the
       International Criminal Court: Developing Avenues for Collaboration. This brought together
       scholars, legal practitioners, and experts to discuss the complexities of victim participation
       and advance new pathways for victims to contribute to, and benefit from, their participation
       in international criminal proceedings.
    Willis (British Academy Postdoctoral Fellow) established a research group to investigate
       violent conflict in the Anglophone regions of Cameroon. This group includes barrister
       Caroline Mbinkar (Visiting Fellow, University College), Angove (Philosophy, Oxford), and two
       Faculty research students (McAulay, Ndeunyema). Funding came from the British Academy,
       Global Challenges Research Fund, John Fell Fund, University College and the Knowledge
       Exchange Seed Fund. In 2019, Willis' group produced its first report, ‘Human Rights Abuses
       in the Cameroon Anglophone Crisis: A Submission of Evidence to the UK Parliament.
    Trueblood (British Academy Postdoctoral Fellow, Bonavero Institute) has advised the official
       opposition in Alberta on the role of referendums in the process of policy change. She was
       also consulted by Green Party activists at the federal level in Canada on referendums on
       electoral reform. In January 2020, she was invited to submit oral and written evidence to the
       Constitution Unit’s Commission on Referendums on the Island of Ireland.

4.2.3 Contributions from graduate research students
Oxford Law has various schemes to enable research students to make wider contributions to society,
e.g.,
 Involvement in the Oxford Pro Bono Publico Project, which provides legal research to individuals
    and organizations also working on a pro bono basis by writing research report and amicus curiae
    briefs. Recent projects include reform of India’s sexual harassment laws, the scope of freedom
    of information in Hungary, and women’s inheritance rights in Botswana.

                                                                                            Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Creation of a legal clinic involving graduate students to assist prisoners facing deportation to
    access legal advice in 2018, by the Centre for Criminology and Bonavero Institute partnered with
    a local law firm, Turpin & Miller, and Her Majesty’s Prison Huntercombe, an all-foreign national
    prison.
   Creation of a set of research student internships by the Centre for Criminology in collaboration
    with the Death Penalty Project in London. This has recently led to creating an ESRC collaborative
    studentship on ‘Drugs, the death penalty and deterrence in Indonesia’.

4.2.4 Visiting professors scheme
The Faculty’s Visiting Professors Scheme contributes to, and impacts upon, legal practice and public
policy. At any given time, we have between 20-30 distinguished academics, judges and practitioners
from all over the world who enrich our research and teaching in a variety of ways, typically by
presenting papers and sharing their expertise with colleagues and research students. They have
included Denise Réaume, a leading feminist scholar from Toronto; Peter Watts QC, a well-known
commercial law academic and practitioner from Auckland; Richard Salter QC, a leading banking silk;
Philip Baker QC who works closely with our tax scholars; and Hindpal Singh Bhui, an Inspection
Team Leader at HM Inspectorate of Prisons with responsibility for the immigration detention estate
in England, who has contributed to the Border Criminologies project. Former Justices of the UK
Supreme Court also enrich our research environment as Visiting Professors (Baroness Hale, Lord
Hoffmann, and Lord Carnwath).

4.3 Leadership in, and Recognition by, the Academic Community

The contributions of Oxford legal academics to the wider academic community and recognition for
doing so are numerous. We can only give a flavour of it here.

Serving as peer reviewers for, e.g.:
    British Academy (Loader, Zedner),
    ESRC Peer Review College (Condry, Lange),
    European Research Council (Dagan, Eidenmuller),
    Frans Vanistendal award for best publication on international taxation (Dagan),
    John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation (Chang),
    Marc Sanders Metaethics Prize (Chang),
    National science foundations in Australia, Austria, Canada, Denmark, France, Finland,
       Germany, Hong Kong, Israel, Norway, Poland, Qatar, South Africa, Sweden, The
       Netherlands, Switzerland and the United States,
    Schock Prize in Philosophy (Chang),
    Wellcome Trust (Herring).

Fifty-four Law Faculty members serve as Editors or members of Advisory or Editorial Boards for
90 law journals, including:
     American Journal of International Law,
     American journal of Jurisprudence,
     Comparative Legal History,
     Criminal Law Review,
     Current Legal Problems,
     European Labour Law Journal,
     Howard Journal of Crime and Justice,
     Indian Law Review,
                                                                                            Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Journal of Environmental Law,
      Journal of Law and Society,
      Journal of Media Law,
      Law Quarterly Review,
      Legal Theory,
      Modern Law Review,
      Oxford Journal of Legal Studies,
      Social, Political and Legal Studies,
      Theoretical Criminology.

Editing book series, including:
    British Yearbook of International Law (Redgwell),
    Civil Justice Systems, Hart (Hodges),
    Clarendon Series in Criminology, OUP (Bosworth, Hoyle, Loader, Zedner),
    Diverse Voices, Bristol University Press (Herring);
    Great Debates, Palgrave (Herring),
    Oxford Legal History (Getzler),
    Oxford Legal Philosophy (Green, Endicott and Gardner),
    Oxford Monographs in International Law (Redgwell),
    Oxford Monographs in Labour Law (Davies),
    Oxford Studies in the Philosophy of Law (Green),
    Private International Law, Oxford UP (Dickinson),
    Routledge Studies in Crime, Justice and the Family (Condry),
    Routledge Studies in Criminal Justice, Borders and Citizenship (Bosworth),
    Studies in European Economic Law and Regulation, Springer (Helleringer),
    Studies in Restorative Justice, Eleven (Zinsstag),
    Studies of the Oxford Institute of European and Comparative Law, Hart (Häcker).

Serving on Advisory Boards of university centres, learned societies, and academic institutes across
the world, e.g.:
     American Law Institute (Armour, Goudkamp, Nolan, Swadling),
     American Society of International Law (Sarooshi),
     Asian Institute of International Financial Law (Armour),
     Australian Academy of Law (Zedner),
     Austrian Academy of Sciences (Ernst),
     Berkeley Center on Comparative Equality & Anti-Discrimination Law (Atrey),
     Centre for Interdisciplinary Studies of Law, University of Copenhagen (Ferguson),
     European Law Institute (Eidenmueller),
     Fulbright selection committee (Dagan),
     Hague Academy of International Law (Tzanakopoulis),
     International Academy of Comparative Law (Eidenmueller),
     Max Planck Institute for Foreign and International Criminal Law (Zedner),
     Monash Gender and Family Violence Prevention Centre (Condry),
     Ragnar Söderberg Foundation (Bogojevic),
     Scientific Advisory Board for the Max Planck Institute for the Study of Crime, Security and
       Law (Endicott),
     Swedish Network for European Legal Studies (Bogojevic),
     Surrey Centre for Law and Philosophy (Chang, Endicott).

                                                                                          Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The contribution of Oxford law researchers to the academy have been recognised by many
prestigious awards and fellowships, invitations to deliver prestigious lectures, the awarding of
honorary titles, and other prizes and forms of recognition, e.g.,

      Armour, Freedman, and Loader have been elected Fellows of the British Academy,
      Bright was elected a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences,
      Bogojovic was awarded the 2016 Nils Klim Prize,
      Chang was the Ombudsperson Concerning Discrimination and Sexual Harassment,
       American Philosophical Association,
      Endicott acted as assessor in the Review of the Law Department, LSE, 2017,
      Ferguson was elected Senior Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (now Advance HE),
      Freedman was made Honorary Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Taxation,
      Häcker was awarded the Therese von Bayern Prize 2015 (LMU Munich),
      Häcker is Council member of the British Association of Comparative Law,
      Herring is a member of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority,
      Zhou has won a slew of prizes, including: Young Women to Watch in International Affairs
       Award, 2020; Association for Asian Studies-Luce Foundation Law, Society, and Justice
       Workshop Award, 2019; Society for the Advancement of Socio-Economics Annual Meeting
       Early Career Award, 2017; British Council’s Education UK Alumni Social Impact Award
       (Finalist), 2016.

Faculty members have won many prizes for their research, e.g., book prizes have been awarded
to:
     Adams-Prassl (Humans as a Service),
     Atrey (Intersectional Discrimination),
     Dagan (International Tax Policy: Between Competition and Cooperation),
     Ghanea (Freedom of Religion or Belief: An International Law Commentary),
     Herring (Medical law and Ethics, 7th ed).

Examples of best journal article awards include:
    Adams-Prassl (Modern Law Review),
    Armour (Journal of Professions and Organization, for an article with Sako (Oxford, Saïd
      Business School),
    Bogojevic (Journal of Environmental Law),
    Dagan (Kibbutz Fund Award for an article with Margalith (Sapir College, Law) in the Tel-Aviv
      University Law Review),
    Jackson (Journal of International Criminal Justice),
    Kennefick (David Yale Prize of the Selden Society for an article in Journal of Legal History),
    Wachter (Privacy Law Scholars Conference Papers Award for an article with Mittelstadt
      (Oxford, Philosophy) in Columbia Business Law Review)
    Zedner (Theoretical Criminology),
    Zhou (International Association of Labour Law Journals Marco Biagi Award).




                                                                                          Page 35
