Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Liverpool



 Unit of Assessment: 18 Law



 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 1.1. Unit context and structure
 Liverpool Law School (LLS/the Department) is one of two departments within the School of Law
 and Social Justice (SLSJ), based within the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences. Since
 REF2014, the School has embarked upon far-reaching transition and benefited from a level
 of investment that is unprecedented in its history. We have increased our number of
 researchers by over 60%, from 35 to 57 (20 out of 25 eligible staff were returned in REF
 2014), quadrupled our devolved team of professional services support, and increased our annual
 budget for research and impact from approximately £76,000 in 2014 to over £700,000 in 2020
 (s.1.2.ii). This investment culminated in our relocation in 2019 to a £25 million state-of-the-
 art building in the centre of campus (s.3.2).


 Such expansion has significantly enriched our research and impact culture and capacity, enabling
 us to advance existing strenghts (Charity Law, Children’s Rights, EU Law, Health Law,
 International Human Rights Law) and emerging research priorities (e.g. Global Health, Public Law,
 Gender and the Law). We have gained strength and diversifed research in international economic
 law during this REF period too, with an expanded body of trade, investment, EU internal market
 and intellectual property lawyers.


 Our research and impact is defined by its commitment to advancing social justice. In this
 REF period, we have sought to embed those values in the very fabric of our research culture so
 that the values associated with this concept - equality, inclusion, fairness, opportunity and
 transparency - drive not just what we do, but how we do it: our approach to mentoring, promotion
 and balancing research and other academic tasks are all managed according to transparent and
 equitable criteria whilst being flexible enough to respond to individual needs and career levels
 (s.2.1); we forge and maintain ethical strategic partnerships with external bodies to ensure that
 the impacts resulting from our research pursue clear social justice goals (ss.1iv and 4); and our
 internationalisation strategy responds to broader social justice concerns around decolonising
 research agendas and ensuring inclusive international research collaborations (s.1.3).


 Our work is supported by eight research clusters which have evolved and flourished since
 REF2014: Charity Law and Policy Unit (Charities); the European Children’s Rights Unit

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Children); Liverpool Economic Governance Unit (Economic Governance); EU Law@Liverpool
 (EU Law); Health Law and Regulation Unit (Health); International Law and Human Rights Unit
 (Human Rights); Critical Approaches to International Criminal Law (International Criminal); and
 Law and Non-Communicable Diseases (NCD). The clusters are porous – a number of staff are
 members of more than one - and are critical to integrating early career staff and external partners
 into the research culture of the Department and wider university. That includes cross-disciplinary
 collaboration: the Health, Children and NCD clusters actively contribute to and complement work
 of the wider University theme of Starting Well, Living Well, Ageing Well and lead initiatives under
 the Faculty themes of Children and Childhood, Slavery and Unfree Labour, Medical Humanities
 and Transforming Conflict. For example, Currie and Stalford worked with colleagues in the
 Politics Department and the Management School on a British Academy-funded research project
 on Modern Slavery and Transparency in chocolate and garment industry supply chains (2017-
 19).


 Our multi-award-winning in-house Law Clinic is now the largest university-based clinic in the UK
 (in terms of staff and student involvement) and the most wide-reaching (in terms of the scope
 and reach of its advice). During this REF period, the Law Clinic has evolved from being
 primarily a practical teaching resource into a hub for cutting-edge research and
 knowledge exchange. Creative collaborations between academics and the Clinic have
 optimised the practical influence of our research on the legal, policy and civil society sectors and
 yielded research and impact of international distinction in relation to statelessness, access to
 justice, modern slavery and strategic litigation to advance children’s rights (ss. 4.5 and 4.6).


 In the final year of this REF period, we have adapted our research support to respond to the
 challenges posed by COVID-19. This has included more intensive mentoring (s.2.1), the
 introduction of a training programme to support staff in applying for and managing research grants
 (s.3.1), and flexibility to ensure staff can effectively deliver on existing commitments. We have also
 stepped up to our civic duty as researchers by initiating new research and impact projects
 responding specifically to the pandemic. For instance, Byrne and Alghrani launched a nation-wide
 consultation on the impact of lockdown on provision for children with special educational needs
 and disabilities; Stalford has been awarded ESRC Rapid Response funding to lead an 18-month
 empirical project to explore the impact of the pandemic on young unaccompanied asylum seekers.
 Colleagues have also been appointed to key COVID-19 consultancies, e.g. Garde as
 Commissioner to the new The Lancet-Chatham House Commission on Improving Population
 Health post COVID-19 (2020-2022).




                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.2. Research and Impact Strategy
 Our REF2021 Research Strategy both fulfils and provides a more ambitious development of the
 priorities set out in REF2014 which were to: build on our distinctive reputation for research
 relating to social justice; maintain and enhance a research environment which enables staff to
 produce world leading research; nurture doctoral and early career researchers in particular; and
 maximise the impact of our research for actors beyond the academic community.


 Our revised strategy has built on these commitments by:


    i.    Embedding social justice in all aspects of our research environment;
    ii. Enhancing research quality and innovation;
    iii. Nurturing talent, enabling early career researchers to thrive at the heart of
          departmental life whilst also supporting the continued progression of mid-career and
          more senior colleagues;
    iv. Integrating impact into all strategic policies and resourcing decisions.


    i.       Embedding Social Justice
 Colleagues engage with social justice through a range of methods, from doctrinal and theoretical,
 to qualitative empirical and participatory action research. For example, access to justice is a key
 theme of our research and has been approached doctrinally (e.g. transitional justice – McAuliffe),
 empirically (e.g. health and education law – Case, Fox; Alghrani and Byrne; welfare law – Organ
 and Sigafoos), theoretically (e.g. materialism, affect theory and the rape trial process - Carline;
 international law and imperialism – Knox), and with a view to enhancing practice amongst
 clinicians, lawyers and judges both domestically (e.g. Daly and Stalford) and internationally (e.g.
 Dzehtsiarou, Subramanian and Tzevelekos – see s.4). Our research into trade and investment law
 similarly exemplifies how a social justice perspective can enrich areas not traditionally considered
 from this perspective, e.g. Sattorova’s work explores the structural, normative and institutional
 power inequalities that inhibit Developing States’ participation in the international investment
 regime.


    ii.      Enhancing Research Quality and Innovation
 We have cultivated an environment conducive to the production of high quality, innovative
 research, in particular through: an increase in protected research time; more rigorous internal peer
 review processes; substantial investment in internal funding and administrative support for
 research and impact activity; and the work of our research clusters.


 Protected research time

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Throughout this REF period (with the exception of 2020/21 as a result of COVID-19) colleagues
 have been eligible to apply for one full year of research leave after two years of normal
 academic service. In a standard three-year cycle, this enables colleagues to be on research
 leave for two out of six semesters. Since January 2014, 55 staff have benefited from this research
 leave, equating to 130 semesters dedicated to the production of research outputs and impact
 activities. This policy has created space for the completion of prize-winning outputs (e.g. Fox was
 awarded the 2018 SLSA prize for best article). It has enabled ECRs to focus on developing
 monographs from their PhD theses (e.g. Columb, Fanning, Gideon, Horton. Columb’s ‘Trading
 Life’ book was recently shortlisted for the Socio Legal Studies Association prize for best early
 career monograph). It has given more established colleagues the time to produce career-defining
 work on the path to higher promotion (e.g. McAuliffe, Alghrani, Daly, Fanning, Horsley). In terms
 of impact, it has released staff from leadership roles to respond to pressing legal and constitutional
 questions (e.g. Dougan’s high profile work on Brexit – see Impact Case Study) and to lead
 ambitious high impact projects with external partners (e.g. Drywood’s work on children and the
 football industry with UNICEF and FIFA; and Garde’s work on childhood obesity with WHO and
 UNICEF – see Impact Case Study). It has also allowed space to pursue successful applications
 for external funding (e.g. Currie’s AHRC-funded Modern Slavery award in 2019). Outside research
 leave, 40% of contractual time remains allocated to research and impact, while staff are also
 guaranteed at least one day per week free from all other commitments during teaching semesters.
 We have minimised all administrative meetings out of term, and particularly over June-August, to
 free up time for sustained research across the academic year.


 Internal collaboration and peer review
 Peer review between colleagues working in complementary areas is now routine for all draft
 outputs and funding proposals, both through our research cluster networks and by the research
 leadership team. Peer review has been complemented by more intensive mentoring for ECRs in
 writing and co-authorship, resulting in a series of outputs included in our REF submission (e.g.
 Gordon with Shillito; Fox with Gray; Dougan with Sowery and Woodhouse; and McAuliffe with
 Batesmith). Similarly, many of the substantive activities detailed in our Impact Case Studies were
 the product of strategic advice and peer review by our Impact Working Group, supported by a
 dedicated postdoctoral Impact Officer based in the Department.


 We hold monthly work-in-progress seminars, providing an inclusive forum for all staff and PGRs
 working to share ideas and obtain feedback on every aspect and at every stage of research. These
 seminars are instrumental to nurturing a vibrant, collaborative research environment: all new
 colleagues and those who have returned from research leave present their latest work. The
 benefits of the feedback received in this forum are evident in the quality of the outputs
 subsequently published (e.g. Batesmith’s article on 'lawyering, dignity and resistance in Myanmar'


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Stalford’s ‘Judgments for Children’ article were both enriched by feedback at staff seminars
 and subsequently shortlisted for the Socio-Legal Studies Association best article prize in 2020 and
 2021 respectively), and in the success of grant proposals (e.g. Organ’s successful funding
 application to the European Commission to work on Citizens’ Assemblies, 2018 see s.3.1.i). All of
 this activity is further complemented by specialist discussion groups. As examples, the Children
 and International Criminal clusters each hold regular reading groups, and a new Equality and
 Diversity reading group was introduced in 2019 (s.2.3).


 Enhanced Internal funding and support
 Since REF2014, the School has: doubled the budget and extended the scope of our internal
 Research and Impact Development Fund; nearly doubled the research allowance allocated
 to individuals; nearly tripled funding for research clusters; introduced an annual internship
 (£10k) and internationalisation (£20k) fund (s.1.3); invested £435,500 in postdoctoral
 research posts; and spent a further £38,000 in dedicated postdoctoral support for impact.
 The Department has also recruited and internally funded 25 Graduate Teaching Assistants
 over the course of this REF to stimulate PhD recruitment and ensure that teaching loads for staff
 are manageable (s.2.2).


 All staff have had access to an annual allowance of £1,300 during this REF period (increased
 from £700 in REF 2014) to facilitate the production of research, support international
 collaboration and promote effective dissemination. PGRs are allocated £500 (a 100% increase
 on their REF2014 allocation). Further funding for individuals is available on a discretionary basis,
 e.g. Dougan benefited from considerable additional support for his series of “Brexit lectures”
 across the UK (see Impact Case Study). Twice yearly, staff can apply for up to £10,000 each
 from the SLSJ’s £60k Research and Impact Development Fund. This fund has supported
 over 40 projects during this REF period alone, e.g. Fanning and Farrell’s international
 conference on ‘After Chilcot: Evaluating the Legal Implications of the Iraq Inquiry’ (2016). The
 fund has also been used to nurture new research collaborations and leverage further external
 funding (s.3.1).


 Inclusive, Interdisciplinary Research Clusters
 Our research clusters remain central to promoting research quality, impact and innovation,
 through a rich, annual schedule of activities. Each cluster has a budget of £2,500 per year
 (compared with £1,000 in REF2014), supplemented by external grants and consultancy
 income, e.g. Charities benefits from annual sponsorship (£2,500) from a specialist private law
 firm. All clusters have autonomy to pursue their respective priorities for research and impact, in
 line with their shared commitment to nurturing talent and pursuing social justice. For example,


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Charities, Children, EU law and NCD have each focused significant effort on supporting and
 promoting their impact activities, particularly around major social challenges such as Brexit,
 access to justice, tackling obesity and austerity – manifested in deep engagement with civil
 society   organisations    and    campaign     groups,    parliamentarians    and    government
 departments/agencies, locally, nationally and internationally (see s.4).


 The clusters have also played pivotal roles in cultivating cross-departmental and cross-faculty
 collaboration and exchange. For example, Stalford leads both the Children cluster and the
 Faculty’s Children and Childhood research theme; Schwobel-Patel led the International Criminal
 Cluster and co-led on the Faculty’s Transforming Conflict project (2017-2019); and Alghrani led
 the Health Cluster while also acting as Critical Medical Humanities Theme Lead for the Centre
 for the Humanities and Social Sciences of Health, Medicine and Technology. In line with the
 priorities identified in REF2014, the Health Cluster has expanded its cross campus and external
 profile by building new connections with the School of Veterinary Science and strengthening its
 research links with local hospitals such as Alder Hey Children’s Hospital and Liverpool Women’s
 Hospital (e.g. Alghrani has worked on producing multi-disciplinary guidance for clinical decision-
 making around COVID-19). Similarly, NCD has collaborated with colleagues in Psychology and
 Public Health as part of University’s leading work on tackling childhood obesity; and since 2018,
 members of the Children cluster have worked closely with Public Health colleagues to develop
 and implement plans with Liverpool City Council for Liverpool to become a UNICEF Child
 Friendly City.


 The substantive focus of cluster activities, their working methods, their resourcing and their
 management, are all informed by our social justice ethos. For example, clusters promote
 inclusion by assigning and rotating key roles to early and mid-career researchers: Human Rights
 has been led by two Senior Lecturers during this REF period, while EU Law has been led by
 ECRs throughout – advised and supported by more experienced colleagues. Clusters also use
 some of their funding to support PGRs to attend conferences and other networking events (e.g.
 Charities funded Crumley to attend the annual Conference of the Association for Research on
 Non-profit Organizations and Voluntary Action in Grand Rapids, the USA in 2017).


    iii.    Nurturing Talent
 We celebrate the vitality of our relatively high proportion (18% - 10 out of 57) of ECR staff and
 embrace the fresh methodological and theoretical approaches they bring. Our ‘Nurturing Talent’
 priority reflects the commitment made in REF2014 to enabling outstanding early career
 colleagues to reach their full potential and actively shape our department.




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ECRs, under the mentorship of more senior colleagues, have been encouraged to expand their
 individual research profiles in ways that complement and enrich existing areas of expertise. For
 example, Sowery has been supported by Dougan to develop research on animal welfare through
 the lens of EU law leading to a substantial single-authored publication in the Common Market
 Law Review in 2018; and Singh, under the direction of Fox, has brought theories of care and
 vulnerability to bear on her research on women in the criminal justice system. Similarly, Garde
 has engaged ECR colleagues as co-editors on projects involving other internationally-leading
 scholars, e.g. Curtis co-edited Garde’s ‘Ending Childhood Obesity’ collection together with the
 UN Special Rapporteur on Extreme Poverty and Human Rights; while Zrilic co-edited with Garde
 a Special Issue of the Journal of World Investment and Trade on international investment law
 and NCD prevention (October 2020). We have extended our nurturing talent priority in the current
 REF period to support the development of mid-career and senior colleagues too, recognising
 that talent needs to be sustained throughout our professional careers (s.2.1).


    iv.      Integrating Impact
 Our agenda of ‘embedding and expanding impact’ steps up our efforts to provide all colleagues
 with the skills and support to ensure their research has relevance beyond academia. We
 appointed a School-level impact lead from the professoriate in 2014 and adopted a more
 systematic approach to research impact through a range of measures:


    •     we have integrated impact initiatives into research planning and support: impact is now
          a standard component of annual research planning meetings;
    •     we funded three postdoctoral researchers and a one-year doctoral internship to
          provide intensive support for impact-related work, including the development of our
          impact case studies.
    •     ring-fenced funding is available to nurture collaborations with high impact potential. The
          annual budget for SLSJ’s Research Development and Impact Fund was doubled from
          £30,000 in REF2014, to £60,000 by 2020. This has supported new collaborations with
          legal and welfare practitioners (e.g. Organ and Sigafoos’ project on legal aid and access
          to justice); civil society organisations (e.g. Currie’s work on trafficking with the Red
          Cross); policymakers (e.g. Messenger and Sattorova’s secondment to the Foreign and
          Commonwealth Office); and the wider public (e.g. EU Law cluster’s extensive public
          engagement around Brexit – see s.3.1).
    •     staff have been granted flexible relief from other academic duties to enable them respond
          to high impact opportunities at short notice. In particular, Dougan, Garde and Stalford
          have each benefited from enhanced support (e.g. relief from marking loads and




                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        administrative duties; dedicated post-doctoral support) to undertake the intensive
        activities detailed in their Impact Case Studies.
    •   we have invested in professional impact training: impact workshops led by external
        speakers and involving representatives from non-academic sectors, held throughout this
        REF period, discussed how to build impact into research plans, foster strategic
        partnerships, and disseminate research to different audiences. We have organised
        intensive media training courses with former BBC reporters (2017 and 2019); invited
        representatives from the Joseph Rowntree Foundation, the Parliamentary Outreach
        Office and the Department for Work and Pensions to provide dedicated workshops on
        how to maximise policy impact; and have held a workshop with the founder of Impact
        Law for Social Justice on how to support legal campaigning and strategic litigation (2018).


 1.3. Internationalisation strategy
 We have developed and are implementing a more ambitious internationalisation strategy that
 reflects and reinforces our commitment to social justice. During the course of this REF period,
 our International Visiting Fellowships have hosted up to five international scholars every
 year, with a stipend of up to £2,000 each. These have cultivated valuable cross-institutional and
 cross-national links with individual researchers. For example, Esakov’s visiting fellowship in 2018
 laid the groundwork for a subsequent co-authored article with Dzehtsiarou on the selection of
 Russian candidates to the European Court of Human Rights (2020), and the establishment of a
 PhD exchange programme between the Higher School of Economics in Moscow and LLS. Other
 visiting scholars were fully integrated into the activities and discussions of research clusters, e.g.
 Karatzia (2017) in EU Law; Shenoy (2018) in Economic Governance; and Wolcher in International
 Criminal (2019).


 Our revised strategy for 2020 onwards extends the budget to £2,500 per visiting scholar
 with a discretion to extend this to up to £5,000 for scholars from low and middle-income
 regions. Our revised strategy also adopts a more explicit awareness of the legacies of colonialism
 in the context of our research. In practice, this requires reflection on the integrity and equity of our
 approaches to knowledge production, funding, international collaboration, dissemination and
 research-informed teaching. Our strategy also emphasises sustainability, both environmentally
 and intellectually. For instance, the Children cluster have acted on this commitment by exploring
 in a series of workshops in 2019 what it means to decolonise children’s rights research, with input
 from the Human Rights cluster’s knowledge of Third World Approaches to International Law. The
 Children cluster then organised a workshop on the same theme as part of a paper-free
 international PhD symposium on children’s rights which it hosted in December 2019. The resulting




                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 overview of decolonising children’s rights research were published in an editorial in the
 International Journal of Children’s Rights (Issue 1, 2020).


 One of the few silver linings of COVID-19 has been to accelerate progress in deploying our
 technical and digital capacities to minimise air travel whilst also sustaining and developing our
 international networks. We have extended our existing international fellowship scheme to
 enable us to host visiting scholars remotely and have already held a range of online
 international events, e.g. Dzehtsiarou’s international online conference on Human Rights in Times
 of Coronavirus (April 2020); Murphy’s Reflections on the ‘Trump Doctrine’: the US Election and
 US Foreign Policy (November 2020).



 2. People

 The Department has undergone a period of substantial managed growth since REF2014, with
 strategic appointments made at every level from Professional Services Support to Lecturer and
 Professor.


 2.1. Staffing Strategy and profile
 Our REF2014 return included a high proportion of ECR staff (8 out of 20) and a relatively small
 body of senior staff (only 3 out of 20 were Professors). The period 2014-2021 has seen
 substantial growth aimed at sustaining investment in the recruitment of the most promising
 scholars, whilst building capacity in our research leadership. 39 additional research-active
 staff have been appointed in this REF period, including two new professors and seven
 senior lecturers. Currently, the UoA comprises 11 Professors; 3 Readers; 21 Senior Lecturers;
 20 Lecturers (including 10 ECRs).


 We have also invested significantly in our postdoctoral body of researchers, internally-funding 3
 x three-year postdoctoral fellows from 2016 and a five-year tenure track Derby Fellowship in
 2018 which will lead to a permanent lectureship (Barry). We also secured highly competitive
 ESRC postdoctoral funding to support the appointment of Gray in 2019 and have appointed an
 additional five-year tenure track Derby Fellow to our community of children’s rights researchers
 (starting in the spring 2021).


 The focus of our recruitment strategy remains as it was in REF2014: to sustain and enhance our
 Research Clusters and to enrich our Law and Social Justice theme. In particular, we have
 fulfilled the commitment made in REF2014 to build capacity in our Health cluster, having
 appointed a chair (Fox), two lecturers (Horton, Waxman), one postdoc (Gray) and seven PhD



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students during this REF period. A further senior lecturer and lecturer working in the field of
 health law will join the Department in the spring/summer 2021.


 In line with our research strategy of ‘nurturing talent’, we have continued to recruit promising
 ECRs to help shape existing and emerging research strengths. Across the REF period, these
 have included 10 of own PhD and postdoctoral students, many of whom were funded
 under our Graduate Teaching Assistantship scheme (Byrne, Curtis, Gray, Hanuz, Murphy,
 Organ, Shillito, Singh, Sowery and Woodhouse). Other PGRs and PDRAs have secured
 lectureships elsewhere but retain strong links with Liverpool, e.g. Heah, a former PGR now at
 Lancaster, continues to collaborate with the Children Cluster; Gokani, a former PGR now at
 Essex, retains strong links with the NCD cluster.


 The unit established the role of Environment and ECR Officer in 2017 to respond to ECR
 needs, provide an ECR perspective on policy developments, and organize events and training.
 In addition to benefitting from dedicated mentoring, ECRs receive a 20% reduction in teaching
 loads during their probation. In this REF period, we also introduced writing workshops, informal
 catch-up lunches and Faculty-level networking and training events, all of which have contributed
 to a vibrant and collegiate ECR community. ECRs have also received funding for pump-priming
 research, networking and dissemination from the SLSJ’s Research Development and Impact
 Fund, both individually (e.g. Murphy, Picton, Sowery) and in partnership with more senior
 colleagues (e.g. Knox with Schwöbel-Patel for their ‘Aesthetics and Counter-Aesthetics’ event);
 while ECRs have also benefited from the University’s Returners Fund, designed to support
 research reintegration following a period of maternity or parental leave (e.g. Gideon). ECR-
 targeted support has enabled 11 ECRs who started as Lecturers to progress to Senior
 Lectureship and beyond during this REF period (Currie, Daly, Drywood, Fanning, Farrell,
 Gibson, Gordon, Horsely, Messenger, Reynolds, Sattorova)


 Our focus on nurturing talent has also ensured the career progression of our mid-career
 researchers (MCRs). Since the census date for REF 2014, 9 of our MCRs, including some
 who had started this REF period as Lecturers, have been promoted to Reader (Farrell,
 Sattorova) or Professor (Alghrani, Barr, Dzehtsiarou, Gordon, McAuliffe, Morris and Stalford).
 They, along with other promoted ECRs, have been appointed to key strategic roles within our
 research environment to nurture leadership skills and facilitate succession planning, e.g. Farrell
 and Reynolds as PGR Directors; Drywood, Horsley and McAuliffe as Associate Heads of
 Department; Dzehtsiarou as Associate Dean for Research and Impact).


 Our dedicated Mentorship Co-ordinator manages a mentorship programme for all staff up to and
 including Reader level. Mentoring is provided by our 11 Professors and takes the form of regular


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 one-to-one discussions together with informal research coffee mornings. To help ensure
 effective support and consistency across our expanded staff base, the Associate Heads of
 Department (each responsible for a cohort of non-professorial staff) work together and in close
 cooperation with the Head of Department to ensure that everyone’s research needs are identified
 and accommodated alongside other teaching and administrative workloads. All of these
 networks and initiatives then feed into the more formal mechanisms of staff development already
 established by REF2014 including annual Professional Development Reviews and Research
 Planning Meetings to build bespoke support around colleagues’ rolling five-year research and
 impact plans.


 2.2. PGR training and supervision
 We have fostered a thriving PGR community during this REF period, and have seen a 92%
 increase in the average number of doctoral completions per year, from 2.6 in REF 2014 to 5.0
 by REF 2021. As of the census date, 35 PGRs had successfully passed their viva
 (compared with 10 at the same stage for REF2014). Our approach to PGR training and
 development is driven by three priorities:


     i.      Ensuring quality research supervision and support
 The School’s investment in staff appointments has increased our capacity to supervise a larger
 number of more diverse PhD projects straddling various legal sub-disciplines and methods. 42
 new PhD students have been recruited during this period, compared to 33 in REF2014.
 New doctoral research covers, e.g. transgender rights and same-sex marriage in sub-Saharan
 Africa; cultural heritage in conflict situations; climate change and the law; the use of new
 technologies in universities.


 This expansion is the product of an increased number of internally-funded placements and a
 concerted effort to pursue external funding. Specifically, our Graduate Teaching Assistant
 (GTA) scheme has funded 25 PGRs in this REF period, compared with 8 during the
 previous cycle. This programme offers full tuition at the home/EU-level plus a stipend of
 approximately £15k per year over four years, rather than the standard three, to ensure PGRs
 have sufficient funded research time to complete their projects. The Department has also
 successfully supported alumni into postgraduate research through the University’s Sir Joseph
 Rotblat scholarship and has nurtured cross-disciplinary PhD projects through Alder Hey’s Hugh
 Greenwood Fund (e.g. PGR Preston is co-supervised by Stalford and Alder Hey to conduct work
 on the recruitment of children to clinical trials).




                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Externally, the Department has taken a leading role in the AHRC’s North West Consortium
 Doctoral Training Partnership (NWCDTP) and the ESRC’s North West Social Science Doctoral
 Training Partnership (NWSSDTP) with Drywood, with Garde and Subramanian acting as
 law/socio-legal studies pathway leads and representatives. Three AHRC awards have been
 secured in this REF period, and a new PGR funding lead has been appointed to improve our
 success over the next five years. Our commitment to supporting postgraduate research with a
 social justice mission has also appealed to education charities such as the Hodgson Trust.
 During this cycle, the department has secured 6 fully-funded Hodgson Trust scholars
 (home/EU/international fees + stipend). These have funded research on a range of issues
 including Brexit (Nyatanga; Reeder) and Climate Change (Payva-Almonte).


 Every PGR has two supervisors. Primary supervision is provided by those who have already
 supervised PhDs to completion. Early career supervisors are partnered with more experienced
 colleagues and supported through institutional-level training on supervising and examining
 PhDs. Students meet with their primary supervisors once a month, and with the whole
 supervisory team at least once a semester, with all meetings and progress formally recorded
 online. PGRs deliver presentations at the department’s annual doctoral conference and are
 formally assessed every year through Independent Progress Assessment Panels, comprising
 two members of staff beyond the supervisory team, and which are designed to identify and
 address issues at the earliest stage possible.


 Other mechanisms to monitor and respond to PGR needs include: allocation of a PGR ‘buddy’ for
 peer support during the initial stages of postgraduate research; a GTA coordinator to respond to
 issues raised by PGRs with teaching responsibilities; and PGR representation on the Staff-Student
 Liaison Committee.


    ii.     Maximising PGR contributions to research and impact
 LLS ensures that PGRs are equal contributors to and beneficiaries of our research environment.
 PGRs are active members of research clusters, regularly presenting at and obtaining feedback
 from work-in-progress seminars, and attending skills-building events, e.g. International Criminal
 organised a workshop on ‘Theoretical Approaches to Legal Research for PGRs/ECRs’ as part
 of a series of events delivered by international visiting fellow, Wolcher (2019) and the Children
 Cluster funds PGRs to attend its annual two-day residential writing retreat to stimulate new
 methodological and theoretical approaches to research.


 Staff have generated opportunities for PhD students to undertake paid research on funded
 projects with high impact potential, enabling them to cultivate skills and contacts for their own
 research. For example, Woodhouse acted as Impact and Communications Coordinator for EU

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Law, with responsibility for organising Brexit-related events including online Reddit “Ask Me
 Anything” sessions and a dedicated YouTube channel; Clough was employed as a research
 assistant on Stalford’s Home Office-funded consultancy, to develop a children’s communication
 strategy relating to the EU Settlement Scheme (see Impact Case Studies). PGRs are also
 encouraged to participate in external knowledge exchange and policy-facing activities. For
 example, NCD has engaged PhD students in high level international policy and capacity building
 initiatives. With Garde’s support, Gokani, Ward, Byrne and Murphy (all as PGRs) participated in
 the delivery of training sessions for the WHO, UNICEF, a range of national governments, plus
 public health agencies and NGO federations worldwide.


 PGRs have been supported to undertake their own international networking initiatives. For
 example, Sowery and Woodhouse (as PGRs) introduced a Liverpool-Leiden-Oslo EU Law PGR
 network with annual meetings across each institution; the Human Rights cluster funded
 Butchard, Murphy, Nessa, Coakley and Olunga (all as PGRs) to run an International Law
 Postgraduate Conference for three years running (2016, 2017 and 2019), attracting participants
 from five continents; and PhD students from the Children cluster organise and present work-in-
 progress at the international PhD Symposium on Children’s Rights (established by the Children
 Cluster during the last REF period and now in its 8th year), attracting PGRs from across Europe
 and Australasia.


 Finally, all students are encouraged to publish their research before completion of their doctorate
 to expose them to rigorous external peer review and to enhance their employability. Senior staff
 support this by involving PGRs in major edited collections and by co-authoring work, e.g. Murphy
 worked with Farrell on ‘The Politics of Establishing United Nations Commission of Enquiry’ in 2016;
 Byrne, Lane and Walmsley contributed chapters to Stalford et al’s AHRC-funded ‘Rewriting
 Children’s Rights Judgments’ edited collection in 2017; and Picton co-authored with Crumley on
 the Charity Tribunal in The Conveyancer in 2018. Such collaborations have also introduced our
 PGRs to important and influential impact activities from an early stage in their own careers. For
 example, Byrne, Gokani and Murphy co-wrote ‘A Child Rights-Based Approach to Food Marketing:
 A Guide for Policy Makers’ (2018) with Garde – a report that informs UNICEF and WHO’s
 international work on childhood obesity (see Impact Case Study).


    iii.    Expanding opportunities for training
 PGRs have access to multiple training options, enabling them to network across institutions and
 disciplines and select training according to their needs. Regionally, the NWSSDTP and the
 NWCDTP have opened up new opportunities for cross-disciplinary training to our PGRs.
 ‘Engage@Liverpool’ represents the University’s contribution to ‘Methods NorthWest’, the
 methods and training arm of the NWSSDTP and NWCDTP, providing a rich programme of

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 training on their doorstep. A number of these sessions have been delivered by our own staff,
 e.g. Sigafoos, ‘Legal Methods’ (2018); Behn and Curtis, ‘Questioning the Impact of the Law: the
 case study of international investment law’ (2019). Further opportunities are currently being
 developed as part of our new institutional partnership with the ESRC’s National Centre for
 Research Methods.


 Internally, engagement with training is formally monitored. At the start of every year, PGRs and
 their supervisors draft a ‘Development Needs Analysis’ to identify relevant training needs.
 Attendance at the corresponding sessions, as well as our Liverpool Doctoral College, provides
 an annual programme of in-person and web-based training across set themes (see REF 5a
 section 3.5) and PGRs can access more specialist training and methods exchange opportunities
 as part of the Faculty’s ECR network. The expansion in our department’s academic staff has
 also created new opportunities for law-specific training across substance, methods and skills:
 Drywood and Neylon, ‘Feminist Legal Research’ (2017); Sigafoos, ‘What is methodology’ (2018);
 Children Cluster ‘Decolonising children’s rights research’ (2019).


 2.3. Equality and Diversity
 In line with the Department’s commitment to social justice, we strive to create a research
 environment which treats staff equally and with respect at all stages of their career. With this in
 mind, we have put in place an ambitious action plan to ensure that equality and diversity issues
 are embedded in the structure and culture of the Department. All staff are required to complete
 University level training modules on ‘Diversity and Equality’ and ‘Unconscious Bias’ to ensure that
 our recruitment, support, internal progression and REF-related activities are sensitive to equality
 issues. In addition to these mandatory training requirements modules, all staff involved in REF
 preparations have completed training on ‘REF Diversity and Bias for Decision Makers’.


 Our focus during this REF period has been gender equality. This was recognised by our
 Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2018. As part of our strategy towards an Athena SWAN
 Silver application by 2023, we have created a new Director of Equality and Diversity role,
 supported by two deputies. In September 2019-March 2020, she worked with the Associate
 Dean for Research and Impact on a comprehensive gender audit of our research activity,
 encompassing internal assessment of REF outputs, external income activity, PGR supervision
 and leadership roles. This initiative proved so informative that it is now being rolled out across the
 entire Faculty. The exercise, as updated in October 2020, both revealed and stimulated some
 encouraging achievements in relation to equality in our department: our male to female ratio of
 research staff is virtually equal (28:29); the male to female ratio of staff at different career levels
 is virtually identical (12:10 at Lecturer level; 10:11 at Senior Lecturer level; 1:2 at Reader level; 5:6



                                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 at Professorial level); and male and female colleagues’ outputs constitute a broadly
 equal proportion of our REF outputs submission (62:61).


 A key priority for moving forward will be to address the disparity, revealed by the gender audit, in
 generating research grant income (see s.3.1) and in the promotion of female colleagues to
 professorial level. To address the latter, we have instituted closer mentoring of mid-career staff,
 with a particular focus on encouraging women to consider promotion applications. We will also
 formalise pre-leave planning discussions with those due to go on maternity/paternity/adoption
 leave to discuss any research and other needs that may have to be accommodated.


 To broaden our focus to all forms of equality, we established an SLSJ Equality and
 Diversity Committee in 2018, with a remit that includes proposing and monitoring the
 implementation of initiatives to promote equality in research, feeding specific recommendations
 into the SLSJ Senior Management Team and Research and Impact Committee. Over the next five
 years, we aim to focus on issues concerning race, colonialism and decolonisation, having recently
 revised our internationalisation strategy to identify ways of decolonising research (see above).
 Law colleagues have also been active in promoting equality and diversity initiatives at the
 institutional level, e.g. Stalford and Woodhouse succeeded in securing dedicated carers’ car
 parks (2016), Barker informed important revisions to the University’s existing maternity leave and
 support policies (2019), while the Department coordinated input into the University’s review of
 its policy on staff/student relationships (2019). More informally, a Parents and Carers’ Network
 was established in 2019 to offer peer support for colleagues with care responsibilities and an
 Equality and Diversity Reading Group holds regular discussions about intersectional feminist,
 critical race, and disability scholarship.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 3.1. Income
 Recognising the ambition, creativity and impact that one can achieve with externally-funded
 research, we have instituted a more strategic approach to income generation and invested
 significantly in our internal income streams to stimulate more competitive bids for external funding.


 Our total income per annum grew over this REF period by 80%, from £87,483 in 2013-14 to
 £157,254 in 2019-20. Our annual income per eligible FTE has grown by 63% compared to the
 previous REF period (from £1,428 to £2,331 in this period).




                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This REF period has seen an increase in our income from less traditional funding sources too,
 including consultancies from government bodies, civil society organisations, government
 agencies, civil society organisations, EU bodies and international organisations. The total value of
 these consultancies is over £260k and has resulted in work of significant international impact. For
 example, Dzehtsiarou received £52k to work with the UN Development Programme in Moldova in
 2016-18; Messenger received £98k to advise the FCO on trade issues from 2020 onwards; Garde
 received approximately £60k from the WHO, the European Public Health Alliance and UNICEF to
 participate in various policy initiatives on law and NCD prevention in 2016-2019; and Cengiz was
 co-commissioned in 2014, 2015 and 2019 to write a series of reports on gender equality to inform
 EU policy on gender (s.4).


 Our funding success has been underpinned by a strategy with two main priorities: pump priming
 funded research, and rigorous internal peer support and review.


    i.      Pump priming externally funded research, collaboration and impact
 We facilitate more ambitious, far-reaching research initiatives through internal seed corn funding.
 Our annual Research and Impact Development Fund (RDIF) has supported a rich array of
 workshops, pilot studies and the development of networks aimed at supporting more ambitious
 bids for external funding and to scale up existing projects. For example, Fox’s successful bid to
 hold a stakeholders meeting laid the foundations for a successful application on the human rights
 implications of separating older people in care homes from their pets (£77k, Dunhill Medical Trust
 2018). Gordon and Tucker used internal funding to underwrite a successful application for a
 BA/Leverhulme grant in 2017, which provided the basis for a two-day conference, 'Twenty Years
 On: Assessing the State of New Labour's Constitution', plus a forthcoming edited volume (Hart
 2021). Sattorova’s internal award enabled her to conduct interviews with senior policymakers in
 Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Georgia in 2017, feeding into her research monograph on the impact of
 investment treaty law on good governance, the first comprehensive empirical study of the impact
 of international investment law on developing countries.


 A new SLSJ internship fund of £10,000 per year (supporting individual internships of up to
 £1,000 each) was put in place in 2017 to provide short term research and administrative support
 for the preparation of bids and to bring existing projects to completion, e.g. Farrell and Drywood
 funded two interns to work on their edited collection on The Media and Human Rights (2019). Law
 colleagues have also benefited from Faculty level support for research interns, e.g. Dzehtsiarou
 hosted two interns in 2019 to support completion of his monograph ‘Can the European Court of
 Human Rights Shape European Public Order?’ (forthcoming with CUP in 2021).




                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff have also capitalised on other Faculty and University funding, securing in excess of
 £25k to pump prime and extend impact and research initiatives, e.g. Organ received £4,276
 in University Knowledge Exchange funding to support a conference bringing together academics
 and campaigners for participatory democracy, leading to a successful bid for €127,500 from the
 European Commission’s Europe for Citizens programme in 2017, for a project on Citizen
 Assemblies, running across 5 Member States during 2018. Also, Sattorova built on her School
 RDIF award with a successful bid for University Overseas Development Assistance (ODA)
 funding of £6,900 to support stakeholder engagement and some preliminary interviews with
 officials in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan for a broader project on Investment law in Central Asia.
 This formed the basis for her successful application for an ESRC-AHRC FCO Fellowship and for
 funding from the Singapore Ministry of Education to develop her work on Investor
 Responsibilities and the Law.


    ii.     Rigorous peer review and support for research applications
 Funding bids are subject to timely and rigorous internal peer review prior to submission. Our
 internal strategy imposes a 12-week lead-in period for all grants save in exceptional
 circumstances. During that period, it is compulsory for all bids to have been peer reviewed by at
 least the Director of Research and one other colleague prior to being signed off.


 The success of this strategy is borne out in a marked increase in the quantity, range and success
 of funding applications: since the appointment of a dedicated funding co-ordinator in 2016, we
 have almost tripled the average number of applications for external funding per year (17
 applications per year, on average, for 2014 - 2020, compared to 6 applications per year, on
 average, for the period 2008 - 2013), while at the same time almost doubling the average annual
 value of successful applications, from £87k in 2013 to £156k in 2020. 31.3% of our applications
 to all funders during this REF period have been successful. Examples of successful applications
 include Daly’s award from the Ragnar Soderberg Foundation, which secured £93k to conduct
 research into assessments of children’s legal capacity; Stalford being awarded a European
 Commission grant of £79k to support research into Child Friendly Justice in collaboration with
 Save the Children Italy and Save the Children Romania (2015-17); while Organ and Sigafoos
 used a £40k grant from the Equality and Human Rights Commission to lay the groundwork for a
 subsequent successful bid of £90k from Liverpool City Council, to investigate access to legal
 advice for vulnerable people in Liverpool (2019-20).


 Mid-career colleagues have also secured a number of competitive research fellowships from
 Leverhulme (Farrell to develop her research on torture; Drywood to research children’s rights
 and the football industry) and the British Academy (Currie on human trafficking in 2020-21;
 Barker on feminist perspectives on the Human Rights Act in 2018-19). The benefits of such

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 competitive fellowships for the Department’s research activities and profile are evidenced in the
 range of impact, PGR training and outputs that they have stimulated. For example, in 2018 and
 2019 respectively, Messenger and Sattorova were appointed to AHRC/ESRC FCO fellowships
 enabling them to directly inform Brexit-related training and trade negotiations at an historic period
 in the UK’s withdrawal from the EU (see Impact Case Study), while Cengiz’s EU Marie Curie
 Fellowship (2013-2018) co-financed the PhD of a student who was subsequently appointed to
 lecturer (Sowery).


 We have increased the proportion and range of staff actively engaged in external funding
 applications, reflecting our efforts to nurturing capacities at all levels. 29 different members of
 research staff in this period (compared to 12 in REF 2014) have been involved in funding bids.
 Reflecting our commitment to achieving equality, we have also radically reduced the gender gap in
 terms of funding applications: in the last REF, of all successful grant applications which
 involved academics from Law, only 5% of those involved were male. In the current REF
 period, the split has reversed between male (64%) and female colleagues (36%) – though we
 recognise that further improvement is needed.


 Beyond this REF period, we are redoubling our efforts to attract external funding in an
 increasingly competitive environment, to support our research ambitions and to nurture the next
 generation of research leaders. In 2020, we launched a new annual programme, ‘Support
 and Training for Advancing Funded Research’ (STAR). This is structured around themed
 workshops and tailored one-to-one support one-to-one support for early to mid-career academic
 colleagues under the mentorship of senior colleagues and invited external experts with
 experience of securing and managing a range of funded projects. Up to ten people will be
 selected each year, based on their potential to bring more ambitious research funding ideas to
 fruition, with the expectation that a higher proportion of those ultimately will be successful.
 Indeed, we have also built up significant momentum with the award of over £500k in new project
 funding as we enter the next REF period.


    iii.    Research Ethics
 Aligned with our commitment to social justice, during this REF period we have been more
 attentive to ensuring that all applications meet the highest ethical standards. Consideration of
 how data arising from research will be ethically stored and shared are core to our ethics and
 planning processes. All staff are required to undergo University-level ethics and research
 integrity training, and completion rates are closely scrutinised (staff are unable to secure ethical
 approval for research without a completion certificate). Applications for ethical approval are
 submitted through an online portal and approved at SLSJ level, expediting progress on empirical
 research. Those deemed ‘high risk’ are also scrutinized by the University’s senior ethics panel

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 whose membership includes a senior colleague in Law (Drywood). In addition, the Department
 has sought to contribute to the betterment of research ethics for the entire sector. For example,
 the Children Cluster has developed bespoke ethics resources and training for research
 across the University involving children and young people. The cluster also manages the
 Young Persons Advisory Group (which it established in 2018 under the Faculty’s Children and
 Childhood theme) to offer monthly feedback on all aspects of research design, implementation
 and dissemination. These initiatives are now funded and endorsed by central University to
 support ethical child-related research across the institution as an integral part of its Starting Well,
 Living Well, Ageing Well theme.


 3.2. Infrastructure



     i.      Research leadership and support
 Maintaining comprehensive research leadership and support has been a key priority for this REF
 period. Our research and impact strategy is led by an Associate Dean of Research across SLSJ
 (Stalford throughout this REF period). Implementation is managed by a departmental research
 lead, supported by a team of five academic staff responsible for ECR development and
 mentoring, PGR provision, impact, internationalisation and environment respectively. Our School
 Research and Impact Committee meets monthly to agree and act on policy and budget priorities.


 Reflecting the needs and diverse activities of an expanded body of researchers, the SLSJ
 reconfigured and significantly expanded its Research and Impact support team. A devolved
 team of eight professional services staff support the academic research leads, including
 two distinct administrative roles to closely manage grants at pre-application and post-
 award stages. They also administer applications for ethics approval, manage PGR applications
 and progression, administer committee meetings, and gather data to support periodic reviews
 (e.g. our recent gender audit – see s.2.3). A further team of four staff, including a dedicated
 digital communications officer, organise a vast array of research marketing and events, both
 online and offline. They also manage different layers of digital communications for the School,
 Department, clusters and specific projects to optimise the dissemination and impact of our
 research.


 The Faculty provides an additional layer of support, particularly in mobilising responses to large
 funding calls and postdoctoral fellowships (e.g. Currie’s BA fellowship), providing one-to-one
 advice and financial support on high impact projects (see 3.1i), organising training on grant-
 writing and external engagement, and featuring our research achievements on the Faculty
 research themes webpages and in monthly newsletters.


                                                                                                 Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



     ii.     Facilities
 A flagship investment since REF 2014 has been the School’s relocation in December 2019
 to a reconfigured, greatly expanded and fully refurbished building with state-of-the-art
 facilities. The new building houses all Law, Sociology, Social Policy, Criminology (SSPC)
 colleagues and PGR students in one space (previously we were split across three buildings). In
 line with our commitment to equality and transparency, offices were allocated on a random basis,
 stimulating new opportunities for more organic exchange between colleagues at different levels
 across different legal sub-disciplines.


 The space has been thoughtfully designed to optimise research and impact collaborations. For
 instance, the entire first floor of this expansive five storey building is dedicated to our Law Clinic,
 a key partner in a number of our research and impact initiatives (s.4). There are five flexible
 meeting rooms and an Executive Boardroom, all available exclusively for Law staff to book and
 utilise to support research and impact activities. Close attention has been paid to equality and
 diversity in the construction of the new School building too; accessibility issues are fully
 addressed; both sex-segregated and gender-neutral toilets have been installed on every floor;
 and a room for breastfeeding mothers who have returned to work and who need to express milk
 or rest is now available. Importantly, the building houses the School’s professional services staff:
 the Research and Finance team’s offices sit alongside the academic offices, making them readily
 accessible for support on all aspects of our research and impact.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 We have optimised our external collaborations and contribution to the UK and international
 research base by: facilitating access to our research findings; through our appointments on
 research committees and editorial bodies; and through sustained cross-institutional, cross-
 national research collaborations. Beyond the academic community, we have made extensive
 research-informed contributions to public debates, to legal and policy campaigns, and to
 practitioner training and litigation.


 4.1. Facilitating Access to Our Research
 All aspects of our research are available to a wide range of public and non-academic stakeholders.
 To ensure timely access to particularly significant publications, we have readily drawn on
 University level Open Access funding (from a budget of nearly £1m) to make outputs freely
 available through ‘Gold’ Open Access (e.g. Messenger’s 2017 article on the WTO, published in
 International Journal of Constitutional Law; Gibson’s 2020 ‘Deceptive Sexual Relations’ article


                                                                                                 Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 published in the Oxford Journal of Legal Studies; Cengiz’s 2020 ‘Worker Solidarity and
 Competition Law’ article in Legal Studies; and Stalford’s ‘Towards Judgments for Children’
 published in the Modern Law Review in 2020). Colleagues also produce shorter briefings and
 public reports online to ensure early and strategic release of key findings in advance of publication.
 For example, Organ and Sigafoos wrote an online research and policy briefing in October
 2020, drawing immediate attention to the impact of COVID-19 on access to free legal advice in
 the Liverpool City Region, while the Children Cluster produced a range of public and policy
 briefings concerning the impact of the pandemic on different aspects of children’s rights (2020).


 Working closely with the Media Relations team at both Faculty and University level, our research
 has reached a wide and diverse audience through influential, mainstream broadcast media. For
 example, Columb won Best Investigative Article published in The Guardian 2019, based on
 his research into the human organ trade in Egypt; his related monograph subsequently
 formed the basis of a full-length BBC Panorama documentary on organ trafficking in Egypt
 (2020). Numerous international media outlets have featured interviews with our researchers,
 including, e.g. Cengiz’s interviews with Aftenposten (Norway) and Toronto Star (Canada) in 2015;
 and with Russian radio station Sputnik in 2016, on issues relating to EU-Turkey relations and the
 Kurdish minority.


 National radio appearances include, e.g. Tribe on Radio 4’s ‘Great Lives’ 2018 to discuss the
 legacies of Dame Heilbron; and Farrell on BBC World at One and Nick Ferrari on LBC discussing
 issues ranging from the future of the Human Rights Act to the legitimacy of torture. Our research
 also features regularly in leading print and online media across the world, e.g. Picton’s article on
 charities and social impact bonds in the Guardian in 2018; Garde on childhood obesity in the
 Independent (2018); Gordon’s public law research in the New York Times and LA Times (2019);
 and McAuliffe in the Dublin Review of Books (2016 and 2018).


 4.2. Research and Knowledge Exchange Events
 Research clusters and individual researchers respond to issues of local, national and international
 concern by hosting public debates and lectures with multi-disciplinary and stakeholder audiences.
 For instance, the Health Cluster hosted a two-day conference on ‘The Mental Capacity Act 2005
 – Ten Years On’ at Liverpool Maritime Museum (2015), subsequently published as a special Issue
 of the Medical Law Review in 2016. Likewise, Horton organised a major national conference in
 2018 to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the NHS, leading to a publication Regulation &
 Governance (2020). The Economic Governance cluster organised two events (2016; 2018)
 bringing together MEPs, civil society stakeholders, academics and members of the public to
 discuss the new Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership. The EU law cluster was
 particularly active in hosting a range of regional and national academic and public awareness

                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 events following the 2016 Brexit referendum (see Impact Case Study) and Knox presented an
 online lecture on behalf of the International Criminal cluster on Race and International law,
 attended by 200 people, to celebrate Black History Month (2020).


 Clusters also jointly host public facing events on topics of mutual interest. In 2016, the Charities
 and the Children Cluster brought their research to bear on a public event exploring the impact of
 Legal Aid Cuts on access to justice. The Health and Human Rights clusters co-organised a public
 event addressing legal issues underpinning the Irish abortion referendum (2019); in the same year
 The Human Rights, International Criminal, EU Law and Children clusters held a public event and
 produced associated media commentaries on the Government’s decision to divest Shamima
 Begum of citizenship.


 4.3. Cross-institutional and cross-national research collaborations
 Staff contribute to the national and UK and international research base through a rich array of
 high-profile cross-institutional research collaborations, many of which are multi-disciplinary and
 international. For instance, Stalford led the ESRC-funded ‘Children’s Rights Judgments Project’
 (2015-17), a global collaboration involving 56 academics, legal practitioners and civil society
 representatives from 20 different jurisdictions, rewriting judicial decisions from a children’s rights
 perspective. Knox is working with colleagues at the Australian National University on the project
 'Between Race and Capitalism: Understanding 21st Century International Law' (funded by
 Melbourne Law School and the Australian and New Zealand Society of International Law as well
 as £4k from the Modern Law Review in 2020. Garde’s edited collections (2015 and 2020)
 reflect longstanding collaborations between over 30 academics across 14 countries
 researching issues relating to NCD prevention in Europe and child obesity.


 Staff have also forged strong research links with other institutions through visiting fellowships
 across the UK and internationally. For instance, Gibson was a visiting scholar at Cambridge’s
 Institute of Criminology (2017-19); Fox was a Visiting Professor at the Centre for Animal Law &
 Policy Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona (2017); Horsley was a Fellow of the Israeli Institute of
 Advanced Studies, Hebrew University of Jerusalem (2019-20); Pentassuglia held Senior
 Fellowships at Queen Mary University of London (2014) and the University of Deusto, Spain
 (2015-17); Subramanian held a research fellowship at the Max-Planck Institute for Innovation and
 Competition (2015) and Currie and Shillito have both held visiting Fellowships at Monash (2014
 and 2015 respectively). Naturally, Liverpool academics are regularly invited to speak at a wide
 range of academic conferences and events. For example, Dougan has delivered keynote
 addresses at conferences in Leiden (2015), Maastricht (2017) and Manchester (2017); has given
 annual lectures for the Norwegian Association of European Law (2016), the UK Association for
 European Law (2016), Peterhouse, University of Cambridge (2017) and the Europa Institute,

                                                                                                Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University of Edinburgh (2020); has delivered a Distinguished Professorial Address at the
 University of the West of England (2017) and the General Course in EU law at the European
 University Institute (Florence, 2017); and has acted as General Rapporteur for the 29th Congress
 of the International Federation of European Law (The Hague, 2020).


 Our research clusters promote sustained cross-disciplinary and intersectoral partnerships
 through appointments to their advisory boards and honorary research fellowships. For example,
 the Charities cluster maximises the reach, relevance and potential impact of its research through
 its Independent Steering Committee, composed of senior charity practitioners and chaired by Sir
 Alastair Norris, High Court of Justice, and the Human Rights cluster hosts an international judge
 in residence annually to strengthen its members’ links with the international courts.


 4.4. Roles on academic funding and editorial bodies
 Members of the Unit sit on over 30 grant committees, funding bodies and peer review
 panels. Currie, Farrell, Gordon and Sattorova are members of AHRC Peer Review College; Fox
 on the ESRC Peer Review College; Subramanian sits on the British Council Newton Awards
 Panel. Internationally, Cengiz sits on the European Research Council Horizon 2020 Committee
 relating to the theme of Societal Challenges; Dougan was an international Evaluator for the
 Netherlands Research Assessment Exercise (Dutch equivalent of the REF) and an International
 Peer Reviewer for the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (the Dutch national
 research council); and Fox sits on the internal board of the Irish Research Council.


 Staff also occupy prominent positions on editorial boards for leading UK journals and book series,
 e.g. Barker, Feminist Legal Studies; Barr, Modern Studies in Property Law; Case, Journal of
 Professional Negligence; Currie, Journal of Social Welfare and Family Law; Morris, Charity Law
 and Practice Review; Fox, Social and Legal Studies and Law and Society. Tribe, Corporate
 Rescue and Insolvency. The same is true for leading international journals, e.g. Dougan,
 Common Market Law Review; Garde, European Journal of Risk Regulation; Pentassuglia,
 International Journal on Minority and Group Rights; Stalford, International Journal of Children’s
 Rights; Subramanian, Common Law World Review; Willems, New Journal of European Criminal
 Law; Alghrani, Case and Fox co-edit Medical Law International; and Tzevelekos and Dzehtsiarou
 founded and co-edit The European Convention on Human Rights Law Review. High profile
 editorial positions have been used to support open access to academic outputs, particularly
 for scholars from less well-resourced regions or institutions, e.g. Gordon is co-editor of the leading
 UK Constitutional Law Blog, which makes content freely available to its 15,000 subscribers,
 including many members of the public.




                                                                                               Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.5. Contributions to campaigns for legal and policy reform
 Staff contributions to local and national policy bodies – as appointed members, invited consultants
 and as witnesses - have generated important opportunities for input into legal and policy making.
 For instance, Fox presented evidence to the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Population,
 Development and Reproductive Health to inform the process of decriminalising abortion in
 Northern Ireland (2018); Sigafoos sits on the Liverpool City Council Mayoral Strategy Group for
 Fairness and Tackling Poverty; Stalford sits on the Liverpool City Council Governance
 Committee which steers Liverpool’s plans towards becoming a UNICEF Child Friendly City; and
 Morris sits on the Law Society Wills and Equity Committee which advises the Society on reform
 of the law.


 Submission of evidence-based responses to parliamentary inquiries and government
 consultations are a core part of our research and impact activity for researchers at all levels.
 Beyond the examples featured in our impact case studies, Horsley, Reynolds and Gordon have
 provided extensive written and oral evidence to UK parliamentary select committees on Brexit,
 e.g. concerning the Irish border, EU citizens' rights in the UK, and on the impact of Brexit on human
 rights. Drywood, in collaboration with colleagues in Loughborough, was appointed by UNICEF to
 map children’s rights issues in the recruitment of young footballers in 2017-2019. The resulting
 report frames FIFA and UNICEF’s approach to protecting children in the context of football
 recruitment. ECR colleagues have been equally encouraged and supported in pursuing high
 impact opportunities, e.g. Byrne and Alghrani’s submission to the Department of Education’s call
 for evidence on the impact of COVID-19 lockdown measures on children with special educational
 needs was cited extensively in the official policy response (2020); Randall (PGR) submitted a
 response to the Government’s 2019 consultation on reforming the Gender Recognition Act.
 Collectively, the NCD cluster has responded to four UK government consultations on child obesity
 to feed into the Government’s child obesity strategy.


 At the international level, colleagues have acted as advisors to government bodies, non-
 governmental organisations and international organisations. For instance, Dougan has provided
 high level legal advice to the European Central Bank on the legal framework governing its
 responses to the sovereign debt crisis affecting Member States (2015); and to the Task Force on
 Subsidiarity and Proportionality charged by the European Commission with drawing up proposals
 for reform of EU competences (2018); Chalabi has advised the South Korean Ministry of Justice,
 the Australian Human Rights Commission, the New Zealand Human Rights Commission and the
 Canadian Tribunal on Human Rights on National Human Rights Action Planning. Messenger is
 the UK representative, and now co-rapporteur, for the International Law Association (ILA)
 Committee on Sustainable Development and the Green Economy in International Trade
 Law; Farrell was an expert consultant for the EU-Vietnam Strategic Dialogue on the United

                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Nations Convention Against Torture implementation process in 2016; Reynolds was appointed as
 UK National Expert to the European Parliament in 2016 to report on 'Obstacles to the Right of
 Free Movement and Residence for EU Citizens and their Family Members'; and Morris is a
 member (since 2019) of the Advisory Council of the International Center for Not-for-Profit Law
 which works to improve the legal environment for civil society, philanthropy, and public
 participation around the world. Between 2015-2018, Morris also acted as the UK expert for the
 Global Philanthropy Environment Index (previously Global Index of Philanthropic Freedom) led by
 Indiana University Lilly Family School of Philanthropy.


 The esteem in which Liverpool academics’ research is held by those outside academia is also
 evidenced in the regularity with which they are invited to address high profile international
 meetings and consultations. For example, Horsley addressed the European Parliament European
 People's Party (alongside former Irish Taoiseach, John Bruton) on the implications of the Brexit
 referendum in 2016; McAuliffe delivered a speech at a European Commission Directorate-General
 for International Cooperation and Development workshop exploring opportunities for enhanced
 cooperation between the EU and the African Union on transitional justice (2016); and Cahill-Ripley
 delivered a keynote speech on peacebuilding in Northern Ireland to the UN Office of the High
 Commissioner for Human Rights, Expert Consultation on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights
 and the Prevention of Violent Conflict (Geneva, 2019).


 4.6. Contributions to practitioner training and litigation
 A range of organisations and networks have called upon our research expertise to develop
 professional practice. The Department is noted for its high-profile work as advisors, trainers
 and direct contributors to litigation. In 2017-18, for example, Dzehtsiarou was lead consultant
 on a UN Development Programme project aimed at reshaping the curriculum of the National
 Institute of Justice in Moldova, directly transforming how judges and prosecutors in Moldova are
 trained, towards a more practice-oriented model. Also, Subramanian was appointed by the
 American Bar Association to provide expert advice on IP law in free speech litigation between a
 publisher and the Singaporean Government (2018) and invited to develop a 'Continuing Legal
 Education' training program for lawyers and judges in the Kerala High Court, India (2017).


 Colleagues’ work has been extensively cited by the judiciary in their reported deliberations.
 Dzehtsiarou’s 2014 article with O’Meara on ‘Advisory jurisdiction and the ECHR’, for example, was
 cited in the second ever Advisory opinion of the European Court of Human Rights (Request no.
 P16-2019-001, Armenian Constitutional Court, 29 May 2020). He also submitted two amicus
 curiae briefs to the Russian Constitutional Court in 2016 and 2017 relating to prisoner voting rights
 (subsequently published in the European Yearbook of Human Rights (2018)). EU Law cluster
 members’ work has been cited in various Advocate General’s Opinions at the European Court of

                                                                                              Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Justice, e.g. Reynolds’ work on Union citizenship (2020); Dougan’s work on the European
 Citizens’ Initiative (2019), primacy (2017, 2018 and 2020), fundamental rights (2017 and 2018)
 and Brexit (2018). At the national level, Tribe’s definitive reference work on personal solvency,
 Muir Hunter, has been cited in 19 different cases, including 3 citations by the Court of Appeal; and
 in 2019 and 2020, members of the Children Cluster drew on its expertise relating to children’s
 rights to act as Third-Party Intervenors in both the Employment Appeal Tribunal and the Court of
 Appeal in a landmark case against the Government concerning the legal status of foster carers.


 Beyond the courtroom, Gordon’s work was cited in a public lecture on Brexit by the Chief Justice
 of Australia; and the edited collection from Stalford et al’s Children’s Rights Judgments project
 was used by Lady Hale, then President of the UK Supreme Court, to frame her entire plenary
 speech on how to adopt a children’s rights-based approach to judging for the 600-strong audience
 of the World Congress on Family Law and Children’s Rights in June 2017.


 Our research has informed practice beyond the academy in the field of professional ethics:
 colleagues from the Health cluster (Alghrani and Case) regularly provide Alder Hey Children’s
 Hospital with a legal ethics perspective on their end-of-life decision-making panels. Similarly,
 Waxman sits on the Ethics Advisory Committee at St Mary's Hospital (Manchester), Department
 of Reproductive Medicine; Gray is a panel member of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons
 Ethics review Panel; Savirimuthu sits on the Working Group of the Institute of Electrical and
 Electronics Engineer, the world’s largest technical professional organisation for advancing
 technology, to advise on Standards for Protection of Children’s Personal Data; and members of
 the Children Cluster have delivered several training sessions to NHS nurses across the North of
 England on the law and ethics around children’s consent to HPV vaccination in 2019-20.


 A growing body of our impact work has been galvanized by the development of our in-house
 Law Clinic which specializes in providing free legal advice and representation to some of the
 most marginalized groups in society. This has provided a direct route to an expansive network
 of specialist legal practitioners and civil society organisations whose practice has, in turn,
 benefited from the fruits of our academic research. For example, Currie, in partnership with Law
 Clinic solicitors, the Rights Lab (University of Nottingham), Anti-Trafficking and Labour
 Exploitation Unit (ATLEU), Garden Court North Chambers and the British Red Cross has
 conducted empirical research into the legal representation of victims of trafficking or modern
 slavery with funding from the UKRI’s Modern Slavery Policy and Evidence Centre (£51k) (2020).
 In a similar vein, the Children cluster worked closely with the Law Clinic and Save the Children
 offices in Italy and Romania to develop online training for lawyers on child friendly justice, with
 funding in excess of £120k from the European Commission in 2015-17.



                                                                                             Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This REF period has brought extensive and strategic investment across all areas of Liverpool
 Law School’s research environment, the fruits of which are already evident in the scope, quality
 and impact of our research. This investment places the Department in the strongest possible
 position to continue pushing the boundaries of legal research for the advancement of social
 justice, locally, nationally and internationally.




                                                                                           Page 27
