Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Institution: University of East Anglia

    Unit of Assessment: 1 (Clinical Medicine)

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

    1.1 Unique Context and Structure.

    Figure 1. Unit Context and Structure




    Our REF2021 return for Unit of Assessment 1 (UoA1) comprises 38 staff (38 staff, 30M:8F, 30.6
    FTE) who work across two institutions:
       • Norwich Medical School (UEA-MED: 26.4 FTE), which includes thirteen clinical
          academics working at the nearby Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital (NNUH),
          the sixth largest acute hospital in the UK.
       • The Quadram Institute Biosciences (QIB: 4.2 FTE), a world-class centre for food and
          gut health established by UEA, NNUH and the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences
          Research Council (BBSRC) in 2019.

    This UoA is embedded in the Norwich Research Park (NRP), home to
       • One of the largest concentrations of life science researchers in Europe, that includes ten
           of the top 1% most highly cited researchers worldwide, including David Livermore1 from
           this UoA, and nine Fellows of the Royal Society.
       • The Norwich Biosciences Institutes, which includes QIB, the Earlham Institute, the
           Sainsbury Laboratory and the John Innes Centre, stimulating exceptional collaboration
           opportunities and scientific achievement.




1
    Staff submitted to this Unit of Assessment are highlighted in BOLD.
                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A summary of the Unit Context and Structure is shown in Figure 1. The Norwich Medical School
 (UEA-MED) and the School of Health Sciences (HSC) sit within the Faculty of Medicine and
 Health Sciences (FMH). We have developed strong links to our local community through the
 recent development of the UEA Health and Social Care Partners (UEAHSCP, 2019, Section 4.1)
 and the Norwich Institute for Healthy Ageing (NIHA, 2020, Section 3.2). Our response to the
 COVID-19 pandemic has been exemplary. Highlights include Justin O’Grady becoming Deputy
 Director of the UK COVID-19 Genomics Consortium (COG-UK), and Kristian Bowles, a UEA-
 MED employee and Associate Medical Director at NNUH, receiving an MBE for “Services to the
 NHS during COVID-19”.

 Our research has strong national and international impact and we value and nurture our
 excellent industrial links. Building on the successes of REF2014, UoA1 has developed over this
 REF period through UEA-MED school investment as well as income-generating success. In a
 competitive environment we have increased our submitted academic research staff from 14.4
 FTE to 30.6 FTE (Section 2.1); and our grant income (active awards) from £22.3m to £70.5m
 (Section 3.1). We carry out research under four translational research themes as shown in
 Figure 1: 1. Metabolism and Physiology; 2. Microbiology and Infection; 3. Cancers Studies; and
 4. Cardiometabolic and Muscular Skeletal. Outputs from these studies have continued to be
 published in high-impact journals including Nature, Nature Biotechnology, Nature Genetics,
 Nature Microbiology, The Lancet, The British Medical Journal, and The New England Journal of
 Medicine (Box 1).

 Figure 2. Highlights of the REF Reporting Period




 1.2 Significant progress on past strategic goals for research and impact.
 In our REF2014 Environment submission, we set out six goals for the coming five years. Here,
 we describe the progress we have made against these goals. Highlights of this REF Reporting
 Period are shown in Figure 2.

 Objective 1. Continue to grow the Unit including recruiting additional Clinical Academics using
 NHS and university funds.
 Progress: Thirteen UoA1 staff have contracts with both NNUH and UEA, and we have made
 five new joint Clinical Academic appointments since the REF census end date. There are
 fifteen newly recruited UoA1 staff (Section 2.1). The Norwich Academic Training Office provides
 support for academic training across health professions, providing a pathway towards further
 research (PhD or postdoctoral fellow) and ultimately senior academic positions. Since 2014, 50
 integrated academic trainees have joined the scheme: 44 Academic Clinical Fellows (33

                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 National Institute for Health Research (NIHR)-funded) and 6 Clinical Lecturers (3 NIHR-
 funded). Three Clinical Lecturers have been appointed to a Senior Clinical Lecturer post and
 one has gone back to full SpR Clinical Training. Eight of the Academic Clinical Fellows who
 completed the training have continued with research activities, all but one postgraduate degree
 was funded by the Wellcome Trust, NIHR or the Medical Research Council (MRC).

 Objective 2. Increase the flow through the translational pathway of science into clinical practice.
 Progress: Box 1 illustrates our progress with translational research on multiple fronts. Work
 from David Livermore and Justin O'Grady provides compelling examples of our progress on
 the translational pathway, through development of novel diagnostics.
        • 2020 saw two new drugs receiving approval for clinical use in antibiotic resistant
           bacterial infections, as a result of David Livermore’s research (Impact Case Study).
           These are Fetroja (Cefiderocol - Shionogi ltd) and Recarbrio (MK7655 - Merck & Co.
           Inc). Both drugs are considered as new antibiotics of last resort. This provides a direct
           response to the O’Neill report on antibiotic resistant bacteria which states “We need a
           better supply of new drugs across a range of diseases where drug resistance is on the
           rise.”
        • A rapid metagenomics test developed in 2019 by Justin O’Grady to diagnose lower
           respiratory infections (Box 1) enabled a rapid and decisive engagement with the
           COVID-19 crisis by joining COG-UK and delivering high-throughput SARS-CoV-2
           genome sequencing. From April-December 2020, the Norwich site alone sequenced
           approximately 10,000 SARS-CoV-2 genomes, more than all but four countries in the
           world during that period (UK, US, Denmark and Australia).

 Objective 3. Open the Norwich Medical Research Building and establish this as the centre of
 translational medicine.
 Progress: The £17m Bob Champion Research and Education building was officially opened
 in February 2015 providing state-of-the-art laboratory facilities (Section 3.2). The building is
 immediately adjacent to the main NNUH building, contains the storage component of the
 Norwich Biorepository (Section 3.2), and has been home to over half of the researchers returned
 in this submission.

 Objective 4. Bring together Clinical Research Facility activity onto one site on the Norwich
 Research Park.
 Progress: The NNUH-UEA Clinical Research Facility (CRF) (Section 3.2) opened in 2019.
 The facility is housed in the state-of-the-art Quadram Institute (See Objective 6) and brings
 UoA1 clinicians and scientists together with researchers from the wider NRP.

 Objective 5. Continue to develop aetiological epidemiology and health services research in the
 key priority areas.
 Progress: Box 1 presents our success in science including aetiological studies from Andrew
 Hart and clinical trials from Ann Marie Swart.

 Objective 6. Collaborate in securing funding for a new £50M Centre of Food, Health and the
 Gut.
 Progress: Funding from the BBSRC, together with input from UEA, NNUH and the Institute of
 Food Research, led to the construction of the £80m state-of-the-art Quadram Institute (QI),
 which opened in early 2019 (Section 3.2). In addition to the CRF (See Objective 4), the QI also

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 houses Quadram Institute Bioscience (QIB, successor to the Institute of Food Research) and
 Quadram Institute Endoscopy (QIE), one of the largest gastrointestinal endoscopy units in
 Europe. The unique co-location of these three elements in the same building greatly enhances
 our ability to carry out translational research (Section 3.2).

 Recent years have seen many developments that are enhancing our ability to do world-class
 research:
    • establishment in 2019 of the UEA Health and Social Care Partners. This is a formal
       partnership of 12 health and social care organisations with 45,000 staff working across
       East Anglia and has already attracted £5m of funding (Figure 2, Section 4.1). Colin
       Cooper sits on the UEAHSCP Management Board.
    • expansion in early 2020 of the Norwich Biorepository funded by a £2.1m grant from
       BBSRC. Louise Jones serves as director (Section 3.2).
    • establishment in early 2020 of the Norwich Institute of Healthy Ageing (NIHA, Section
       3.2).
    • rapid growth of the Norwich Clinical Trials Unit (NCTU, Figure 2) headed by Ann Marie
       Swart (Section 3.2).

 During this period, we have conducted eight themed reviews with the objective of integrating
 UoA1 researchers with common interests in research and impact across the NRP. Our
 Bioinformatics Review has led to collaborations with the Earlham Institute to identify
 pathogens in human tissue, resulting in UEA (Colin Cooper) leading a Genomics England
 Clinical Interpretation Partnership (GeCIP). Our Cancer Review has led to establishment of a
 Norwich Cancer Research Network (now with >140 participants). This network has
 strengthened links through joint meetings with Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute and
 Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.

 Since REF2014, we have established and joined international multidisciplinary networks
 including several Human Genome initiatives (e.g. the Pan Prostate Cancer Group (PPCG,
 the International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC), and ICGC-ARGO (ICGC Accelerating
 Research in Genome on Oncology)), bringing together expertise in mathematics, computing,
 oncology, histopathology, anthropology, epidemiology and clinical trials from multiple countries.
 We have joined the East of England NHS Genomic Medicine Centre, which brings together
 clinicians from multiple specialities for genome sequencing in human disease. We have also
 built collaborations across UEA Schools and Faculties including the £1.8m CHIPPS study (Care
 Homes Independent Pharmacist Prescribing Service) linking UoA1 staff (Ann Marie Swart) to
 the School of Health Sciences (HSC) and Pharmacy (PHA).

 In recent years, we have also boosted research impact through appointment of:
     • an Associate Dean of Innovation (Michael Hornberger) who sits on the FMH Executive
        and is responsible for developing and overseeing enterprise links.
     • an Academic Director for Innovation (Laura Bowater) who actively supports impact
        and engagement.
     • two impact champions in UEA-MED responsible for identifying new impact cases.
        Cases are reviewed annually at the Faculty and PVC level. Of nine Impact Cases
        developed, three were selected for this submission (Helen Murphy, David Livermore,
        Yoon Loke).



                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   a Royal Society-funded Entrepreneur-in-Residence (David Dent), former Chair of the
        BBSRC Follow-on Fund panel.
    •   an impact manager within QIB who works within the QIB Knowledge Exchange and
        Commercialisation team.

 Our objective is to ensure that delivery of impact is an integral component of our ongoing
 research activities. We have therefore highlighted the importance of the impact of our
 research through

    •   rewards for Research and Impact made available through two new annual events: The
        FMH Faculty Prizes and the UEA Impact and Innovation Awards. In 2020, Helen Murphy
        won the UEA prize for Outstanding Impact in Health, Wellbeing and Welfare. In 2018
        Dmitry Pshezhetskiy received the FMH Best Innovation Prize.
    •   inclusion of impact within staff annual assessments
    •   encouragement of staff to pursue local Proof of Concept Funding (up to £20,000), and
        Innovation Development Funding (up to £75,000) in exceptional cases to pursue
        industry-related UKRI funding, consultancies and iCASE PhD studentship funding. Since
        2014 staff from this unit have been awarded £69,910 Innovation Proof of Concept
        Funding, and £167,200 Innovation Development Funds. Examples: John Wain, £19,210
        for Diagnostic for Prosthetic Joint Infection. Colin Cooper, £69,960 for Prostate Cancer
        signature biomarkers; Dmitry Pshezhetskiy, £31,123 for nanoparticles targeting in
        prostate; and Justin O’Grady, £66,149 for validation of a patented host nucleic acid
        depletion strategy.
    •   pursuit of commercialisation opportunities by filing patents to protect our intellectual
        property with 13 patent applications, and two licensing agreements in the assessment
        period.
    •   active encouragement of staff to pursue industry-related UKRI funding and consultancies.
        For example, William (Bill) Fraser’s research and development expertise in Bone
        Health and Clinical assays has generated £687,000 of consultancy income. David
        Livermore was seconded by Public Health England for 1.5 days a week for six years
        generating additional income
    •   holding presentation and writing workshops on impact case studies. For short-listed
        cases, individual writing, evidence sourcing and resourcing meetings have been held
        two-monthly since mid-2019.




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Box 1. Our six-year narrative of success
 This list of research highlights from UoA1 is illustrative not exhaustive

 Theme: Metabolism and Physiology
    • In 2017, Helen Murphy reported that continuous glucose monitoring in pregnant
      women with diabetes results in better clinical outcomes, leading to a last-author paper
      in The Lancet cited >200 times (Scopus) (10.1016/S0140-6736(17)32400-5), an Impact
      Case Study, and a change in NICE Guidelines.
    • Kristian Bowles showed how transfer of mitochondria to blood stem cells aids rapid
      response to infection in mammals (PNAS, 10.1073/pnas.1913278116).

 Theme: Microbiology and Infection
    • Justin O’Grady has pioneered the use of nanopore DNA sequencing for diagnosis of
       respiratory infection (Nature Biotechnology), including COVID-19 (10.1038/s41587-
       019-0156-5).
    • David Livermore has carried out work leading to the development of new antibiotics of
       last resort and to UK guidelines for managing patients with AMR (Impact Case Study).
       His achievements have been honoured in 2018 by award of the Garrod Medal from the
       British Society for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy.
    • Kevin Tyler has documented the evolutionary genomics of human cryptosporidiosis, a
       leading protozoan cause of diarrhoeal mortality worldwide (Nature Microbiology,
       10.1038/s41564-019-0377-x).
    • Changjiang Dong reported the structural basis of outer membrane insertion in bacteria,
       suggesting new antibiotic targets (two papers in Nature, 10.1038/nature13464 and
       10.1038/nature17199).
    • Yoon Loke identified underreporting of adverse events in systematic reviews, leading
       to change in Regulatory Guidelines: his methods form the basis of how UK Government
       calculates COVID-19 death rates (Impact Case Study).

 Theme: Cancer Studies
    • Colin Cooper has used whole genome DNA sequencing (i) to unravel the evolution of
       human prostate cancer (Nature, cited >600 times, 10.1038/nature14347 and two
       papers in Nature Genetics 10.1038/ng.3221 and 10.1038/s41588-018-0086-z) and (ii)
       to map the landscape of viral associations in human cancers (Nature Genetics,
       10.1038/s41588-019-0558-9).
    • Ann Marie Swart reported advances in chemotherapy for ovarian cancer, including
       improvements in outcome with pre-surgical chemotherapy (three Lancet papers, one as
       last author with >700 citations 10.1016/S0140-6736(19)32259-7, 10.1016/S0140-
       6736(15)01167-8, and 10.1016/S0140-6736(14)62223-6).
    • Andrew Hart found that statin use protected against death in oesophageal cancer
       (Gastroenterology, 10.1053/j.gastro.2015.12.039).

 Theme: Cardiometabolic Disease and Muscular Skeletal Disease.
    • Marcus Flather has published five NEJM and seven Lancet papers with combined
       citations of over 6000. Five are returned including a NEJM paper showing that bilateral
       versus unilateral internal-thoracic-artery grafts had no effect on survival at five
       years, but there was higher complication rate with bilateral grafts (NEJM:
       10.1056/NEJMoa1610021).
    • William Fraser has detected pathogenic changes for Paget’s Disease in archeological
       bone specimens (PNAS, 10.1073/pnas.1820556116).




                                                                                         Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3 Future strategic aims and goals.

 Our partner the NNUH is a busy 1,200-bed teaching hospital and foundation trust providing care
 to a population of around one million people from Norfolk, neighbouring counties and national
 referrals to recognised experts. Many of its services are amongst the largest in the country (e.g.
 the 5th busiest NHS cancer service in England). We intend that a key overall output of our future
 strategy will be to liberate the substantial as-yet unrealised potential to carry out world-leading
 translational research and clinical research within NNUH, linked to the QIB, to other key NRP
 partners and to external partners. Our Research Strategy for achieving this builds upon all four
 Medical Research Council (MRC) Research Foundations: Discovery Science; Investing in
 People; New Technologies; Fostering Collaboration, while also developing structures and
 links to maximise the impact of our research. Building on our 2014 submission and upon the four
 research Themes shown in Figure 1 and Box 1 our Research Goals are:

 Goals:
    • to expand our translational and multidisciplinary research programme, targeting key
        global and national health problems
    • to create a research structure than can respond effectively to crises
    • to ensure the impact of our research in the local community.

 To achieve these goals we have set the following ten objectives over the next six years

 Objectives:
   1. establish a Norwich Translational Research Centre to co-ordinate research assets
      across the NRP, strengthening links to the NNUH and to the regional community.
   2. make a decisive contribution to the Norwich Institute of Healthy Ageing (Section 3.2)
      by, for example, linking the work of William Fraser on Vitamin D, whereby the
      fundamental/efficacy research will be translated into community health benefits and
      product and services innovation.
   3. contribute to a new NNUH Proposal to establish a National Centre for Monitoring,
      Prevention and Control of Infectious Disease Outbreaks, building upon the past work
      of Justin O’Grady, John Wain and David Livermore.
   4. strengthen research collaborations between the QI, NNUH and UEA-MED fully exploiting
      the potential of the Quadram Institute Endoscopy (QIE, Section 3.2).
   5. set up a Norwich Epidemiology Centre to facilitate and enhance analyses of existing
      and developing NRP datasets (e.g. from QIE, and from NNUH data via the Cogstack
      platform), to streamline access to publicly available datasets (e.g. UK Biobank, CPRD,
      ELSA, EPIC and ECLIPSE), and to enhance our ability to mine and utilise Big Data
      including Genomic Data. This initiative includes staff from the UEA School of Computing
      Sciences with expertise in Artificial Intelligence.
   6. improve links to external partners, including expanding existing links to the University of
      Cambridge, to Cambridge Hospitals, and to The Sanger Institute.
   7. to grow our capacity to support Early Career Researchers and Clinician Scientists
      engaged in biomedical research, improving recruitment and facilitating career
      development.
   8. continue to increase our funding for postgraduate research: for example, via our MRC
      DTP application Microbes, Microbiomes and Bioinformatics, through Wellcome Trust and
      BBSRC funding, through charitable funding, and by continuing to invest in faculty
      provision for PhD students.

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    9. improve postgraduate training in translational research and in data management and
        informatics.
    10. strive for best practice in equality, diversity and inclusion, building on our Athena SWAN
        Silver status to achieve Gold status (Section 2.4).

 1.4 Our approach to openness, reproducibility and integrity in research.
 Outputs are uploaded within three months of acceptance to the UEA Digital Repository allowing
 external access in compliance with REF requirements: 100% of this unit's submitted outputs are
 open-access compliant. We also make data available through international data repositories. For
 example, in the NCBI's nucleotide database there are over 30,000 sequences linked to UEA-
 MED. An example of data availability is provided by the large ICGC Prostate Cancer whole
 genome DNA sequence dataset (Colin Cooper). This was deposited at European Genome-
 phenome Archive (EGA) and has been used as part of the international PCAWG study. These
 datasets have now been used in over 40 publication relevant to prostate cancer. During the REF
 period we have enthusiastically exploited BioRxiv.org and MedRxiv.org to make information
 available prior to acceptance, with over 150 manuscripts from UEA-MED and QIB released to
 these preprint servers during the census period.

 Researchers are strongly advised to register clinical trials and over two dozen from UEA-MED
 are listed on clinicaltrials.gov. In line with NIHR requirements results of trials are made available
 through publication in peer reviewed journals and NIHR monographs. Requests for access to
 individual patient data from trials in NCTU are considered by the relevant trials oversight
 committees or by the Chief Investigator and NCTU Executive Committee if the trial has
 completed.

 At University level (see REF5a) UEA maintains a Research Integrity Office and is a signatory of
 the revised 2019 Universities UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity and the Concordat on
 Openness in Animal Research. In 2018, the University revised its Research Ethics Policy and all
 staff are held to its requirements. At unit level, research integrity and ethical standards are
 ensured via numerous mechanisms:
     • revisions to the UEA level policies are highlighted in our weekly UEA-MED bulletin
         circulated by the Head of School.
     • research involving human subjects and tissues is reviewed as appropriate by the FMH
         Ethics Committee and/or by the NHS Health Research Authority.
     • A strong emphasis on the importance of research integrity and ethics is included in
         induction of new research staff and students.
 UEA Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Body reviews all animal research applications.

 2. People

 2.1 Recruitment. We have pro-actively made fifteen new appointments among the staff
 submitted from UoA1, who will remain during the next REF period and provide continuity of
 success as senior staff retire. Efficiency and fairness in recruitment are ensured by regular
 mandatory in house training in e.g. Recruitment and Selection, Diversity in the Workplace and
 Unconscious Bias. In addition, all recruitment and marketing material have been overhauled
 to represent diversity and promote inclusion in our workplace. Emphasis is placed on
 recruiting Early Career Researchers (ECR) and Clinical Academics based on research
 potential and realisation, strategic fit with our Four Themes and synergy with our NRP partners.


                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Details of New Academic Teaching and Research (ATR, team leaders) staff are shown in Figure
 3. Reflecting the critical importance of translational links to the Norfolk and Norwich University
 Hospital (NNUH) and in line with our future research objectives, thirteen of our 38 staff have
 contracts with both UEA and NNUH, with five new joint NNUH-UEA Clinical Academic
 appointments since the REF census date. We are supporting, by mentoring and collaboration,
 over twenty research-active NNUH employees across the local region and, during the coming
 REF period, will put in place a more formal structure for supporting translational research
 (Section 1.3). Four ECR are on fixed-term contracts (Darrell Green, James Mackay,
 Katharina Mattishent, Johannes Reinhold) with review at 3-5 years. Dmitry Pshezhetskiy
 and Max Yates have moved from fixed-term to permanent contracts.

 We have a strong record of supporting career progression with four new non-clinical
 academics being appointed from internal applicants in an open and transparent recruitment
 exercise: two returned in UoA1 (Donnie Cameron, Darrell Green) and two who, although
 arising from clinical medicine, have been submitted with other UoAs (Daniel Brewer, UoA20;
 Stuart Rushworth, UoA5).

 For Induction and Mentoring new recruits at all levels receive a welcome pack, introductory
 online training (e.g. Data Protection (GDPR), Health & Safety, Fire Safety etc), familiarisation
 tours, and meetings with more senior managers. The objectives are to agree responsibilities and
 highlights opportunities for staff training and development. ATR and Research Associate (RA,
 Section 2.2) staff are assigned a career mentor.

 Figure 3. New Academic Teaching and Research Staff include:


                                                                         3 New Associate
         4 New Lecturers              2 New Clinical Lecturers
                                                                            Professors
         Donnie Camerona
                                                                          Linda Troeberg
         Benjamin Evans                Katharina Mattishenta,b
                                                                          Paul Crichtona
          Darrell Greena,b             Johannes Reinholda,b,c
                                                                           Mark Webber
           James Smitha                        1M:1F
                                                                              2M:1F
              4M:0F
     3 New Clinical Associate
                                          1 New Professor           2 New Clinical Professors
           Professors
          James Mackaya,b
                                                                            Louise Jones
         Vassilios Vassiliou                Nicole Horwood
                                                                           Helen Murphy
            Max Yates                            0M:1F
                                                                               0M:2F
               3M:0F
             a
               Staff meeting the definition of ECR (7); b Fixed Term appointments (4);
                                       c
                                         NIHR Clinical Lecturer



 2.2 Staff Development. Progress, support and career planning are monitored and implemented
 by a dual system of annual appraisal and of research activity planning and reporting.

 Annual Appraisals are supportive and reflective and carried out by the line manager (or
 alternative at the appraises request). Future objectives are agreed; assessment of issues that

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 hindered progress along with suggested solutions are discussed. Training requirements and
 career progression steps are identified.

 For each researcher in UEA-MED Research activity planning and reporting is carried out with
 the Director of Research (Lee Shepstone, UoA2) who reports to the Associate Dean for
 Research (Colin Cooper) and the PVC for Research and Innovation (Fiona Lettice). This
 process provides a strategic overview of PhD supervision, grant activity, research impact, and
 outputs. For QIB, reporting is to the Institute’s Science Strategy Board. Research activity
 reporting informs the development of strategic research objectives, and more recently on the
 impact of COVID-19.

 For career progression, staff have access to over forty on-site career development courses
 provided by the Centre for Staff and Educational Development and since Sept 2016 have
 benefited from development funds (~£650 per person p.a.) to support external training and
 conferences. Since 2014, staff have been able to attend annual promotion workshops and speak
 to a promotion mentor to facilitate the promotion process. The success rate for internal
 promotions within UEA MED as a whole was 84%. Within UoA1 there have been three
 promotions to Senior Lecturer, two to Clinical Professor, one to Professor, one to Professorial
 Research Fellow, and two promotions to Senior Clinical Lecturer on appointment.

 We currently have nineteen Research Associates (10F:9M) who are integral to UoA1 research
 activities. Since 2016, we have implemented Best Practice Guidelines for research associates
 based on the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Research Staff. Our research
 associates have protected time (5 days p.a.) to develop career aspirations, attending career
 and grant writing workshops and conferences. From a dedicated fund for staff development
 beneficiaries within UEA-MED received an average of £920 funding, since 2016, to support
 career development including training opportunities and conference fees and travel costs.
 Bridging funding is available to bridge gaps between funding and, since 2018, we have offered
 relocation expenses to research associates. A survey carried out in 2018 found that 74% of
 our research associates reported that UEA-MED is a satisfying place to work. Within QIB
 the Quadram Institute Post-doctoral Society (QIPS) is open to and run by post-docs (also
 open to PhD students). QIPS also runs fortnightly Coffee Break informal sessions for its
 members (currently Zoom).

 Early Career Researchers (ECR) (1F:6M) receive support where appropriate reflecting their
 central role in the strategy, culture and success of the school. Start-up packages were given in
 cases where kick-starting was appropriate. Major awards include PhD student to Paul Crichton,
 Darrell Green, and James Smith and equipment/consumables to Paul Crichton, (£101k) and
 Darrell Green, (£95k). ECR are encouraged to join supervisory teams for PhD students in other
 groups. They are required to achieve a Postgraduate Certificate of Higher Education Practice,
 and have reduced teaching for up to 24 months. ECR are mentored on writing and submitting
 grant applications by staff experienced in grant capture and are encouraged to attend training on
 grant writing and research supervision.

 2.3 Postgraduate Research Students (PGR). UEA takes pride in the delivery of doctoral
 training and research and is involved in seven prestigious DTPs and Centres for Doctoral
 Training, three open to UoA1 supervisors. Our successes are:



                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   our highly successful MRC Doctoral Antimicrobial Research Training (DART) iCASE
        programme has provided studentships for Penny Powell, John Wain, and Justin
        O’Grady.
    • Wellcome’s recently funded DTP EDESIA: plants, food and health: a new cross-
        disciplinary PhD programme from crop to clinic has provided PhD studentships that are
        rotating through the laboratories of James Mackay and Linda Troeberg.
    • the well-established BBSRC NRPDTP, now in its third incarnation—the previous
        programme hosted >165 PhD students. Successful student projects have been
        supervised by Tom Wileman and Mark Webber.
    • Kristian Bowles was awarded a Wellcome Trust clinical PhD studentship through a
        programme run by the University of Cambridge.
    • since REF2014, we have increased the annual number of new registrations over five-
        fold for PhD, MPhil, MDs and MScR (Master by Research) degrees within UoA1 (from
        three in 2014/15 to 16 p.a. in 2019/20), with 45 new registrations in total. Total
        postdoctoral degrees awarded increased from one in 2013-14 to 16 in 2018-19, and to
        nine in 2019-20.
 Additional funding sources include NIHR, Ministry of Defence, Asthma UK Centre for Applied
 Research, Oxford Nanopore Technologies Ltd, Versus Arthritis, Defence Science and
 Technology Laboratory, Big-C, and Prostate Cancer UK.

 Measures to improve the success of our postgraduate research programmes include:
   • Use of an application platform, Target X, which allows use of mobile phones and tablets.
   • Fully funded PhD students by FMH (Faculty) and UEA-MED including for ECR. There
       were internal competitions in 2019 and 2020, continuing during the COVID-19 crisis: nine
       funded in UoA1.
   • Match-funding studentships: with funding at 50% for an additional nine PhD
       studentships.
   • March 2019 saw the launch of UEA's Doctoral College, with its own academic and
       social space, to oversee the management, training and co-ordination of activities for all
       postgraduate students at UEA.
   • A dedicated Associate Dean of PGR in FMH, Penny Powell.

 The training pathway for postgraduate researchers is informed by the VITAE-Researcher
 Development Framework. A collaborative training needs analysis is made with the supervisor
 eight weeks after appointment and revisited every year. Each student has access to over 40
 modules as well as a training budget of £1000. Students are encouraged to develop teaching
 skills and can be employed as undergraduate associate tutors. The Doctoral Training and
 Employability Group (DTEG), reporting to the Doctoral College Executive, meet every month to
 discuss employability development. They monitor student feedback as measured through
 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES). In 2019, 85% of students were satisfied
 with their experience of a research degree program. PGR students can participate in i-Teams,
 gaining experience outside of academia with training in commercial awareness. UEA has two
 career advisers dedicated to working with PGR students, including providing training sessions
 on “Self-awareness and Exploration”, “Applying and Doing” and “Launching”.

 Our Research Students Forum captures students’ views, needs and feedback and has led to a
 number of new initiatives, including lunchtime monthly Bitesize seminars with pizza and drinks
 provided. We provide a weekly Breakfast Club for networking, as well as an annual high profile

                                                                                         Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 external speaker event and an annual FMH PGR conference. Within QIB Quadram Student
 Forum provide a student voice and helps integrate new and visiting students into the student
 body.

 Originating from an anonymous PGR student survey called the Honesty project in 2015,
 UEA developed a comprehensive mental health strategy, the COURAGE project, which
 received £300K in external funding matched by UEA. In 2018 the COURAGE Project piloted
 new approaches to prevention, intervention and cultural change around mental health and
 wellbeing among PGRs. It is led by UEA and linked with UEA’s Student Union and other
 partners. There were six strands with ten paid placements. An example strand is “The Lakeside
 View: PGR blog”.

 2.4 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion. This UoA1 submission is 30 male and 8 female staff.
 This represents a fourfold increase in female staff since 2014 when only two female staff
 were submitted. QIB is a signatory to the Athena SWAN Charter and in 2019, UEA-MED
 renewed its Silver Athena SWAN Award, with an application cited as an exemplar to be
 shared among other Medical Schools. Feedback also stated that

 “The panel commends and encourage the school’s continuing Athena SWAN work and
 note the beacon activities in the further information section. The panel recommends the
 school continue sharing good and exemplary practice in looking ahead to Athena SWAN Gold.”

 Equality and diversity training and unconscious bias training are compulsory. There is ongoing
 monitoring of equality and diversity for membership of UEA-MED management committees, key
 roles including committee chairs, access to infrastructure resources, membership of recruitment
 panels and written material. The current average gender balance of our management
 committees is 47.6% female (range 33% to 67% female).

 To address gender issues in promotion and rewards, since 2014, we have provided annual
 Promotions Master Classes for all staff with the intention of encouraging and supporting
 females to apply for promotion. As a direct result of attendance, we have had 15 successful
 applications across FMH (13F:2M). Female promotions include five professorial
 appointments and eight Senior Lecturers with one of these in UoA1. There is regular signposting
 of policies on maternity/paternity and adoption leave and family friendly and flexible working.
 There was one request within UoA1 for flexible working during the assessment period, which
 was granted.

 The highlights of improvements in gender equality during this REF period are shown in Figure 4.
 The results of our commitment to supporting our female staff is evidenced in recent surveys
 (2019) of UEA-MED. Staff believe they have been well-supported in preparing for maternity
 leave (73% compared to 60% in 2016) and for when they return to work (60% compared to
 50% in 2016). Female employees involved in research have access to ResNet, a contact,
 support and information network for women. ResNet promotes career development, provides
 inspiration and raises awareness of employment opportunities for women in research. Staff on
 maternity/adoption leave are encouraged to attend stay-in-touch days. After their return to work,
 they receive a light teaching/administration load for the first semester and are offered
 flexibility in their hours. They also have access to breastfeeding rooms and to a



                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Supporting-All-At-Work Fund that supports conference attendance, and career development
 opportunities.

 Figure 4. Equality and Diversity Improvement in this REF Period to 2021




 UEA-MED has appointed Dr Joanna Semlyen as (i) Lead for Diversity and Inclusion to address
 issues of inclusion across all protected characteristics, and (ii) Chair of a newly constituted
 Black Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) Working Group. Projects that have been prioritised
 include (i) Bystander Intervention Training which addresses racism, microaggressions, sexism
 and trans/homophobia, and (ii) interventions to improve BAME mental health and improve
 mental health services for BAME students. Dr Semlyen held events in 2019 and 2020 to discuss
 differential attainment and solutions, and with vital input from two paid BAME ambassadors and
 UEA-MED alumni deliver ongoing anti-racist work within the School. UEA-MED has signed up to
 the BMA Charter on racial harassment.

 The REF2021 preparations followed the UEA REF2021 Code of Practice principles of
 maintaining fairness and eliminating bias: personnel involved in leading submissions were
 required to undertake a course on Unconscious Bias. Applications for Independent
 Researcher status solicited by an open call were assessed against REF2021 approved criteria.
 Outputs and Impact Case Studies have been selected after iterative, transparent assessments
 by multiple individuals within and outside the unit, with constructive feedback provided to authors
 at each stage.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Funding. Over the past six years, we have made significant progress in
 securing research funding:
     • £97m has been spent on the construction of new buildings.
     • £70.5m in active awards funding UoA1 projects including £52m as new grant awards
        started during the REF assessment period.
     • £8.4m has been spent on equipment infrastructure.




                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Figure 5. Grant Income


                          Grant Income All Awards in REF2021 Period
                                                  UK         UK        UK      Other
  BBSRC  ESRC           EU      MRC       NIHR
                                                Charities Government Industry Sources
  £5.5m £246,947       £4.4m    £8.7m    £24.2m
                                                £16.6m      £8.2m     £2.3m    £4.5m
                    Total Value Awards Female Principal Investigator: £8.1m
                    Total Value Awards Male Principal Investigator: £36.6m



                          Grant Income New Awards in REF2021 Period
                                                  UK         UK        UK      Other
  BBSRC  ESRC           EU      MRC       NIHR
                                                Charities Government Industry Sources
  £2.6m £246,947       £4.4m    £3.4m    £22.5m
                                                £10.5m      £5.0m     £1.4m    £3.2m
                    Total Value Awards Female Principal Investigator: £7.8m
                    Total Value Awards Male Principal Investigator: £27.6m

 Our strategy for generating research income (Figure 5) is based on maintaining a culture of
 grant applications supported by the NIHR grant review committee, the BBSRC grant committee
 in the School of Biological Sciences and, from 2015, by the FMH Biomedical & Clinical
 committee providing both internal peer review and application improvement prior to submission.
 Overall success rate in UEA MED (based on application number and including consultancies)
 increased from 38% applications successful in 2010-2013 to 55% applications successful in
 2016 -2019. QIB employs a Grants Facilitation Process (GFP) which includes a monthly ideas
 clinic, Academic Speed Dating events, a grants knowledge base folder, and a grantsmanship
 bootcamp. This is supported by mentorship and a regular grant review process that supports the
 development and submission of grants. To achieve larger, multi-partner grants (consortia), we
 applied the same mechanisms, aided by the setting up (UEAHSCP, Section 4.1) or expansion
 (NCTU, Section 3.2) of formal structures to promote translation and interdisciplinary work
 (Section 3.2), and supported by administration from the International Research Project Manager,
 European Funding Manager and three dedicated Project Officers within the University's
 Research and Innovation Services.

 As a result, we are engaged in a number of competitively funded large (>£1m) projects and
 consortia:
    • Helen Murphy leads the £1.5m NIHR AiDAPT clinical trial (Automated Insulin Delivery
        Among Pregnant women with Type 1 diabetes) involving seven UK centres (submitted
        Impact Case Study).
    • Kevin Tyler is co-investigator and the genomics lead (with £1m allocation) within the
        AQUAVALENS project, a £9m EU Framework 7 consortium involving dozens of
        businesses, universities and research institutes from 13 countries across Europe. Over
        100 papers have resulted from this consortium, including a Nature Microbiology paper
        from Tyler on the evolutionary genomics of anthroponosis in Cryptosporidium (See Box
        1, Section 1.2).




                                                                                         Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •  David Livermore and Justin O’Grady are Co-PI and work-package-lead, respectively,
       on the £2.5m NIHR INHALE project, with £1m to UEA for the potential of molecular
       diagnostics for hospital-acquired and ventilator-associated pneumonia.
    • Justin O'Grady, John Wain, and Mark Webber are Co-PIs on the £5m BBSRC
       Institutional Programme Grant Microbes in the Food Chain awarded to QIB.
    • Andrew Wilson leads the £2.2m NIHR project ARRISA-UK on asthma, the £1.6m
       NIHR TIPAL clinical trial, and the £1.4m NIHR EME-TIPAC clinical trial evaluating the
       treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.
    • Colin Cooper jointly leads the multidisciplinary £1.3m PPCG consisting of five UK
       groups and groups in seven other countries funded by Cancer Research UK, and
       Prostate Cancer UK.
    • William Fraser leads the RETURN study (Ministry of Defence: £2.9m) to investigate
       the accelerated healing of fractures in Army Recruits through Vitamin D supplements and
       parathyroid hormone versus standard care.
 UEA-MED has received two NIHR Doctoral Fellowship Research awards in Gastroenterology
 (Andrew Hart, £323k) and Respiratory Medicine (Andrew Wilson, £382k).

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities. Our buildings infrastructure includes two new state-of-
 the-art constructions.

 The £17m Bob Champion Research and Education building (Figure 1, Section 1), which
 opened in February 2015, provides facilities for translational research immediately adjacent to
 the NNUH. The building houses a lecture theatre and seminar rooms, a component of our
 Norwich Biorepository, the Cancer Biomarker Diagnostics Laboratory and the mass-
 spectroscopy Bioanalytical Facility. It accommodates laboratory-based research on prostate
 cancer, haematological malignancies, antibiotic resistance, musculoskeletal including bone
 health, and cardiometabolic diseases.

 The £80m Quadram Institute (QI), which opened in 2019 to address global challenges in food
 and gut health, encompasses three components.
    • Quadram Institute Bioscience (QIB, Figure 1, Section 1)
        conducting research on the composition and structure of food,
        human digestion and physiology, gut health, immunology, the
        impact of the microbiome on health and microorganisms
        throughout the food chain.
    • Clinical Research Facility (CRF, Figure 1, Section 1) for
        human intervention studies conducting our clinical trials in
        metabolic medicine, cardiology, neurodegenerative diseases,
        cancer and gastroenterology.
    • Quadram Institute Endoscopy (QIE, Figure 1, Section 1), one of the largest
        gastrointestinal endoscopy units in Europe with 40,000 procedures per annum.

 Our laboratory research infrastructure includes the following facilities
    • The Norwich Biorepository— headed by UoA1 academic Louise Jones—has recently
        been upgraded with the aid of a £2.1m grant from BBSRC. A unique feature of the
        Biorepository is that equal focus is given to preserving human tissue and the
        microbiota within it. The investment included equipment to allow high throughput sample
        handing, nucleic acid extractions and storage as well as for bioinformatics, including the

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Achiever LIMS and the Cogstack data-management system. The Biorepository is
        currently collecting samples and data for research projects targeting COVID-19
        including the development of an immunization strategy (Section 4.1). The Biorepository
        also accommodate large sample sets linked to molecular data from the Norfolk Arthritis
        Register cohort, a mirror of the national Breast Cancer Now Biobank, and from QIB's
        BAMBI, MOTION and PEARL studies, documenting the life history of the human gut
        microbiome.
    •   The Bioanalytical Laboratory containing state of art Mass Spectrometry.
    •   The Diagnostics Laboratory for human genomics, housing MiSeq, Affymetrix and
        Nanostring platforms (Colin Cooper)
    •   Promethion nanopore DNA sequencing (Justin O'Grady)
    •   UEA's IT/Computing Service Systems provides support for research computing including
        a High-Performance Computing cluster for analysing genome and transcriptome data,
        and underpinned research for Colin Cooper, Darrell Green, William Fraser and
        Changjiang Dong.
    •   The Biomedical Research Centre, which includes a mouse facility with intravital
        imaging and the first germ-free unit in a UK university.

 We have access to a range of laboratory research facilities through partners on the Norwich
 Research Park (NRP)
    • Single Cell Analysis at the Earlham Institute. The Earlham Institute houses the BBSRC
       National Capacity in Genomics and Single Cell Sequencing.
    • 3T-MRI facility at the NNUH
    • UEA's new £3.4m Wellcome-Wolfson Brain Imaging Centre (MRI facility)
    • UEA's Science Analytical Facilities, which include facilities for Bio-imaging, Structural
       Imaging, X-Ray Imaging, NMR, Mass Spectrometry, Elemental Analysis and Stable
       Isotope Analysis.

 Where appropriate, we have outsourced analyses. Since 2014, five hundred Human Genome
 Sequence datasets were generated by the company Illumina in the USA and by The Beijing
 Genome Institute in China. These data, obtained from UK patients, were then analysed at the
 Sanger Institute, as part of the ICGC and PPCG studies by Colin Cooper, through links to
 Professor Sir Mike Stratton. Changjiang Dong has used the Diamond Light Source national
 synchrotron facility at Harwell for X-ray crystallography and Cryo-EM at Sichuan University,
 Chengdu China.

 During the REF period we have expanded and/or put in place the following structures to support
 our research and to ensure that our research link to and has impact in the community:
     • The Norwich Clinical Trials Unit (NCTU) has been fully registered as a UK Clinical
        Research Collaboration trials unit since late 2013. Over the last six years the NCTU has
        grown from a small unit of five staff (2013/14) to over 30 staff (2019/20). Over the same
        period the total value of the NIHR grants to NCTU has increased from £38k per year
        (2013/14) to >£2.5m (2019/20). For the year 2019/20 this was the 5 th largest income
        for a clinical trials unit within the NIHR support system. In June 2020, the NCTU had
        >10,000 patients enrolled in clinical trials and under active follow up from >500 clinical
        sites throughout the UK and Northern Ireland. The ARRISA, TIPAL, EME-TIPAC,
        AiDAPT and RETURN studies are all run from the NCTU resulting in multiple trial papers
        for this submission (William Fraser, Helen Murphy, Ann Marie Swart, Andrew

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Wilson). The NCTU also provides a forum for training and methodological advancement
        in trial design, conduct and analysis. The NCTU has ongoing collaborations with
        researchers at UEA, NNUH, the Norfolk and Suffolk Foundation Trust (mental health),
        the Norfolk and Waveney CCG (primary care), the universities of Cambridge, Sussex,
        Nottingham, Hertfordshire and University College London. NCTU support of trials has led
        to impact from Helen Murphy and high-profile publications from Ann Marie Swart and
        Andrew Wilson. We will build on these successes in creating the Norwich
        Epidemiology Centre (Section 1.3).
    •   The Norwich Institute of Healthy Ageing (NIHA), established in early 2020, provides
        research links across the Norwich Research Park, including groups from the QIB, John
        Innes Centre and several schools within UEA. It is partnered with NNUH, Public Health
        Norfolk, local government and representative community groups. It is focused on
        strategies which target the complex social, economic, geographical and environmental
        determinants of health behaviour, such as eating/nutrition, smoking, drugs, exercise,
        sleep and alcohol and over-eating. Within UoA1, for example, linking to William Fraser’s
        work on Vitamin D to inform strategies to benefit health of the community. The ultimate
        goal of the NIHA is to increase healthy life expectancy and reduce health inequalities.
    •   Since 2018 the UEA’s IT & Computing Service has injected additional capital
        investment in support of a number of key strategic technology initiatives. This totalled
        £4m in 2018-19, £5m in £2019-20, and will total over £7m for 2020-21.
    •   UEA Health and Social Care Partners (UEAHSCP). This multidisciplinary academic,
        clinical, community partnerships is described in detail in Section 4.1.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research collaborations. Collaboration underpins our interdisciplinary research tackling
 strategic challenges set by e.g. UKRI, NHS, WHO, UK Charities. As noted above, to enhance
 collaboration, we have established the Norwich Biorepository, Quadram Institute Clinical
 Research Facility and considerably expanded the NCTU (Section 3.2). We established UEA
 Health and Social Care Partners (UEAHSCP) in 2019 as a formal partnership of 12 health and
 social care organisations with 45,000 staff working across East Anglia. It aims to increase
 research collaboration across a wide range of research projects for the benefit of the 2 million-
 strong local population. Within two years, the partnership has invested £200k and attracted over
 £5m in research funding to institutes including UEA for activity aligned to the needs of our
 population; this includes UEA-led NIHR grants of £2.4m and £1.93m. A wide range of COVID-19
 support has been provided through this partnership by members of this submission (William
 Fraser, Justin O'Grady, Yoon Loke, Tom Wileman) (Sections 4.2 and 4.3) and by RA staff.

 The Eastern Arc is a collaborative initiative that links Universities in East Anglia, Kent and
 Essex. Over the last 24 months, we have injected £70k of funding into joint projects. For
 example, links between QIB and University of Kent underpin a project using new approaches
 for COVID-19 vaccine delivery engineering the ability of gut bacteria to generate nanoparticle
 sized outer membrane vesicles.

 Examples of national/international collaborations/networks led and involving UoA1 staff
 include (see Box 1, Section 1.2 for relevant outputs):
     • Colin Cooper is joint lead of the UK ICGC Prostate Cancer project and of the PPCG
        with partners in USA, Belgium, Germany, Finland, Canada, Australia, France, South


                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Africa, and Hong Kong.
    •   Changjiang Dong leads multinational investigation of bacterial membrane proteins and
        drug resistance with groups in Sichuan, Zhejiang, Hubei and Guangdong, China.
    •   Marcus Flather leads international networks spanning UK, Australia, Spain. Sweden,
        Norway, Italy, Canada, USA, Poland, and Brazil assessing treatment of heart disease,
        with outputs in NEJM and The Lancet. He is health economics lead of the EUROSHOCK
        collaboration evaluating extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.
    •   David Livermore’s outstanding contributions to the study of antimicrobial resistance
        through national and international collaborations are evidenced in our Impact Case
        Study.
    •   James Mackay supports osteoarthritis biomarkers and clinical trials as a member of the
        FNIH PROGRESS OA and APPROACH networks with investigators across Europe.
    •   Helen Murphy has run the highly influential multi-centre multinational CONCEPTT trial
        for continuous glucose monitoring in pregnant women (see Impact Case Study).
    •   Justin O'Grady has pioneered the use of Nanopore DNA sequencing, with
        collaborators across the UK, USA, Canada, Russia, Italy, Saudi Arabia, and Germany
        and is Deputy Director of COG-UK (Section 4.3)
    •   John Potter is a member of the RIGHT-2 trial in which 54 UK Hospitals and 13
        Ambulance Trusts investigate the value of glyceryl nitrate in presumed stroke. He chairs
        the steering committee for the HTA-funded Asymptomatic Carotid Surgery 2 Trial
        (ACST2) and is a member of the Blood pressure in Acute Stroke Collaboration, stage-3
        (BASC-3) involving USA, Scandinavia, Australia and Malaysia.
    •   Ann Marie Swart as NCTU Director participates in multiple UK clinical trials
        networks.
    •   Kevin Tyler has investigated protozoan causes of diarrhoeal mortality worldwide and is a
        member of Open Lab Africa, (Cameroon, Ghana, Nigeria, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda,
        Australia and South Africa) and Help for Dairy Cows (H4DC: England, France, Holland,
        Belgium).
    •   John Wain, with collaborators at the George Mason University (USA) and the Child
        Health Research Foundation (Bangladesh), is using a £1.2m grant (£428,000 to QIB)
        from The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to study bacteria causing diarrheal disease.
    •   Mark Webber is member of EPSRC funded PREVENT study (Preventing prosthetic
        infections).
    •   Tom Wileman is a member of MRC and BBSRC funded national and international
        collaborations investigating the role of LC3-associated phagocytosis in pancreatitis, viral
        and bacterial infection and Alzheimer's disease. He is a recipient of a UKRI China
        Partnering Award on vaccine technology.
    •   Andrew Wilson is theme lead of the multicentre NIHR funded ARRISA-UK (At Risk
        Registers Integrated into primary care to Stop Asthma crisis).
    •   Max Yates is a member of the OMERACT international Polymyalgia Rheumatica
        Working Group of Outcome Measures in Rheumatology.

 We have collaborative links to countries in Africa e.g. analysis of prostate cancer genomes
 from the northern bush areas of South Africa (Colin Cooper) and real-time diagnosis of lung
 infections in Kenyan villages (Nanopore DNA sequencing, Justin O'Grady).

 4.2 Contribution to the Research Base. The unit’s members have made contributions to the
 sustainability of the discipline through membership of expert committees

                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   European Commissions: Justin O'Grady, Detection of AMR; Kevin Tyler, Infectious
        Diseases; David Livermore, Detection and Prevention of AMR
    •   WHO expert groups: Yoon Loke and Katharina Mattishent, systematic reviews; Mark
        Webber, expert advisor for AMR.
    •   Max Yates wrote the initial draft of the European guidelines for ANCA associated
        vasculitis.
    •   Helen Murphy is Chair of the International Life Sciences Gestational Diabetes Mellitus
        and Diet group and a member of an NIH(US) diabetes committee.
    •   David Livermore has provided evidence to the House of Commons Science and
        Technology Committee and sits on the UK Government Advisory Committee on
        Antimicrobial Prescribing and a Public Health England working group on AMR.
    •   Colin Cooper served on the Genomics England GeCIP board.
    •   Helen Murphy is also Clinical chair of the National Pregnancy in Diabetes audit and
        the Diabetes UK research committee.
    •   John Potter (stroke) and Vassilios Vassiliou (valve disease) have served on NICE
        guidance groups.
    •   William Fraser was appointed to the NICE review committees for adult use of alfatase
         and for Osteoporosis and Bone Disease.
    •   Tom Wileman is a member of the UKRI-BBSRC COVID-19 cohort of experts.

 Unit members have served on grant awards committees for MRC (John Wain, Infection and
 Immunity), BBSRC (Mark Webber, Panels B and E), NIHR (Yoon Loke) and the Food
 Standards Agency (Mark Webber), as well as for multiple UK charities (Colin Cooper, Marcus
 Flather, John Potter).

 Thirteen unit members have served as editors for 19 journals including Scientific Reports
 (Andrew Hart, Nicole Horwood) and Journal of Biological Chemistry (Linda Troeberg). Kevin
 Tyler is Editor-in-Chief for Virulence and founding editor of Parasites and Vectors and John
 Wain was founding editor of Journal of Infection in Developing Countries.

 In 2019, Darrell Green was designated as one of the Nation’s Lifesavers – The exceptional
 100 keeping us healthy by Universities UK. In June 2020, Dmitry Pshezhetskiy won the
 AstraZeneca Skolkovo Start-up Challenge for NANODOC, a biodegradable nanoparticle
 targeting breast and prostate cancer. Colin Cooper and Michael Frenneaux are Fellows of the
 Medical Academy of Sciences.

 4.3 Contribution to the Economy and Society. The unit has a portfolio of nine active Impact
 Case Studies, of which three are submitted as full cases. Here, we provide highlights of the
 impact cases we are continuing to develop that are not submitted to this assessment but
 illustrate our wider contribution to the economy and society.

 Justin O'Grady is Deputy Director of the COVID-19 Genomics Consortium (COG-UK)
 providing insights into the mechanism of community spread of SARS-CoV-2. He has developed
 technology to allow large-scale multiplexing of SARS-CoV-2 genomes using Nanopore
 sequencing. His results have also had direct impact in changing practice in local hospitals and
 COVID-19 Tier status in Norfolk.
 Justin O'Grady has also developed metagenomics methods combined with host DNA
 depletion for rapid (≤2 hours) detection of antimicrobial resistance that

                                                                                          Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   addresses the priority for rapid diagnostics outlined in the O’Neill review,
    •   has been licenced to companies including Oxford Nanopore,
    •   is being marketed as a rapid diagnostic kit by the Simcere Pharmaceutical Group for use
        in >100 Chinese hospitals.

 Kristian Bowles has revealed mechanisms underpinning the development of multiple myeloma
 and acute myeloid leukaemia (200,000 deaths globally per year), including alteration in the
 genes BTK (MM) and FLT3 (AML) and the importance of mitochondria transfer in maintaining
 cancer growth. These discoveries have (i) formed the basis of seven clinical trials, particularly
 targeted at multiple myeloma for which there is no current cure and (ii) for Aptose Bioscience
 facilitated a $40m share purchase in Nov 2019.

 John Wain has developed IP leading to an award of around £1m from a European commercial
 partnership deal. He is director of Test&Treat, developing diagnostics for urinary tract infections.
 He was founder and director of Nana Therapeutics Limited, developing treatments for
 mitochondrial disease that was sold to Astellas in Apr 2020. He was founder, director and CSO
 of Discuva Ltd., an antibiotic discovery company sold to Summit Therapeutics in Dec 2017. He
 is founder and director of a not-for-profit company JIDCUK, which supports scientific research in
 developing countries.

 Colin Cooper has set up a diagnostics laboratory in UEA-MED to allow the application of the
 PUR Test (a non-invasive urine test that can more accurately diagnose aggressive prostate
 cancer) and the Tiger Test (a new biopsy test to identify aggressive cancers) to patients with
 prostate cancer.

 William Fraser has pioneered the use of tandem Mass Spectrometry through contract research
 and development work undertaken with KRSS Ltd. Currently UEA has a member of staff
 embedded in the company’s facility in Runcorn that is developing complex low throughput
 assays that investigate bone health.

 Unit staff have links to UK charities serving on Advisory Boards or Scientific Committees.
    • Colin Cooper: Tenovus, Prostate Cancer UK, Prostate Cancer Research Charity.
    • Helen Murphy: Diabetes UK.
    • Darrell Green: has served as charity trustee for the Bone Cancer Research Trust.
    • John Potter: Alzheimers Society.
    • Linda Troeberg: Versus Arthritis.
    • Kristian Bowles: is a Trustee of the Norfolk cancer charity Big-C supporting fundraising
         and public events.
    • William Fraser: Action Arthritis, Royal Osteoporosis Society

 Unit staff have a wide range of interactions with industry:
    • Kristian Bowles advises Abbvie, Jannsen, Infinity and Kancera.
    • Paul Crichton collaborates with AstraZeneca.
    • Changjiang Dong collaborates with Hoffmann-La Roche and Bicycle Therapeutics.
    • Marcus Flather advises Novartis, Astra Zeneca and UCB pharma and is on the board
         of Ablatus.




                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       •   William Fraser2 has consulted for KRSS, Roche, Abbot Diagnostics, Diasorin, and
           Qiagen
       •   Nicole Horwood collaborates with Sanofi Genzyme.
       •   David Livermore2 has consulted for 20 companies including Pfizer.
       •   Yoon Loke advises Thame Laboratories.
       •   James Mackay advises GlaxoSmithKline and is a member of General Electric
           Healthcare medical advisory board.
       •   Helen Murphy collaborates with Dexcom and is on the advisory board for Medtronic.
       •   Penny Powell collaborates with Roche Diagnostics on an MRC iCASE PhD
           studentship.
       •   Dmitry Pshezhetskiy works with Oxford Biodynamics on prostate cancer biomarkers.
       •   Mark Webber has MRC iCASE PhD partnerships with Procter and Gamble (x2), Nestle
           (x1) and GAMA healthcare (x1).

    UEA MED runs a vibrant programme of public engagement overseen by the Associate Dean
    of Innovation (Michael Hornberger). We have engaged through the media and through direct
    contact with the local community. Our press releases have resulted in 2,943 articles and 117
    TV/radio appearances in 63 countries. UoA1 staff (including Colin Cooper and William Fraser)
    have carried out £1.11m of direct fundraising in the local community, nationally and
    internationally for research on prostate cancer and bone disorders.

    Our Academic Director for Innovation, Laura Bowater, has recently been awarded an MBE for
    science communication in microbiology. We regularly participate in community events promoting
    our work including the annual Norwich Science Festival, Norwich Science Café and the Science
    Café at the Cut Halesworth. Highlights include Justin O’Grady and David Livermore sharing
    their pioneering research around Anti-Microbial Resistance (AMR) at the Science Museum in
    London at an event named ”Superbugs: The Fight for Our Lives” held in 2019. This was free to
    attend and sponsored by UEA, Pfizer, Shionogi and UKRI.

    COVID-19: During the COVID-19 crisis, we have been engaged in relevant research as
    outlined above in this Section and in Section 1.2. More detail is now provided particularly for
    involvement of UoA1 staff in community activities to combat infection and to better understand
    the impact of COVID-19 within the local community:

       •   UoA staff compared the use and effectiveness of PCR and antibody testing in NNUH and
           care homes. Kristian Bowles, William Fraser and Stuart Rushworth evaluated the FDA
           approved SARS-CoV-2 immunoassay (developed at Mount Sinai) for the identification of
           COVID-19 seroconversion, potential cross-reactivity of the assay in a UK NHS hospital
           setting, and for costs of producing the tests. They concluded that the Mount Sinai IgG
           ELISA assay is highly sensitive test for SARS-Cov-2 infection, however modification of
           thresholding was required to minimise false positive results.
       •   James Smith was involved in setting up PCR screening for determining the incidence of
           COVID-19 positive cases in the UEA student and Norwich communities.
       •   Justin O'Grady initiated a Norwich mass genome sequencing project, became a
           member of COG-UK, and more recently Deputy Director of COG-UK leading to the
           following comment:


2
    Total consultancy income for UoA1 is £876,000
                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        ‘Dr O’Grady’s team have worked closely with Norfolk County Council Test and Trace,
        PHE and hospital clinicians to help understand and control outbreaks in the region. Their
        work on genomics of COVID-19 outbreaks in care facilities in Norfolk highlighted that
        transmission was likely caused by movement of staff between facilities and not
        movement of patients between hospitals and care facilities was less important. This was
        reported to PHE and SAGE and resulted in a genomics report presented to the SAGE
        Social Care Working Group’
        Sir Patrick Valance, Government Chief Scientific Adviser and Head of Government
        Science and Engineering Profession

    •   Yoon Loke developed a new way to analyse and calculate COVID-19 deaths that led to
        the Health Secretary Matt Hancock ordering an urgent review into how Public Health
        England (PHE) calculates daily COVID-19 death figures. This led to the number of
        deaths reported by the government to be calculated differently. This decision meant the
        UK death toll due to COVID-19 at the time was revised downwards by 5,377 to 41,329 in
        June 2020 (Impact Case Study).

    •   FMH has a portfolio of 119 COVID-19 projects ranging from setting up screening for
        COVID-19 infection to making (together with the School of Chemistry (CHE)) alcohol
        hand gel for local care homes.

 Conclusions: The Norwich Medical School, founded in 2002, is undergoing a period of rapid
 development, realising its full potential to undertake research targeting key global and national
 health problems. We demonstrate here how our research environment can deliver excellent
 research, whilst being flexible enough to respond to the COVID-19 crisis. Working with key
 partners we have demonstrated our role as a Civic University that addresses the needs of our
 local community. We have significantly increased research income, postgraduate student
 recruitment and impact capacity with the recruitment of 15 inspiring new team leaders. A key
 success has been the integration of research with the QIB. Significant investments have been
 made to enact these changes including (i) investment in equipment, (ii) construction of two new
 buildings immediately adjacent to the NNUH, and (iii) the setting up of the NIHA and the
 UEAHSCP. We have already established world-leading translation research and leadership
 linked to the NNUH in selected areas: (i) the rapid detection of infections and new antibiotics
 development; (ii) prostate cancer; (iii) leukaemia, (iv) cardiovascular disease; and (v) clinical
 trials. Our vision for the next six years is to build on our successes and deepen our ability to
 carry out top-quality translational research by, together with the NNUH, by developing assets
 such as the Norwich Biorepository, the QIE, and the CRF and by putting in place additional
 facilitating structures such as the Norwich Epidemiology Centre and an NRP wide Norwich
 Translational Research Centre.

 “The strong and thriving partnership between NNUH, UEA and Quadram Institute Bioscience,
 has already enabled us to deliver world-leading research to benefit our communities and the
 wider population and we are committed to continuing high quality, high value, research to
 improve health outcomes and people’s lives for decades to come.”
 Professor Erika Denton MBBS, FRCP, FRCR, DSc
 Medical Director, Norfolk & Norwich University Hospital




                                                                                            Page 22
