Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Lincoln

 Unit of Assessment: 34 Communications, Cultural and Media Studies.

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and Structure
 The Communication, Cultural and Media Studies Unit of Assessment comprises staff from the
 Schools of Film and Media Studies (LSFM) and English and Journalism (LSEJ), two of six
 schools in the College of Arts. The UoA has expanded significantly from 7 to 16 FTE in the
 current REF cycle with a concurrent growth in PGR enrolment and grant income. New
 appointments have diversified the range of research during this cycle. The Unit is now
 characterized by its commitment to curiosity-driven, innovative, interdisciplinary research in a
 variety of thematic areas united by a concern for questions of power, inequalities and justice:
 Media Histories (Chapman, Winston), Screen Studies (Donald, Elliott, Gergely, Jackson,
 Palmieri, Charlesworth), Media Ecologies and Digital Cultures (Sutherland, Coley,
 Lockwood), Sound Studies (Wilczek), Environmentalism and Photography (Scott), and
 Diasporic, Investigative and Comparative Journalism (Ogunyemi, Sahin, Henkel).

 1.2 Achievement of Research Strategy
 The Unit’s overarching ambition for the 2015-2020 cycle was to maintain momentum within the
 research environment via the targeted recruitment of ECRs, career beginners and senior
 researchers and through strategic investment in the development of researchers already in post.
 This ambition was successfully realized as evidenced by the facts that staff who were ECRs in
 2014 and the 7 early career appointments since the previous submission account for half of our
 submitted research outputs. Two professorial appointments were made to support our early
 career colleagues and provide leadership for the Unit. The strategic recruitment of ECRs has
 substantially expanded the scope of emerging research themes in Journalism, Media Theory
 and Film and Television Studies.

 The Unit has undergone significant changes in the cycle, thus some of the aims identified in
 2014 have been adapted in alignment with the extent and direction of the Unit’s expansion.

 We stated that we would develop the Unit’s research as practice portfolio. While Scott’s
 appointment was an important step towards that aim, the prolificacy of new Film Studies and
 Media Theory researchers presented an opportunity to focus on Screen Studies in this cycle.

 We stated that we would build on our ‘strong cohort of junior and early career researchers’, and
 as part of the University’s ‘Thinking Ahead’ strategy, we have supported our researchers and
 encouraged scholarly curiosity among our ECRs across the Unit. Staff recruited in the period
 have progressed in their emerging careers as witnessed by a marked increase in bidding
 activity. Successful bids were made by Elliott, Sahin, Thompson and Sutherland, the latter two
 as PIs. External income totalling £1.39m (see: Research Income, below) indicates the
 successful achievement of key research aims stated in 2014.

 In line with the institutional strategic plan, and outperforming the institution’s 58 per cent rise in
 PGR registrations, we grew the Unit’s PGR community to 19, a more than twofold rise in
 enrolments during the period. Completions rose to 11, a sharp 57 per cent rise compared to the
 previous cycle, which demonstrates that the expansion was achieved while maintaining
 appropriately high standards. This reflects the vitality and sustainability of the research
 environment.

 The Unit implemented the strategic aim to produce impactful research which benefits local and
 regional publics by establishing productive partnerships with local cultural institutions (Mansions
 of the Future, St Mary le Wigford Church, Frequency Festival, Lincolnshire County and Lincoln
 City Councils). These connections enabled public-facing collaborative and cross-disciplinary
 work, which emerged from Donald’s Justice, Arts and Migration network, Elliott’s project on

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Crowd-Curated History in partnership with Lincoln Cathedral, and the work of the Extra Sonic
 Practice Research Group, established by Thompson.

 A further aim for the 2015-2020 cycle was to continue to develop and expand the scope of
 Screen Studies and European Cultural Studies. Indeed, as noted, the Unit’s strengths in Film
 Studies increased sharply, accounting for close to a quarter of submitted outputs. While our long
 association with the European Journal of Cultural Studies ended on the retirement and
 relocation of two senior members of staff during the census period, the strategic recruitment of
 new staff enabled the Unit to refocus its interest in Europe and its culture around critical
 approaches to diaspora, migrations and transnational media. The resulting change of scope has
 been successful, as evidenced by timely and varied interventions represented by Donald’s work
 on refugee film, Henkel’s work in comparative journalism, Sahin and Ogunyemi’s work on
 diaspora journalism, and Gergely’s work on nationalism and popular media in Europe.

 1.3 Achievement of Impact Strategy
 The institution’s approach to impact is integrated with its ‘local to global’ strategy by embedding
 impact development in research units and maintaining widespread local engagement,
 supplemented by individual staff development and activity. During the census period we have
 enhanced individual academic impact activity through the targeted support of PEARL and LILI
 (see institutional environment statement). In the UoA this has shaped a number of high-impact
 activities. Donald’s Justice, Arts and Migration project moved from a focus on the immediate
 community of Lincolnshire to a broader, diasporic engagement with migration. The project’s
 impact events ranged from a local workshop to a series of online public-facing activities with
 participants from India, the Middle East and Australia, and forms one of our impact case studies.
 Elliott’s work on crowd-curated histories has engaged community networks in hard-to-reach
 areas of the city in initiatives such as the hyperlocal ‘Bricks and Bones’ project including
 community archaeology events, multigenerational coffee-mornings, and a project involving the
 National Trust and other heritage organisations.


 1.4 Research Strategy for next five years
 Key to our research strategy for the next REF cycle is the ambition to build the local, national
 and global reputation of the Unit’s research environment. This ambition will be achieved through
 three strategic interventions.

    •   We will appoint a new professor in screen cultures for the Unit to oversee research,
        mentor research staff at all levels and consolidate our growing research expertise in non-
        western film and media, contemporary media studies, diasporas and archiving/historical
        studies.
    •   We will further sharpen our commitment to practice as research: the Unit will aim to
        increase our returned staff by 50 per cent to 22 FTE, with 6 researchers submitting
        practice outputs. Central to this aim is a professorial appointment in Media Practice as
        Research to enhance the Unit’s work in this area. We also have an ambition to work
        collaboratively with other universities to exchange best practice and clarify excellence.
        Gergely’s nomination to the subject association BAFTSS executive committee serves, in
        part, the aim of plugging the Unit into the broader effort to foreground practice as a key
        site for research in the entangled fields of Media and Communications.
    •   As a result of our focus on new research strengths, we aim to increase our PGR
        recruitment to 25, double the 2014 benchmark. This 33 per cent increase from the
        current cycle is aligned with the institutional aim in this regard, and will be achieved by
        boosting the number of MA by Research students (targeting international recruitment and
        publicising subject-specific expertise of our research staff), and where appropriate
        building in PhD bursaries to new EIG bids.

 The above strategy is motivated by a central cohort of researchers in the Unit entering a mid-
 career phase. We will enhance the distinctiveness of the research environment, achieve more
 visible public outreach and embark on more ambitious projects built around external income

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 generation by threading individual staff plans through a considered overall strategy. Central to
 this strategy, which we sketch below, are two related but distinct targets: the retention of
 researchers entering mid-career phase, and the recruitment and considered development of
 postgraduate and early career scholars. The retention of researchers hinges on the unit’s ability
 to give room for their ambitions and support their further development via opportunities for taking
 on leadership and mentorship responsibilities. The success of this strategy will be particularly
 measured by our ability to retain and support colleagues in the Unit with protected
 characteristics, and will be embedded into our strategy by our attainment of Athena Swan
 Bronze awards in both Schools.

 The considered expansion in key areas will be crucial to meeting the Unit’s aims. School and
 College level support for all researchers, and in particular for PGR students through to
 completion, and further developing practice as research as a key component of the Unit will be
 crucial. In this vein four aims are set:

    1. We will continue to work to increase research income to £2.4m and diversify sources of
       income generation.
    2. We will establish, develop and maintain relationships with non-HEI partners, e.g. Media
       Archives for Central England, Film Archives UK, Stephen Lawrence Research Centre,
       and effectively facilitate the design and delivery of public engagement activities with
       impact in mind.
    3. We will implement a remodelled appraisal, mentorship and peer-review process which
       involves the Impact Case Study Lead in all new bids to embed impact from the planning
       stages.
    4. We will diversify our research methods, expanding especially in research as practice in
       the areas of Photography and Sound Studies, and consequently, expand our
       dissemination activities by embracing forms of output that will bring our research to a
       broader audience, such as videos, documentaries, podcasts, and interactive media.

 1.5 Impact Strategy for the next five years
 Over the next period the Unit will make a significant contribution to the University’s commitment
 to producing ‘purposeful research with impact’. Impact will be ‘designed in’ to all research
 projects and will flow in particular from Sahin and Ogunyemi’s ongoing work around
 crisis/peace journalism and journalists’ trauma, Elliott’s AHRC-funded project on community
 history which works with the National Trust, Sutherland’s AHRC-funded project on media
 pedagogy, and Gergely’s work on the racialization of migrant communities via archival
 practices. Institutional facilitation of research organized around key themes will foster impactful
 practice-based research in Sound Studies, emanating from the Extra Sonic Practice Research
 Group, supported by the Lincoln Institute of Advanced Studies’ Research Group and Network
 Leads Peer Group, which will be expanded via the selective recruitment of research staff.

 Our approach to impact is promoted through three general categories of public engagement:

    1. Encouraging professional/industry participation and public engagement in our research,
       as well as engaging with a wide range of non-academic publics;
    2. Capitalizing on our growing reputation in media research reflected through growing
       esteem factors;
    3. Building strong interdisciplinary networks across the university and on a national and
       international level to ensure regular and consistent contributions to the broader research
       base are designed into our way of working.

 These strategic aims for research and impact cohere with the broader institutional goals to foster
 and promote ground-up processes in research and to increase staff, PGR, income and impact
 so as to effectively address issues of changing social fabric and cultural life, develop intellectual
 and practical solutions to identified challenges (Communities, Wellbeing and Networks, in line
 with the institutional priorities) and to bed in open data and accessibility into our work. Meeting
 these aims will enable us to build on the momentum of the current cycle to enhance our

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reputation for research in the next, and in the process to increase numbers of staff and high-
 quality outputs in the Unit.

 1.6 Approach to Interdisciplinary Research
 As a Communications, Cultural and Media Studies Unit we are characterized by
 interdisciplinarity and methodological hybridity in our research, deploying quantitative,
 qualitative, archival and practice methods in the interlinked fields of Communication, Journalism,
 Screen and Sound Studies, Media Histories and Media Theory. We are also committed to
 transdisciplinarity and have forged links with researchers in other Schools and Colleges across
 the institution and nationally and internationally. We pick out just two examples here, which, like
 all research in the Unit, demonstrate our methodological hybridity and transdisciplinarity: in
 addition to collaborations with colleagues in the Unit and with artists, via the Justice Arts and
 Migration project, Donald has worked with researchers in the Schools of Architecture and Law;
 and Gergely has collaborated with staff in the School of Music and Drama via the Extra Sonic
 Research Group, and his Europe in Hungary project includes Human Geography and Archive
 Studies strands in the UK and Hungary.

 Research seminars run within the Unit are scheduled so as not to coincide with other parallel
 seminars (e.g. in History & Heritage and English & Journalism) and all advertisements go out to
 all members of the College, facilitating inter- and transdisciplinary connections and
 collaborations, exemplified by Scott’s membership of the transdisciplinary Lincoln Centre for
 Environmental Justice, the work of the Extra Sonic Practice Research Group whose members
 [e.g. Gergely, Thompson] have given papers at various research seminars within and outside
 the College of Arts, and by Elliott’s collaboration with Ward (returned in UoA 27) as co-editors of
 the peer-reviewed journal Arthuriana, and his workshops on digital gaming and medieval history
 with Wood (returned in UoA 28).

 1.7 Progress towards Open Research Environment
 The Unit is committed to the policy of Open Access and the University is a signatory to the San
 Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (see Institutional Environment Statement for
 University policies and procedures). Through the University’s repository, all members of staff
 have access to a site for open publication. In this, staff are supported by a dedicated member of
 the Research and Enterprise (RE) team, and training and advice sessions are provided at
 University level. PGR students also receive training from the Doctoral School on open access,
 and the University’s PhDs are freely available to download. The university’s Open Data lead,
 Professor Graham Law, has supported the Unit in identifying opportunities for expanding Open
 Datasets.

 1.8 Support for Research Integrity
 The Unit’s approach is governed by the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, the
 University’s Code of Practice for Research and the San Francisco Declaration on Research
 Assessment (see IES). The University is an institutional member of ORCID and all staff possess
 an ORCID ID. A new ethical approval procedure was introduced in 2018, overseen by the
 University’s Research Ethics Committee. All projects undertaken by staff or PGR students must
 receive acknowledgement of a Project Registration Form, or a favourable opinion from a
 University or external ethical review committee. Staff and students receive advice and support
 from Ethics Champions in both Schools who receive specific training in the approval of ethics
 proposals. The School Directors of Research (DoR) and the RE team ensure that all grant
 applications from members of the Unit are in line with the legal and ethical requirements of the
 award-making body, including proper governance and transparency. PGR students and their
 supervisors review ethical aspects of students’ research every year as part of an annual
 monitoring review. Staff have access to University-wide training in issues connected to research
 misconduct, which is governed by the University’s application of the UKRIO Procedure for the
 Investigation of Misconduct of Research. The University publishes an annual Misconduct
 Statement.



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy
 Significant investment has been made in the assessment period to recruit two professors
 (Boothroyd, Donald) and a cohort of researchers taking up full-time permanent positions for the
 first time (Bandinelli, Gergely, Henkel, Ruffino, Scott, Sutherland, Thompson), reflecting the
 Unit’s current ambition to build the reputation of its research environment, as well as cementing
 its future through the development of ECR and mid-career staff.

 The number of FTE staff returned has more than doubled from 7 in the 2014 submission to 16
 (15.2 FTE), underscoring institutional commitment to Communication, Cultural and Media
 Studies, and thereby achieving a growing reputation for research in the Unit. College Research
 leadership has provided support for successful grant development and bid writing [e.g. Cowman
 (UoA 28) mentored Thompson, Winston mentored Elliott, Boothroyd mentored Gergely]. The
 appointment of Boothroyd and Donald served to maintain the team’s level of seniority. They,
 together with professors Chapman and Winston offer advice and mentorship to staff across the
 unit.

 2.2 Staff Development
 Efforts to support and develop the Unit’s cohort of ECR and PGR researchers have been
 supported by internal mentoring and appraisal processes [Academic Development Appraisal
 (ADA), Individual Research Planning (IRP)], internal funding opportunities [Research Resource
 Allocation Fund (RRAF), Research Investment Fund (RIF)], and targeted recruitment in relation
 to the Unit’s emerging and established areas of research expertise (including Film Studies,
 Media Histories, Media Theory and Sound Studies). These measures enable scholars to identify
 their research needs and to draw on feedback received on their plans for research and impact.
 The process also enables informed, effective, ground-up planning for the Unit’s collective
 research activities and broader research strategy.

 Strategic planning of individual research programmes (ADA/IRP) has been effective in enabling
 staff to develop rounded research profiles, in alignment with the institutional and Unit-level
 research strategies. Ogunyemi is founding editor of the refereed journal Global Diaspora and
 Media (2019-) and leads the Media of Diaspora Research Group. Sahin has expanded the
 scope of their research since 2014 and, supported via RRAF and RIF funding and research
 leave allocation, has developed 3 outputs from a project on diaspora, conflict and journalism in
 the context of Cyprus, going on to win a £4,790 grant from the BA. Elliott, Gergely, Henkel,
 Sutherland and Thompson, all similarly benefited from strategic mentorship and support which
 led to their securing external funding (totalling £394,000) and 49 significant publications in their
 fields, of which we are returning one in four.

 The pairing of researchers with mentors is considered and strategic, aligned with EDI principles.
 In this vein, Boothroyd, Chapman, Donald and Winston have provided mentorship for the
 continued professional development of staff with whose research their expertise aligns. Under
 such considered mentorship, for instance, Lockwood and Coley have continued to develop
 radical, innovative work aligned with the institution’s commitment to uphold academic freedom to
 pursue curiosity-driven research. As women coming to research via non-traditional routes
 involving career change, Charlesworth, Palmieri and Wilczek have successfully developed
 new research priorities under the careful mentorship of Donald.

 As a result of the strategic support outlined above, staff identified as ECRs in the previous REF
 and career beginners recruited in the cycle have produced nearly half of the outputs returned in
 this submission (17 out of 38) attesting to their centrality to our research environment. ECRs
 recruited prior to 2014 have been supported to develop their careers via research leadership
 opportunities within the Unit: Elliott (appointed 2010) is now Director of Research within the
 School of Film and Media, where he sits alongside Lockwood as PGR Lead. Others appointed
 at ECR stage now with significant research-related responsibilities include Thompson (appointed
 2014) as Impact Case Study Lead, Gergely (appointed 2015) who is now UoA REF Co-

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ordinator, and Scott (appointed 2015) and Sutherland (appointed 2016) who are both standing
 members of the Film and Media Research Committee.

 College and Institutional support for research has enabled prolific research outputs within the
 Unit. Aided via RRAF funding Elliott, Gergely and Sutherland contribute 7 items to the
 submission, attesting to their prolificacy. Henkel, who began actively producing research upon
 her appointment in 2015, has developed a significant profile for their career stage: they have
 won funding internally at College (RRAF) and Institutional (Lincoln Institute for Advanced
 Studies, or LIAS) level to support presentations at peer-reviewed international conferences
 (which led to a number of publications) and secured a €515 Erasmus+ staff mobility award to
 support an international teaching and research exchange. Ruffino and Bandinelli took up their
 first permanent full-time positions at Lincoln and developed their research profiles during their
 period of employment here. They published 9 peer-reviewed items while in post and developed
 projects under the mentorship of more established colleagues (notably Boothroyd and
 Lockwood). While we are not returning any of their outputs, placing instead our emphasis on
 staff currently in post, these achievements speak to the research environment’s capacity to
 support ECRs.

 All staff receive a guaranteed workload allocation for research: FTE researchers within the Unit
 are entitled to a minimum of 1 research day per week, and additional allocation is available to
 ECRs in the first year of appointment. Further allocation is available for work on manuscripts, bid
 development and other significant additional research activities such as journal editorship, peer
 review activities, and grant panel membership. Staff in the Unit also benefit from the College’s
 process of research leave allocation, under which Barrow, Charlesworth, Coley, Gergely,
 Lockwood, Jackson, Sahin, Sutherland and Thompson were offered a period of leave of one
 semester. Winston and Scott were awarded tailored research leave, demonstrating the
 scheme’s flexibility, with research making up 50 per cent of their total workload allocation spread
 across two semesters to enable them to focus on major projects.

 There are robust avenues of support that help the Unit to continue to increase and diversify
 sources of income. These include workload allowances of 60 hours per year for the development
 and submission of substantial funding bids, guidance from dedicated staff in the College
 Research Office, and the possibility of doubling research allocation for members of staff with
 regular funding bid submission and/or one or more book contracts (see below). Further targeted
 support can be allocated through our existing research leave system, which is open to all staff.
 Peer-reviewing, mentoring and feedback on external bid writing from more experienced
 colleagues is standard practice and is required for bids in excess of £10,000. Research Office
 staff identify and circulate funding opportunities, as well as information from other research
 funding agencies and sources. Researchers across the College have been trained to identify
 diverse sources of grant monies from smaller funding bodies focused on specific types or
 themes of research via, for instance, a Research Professional workshop.

 2.3 Support for PGR Students
 The Unit’s strategic commitment to training and Continual Professional Development is visible in
 our growing Postgraduate Research community. In alignment with the Institution’s broader
 research strategy to increase PGR numbers and completion rates, 7 PhD candidates have
 completed doctorates in the assessment period, and currently 9 PGR students are pursuing
 PhDs. Part of that growth has been driven by the introduction in 2014 of 32 competitive RIF PhD
 studentships covering fees and maintenance, of which the Unit won two. All PGRs are eligible
 for support from RRAF to attend conferences and archives as part of their research, and we also
 host PGR Showcase events and local doctoral conferences to enhance presentation skills and
 competitivity. PGR students are expected to attend the Open Seminar and Journalism Research
 Seminar series, at which they are also invited to present papers. The Unit has also hosted 3
 international visiting PhD students from France, Chile and Norway, taking advantage of external
 funding mechanisms including bursaries from the Universities of Toulouse and Pontificia
 Universidad Católica de Chile.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGR students are supported by the University’s Doctoral School, which provides postgraduate
 researchers with training, networking opportunities and specialist support, and the Unit’s
 research students also have access to a PGR common room, which is intended to promote
 collaborative working, networking and peer support. Schools in the Unit accept Masters by
 Research applicants so as to retain and attract exceptional graduates and provide a direct
 training route for PhD entry. Currently 7 students are enrolled on the MA by Research
 programme, supported by researchers in the Unit with relevant expertise, including supervisory
 teams to facilitate cross-disciplinary projects. Research topics focus on race, gender and
 sexuality, as well as historical representations in film and television, participatory media and
 community engagement.

 All staff new to PGR supervision are given mentorship and support through the Doctoral
 School’s training programmes, and for those new to the process there is the opportunity to gain
 experience as members of teams led by more experienced colleagues. All supervisors, including
 those working across interdisciplinary teams spanning Colleges and Schools such as
 Thompson, Elliott and Winston, receive appropriate workload allocation.

 2.4 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 EDI is supported via work of the Eleanor Glanville Centre, launched as the University’s Centre
 for Equality, Diversity and Inclusion in 2017 (see Institutional Environment Statement). The EGC
 runs monthly meetings to support Schools preparing Gender Equality Charter and Race Equality
 Charter applications. Both Schools are currently preparing applications for an Athena Swan
 Bronze Award. LSEJ is due for submission in November 2021, and LSFM the following year.

 EDI considerations inform all decision-making and forward planning in alignment with Athena
 Swan principles. All staff undergo mandatory unconscious bias and EDI training, and further
 training is mandated for reviewers and those in mentorship and leadership positions to promote
 inclusivity in decision-making. In this same spirit, PGR supervisors, recruitment panels, and PhD
 transfer and viva panel members and chairs all undergo compulsory periodical EDI training.
 Decisions around workload modelling and research leave are public and transparent to ensure
 parity. All staff, regardless of seniority, participate in IRP and ADA reviews, aimed at identifying
 research priorities and available institutional support and external income opportunities. The
 pairing of ADA and IRP reviewers and reviewees is periodically rotated to guard against
 unconscious bias. The construction of the Unit’s submission, including the selection of outputs,
 has been governed by the University’s REF Code of Practice, which places EDI at the heart of
 this process. Equality Impact Assessments (EIAs) occurred annually 2018-20 on the University’s
 REF procedures, in order to identify potential EDI issues, including any disparities identified in
 the inclusion of outputs from staff with protected characteristics. All members of staff involved in
 creating the Unit’s submission received specific EDI and unconscious bias training around these
 procedures. The selection of staff outputs for inclusion was based on a rigorous process that
 involved an internal panel with an independent Chair (from another School), and external
 assessment. Staff were encouraged to declare individual circumstances that might affect their
 submission through a confidential procedure.

 The University’s Multifaith Chaplaincy is a key plank in the University’s One Community initiative
 to combat racism and ethnic and religious intolerance. It offers a number of specific facilities for
 researchers (see Institutional Environment Statement). The Unit plays an important role in the
 Chaplaincy’s work via Winston, who acts as its Jewish Faith Advisor.

 Since the last REF the unit has actively recruited researchers from underrepresented
 communities. As a consequence, of 16 members of staff returned, 7 are women, 2 are BAME
 and our professoriate is 50 per cent female, compared to 30 per cent institutionally, and 25 per
 cent sector-wide. Attesting to institutional commitment to supporting a diverse research
 community, staff are entitled to enhanced maternity/paternity leave under the new and expectant
 family policy (see Institutional Environment Statement) and can also request reduced FTE due to
 caring commitments, with one member of staff taking advantage of both of these support
 mechanisms in the cycle. The University’s flexible attitude towards retirement as detailed in the

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institutional Environment Statement has enabled the Unit to benefit from the ongoing input of
 senior colleagues as it grows.

 Our research and public engagement activities demonstrate our growing commitment to EDI.
 For example, Gergely joined with O’Rourke (submitted in UoA 28) for a series of public
 screenings and research-based talks for LGBTQ+ History month while Thompson’s AHRC
 project investigates how the arts might help to enrich understanding of Tinnitus and the impact of
 this debilitating condition. In order to enhance our diverse research community in the next cycle,
 we are prioritising appointments in the field of feminist &/or queer sound theory and feminist
 digital programming. These planned appointments are in line with Athena Swan priorities and
 underscore the Unit’s commitment to increasing the diversity of its membership.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income
 We have more than doubled our research income from £608,000 in REF 2014 to £1.39m.
 Research Council and EU funding schemes accounted for half of all bids in the census period.
 Securing research funding from a range of UKRI and non-UKRI sources has enhanced the
 development of high-quality, collaborative and impactful research within the Unit.

 Our major research grant successes in the period were:

 Barrow and Elliott Arts Council England, 2017-18 ‘Magna Carta 800-1215 Today’, £395,000.

 Boothroyd ESRC/AHRC/EPSRC/Dstl/CPNI, 2014-17 ‘A Shared Space and Space for Sharing’,
 £1.13M; ESRC/AHRC/EPSRC/Dstl/CPNI ‘Cybernetic Subjects and the Mediation of Trust and
 Empathy’, £2,280.

 Chapman AHRC, 2015-16 ‘World War 1 Prisoners of War’, £15,965; AHRC 2016-17, ‘Non-
 Europeans and the Great War’, £15,875; AHRC ‘Everyday Lives in War’, £27,800.

 Elliott AHRC, 2020-2023, ‘Invisible Worlds: Place-Making, Augmented Reality, and Alderley
 Edge’, £240,000.

 Sahin British Academy Small Grants, ‘Journalism in Conflict Societies’, £4,790.

 Sutherland AHRC, 2020-2022, ‘Pause for Thought’ £29,000.

 Thompson AHRC, 2020-2022 ‘Tinnitus, Auditory Knowledge and the Arts’, £125,282.

 Moreover, in keeping with our 2014 strategic aims, the Unit has been successful in diversifying
 its sources of income for research and impact activities. Researchers in the Unit were
 encouraged to think strategically about bidding activities and to target monies available for
 specific research interests. This was achieved via active interventions by the Schools’ Directors
 of Research, the College Research Officers, targeted Research Professional alerts, and
 opportunities identified in annual Individual Research Planning reviews. Through these
 interventions, funding was secured from Arts Council England (Thompson, £3,500), Community
 Links (Donald, £1,500 Outreach Grant), Feminist Review Trust (Thompson, £750, Small Grant),
 Foyle Foundation (Barrow, £1,000), Lincoln City Council (Barrow and Elliott, £40,000) and the
 Association for Journalism Education (Ogunyemi, £800). These smaller pots were targeted by
 all within the Unit from Professor to PGR level. As an example of the latter, £500 was secured
 from the Chalke Valley History Festival by one of our PhD students, John Sandy-Hindmarch, to
 run focus groups.




                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities
 The University of Lincoln continues to invest in support infrastructure for researchers and
 research students. In the period of assessment, the University has established the LIAS, which
 has enhanced the research environment by helping to nurture interdisciplinary and collaborative
 research activities. The Unit has good support for enhancing external income generation.
 Researchers within the Unit receive personalized career support: Directors of Research at
 School and College level provide mentorship via the annual IRP review and support staff in
 developing grant applications. Indeed, ECRs mentored by senior colleagues accounted for 20
 per cent of total research income. Bid success rate in the period was 69 per cent, compared to
 the College average of 56 per cent, with successes bunched in 2017-2019, demonstrating the
 effectiveness of research infrastructure in conjunction with strategic recruitment and targeted
 support. The University’s Research and Enterprise Office work with colleagues and research
 students in understanding and tracking the impact of projects. In doing so, they enable us to
 build a coherent ‘map’ of networks and partnerships.

 Researchers in the Unit (e.g. Donald) have benefitted from the Institute’s Networking Grants,
 while others have been recipients of the LIAS Mobility Award (e.g. Henkel) and Barrow
 (relocated) won a Santander scholarship, which enabled vital field work in Peru. Institutional
 support for dissemination and to undertake primary research has directly resulted in the
 development, writing and publication of internationally recognized scholarship. Internal funding
 for research activities is awarded on a competitive basis at College level from two funds: the
 Research Resources Allocation Fund (for conferences, archival visits and interim support of
 bidding activity) and the Research investment Fund (a University-wide scheme for longer term
 strategic investment). A separate stream exists to nurture PGR research, including a ring-fenced
 RRAF budget for conferences and archival visits in support of doctoral work. The Unit also won
 two RIF-supported PhD studentships in 2013. These awards, which cover fees and offer a
 stipend in line with RCUK doctoral grants, were secured in Historical Games and Media Studies,
 two of the Unit’s emerging research specialisms. Further RIF monies amounting to £63,000 were
 made available to researchers in the Unit (Scott, Elliott, Sahin) and a further £26,055 through
 the College of Arts Research Resource Allocation Fund. Bids for internal and external funding
 for research activities are supported by an internal review process, with School Directors of
 Research offering feedback and advice on applications. All of the RIF funding and 60 per cent of
 RRAF monies were awarded to ECRs, while 43 per cent of the latter went to women
 researchers. The money was used to attend international conferences such as SCMS, ECREA,
 MeCCSA, NECS and BAFTSS, and to facilitate archival research, bid writing activity and
 workshop attendance.

 The development of potentially impactful research is supported via a Unit of Assessment Impact
 Lead, a College impact administrator with a brief to help develop impact evidence, and at
 institutional level, through the UKRI-funded Public Engagement for All with Research at Lincoln
 (PEARL) project, which provides training and awards funding (via an annual call for applications)
 for public engagement activities. Institutional support to develop impact is provided via the
 Lincoln Impact Literacy Institute, a dedicated Director of Research Impact Development and
 specialist impact development co-ordinators. These colleagues and support mechanisms help to
 consolidate our existing Public Engagement activities and to capture impact evidence in a more
 systematic and accessible format, such as Barrow and Elliott’s art workshops (2015-18),
 Elliott’s work with Lincoln City Council’s Bricks and Bones project and community heritage
 events, Donald’s public lectures at the Mansions of the Future (2018-20), and Thompson and
 the Extra Sonic Practice Research Group’s public-facing music workshops in St Mary-le-Wigford
 church (2018).

 Support for Research and the application of research beyond an immediate academic context
 comes from a variety of sources, including the College Business Development Manager, the
 University Research and Industrial Partnerships Team and the College Arts Development
 Officer. A number of projects have developed from this route including the highly successful Arts
 Council England-funded biennial Frequency event, a multi-platform festival of digital cultures
 with additional funding by Rampton KTP. Frequency, which includes city-wide digital takeovers

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in non-traditional exhibition spaces, including exhibitions of site-specific work, live performances,
 world-premieres, and interactive experiences has helped researchers in the unit reach a wide
 public audience. It has hosted over 450 local, national and international artists including four
 groups working with 1215 Today in 2017, exhibiting their work to over 60,000 visitors across four
 festival editions from 2013 to 2019.

 Investment has continued in the Unit’s facilities. The Schools of Film & Media and English &
 Journalism’s extensive media facilities – which include two industry-standard television studios,
 a suite of dedicated newsrooms, three radio studios, state-of-the-art audio-visual editing
 equipment, photography studios, digital design and VR suites, a dubbing studio, specialist
 listening rooms and a 4k screening theatre – help to support the development of practice-led
 research (our strategic priority for the next cycle). The Schools’ facilities have also been used to
 host symposia, workshops and public-facing talks (e.g. Cybernetic Subjects and the Mediation of
 Trust and Empathy, Boothroyd; As Above/So Below, Coley and Lockwood; Sonic
 Cyberfeminisms, Thompson; MeCCSA’s Practice as Research symposium, Winston; Heritage
 Dot, Elliott).

 Since 2011 the University has housed the Media Archive of Central England (MACE), located in
 the same building as researchers from the Unit. The archive is accessible to students and staff
 across the university and plays a key role in supporting historical media research: Film History
 colleagues O’Rourke and Grandy (returned in UoA 28) have drawn on the MACE collection in
 their research, and the archives support research-led teaching and provide opportunities for
 PGR students to gain experience in archiving and pursue research. MACE is a key collaborator
 in Gergely’s archival research project.

 The University also hosts the John Pilger archive and the Lincolnshire Echo archive, which help
 support research in Journalism.

 The University’s Library employs dedicated specialist subject support librarians, and has
 invested extensively in media scholarship via electronic journal subscriptions, and purchasing e-
 books, where possible, to improve accessibility and facilitate remote working. The Library is a
 long-standing subscriber to Box of Broadcasts, and has made significant investment in physical
 and online AV holdings in the cycle. In addition to acquiring film and television titles on Kanopy,
 the Library has expanded its collections by acquiring, among others, a full set of the Masters of
 Cinema BluRay series. Moreover, the Library routinely acquires titles released on the BFI’s own
 label. Researchers are further supported through access to unlimited inter-library loans.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The Unit has continued to collaborate closely with the media and culture industries that enhance
 its research agenda. These links have been expanded in order to reflect changing media
 landscapes and ecologies and have enabled us to capitalize on public dissemination of research
 findings. These findings provide a means of contributing to a broader research base which
 extends well beyond the confines of the University and into the public domain.

 4.1 Research Collaborations, Partnerships and Networks
 As outlined in the related Impact Case Studies, researchers in the Unit remain committed not
 only to maintaining a strong public engagement element of our research, but to growing that
 element to embed public engagement into our research from the outset. Examples of research
 projects which engage extensively with public stakeholders include Everyday Lives in War
 (Chapman), the Community Storytelling project with the National Trust (Elliott), Rampton
 Hospital Radio KTP, Lincoln City Council (Donald, Elliott), and Portovesme (Scott). All of these
 projects, which exemplify the Unit’s commitment to reaching non-HEI publics, embed public
 engagement practices according to a dedicated Impact Plan.



                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institutional investment in developing practice-based research within the Unit is ongoing, and
 evidenced by the University’s hosting the Annual MeCCSA Practice Symposium in collaboration
 with the Journal of Media Practice and Education in 2018. The Unit’s various research seminars
 have also been important in foregrounding practice as research within the Unit, for instance via
 presentations by environmental photographer Scott, and Henkel, who was recruited as an ECR
 after a successful career as a practising journalist. Research seminars in the Unit are an
 important platform for developing research as practice: speakers invited as part of a considered
 strategy to expand practice as research in the Unit included the animator Sara Nesteruk
 (University of Huddersfield) and sound artists and practitioners Rebecca Collins, (Edinburgh
 College of Arts) and Benedict Seymour (Goldsmiths). Research groups in the Unit provide
 further targeted support: the Extra-Sonic Practice Research Group has provided opportunities to
 share interdisciplinary aspects of practice-based work in progress (ESP members returned in
 UoA 33 include Balosso-Bardin and Scheuregger).

 The Open Seminar and Journalism Research Seminar Series are open to the public. They
 feature research seminars offered by internal speakers and renowned international scholars,
 bringing diverse research of international and global significance to a local audience. Research
 seminars run alongside regular film events and open lectures such as the Holocaust Memorial
 Day screening with a critical introduction and Q+A (Gergely), the annual LGBTQ+ Week
 screenings of films with attached lectures (co-hosted by O’Rourke, returned in UoA 28, with
 contributions by researchers in the Unit including Gergely). The Unit also hosts open talks about
 research and industry by Visiting Professors and invited industry leaders such as David Cooke,
 the former Director of the BBFC, Chris Packham (BBC Presenter), Alex Graham (Wall to Wall
 Productions), Andrew Graham-Dixon (BBC Presenter), Rick Senat (former European Head of
 Legal and Business Affairs at Warner Bros and Senior Independent Director of Cineworld),
 Jason Bradbury (BBC Broadcaster), Justin Hardy (Television Director), and Phil Clapp (UK
 Cinema Association CEO).

 The Open Seminar series and the Journalism Research Seminar series allow PGR students to
 engage with researchers from other institutions, to receive feedback on new ideas as well as
 enabling staff within the Unit to present and discuss works-in-progress. Since the disruptions of
 the Covid pandemic, the Open Seminar series has moved online in order to preserve continuity
 as much as possible under difficult circumstances. Online talks, for example by PGR Sandy-
 Hindmarch on historical re-enactments in the East Midlands, have attracted good numbers
 across the institution as well as non-HEI attendees.

 4.2 Users, Beneficiaries and Audiences Several research projects are designed to be
 responsive to non-HEI stakeholder needs. This key strength is exemplified by projects built
 around public stakeholders such as Chapman’s work on cartoons, Donald’s work as part of the
 Justice Arts and Migration project, as well as Bricks and Bones (Elliott), a community heritage
 project led by the City of Lincoln and Lincolnshire County Councils. This latter partnership
 sprang from an earlier £45,000 cross-disciplinary project with Lincoln Cathedral, in which
 community heritage and crowd-curated history scholarship was applied to the creation of an
 interactive Augmented Reality app. These projects marked a fruitful partnership between the
 Unit’s researchers and local government, involving the Lincoln Business Investment Group’s
 work at Sincil Bank, an economically depressed area of Lincoln which had been identified as a
 priority for the city’s redevelopment plan. This impactful work evidences our commitment to
 pursuing local to global research themes (see Institutional Environment Statement) aligned to
 institutional research themes (Wellbeing, Communities and Ruralities) and has since seeded
 Elliot’s ‘Invisible Worlds’ AHRC project.

 The Unit’s intellectual contributions to the city include regular research-led events at Mansions of
 the Future, an Arts Council-supported Arts and Cultural Hub located on the edge of the recently-
 redeveloped Cornhill quarter of Lincoln offering free events to the public. Researchers
 associated with the Unit and its research groups have organised and presented events at the
 hub (Donald, ESP Research Group), as well as other locations around the city including nearby
 St Mary-le-Wigford church and Frequency Festival sites. The 1215 Today project (Barrow and

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Elliott) submitted 4 outputs to 2017’s Frequency Festival, alongside public initiatives including
 an event at London’s South Bank Centre, a TEDx Youth event in November 2017 and an award-
 winning short film, The Empty Throne, commissioned as part of the project and screened
 publicly at Lincoln Castle.

 Researchers within the Unit have regularly presented their work at leading cultural institutions,
 attesting to our commitment to a wide range of public engagement activities both locally and
 globally. Chapman presented work at the Chichester Festival and curated the ‘Never Again’
 exhibition at the Cartoon Museum in 2014, alongside a range of public-facing talks and
 discussions of comics and popular-cultural responses in The Conversation. Members of the ESP
 Research Group have spoken at Mutek festival, Canada, Tate Liverpool, the British Library and
 Nottingham Contemporary. Elliott has given public talks at cultural and heritage sites including
 Leeds City Museum, Rocca di Gradara (Urbino, Italy), and an open MA Masterclass on
 medievalism, politics and media at the University of Groningen, Netherlands. Scott has
 presented at Rotterdam Photo Festival and his exhibition ‘Vetta e Abisso’ won the Landscape
 category of the ‘Europa’ European PhotoAwards. Colleagues have also contributed to public-
 facing publications, both online and in traditional print media. These include The Guardian, The
 Conversation, The Independent, The Economist, The Verge, Sydney Morning Herald, Sunday
 Herald, Süddeutsche Zeitung, Tagesspiegel, Die Zeit, and Heti Világgazdaság, as well as BBC
 Radio.

 The unit has continued to prioritise research networks as a means of broadening our research
 across disciplinary boundaries and beyond the institution. Our existing collaborations, and others
 in early stages of development, offer examples of impactful innovative research carried out by
 researchers within the Unit.

 Sutherland has won an AHRC Research Networking Grant of £29,000 with Scott Wark as Co-I
 at the University of Warwick, building on an earlier collaboration. Scott’s work with Will Mayes of
 the University of Hull, helped him to expand the disciplinary reach of his RIF-funded project
 which involved soil sample analysis, further demonstrating the Unit’s collaborative research
 ethos and the transdisciplinarity of our work. The expansion of this network to include work with
 external organisations and project partners provides clear evidence for the direct impacts of his
 environmental photography work beyond academia. Collaboration with Film Archives UK and
 establishing networks with European archives is central to impact activities designed into
 Gergely’s collaborative project with Julia Havas (De Montfort University) which further targets
 the development of research networks with Hungarian scholars and scholars of Hungarian
 culture at UK and European institutions.

 The Unit moreover benefits from the extensive research networks of senior researchers
 Chapman, Donald and Winston who have brought to the Unit a wealth of international
 collaborations with a variety of external partners, both within and outside of academia. Their
 work is cited in Impact Case Studies submitted by the Unit, and we list only a few headline
 examples here. These are: the BBC; the British Library, London; the Library of Congress, USA;
 the Australian War Memorial, Campbell; the Cartoon Museum, London; Foundation for Art and
 Creative Technology, Liverpool; University of Liverpool and the Culture for Cities/Culture for
 Social Innovation at York University, Toronto; British Film Institute, London; Birkenhead Sixth
 Form College; and Menai High School, New South Wales.

 4.3 Wider Contributions to Research Base
 Esteem indicators detailed in this section exemplify the development of research staff over the
 period of assessment and illustrate the quality of the research environment and efficacy of
 support available to staff in the Unit. Boothroyd, Chapman, Donald and Winston have been
 invited to present their work far and wide and have had significant impact on their respective
 fields and disciplines via editorial work, peer review of funding applications, manuscripts and
 articles and PhD examining. Mid-career staff and those appointed as ECRs who have entered a
 mid-career phase by the time of submission have also begun to shape their wider research and
 disciplinary communities.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These contributions are indicated across a range of esteem factors including:

    •   Invited and keynote presentations: international conferences and venues in China,
        Australia, Canada, Czechia, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Portugal,
        Sweden, the USA.
    •   Peer Review for Research Councils including the AHRC and ESRC Colleges
        (Chapman), the Canadian Research Council (Elliott), Council for the Development of
        Social Research in Africa (Ogunyemi).
    •   Editorial and peer review work: including series editors (Elliott, Bloomsbury); journal
        editorial boards (Gergely, Sutherland, Thompson); peer reviewers for journals in Film
        Studies (Gergely, Jackson, Winston), Television Studies (Elliott), Sound Studies
        (Thompson), History (Elliott), Journalism (Henkel, Ogunyemi, Sahin, Chapman,
        Winston), Media Studies (Sutherland, Coley, Lockwood, Winston), Architecture
        (Thompson), Cultural Studies (Coley, Elliott, Winston), Sociology (Boothroyd).
    •   Membership of the Executive Committee of Subject Associations: BAFTSS (Gergely,
        Winston); British Journalism Review (Winston), College of Mentors of Council for the
        Development of Social Research in Africa (Ogunyemi), Fellowship of the Royal Society
        of Arts (Chapman); board member and research partner with the Forced Migration
        Research Network, UNSW (Donald).
    •   Awards and nominations include a Special Award at the International Press Institute
        Book Awards, Vienna 2014 (Right to Offend, Winston), the BAFTSS Monograph
        Runner-up Award 2018 (Hungarian Film 1929-1947, Gergely), the Kraszna-Krausz Book
        Awards 2014 (The Documentary Film Book, Winston). Palmieri and Gergely
        contributed to the BAFTSS Edited Collection Award 2017 winner (Lasting Stars).
    •   Visiting Professorships at University of Leeds & UNSW (Donald), Bowen University,
        Nigeria (Ogunyemi), Macquarie and Wolfson College, Cambridge (Chapman), China
        (Winston), Universidad de la Salle, Colombia (Elliott), University of Edinburgh
        (Thompson) and Bauhaus-Universität Weimar (Sutherland); in 2015 Scott was also
        awarded a Leverhulme Artist in Residence grant.
    •   External PhD Examiner for the Universities of Leeds, Helsinki, Macquarie, Canterbury
        Christchurch, Sheffield, Kings College London.




                                                                                        Page 13
