Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Glasgow
 Unit of Assessment: 12
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Unit Context and Structure
 The James Watt School of Engineering has operated as a unified unit since 2010 and was
 renamed for our eponymous engineer on his 200th anniversary in 2019. Engineering comprises
 one third of the College of Science & Engineering and is one of its eight Schools and Centres. The
 School has 296 staff on academic tracks: 116 Research & Teaching (R&T); 154 Research (R);
 and 26 Learning, Teaching & Scholarship (LTS). 119.24 FTE R&T and independent R staff are
 submitted to REF. Our student community comprises 443 postgraduate research (PGR), 401
 postgraduate taught (PGT) and 1836 undergraduate (UG) students in Glasgow, plus 2133 UG
 transnational education (TNE) students taught in Singapore and China.
 1.1.1 Structure
 The School is of sufficient size and breadth to deliver research across the major engineering fields.
 The School is organised into five Research Divisions (Fig. 1) such that our management is
 structured around research. The Divisions are thematic and thus form the foundations that allow
 us to develop and implement our research strategy and respond flexibly to emerging engineering
 and societal challenges. The School shaped this management framework in 2010 and it has
 sustained and developed as an agile and adaptable research structure.




                                    Figure 1. Thematic structure
  Our thematic Divisional structure (blue) sustains strong internationally leading Centres (brown)
  and dynamically mobilises research around global societal challenge-led areas of Zero Carbon,
  Quantum & Nano, and Healthcare Technologies, where discovery and innovation are enabled
  by our national facilities (red).
  CeMi: Centre for Cellular Microenvironment; CMIU: Centre for Medical & Industrial Ultrasonics;
  ESDC: Electronic Systems Design Centre; GCEC: Glasgow Computational Engineering
  Centre; JWNC: James Watt Nanofabrication Centre; NWTF: National Wind Tunnel Facility

 The School is led by the Head of School (Cumming), aided by the School Executive Group (SEG)
 of leaders across research, teaching, administrative and technical support, creating a strong one-
 School ethos. Heads of Research Divisions (HoRDs) are responsible for the direct management
 and development of all academic staff in the School. The HoRDs’ primary responsibility is research
 leadership, working together to steer the School’s research strategy and shape the School’s

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research environment, through the SEG, chaired by the Head of School, and Research
 Committee, led by the Director of Research (Gadegaard).
 All academic staff find a primary home within a Research Division, providing a research-focused
 structure that fosters collegiality and productive collaboration. Groups of staff with cognate
 expertise in a common research field come together in shared labs and workspaces, easily
 overlapping and connecting across the Divisions. We support an interdisciplinary research culture
 within the School and through strong interfaces with the physical, medical, life and social sciences,
 so that major societal challenges can be tackled effectively. Thus, we also develop, support and
 lead interdisciplinary Research Centres of excellence and enable cross-cutting challenge-led
 research strengths to emerge and grow.
 1.1.2 Research Divisions
 Aerospace Sciences (AS – HoRD Kontis). AS focuses on greener and safer travel, supported
 by our world-class experimental wind tunnel and testing facility, including supersonic and trans-
 sonic capabilities. Extensive simulations expertise covers flight mechanics and fluid dynamics
 phenomena of fixed and rotary-wing aircraft. We have built capacity in autonomous systems,
 driving innovations in space (including future air-space transport), aerial, ground and underwater
 vehicles and exploration.
 AS is delivering an Impact Case Study (ICS), with strong links to industry and certification bodies
 (Barakos). We make a central contribution to the UK National Wind Tunnel Facility (NWTF), lead
 the Next-Generation Rotorcraft programme (MENtoR) and the ESA Plume-Regolith Testing
 consortium, and contribute to European initiatives (NITROS, TEAMAero, ACARE). We have
 contributed to the formulation of the Aerospace Defence, Marine and Security Strategy for
 Scotland 2016 and Europe’s Vision for Aviation: Strategic Research and Innovation Agenda.
 Biomedical Engineering (BME – HoRD Salmeron-Sanchez). BME brings together research in
 advanced medical diagnostics, rehabilitation engineering and biomaterials, with emphasis on
 engineering underpinning life sciences and at the clinical interface. Cross-Division collaborative
 research in biomedical engineering features very strongly in the School and BME is leading our
 challenge-led Healthcare Technologies research.
 BME hosts 3 ERC Investigators (Gadegaard, Cooper, Salmeron-Sanchez), is delivering 3 ICSs
 and is currently leading an EPSRC Transformative Healthcare Technologies 2050 Programme
 (Cooper), EPSRC Healthcare Technologies Programme, Sir Bobby Charlton Foundation
 translational grant, EPSRC CDT lifETIME and EU H2020 grant (Salmeron-Sanchez).
 Electronic & Nanoscale Engineering (ENE – HoRD Hogg). ENE research addresses socially
 and industrially important applications in electronic, photonic, microsystem and nanofabrication
 technologies. The JWNC (Fig. 1) underpins the Division’s research in key areas, including in
 sensors, telecommunications, quantum technologies, THz and millimetre wave technology, and
 advanced microelectronic devices.
 ENE is delivering 4 ICSs and spin-outs (Asenov, Cumming). Our device modelling research
 pioneered atomistic TCAD and our leadership in silicon compatible GaN power electronics has
 galvanised UK activity (Thayne, EP/K014471/1). ENE makes a central contribution to the UK
 National Quantum Technology Programme and contributes to the talent pipeline through
 partnership in 2 CDTs and leading the H2020 ITN TeraApps. Quantum photonics, sensors and
 electronics have been strengthened through leadership appointments (Weides, Badolato,
 Vellaisamy).
 Infrastructure & Environment (IE – HoRD McBride). IE focuses on innovative solutions to
 problems in the built and natural environment. Pioneering work includes fundamental contributions
 to mechanics, the creation and industrial application of advanced computational modelling tools,
 and low-cost solutions to global challenges in water supply and remediation.
 Through a strategic leadership investment (Steinmann) and EPSRC Strategic Support Package
 (Pearce), the Glasgow Computational Engineering Centre was founded. Early career stage
 researcher (ECSR) appointments have led to Fellowships: Shire in geotechnics (Royal
 Society/Scottish Water Industrial Fellow) and Vignola in biofiltration (RAEng Research Fellow),

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and our senior staff have won RAEng Chairs: Pearce (RAEng/EDF Energy Research Chair),
 Smith (RAEng/Scottish Water Research Chair), Sloan (RAEng Chair in Emerging Off-Grid Water
 Biotechnologies).
 Systems Power & Energy (SPE – HoRD Cochran). SPE research spans the mechanical and
 electrical sciences, giving it agility to form strong cross-disciplinary clusters. SPE has trebled in
 size since 2014, realising the School’s strategy to create significant strength in Communications,
 build new capacity in Energy & Sustainability and Ultrasonics, and increase cross-divisional
 capability in Materials & Manufacturing.
 Deployment of the School’s established Chairs attracted research leaders: Rankine Chair
 (Falcone, Vice-Chair, United Nations Commission for Europe Expert Group on Resource
 Management; Board of Directors, International Geothermal Association), and James Watt Chair
 (McInnes, RAEng Chair in Emerging Space Technologies; ERC Advanced Grant). Growth in
 Ultrasonics (Cochran, EPSRC CDT in Future Ultrasonic Engineering) and Communications
 (Imran, UofG lead The Scotland 5G Centre) respectively established a new Centre (CMIU) and a
 cross-divisional Communications, Sensing and Imaging group now of 30 R&T staff.
 1.1.3 Research Centres
 Building Centres of research excellence has been an additional cornerstone of the School’s
 research strategy, ensuring our growth is an enabler for sustainable pioneering work and vitality
 in areas of strength. Four Research Centres are now led from the School (three of them
 established since 2014). The award of Centre status requires strong evidence of a critical mass
 of highly collaborative and internationally leading research. The Centres have created an identity
 in strategic research fields where the University has world-leading capability: Centre for the
 Cellular Microenvironment (CeMi); Centre for Medical & Industrial Ultrasonics (C-MIU);
 Electronic Systems Design Centre (ESDC); and Glasgow Computational Engineering
 Centre (GCEC) (details in Section 3.5).
 1.1.4 Challenge-Led Research (details in Section 3.4)
 We coalesced challenge-led research in technology areas where we are recognised as having
 significant strength and making internationally leading innovations. The School’s thematic
 structure makes it easy to connect researchers around emerging challenges. Our focus now is in:
 Healthcare Technologies; Quantum & Nano Technologies; and Zero Carbon Technologies,
 where we can drive innovation and impact underpinned by our Research Centres and Facilities,
 particularly the JWNC.
 1.2 National Facilities
 James Watt Nanofabrication Centre (JWNC) (Director: Marsh). The JWNC is a world-leading
 facility, comprising >£37M of nanofabrication tools and supporting >£53M active research grants
 in the University as well as the four EPSRC Quantum Technology Hubs. (See Section 3.4.1)
 Wind Tunnel & Testing Facilities (Director: Green). The School is a hub in the UK’s National
 Wind Tunnel Facility (NWTF). Our wind tunnels are accommodated in a dedicated building,
 housing multiple co-located national aerospace test facilities supporting our aerospace research.
 (See Section 3.4.2)
 The Scotland 5G Centre (UofG Lead: Imran). The Scotland 5G Centre is an innovation and test
 facility, established as a partnership between the Universities of Glasgow and Strathclyde and the
 Scottish Futures Trust, securing £5.3M from the Scottish Government, plus additional £4M for
 nationwide technology hubs. Its purpose is to demonstrate the importance and impact of enhanced
 digital connectivity enabled by 5G technology. Launched in the School by the First Minister in
 2019, along with the Scottish Government’s 5G strategy, the Centre provides national leadership
 in this area.
 1.3 Research Strategy and Management
 1.3.1 Research Management
 The School’s Research Committee is responsible for the strategic direction of the School’s
 research and impact, and for shaping and delivering University research policy. The leadership

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 team (Head of School, Director of Research and Heads of Research Divisions) also form the core
 of the School Executive Group.
 The Research Committee works to influence and align with priorities of major research funders
 and industry sectors, for example UKRI and government committees, national and international
 networks, and industry secondments (see Section 4.2). It develops related research initiatives,
 including in external engagement, research training, and responses to major funding calls.
 Research strategy emerges in continuous dialogue in and between Research Divisions that is
 captured by Research Committee. Thus, we create teams to harness the strengths of the School
 and tackle major challenges, for example the EPSRC Transformative Healthcare Technologies
 2050 programme in Quantum Imaging for Monitoring of Wellbeing & Disease in Communities
 (Cooper, Imran, Vuckovic plus co-investigators from Medicine, Physics, Computing Science).
 Postgraduate Research Convenor (Sorel), Impact Champion (Kelly) and ECSR Champion
 (Clerici) are key members of the Research Committee, providing leadership and strategic
 direction in these three important functions. A Financial Manager and Research Support Manager
 provide dedicated administrative support.
 1.3.2 Research Strategy
 Since REF2014 the School’s strategy has delivered significant growth. Our plan was based on
 targeted growth in priority areas, to strengthen our Research Divisions, establish new Research
 Centres and build our strengths around three challenge-led themes. We focused on attracting,
 supporting and developing international research leaders and ECRs (including >£4M in support of
 professorial posts and >£400k for ECSR posts in dedicated start-up funds, not including related
 estates investments), while also investing in additional teaching support in important engineering
 skills. Since 2014 R&T staff grew by 43%, grant income per FTE by 25%, PDRA staff by >50%,
 and PGR student headcount has more than doubled (Fig. 2).
               300%
                                                                                104
               250%
                                           443
               200%           61                         129
                                                                                             116
               150%                                                    125
                         37          210            74           100         42.2       81
               100%

                50%

                 0%
                         PhDs      PGRs in post    PDRAs in Income/FTE Research        R&T staff
                        awarded                   post in year   pa REF    income REF Headcount
                                                               period (£k) period (£M)

                                                     2014      2020


                      Figure 2. School of Engineering growth in REF period
 We have targeted priority areas and invested in clustering important cross-School research. An
 example of a new targeted area is our substantial Communications, Sensing & Imaging (CSI)
 group (Imran). CSI has led new collaborations with China (primarily through our TNE partnership)
 and with developing nations through multiple GCRF grants, and has secured funding from the
 Scottish Government to establish The Scotland 5G Centre. Clustering is exemplified by the
 School’s recent investments in Materials research, as an emerging cross-School theme. We have
 appointed five new posts and co-located materials labs across biomaterials, additive
 manufacturing, smart infrastructure materials and composites.
 Rapid growth has brought significant challenges for the School’s estate. The University has
 responded by investing in major refurbishments of Engineering buildings, totalling £14.2M since
 2014, to accommodate new labs and workspace to ensure a high-quality research environment.
 Some of our most successful interdisciplinary research groups and labs are being rehoused in a
 17,000m2 state-of-the-art Advanced Research Centre (ARC), opening in 2022 as part of the

                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University’s £1bn campus development. The ARC will bring together 600 researchers from across
 the University in a highly collaborative environment.
 The School’s growth strategy is motivated by the ambition and vision of our community of
 academic staff to deliver research excellence, better positioning ourselves to capture research
 opportunities by building critical mass in larger, more diverse, more inclusive and more effective
 teams, and to widen collaboration prospects and leadership development of all, and particularly
 our ECSRs. Led by our Equality Diversity and Inclusion Group (see Section 2.2), ED&I
 perspectives have constituted the driving ethos of this vision and are the overarching strands of
 the School’s strategy, influencing our staffing decisions, research directions and investments, and
 informing our estates developments.
 The University of Glasgow identifies its cross-University research strengths as Research Beacons.
 The School’s research contributes significantly to three of these beacons, Nano & Quantum World,
 Future Life, and Precision Medicine, through our leadership and engagement with EPSRC
 Quantum Hubs and the JWNC, and through research excellence in our challenge-led technology
 themes, including close research interfaces with medicine and life sciences. The School also
 increasingly contributes to a fourth beacon (Addressing Inequalities) through our growing
 leadership and volume of GCRF projects with partners in developing countries (see Section 3.2).
 The School has been the University’s vanguard of Trans-National Education (TNE) and
 collaboration, now with two successful established engineering partnerships, with the University
 of Electronic Science & Technology of China (UESTC) in Chengdu and Singapore Institute of
 Technology (SIT). Academic staff supporting TNE at UESTC are domiciled in Glasgow, enabling
 us to grow the School’s research base, particularly driving a new research direction in
 Communications. Consequently, we launched a new international centre for doctoral training in
 partnership with UESTC (see Section 4.1). We have partnered with the Economic Development
 Board (EDB) Singapore to fund PhD research on Industrial Project Placements with companies in
 Singapore, for example with Sembcorp Marine where the PhD outcome of a hybrid ultrasonic
 technology is now under development for ballast treatment.
 1.3.3 Impact Strategy and Achievements
 Recognising a weakness in the breadth of our pipeline from research discovery to industrial impact
 in REF 2014, our aim has been to develop a culture of building impact into all our research
 activities. We facilitate impact opportunities by engaging widely with external partners, especially
 industry and the NHS, and supporting these links with targeted investments. An example is our
 research in 5G which, through engagement with Vodafone, Cisco and BT and our targeted
 investments in staff, enabled engagement with the Scottish Government and ultimately the
 creation of The Scotland 5G Centre. An important enabler has also been to increase and improve
 public engagement, to ensure our research is widely communicated and connects with society
 (see Section 4.3.4).
 Success is evidenced by our increased industry funding (by 149%); five new spin-outs (Acu-Flow,
 III-V EPI, Multicorder Dx, Thermoelectric Conversion Systems, Vector Photonics); increased
 number of projects with industry direct cash funding on grants (by 60 not including CDTs); and the
 £511k of direct funding to our CDTs so far.
 To deliver our impact strategy we use our resource to create an impact-supporting environment:
 • A new role of Impact Champion (Kelly) was created to support and manage impact across the
   School and link with College resources, including Business Development Managers (BDMs),
   Impact Acceleration Awards and Impact Associates.
 • An impact pipeline has been established to identify emerging impact from grants and contracts
   and ensure investment and support are put in place to maximise the timely effectiveness of the
   impact.
 • Challenge Champions have been appointed to lead on creating opportunities for impact from
   our challenge-led areas in Quantum & Nano (Weides), Healthcare (Reboud) and Zero Carbon
   (Yu) Technologies.



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 • An Entrepreneur Club is run by academic staff experienced in entrepreneurship, working
   alongside the Adam Smith Business School and our College BDMs. Events are designed to
   build familiarity with business ideas, potential products, fund raising and company formation.
 • External Engagement workshops are run regularly to share our experiences of working with
   industry and coordinate our management of key partners.
 • We proactively seek applications for entrepreneurial funding, including Enterprise Fellowships,
   the Innovation to Commercialisation of University Research programme (iCURE) and venture
   capital, and we link applicants with all the University’s supporting functions. Our successful
   applicants run workshops to share their experience.
 The University and College support the School with dedicated professional staff:
 • A BDM (McCorriston) is assigned to the School, with recent additional expertise gained
   through her secondment to EPSRC in 1919/20, working on the impact agenda.
 • A Doctoral Training Hub Manager (Hughes) supports and coordinates all the CDTs, also
   sharing best practice.
 • The Head of College Research Support (Harkness) works with the School to manage strategic
   partnership accounts (e.g. Leonardo).
 • Toma was appointed as BDM to support JWNC and develop new strategic partnerships.
 • Cross-College roles include Diegoli in support of the QT Hub, QuantIC.
 • Research and Innovations Services provide support for contracts, IP and spin-out.
 • We support training for STEM Ambassadors and outreach through our Public and Community
   Engagement Advisers.
 The Research Support Team provide significant management and support for major funding bids,
 including EPSRC Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs). We now lead 2 new CDTs and are
 partners in 3 others, creating a total of 95 new industry partnerships. The College has also made
 strategic use of UKRI Impact Acceleration funds to appoint Impact Associates, PhD-qualified and
 active in key technical areas in ICT Devices, Biotechnology, and 5G. Impact Associates also
 support large projects, e.g. The Scotland 5G Centre.
 1.4 Achievement of Strategic Aims from REF2014
 Our REF2014 submission set out 5 strategic aims that have been major drivers of our research
 strategy. The size of the School has changed significantly in the intervening years. Growth has
 delivered rapid changes in research directions, reflecting new national and international funding
 priorities as well as serendipitous opportunities. Our solid foundation of management via thematic
 research has allowed us to institute a dynamic and responsive approach, that readily adapts to
 change and new opportunities. Our achievements against our aims are introduced here and
 described more fully in Sections 2, 3 and 4.
 Develop a large cohort of ECSRs into future research leaders. We have appointed 59 new
 academic staff at ECSR (Lecturer) grades, with current ECR staff making up 24% of the academic
 pool. 100% of eligible ECSRs have met the promotion criteria of the Early Career Development
 Programme (ECDP), with 58% fast-tracked, through effective mentoring, support and research
 leadership development (See Section 2.5).
 Capitalise on SFC and University initiatives in the areas of sensors, energy and healthcare.
 Our aim was to build on the School’s pivotal role in the funding in 2013 of CENSIS (Scotland's
 Innovation Centre for Sensing, Imaging and Internet of Things), which the University leads. As a
 result, we developed our three challenge-led areas, particularly through targeted professorial
 appointments in: Healthcare (Gourdon, biomaterials, Steinmann, computational engineering);
 Quantum & Nano (Weides, quantum circuits, Badolato, photonic quantum technologies, Hogg,
 photonics); and Zero Carbon (Falcone, energy, Barakos, computational fluid dynamics)
 Technologies. The School’s partnership in all 4 EPSRC QT Hubs is underpinned by JWNC and
 CENSIS.
 Develop centres of excellence in our priority areas. This led to the formation of three new
 Research Centres plus the existing ESDC. The Centres all lead large and diverse grant portfolios
 (GCEC £3M, C-MIU £14M, CeMi £15M). GCEC was established through an EPSRC strategic
 support package and Wolfson Merit Award to attract Steinmann, and an RAEng EDF Energy

                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Chair (Pearce). C-MIU and CeMi are leading EPSRC Programme Grants (Lucas,
 Salmeron-Sanchez respectively) and EPSRC CDTs (FUSE Cochran, and lifETIME Salmeron-
 Sanchez) (See Section 3.5).
 Lead new strategic initiatives around broad technology platforms. This led to the uniting of
 our research strengths around our three thematic challenge-led areas, driving technology
 innovations in Healthcare, Quantum & Nano and Zero Carbon Technologies (see Section 3.6).
 We also played a leading and strategic role in the UK National Quantum Technologies Programme
 (NQTP), contributing to the strategic document, and subsequently leading one of the 4 QT Hubs
 (QuantIC). We are now a partner in all 4 QT Hubs, following funding for phase 2 after the Blackett
 Review to which we contributed.
 The School rapidly established critical mass in communications research through growth of its
 partnership with UESTC, leading to funding of The Scotland 5G Centre and its rural innovation
 hubs (see Section 1.2).
 Maintain and strengthen our leading position in nanotechnology, including the James Watt
 Nanofabrication Centre. The University has made significant investments to enhance the world-
 leading position of the JWNC and its dependent activities, including Quantum Technology. Major
 Capital Equipment awards of £9.73M from the UKQT programme, £2M EPSRC and £4.4M of
 estate investment by the University led to expansion of the clean room to allow for future capacity.
 We made new leadership appointments (Weides, Hogg, Badolato) and strategically co-located
 QT researchers, including from Physics (Faccio), in the School.
 1.5 Future Research and Impact Plans
 The School is now embarking on its next phase of expansion while moving to fewer, larger
 research teams (e.g. Centres) collaborating intensively and sharing laboratory facilities. We plan
 to use our thematic research challenges to link the Centres’ and Divisions’ cross-disciplinary
 research, providing an external interface to academic and industrial partners through their
 occupancy of the ARC. The School’s forward strategy to 2025 is to grow our R&T academic staff
 complement to 165. Our immediate strategic aims are as follows:
 JWNC diversification. The JWNC has been hugely successful at realising research in photonics,
 QT and electronic devices, and now needs to build capability in 3-D heterogeneous integration to
 enable transformative research in Quantum Systems and Architecture. It will also underpin a new
 generation of activities aligned with investments in capability to support Healthcare and Zero
 Carbon Technologies.
 Healthcare Technologies. New posts will build on existing strengths to permit greater cross-
 Division interactions. Committed investments will further strengthen and extend interfaces with the
 clinical and life sciences, including the planned co-location of key research areas in the
 University’s new ARC and through a strategic partnership with the NHS Medical Devices Unit.
 Robotics and Autonomous Systems. By combining emerging strengths in the Schools of
 Engineering and Computing Science, we will grow complementary capacity and capability, to
 establish a partnership in robotics and autonomous systems, investing in new staff and facilities
 to build a new cross-College Centre.
 Staffing. We will recruit high quality leaders and ECSR staff to grow our priority areas. We will
 further improve the effectiveness of our recruitment processes, aiming to continue to enhance the
 diversity of our talent pool (see also Section 2.3).
 Income. In the current REF period, we have significantly increased the number of PIs across the
 School (see Section 3.1). We are now focusing on supporting more staff to apply for larger
 collaborative grants to enhance both the research volume and inclusivity.
 Impact. Recognising the positive influence strategic partnerships have already had on the impact
 of our research, we aim to build partnerships with a wider range of companies. We currently have
 strategic partnerships with companies including, Synopsys, Thales, Leonardo, M Squared Lasers,
 CST Global, Gas Sensing Solutions, Kelvin Nanotechnology, Cisco, EDF Energy and Stryker in
 key technology areas, for example, QT with Thales, computational modelling with EDF Energy

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and ultrasonic technologies with Stryker. We aim to grow this number to at least 20 in the next
 REF period.
 Enhance existing academic strengths. We will further grow Quantum & Nano, Healthcare and
 Zero Carbon Technologies, to define new innovative technology platforms. We will support the
 emergence of new Centres of Excellence, particularly in Communications, Energy & Sustainability,
 and Robotics & Autonomous Systems.
 Spin-out and impact. We will extend the management of our impact pipeline to identify more
 spin-out opportunities from our research and develop a strategy to make investments that target
 emerging entrepreneurs (see also Section 1.3.3).
 Further grow our international stakeholder engagement through GCRF. We have seen
 significant success in GRCF funded projects being led by the School. Our plans for sustaining
 partnerships and impact are described in Section 3.2.2.
 2. People
 2.1 Overview
 The School brings together a globally diverse academic community of 119.24 FTE REF returned
 staff from 25 countries. 40% are UK nationals with 31% from the EU, 23% from Asia, 3% from
 Africa and 2% from the Americas, achieving a balanced and effective research capability. Over
 the REF period our researcher community of post-doctoral staff have hailed from 50 countries and
 our current PGR student profile is 31% home/EU and 69% international. 24% of our staff and 45%
 of our PGR students are BAME. In the REF period we have recruited internationally, e.g. senior
 staff from CNR Genova (Vassalli), University of Ottawa (Gourdon), Cornell (Badolato), Karlsruhe
 (Weides), Masdar Abu Dhabi (Kumar) and City University Hong Kong (Vellaisamy). An important
 driver is to increase the number of women at all grades/career stages. Currently women constitute
 13% of our academic staff (14% of professors), 22% of post-doctoral researchers and 30% of PGR
 students.
 2.2 Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (EDI)
 The School’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Group (EDIG) (co-chairs Smith, Goldie) remit is to
 develop and implement our strategy for EDI, including the Athena SWAN principles, and reports
 to the School Executive Group. EDIG works to embed EDI within the School under five themes of
 professional development; culture; outreach; data analysis; and communications.

  Rowntree Fellowships – Gauchotte-                  Our EDI Action Plan, which formed the basis of
  Lindsay                                            our Athena SWAN Bronze award, especially
                                                     recognises the challenges of under-
  The School awarded a Rowntree Fellowship to        representation of women in engineering. The
  Gauchotte-Lindsay. The funding was used to         plan was formed through wide consultation
  appoint a PDRA for the 8 months of her             within the School and drives initiatives beyond
  maternity leave plus an additional 4 months on     a focus on gender, including in recruitment and
  her return to work. This ensured continuity of     advertising,     flexible  working,       career
  her research and a subsequent rapid re-            development, career breaks and supporting
  establishment of research projects, outputs        ECSRs. In response to this consultation, the
  and grant applications. She was immediately        School has run poster and workshop
  supported and mentored through the                 campaigns to highlight issues of bullying,
  promotion process to a successful application      harassment, sexism and racism in the
  6 months after returning to work.                  workplace. Here we highlight 3 of the School’s
                                                     EDI initiatives:
 Rowntree Fellowships. The School offers an enhanced funding package, additional to the
 College Academic Returners Scheme provision of up to £10k support. We add a further £10k for
 staff in the first year of returning from maternity, paternity, adoption or shared parental leave who
 are resuming independent research activities. Funding is flexible, including for conferences, hiring
 PDRAs and teaching support. Rowntree Fellowships (named after the School’s first female
 graduate) aim to address the impact of the parental leave and can be accessed before, during or
 after the career break.

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                       visNET – inclusion through collaborative technology.
                                       The School leads the EPSRC funded Inclusion Matters
                                       project (visNET, EP/S012079/1), to remodel the implicit
                                       rules of networking and collaboration, particularly
                                       addressing the barriers to international travel at key career
                                       stages by innovative use of collaborative digital technology.
                                       visNET supported a leadership programme for 30 female
 postdoctoral researchers, including 10 from our School. Training, coaching and peer-mentoring,
 to develop online visibility and networks, culminated in academic-industry engagement events.
 Three of the School’s participating PDRAs secured academic positions during this training (e.g.
 Vignola won an RAEng Fellowship and was appointed to a Lecturer post).
 Opening up Photonics (OuP). OuP is an initiative driven by our research strength in this field
 and was co-created in 2018 by a Knowledge Exchange Associate (Annand) and Technology
 Scotland. OuP is a platform for photonics professionals to discuss the future of photonics in the
 UK and is supported by IoP and the Knowledge Transfer Network (KTN). As a result of its work
 celebrating female successes and understanding particular gender equality challenges in the
 photonics community, OuP has now partnered with Equate Scotland to deliver a series of training
 workshops exploring gender diversity in all organisations.
 The School is supported in its EDI work by the University’s Equality Unit that provides training to
 create an environment free from discrimination and unfair treatment. Staff in the School take
 mandatory training courses, including: Equality and Diversity Essentials; Understanding
 Unconscious Bias; and Implementing Reasonable Adjustments.
 2.3 Staffing Strategy
 The School’s staffing strategy stems from its research strategy (as described in Section 1.3.2),
 which has aimed to grow the size of the School to increase our capacity and research quality and
 to better respond to societal challenges. Since 2014 we have increased our FTE academic staff
 by 47%. We have also focused on increasing the research income per FTE. Thus, income growth
 has been a key mechanism to support sustainable staff growth. Success is evidenced by our
 increase in income per FTE of 29% (see Section 3). Staff appointments have been focused on
 recruiting ECSRs while also bringing new leadership into the key areas described. We grew
 capacity and capability in areas that strengthened our Research Divisions, enabled emergence of
 our new Research Centres, and built on our strengths in cross-cutting, challenge-led technologies.
 Our major strategic staffing interventions are outlined below.
 Quantum & Nano Technology. Two leadership appointments in QT further enhanced our
 position in the UK and internationally. Our strength builds on more than three decades of
 excellence in micro- and nanofabrication, delivered through our JWNC. The School is an integral
 partner in the UK’s QT strategy and with the appointment of Weides, in quantum computing, we
 are now an active partner in all 4 QT Hubs. A further appointment, Badalato, is consolidating
 strength in optical nanostructures and single photon sources. Thayne and Sorel are delivering
 impact through CO2 sensor development (see ICS).
 Biomedical Engineering. We have strengthened the BME Research Division through
 appointments across all grades, Vassalli (Reader), Cantini and Jimenez (ECSR proleptic posts,
 MRC and RAEng Fellowships respectively), Gourdon (Professor), particularly to reinforce
 research at the life sciences interface where research is delivering 3 ICSs led by Cooper, Reboud,
 and Yin.
 Computational Engineering. The School identified a risk to the UK’s historic strength in
 computational engineering and, following discussions with EPSRC, a strategic package was
 awarded (EP/R008531/1) to support the appointment of Steinmann. This subsequently
 underpinned the formation of the Glasgow Computational Engineering Centre (GCEC) (see
 Section 3.5) and led to investment in 3 new ECSR posts (Aggarwal, Lee, Saxena).
 Zero Carbon Technologies. Falcone was appointed to the Rankine Chair in Energy Engineering,
 consolidating an existing strength in thermal energy, which has since grown by 2 internal
 professorial promotions (Yu and Paul). This area is influencing internationally through Falcone

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 chairing the United Nations Economics Commission for Europe on geothermal energy. Water
 engineering is another strength, playing an increasing international role through GCRF projects.
 This trajectory was supported by the appointment of Smith as Senior Lecturer, promoted to
 professor in 2019, working closely with Scottish Water.
 Aerospace Sciences. We have continued to build critical mass, including in our infrastructure
 and equipment co-located at the site of the National Wind Tunnel Facility. Leadership (Barakos)
 and ECSR (Steijl) appointments enhanced our strength in computational fluid dynamics, forming
 the basis for an ICS. Recruitment has also focused on growing cross-Division research in space
 and exploration technologies through a leadership appointment to the James Watt Chair
 (McInnes), now holding an RAEng Chair in Emerging Space Technologies and ERC Advanced
 Grant, and ECSR appointments (Worrall, Grustan-Gutierrez, Fotouhi).
 Communications, Sensing & Imaging (CSI) group. Huge growth in communications research
 in the School has been achieved, and investments in building the CSI group has been enabled by
 strategic focusing of our UESTC TNE recruitment in this field. The School has long-standing
 excellence in communication technologies, for example in device technologies for optical
 communication, which forms the basis of an ICS led by Kelly. Our recruitment drive in 5G, initially
 through a leadership appointment, (Imran), resulted in rapid growth of a large team of 30 early
 and mid-career academics in this field. The academics, spanning next generation communications
 technology and applications, are now formed as a strong CSI group, a key factor in the emergence
 of The Scotland 5G Centre and new GCRF funded international partnerships in 5G (see Section
 3.2).
 Materials & Manufacturing. In 2019 the School saw an opportunity to strengthen research in
 materials engineering by uniting research across the Divisions, developing critical mass and
 investing in new capability. The strategy aimed to better align research with manufacturing,
 identified as a growth area driven by the UK national strategy ISCF (transforming construction,
 manufacturing, and future materials) as well as the Scottish Government initiative in Advanced
 Manufacturing. Investment in a new Additive Manufacturing laboratory established a 3D printing
 facility for new research across construction materials, composites, metals and biomaterials
 (Kumar, Unluer, Li). This also developed complementary experimental research to align with and
 strengthen GCEC. As well as investing in co-locating infrastructure, 5 new appointments were
 made in this area.
 The staffing strategy has played an important role in increasing our research capacity and hence
 research quality and impact in the areas where we address societal challenges in Healthcare,
 Quantum & Nano and Zero Carbon Technologies. Importantly, we also have a significant increase
 in more ambitious grant applications (resulting in 32 awards >£2M) and in our research income
 per FTE (increased by 25%), which have been crucial in our endeavour to create advanced and
 well equipped laboratories and facilities in support of our new staff (see Section 3.3).
 2.4 Recruitment Strategy
 The School operates a transparent recruitment process for academic posts at all grades. With a
 focus on recruiting ECSRs, we have developed our EDI action plan to attract applicants from a
 diverse talent pool. We proactively identify talented researchers internationally and also potential
 female applicants. The proportion of female academic staff in the School is 13%, which is just
 above the UK average of 12.4% for Women in Engineering (www.wes.org.uk/content/
 wesstatistics). We changed our recruitment processes so that staff in the related research field
 engage with potential applicants in their international networks and we make targeted invitations
 to visit the School and give research seminars, especially to female researchers. Where
 recruitment agencies are used for leadership appointments, there is an agreed expectation of
 diversity in the candidates brought forward for shortlisting. We fund visits for immediate family
 members and engage agencies to explore partner career opportunities, places to live and schools
 if required. In the REF period, the School has recruited 24 female academics; 2 Professors, 4
 Senior Lecturers/Readers, 14 Lecturers and 4 Fellows. In 2020, 3 offers for 7 new posts were
 made to women.
 Research staff with competitively funded research fellowships (e.g. EPSRC, RAEng, Leverhulme,
 plus the University’s Lord Kelvin Adam Smith Fellowships) are interviewed for an open-ended

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contract during their fellowship. In the REF period we have appointed 5 fellowship holders through
 this process.
 International recruitment. The School has created a supportive environment for our international
 staff, leading the Russell Group (RG) in best recruitment practice (Table 1). For example, we pay
 the full costs of visa applications (50% of the RG does not) and the Immigration Health Surcharge
 (90% of RG does not) for all newly appointed staff and for dependent family members through the
 relocation allowance (80% of the RG does not).
                             Table 1. Supporting our international staff
    From: “Challenges and costs of the UK immigration system for Russell Group universities”, 2019

                                      Russell Group Universities           JW School of
    Fees paid for or        Paid       Not paid   Sometimes Partially       Engineering
    reimbursed                                                 reimbursed
    Visa application fees     50%        30%         10%           10%    Paid
    (Tier 2)
    Immigration Health        10%         70%           10%            10%        Paid
    Surcharge (IHS)
    (Tier 2)
    Dependent family           0%         80%           5%             15%        Paid through
    members                                                                       relocation fund
    Indefinite Leave to       20%         65%           10%            5%         Interest-free loan
    Remain                                                                        arranged
    Other visa                35%         55%           5%             5%         Paid for Tier 1
    applications

 2.5 Staff Development
 The School provides a structured programme of training opportunities for staff at all levels. These
 are predominantly provided through HR Employee and Organisational Development and take the
 form of instructor-led sessions as well as on-line tools. There is a range of mandatory courses
 which cover; Health, Safety & Wellbeing, General Data Protection Regulation, Equality & Diversity,
 Recruitment & Selection. Further courses provide training in managing people, difficult situations,
 communication skills and networking, plus a range of IT courses. The outcomes are discussed
 during the annual Performance & Development Review (P&DR), where staff are supported to
 consider their Continuous Professional Development.
 2.5.1 Early Career Development Programme (ECDP)
    Supporting ECRs – Accelerated Promotion           All ECSR academic staff join the University’s
                                                      dedicated ECDP, a framework to support and
    Lavery (Professor of Structured Photonics)
                                                      develop academics to deliver research
    joined the School in 2014 immediately following
                                                      excellence, responsibly and with integrity, and
    his PhD, as holder of an EPSRC Doctoral Prize     a learning environment covering all aspects of
    and RAEng Research Fellowship. Fast-tracked
                                                      the academic role. Importantly, the research
    through ECDP, he was promoted to Senior
                                                      component of the programme includes grant
    Lecturer in 2018 and Professor in 2020. In 6
                                                      writing workshops supported by highly
    years he has won >£5M in funding as PI, is
                                                      experienced staff in the School and College.
    coordinator of the H2020 FET-Open, Super          The programme enables ECSR staff to meet
    Pixels, and leads an EPSRC GCRF project
                                                      the criteria for promotion to Senior Lecturer
    road-mapping deployment of high speed             within a defined timescale (intermediate
    networks in developing countries. In 2018 he
                                                      Lecturer grade within 3 years, Senior Lecturer
    became the Mobile World Scholar Gold Medal
                                                      grade within 5 or 7 years, depending on the
    winner and was awarded the Royal Society of
                                                      starting grade). It also provides a fast-track
    Edinburgh Makdougall Brisbane Medal in 2019.
                                                      career advancement route for rising stars.
•    To date, 100% of eligible ECSR staff have achieved promotion and 58% have achieved
     accelerated promotions.

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   We provide mentorship, where ECSRs are paired with senior staff, typically outside their
    immediate research field, providing a broader integration and diverse perspectives.
•   We have leveraged four additional ECSR appointments through the University’s Lord Kelvin
    Adam Smith (LKAS) Fellowship programme (a fully funded tenure-track three-year post,
    focussed on an ambitious research programme in one of our priority areas).
•   We have a College-wide programme of targeted support to develop ECSR skills, including grant
    application writing, partner engagement and interview training. 71% of our current ECSRs hold
    a grant, including 8 Fellowships, with 56% holding UKRI grants.
 2.5.2 Additional Support for ECRs
 Supporting and developing our ECRs to become successful researchers and future research
 leaders was a primary objective of our REF2014 future strategy. Since then, we have appointed
 59 new academic staff at Lecturer grades. ECR staff currently make up 24% of academic staff.
 The School provides every ECR with a minimum start-up package of a PhD studentship and £10k.
 The College provides additional funding, including through strategic equipment funding (supported
 by EPSRC), where ECRs can bid for equipment from £25 to £50k. Examples include a Surface
 Profilometer (Mulvihill) and a Differential Scanning Calorimeter (Cantini), in both cases
 enhancing successful bids for external funding.
 We have encouraged diversification in funding, particularly focused on supporting applications
 from ECRs, via charities, e.g. Leverhulme (Clark) and institutions, including The RS (Connelly),
 RSE (Nazarzadeh) and RAEng (Jiminez, Tassieri, Middlemiss, Millar). Our ECRs have also
 achieved significant success in GCRF, with 9 grants (£490k) as PI, evidencing the School’s
 support of ECRs in building international partnerships in developing countries (see Section 3.2.2).
 We have also provided targeted BDM support for industry partnering to secure InnovateUK
 funding (e.g. Nazarzadeh, Casaburi, Childs, Li).
 2.5.3 Developing Leaders
 The School invests in long-term leadership development of staff with the strongest career
 trajectories, including through the University’s Academic Leadership Programme (e.g. Lucas,
 Salmeron-Sanchez, Pearce, Cumming) and Aspiring Leaders Development Programme (e.g.
 Smith, Reboud) with formal training by external consultants and dedicated coaching. In the REF
 period our academic staff have been University Vice-Principals (Cooper, Pearce) and College
 Deans (Cumming, Cooper, Pearce, Davies). ECRs on a strong trajectory are put forward for the
 RSE Scottish Crucible (Childs, Neale, Moran, Tassieri, Clark, Gauchotte-Lindsay, Valyrakis,
 Jiminez, Couto) and Aurora (Escorcia-Carranza, Keating) leadership programmes.
 We also work with external consultant Dr David Fraser (drdavidfraser.com), who provides support
 for strategic management and individual staff coaching (of 22 academic staff to-date). He also
 helps us to deliver effective School leadership, and identify and accelerate leadership potential of
 academic staff. He also delivers a range of external engagement workshops in the School, helping
 us to build impact into the development of research leaders.
 2.5.4 Post-Doctoral Staff Development
 In 2020, 2 of the University’s 4 Research Culture awards were won by staff in the School for their
 outstanding work to support PDRAs, particularly supporting their career development (Gauchotte-
 Lindsay) and for motivating researchers, sharing networks and encouraging diversity (Imran),
 where more than 60% of the CSI group he leads are BAME.
 Recognising the critical transition from post-doctoral level to independent researcher, the School
 initiated a scheme to work directly with candidates to develop bids for externally funded
 fellowships. Since 2015, 35 PDRAs have taken part in the scheme. This has led to 10 successful
 fellowships (6 male and 4 female) and 6 lectureships (3 male and 3 female). We have supported
 PDRAs via visNET, to understand and mitigate against the barriers for women’s networking (see
 Section 2.2).
 Additionally, the School supports PDRAs with a process of local mentorship outwith their formal
 supervisory line-management, whereby experienced senior staff provide independent career
 advice. PDRAs who are applying for academic or entrepreneurial fellowships are supported with

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 specialist training offered by the School on developing their proposals (see Section 2.5.6). The
 School encourages mobility opportunities, especially for overseas laboratory/research
 experiences, through the Scottish Research Partnership in Engineering (SRPe) Postdoctoral and
 Early Career Researcher Exchange (PECRE) awards (Timoney, Yang, Cui, Ali Nasri).
 The University also has a dedicated Researcher Development team and structure, focused on
 PDRA development. Programmes include monthly Careers Lunches, an annual Research
 Conference, leadership development through the Glasgow Crucible and a wide range of courses
 including personal development, research governance, impact, networks and CPD.
 2.5.5 Promotion
 The School supports its staff to achieve their academic career goals. Annual Performance &
 Development Review (P&DR) allows staff to set individual targets and discuss career planning.
 The annual promotion application process starts with promotion workshops, delivered by HR and
 the Head of School. Heads of Research Division then have individual discussions with staff
 regarding their readiness for promotion and encourage staff to identify where they have met or
 nearly meet promotion criteria. This process has been very successful with an overall promotion
 success rate of 84% across all grades. In particular, this proactive approach has resulted in more
 applications from women. It is notable in Table 2, that at grade 7/8 the success rate for female
 staff is higher than for male staff and that they make up 17% of promotions, which is above the
 gender ratio in the School. At professorial level 2 out of 9 applications and successful promotions
 were from women, who now make up 14% of the School’s professoriate.
                        Table 2. Academic staff promoted in REF period
  Grade                                   Female                    Male              Overall
                                    No.            %          No.          %            No
  Grade 7        Apps                 5            14%        31           86%          36
  Lecturer       Promoted                 100%                      97%                97%
  Grade 8        Apps                 7            18%        31           82%          38
  Lecturer       Promoted                 100%                      87%                88%
  Grade 9        Apps                 4            13%        26           87%          30
  Senior         Promoted                 100%                      85%                81%
  Lecturer
  Grade 9        Apps                 2            18%         9           82%          11
  Reader         Promoted                  0%                       63%                50%
  Grade 10       Apps                 2            17%        10           83%          12
  Professor      Promoted                 100%                      70%                75%
  Overall        Apps                20            16%        107          84%         127
                 Promoted                  90%                      86%                84%

 2.5.6 Entrepreneurial Support and Development
 The School aims to increase entrepreneurial activity from research and support PGRs and PDRAs
 to pursue an entrepreneurial career path. For example, Nazarzadeh was awarded an RSE
 Unlocking Ambition Fellowship to take nebuliser technology to market, and in 2019 won the Higgs
 EDGE Award for entrepreneurship. Our staff have been directly involved in entrepreneurial
 activities, including spin-out companies, some of which are ICSs (see also Sections 1.3.3 and
 4.3.2). They also deliver workshops for staff and PGRs to highlight how they turned showcase
 research innovation into commercial success. We have seen success through, for example, the
 Innovation to Commercialisation of University Research programme (iCURE) (Taylor), RAEng
 Enterprise Fellowship (Siviter), UKRI Innovation Fellowships (Clerici, Georgiev), KTPs (Yin,
 Kelly, Sorel, Thayne, Salmeron-Sanchez, Hogg) and industry secondments (Kelly, Yu,
 Anderson, Giorgiev, Ceriotti) (more details in Section 4). The University organises 2 annual

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 external engagement focused workshops: Building External Relationships, which supports
 industry and external partner engagement; and KE, IP & Commercialisation with input from
 industries, entrepreneurs and academics who have been involved in spin-outs. This has been
 particularly instructive for academic staff recruited (at all grades) from overseas.
 2.6 Post-Graduate Research Students
 PGRs are integral to the research environment in the School. They are the emerging ECRs of the
 future, capable and able to advance their own distinctive research contributions, intellectually and
 with impact. PGRs are key drivers of the overall research culture of the School, creating the
 character of research teams. Their training and research results are crucial to the advancement
 and standing of the School and their skills development is key to ensuring their post-graduation
 employment in diverse engineering sectors. The structure and training embedded within our 5
 EPSRC funded CDTs are made available to the whole cohort of our PGRs.
 In the REF period we have awarded 345 doctoral degrees, increasing from 37 at the start of the
 REF period (2013/14) to 61 in 2019/20. We strongly support diversity and work proactively to
 increase the gender balance across our PGR cohort, including PGR membership of EDIG. We
 have found that offering cross-disciplinary challenge-led projects focused around healthcare
 technologies and the environment, has enabled us to increase the proportion of female applicants.
 Currently 30% of our PGR students are women.
 2.6.1 PGR Growth
 In 2014, the School set a target to increase the PGR/staff ratio to 3.0 over a 10-year period, which
 has seen an increase from 2.4 to 3.7. Exceeding our target relied on our growth strategy delivering
 an enhanced research talent base, focusing our research leadership and strength in Centres and
 challenge-led themes, and hence increasing our research income per FTE. The resulting increase
 in EPSRC awards converted into an increase in UKRI studentships (140 since 2014 with 35 of
 those in 2020). We have led and been partners in 5 EPSRC CDTs during the REF period
 (LifeTime, FUSE, Intelligent Sensing and Measurement, Applied Photonics, PIADS) plus 3
 Horizon2020 Innovative Training Networks (ITNs). Two new doctoral training centres have been
 established in 2020 with our partners in China (see Section 4.1).
 We have increased our PGR headcount from 210 (65% international) to 443 (69% international).
 As a result of our strategy to increase our industry funding and engagement, part of this success
 has been through industry funded PhDs which have increased from 6 to 20. Notably (Table 3),
 there has been a substantial increase in recruitment, particularly as a result of success of our new
 research leaders and ECRs attracting more PhD candidates and our enhanced international
 reputation, especially attracting self-funded international students, plus our new CDT cohorts.
                                       Table 3. PGR growth
                                  HESA year             PGR No.
                                   2013/14                 210
                                   2014/15                 256
                                   2015/16                 286
                                   2016/17                 310
                                   2017/18                 348
                                   2018/19                 421
                                   2019/20                 443

 2.6.2 Supervision, Progress and Support Mechanisms
 In the REF period we have implemented a PGR strategy (led by Sorel). Two areas of focus have
 been submission rates and researcher mobility experiences. We increased the 4-year submission
 rate by developing a culture and expectation towards meeting submission deadlines, more careful
 annual monitoring of student progress and remedial actions with timely interventions and

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mentoring, and a tighter selection process. We have achieved a significant improvement in student
 satisfaction and a steady increase in our 4-year completion rates from ~46% (students who started
 in 2010) to ~70% (students who started in 2014) and this continues to rise.
 We support incoming and outgoing mobility scholarships, including through the Scottish Research
 Partnership in Engineering (SRPe) scheme, participation in international programmes (e.g. The
 Royal Society, British Council, JSPS) and through the College Mobility Fund (funded >50), as well
 as providing placements at partners though our international funded research collaborations.
 PGRs are visiting researchers in external HEIs each year, often at top universities across the
 globe (including Yale, UCLA, Caltech, Cornell, University of Rome, McGill, UESTC, Tokyo Institute
 of Technology, University of Hong Kong) and we welcome on average 37 PGR visiting researchers
 each year. This adds to our international reach, fosters and strengthens supervisor collaborations
 and gives students a valuable independent research experience.
 Appreciating that unforeseen factors can influence PhDs, such as illness or unexpected departure
 of a supervisor, we have established a hardship fund of 5% of the total PGR costs (student stipend
 and fees). We support non-UKRI funded students to take extended maternity leave (6 months)
 from this fund. Non-UKRI PGR students have also benefited from PhD funding extensions during
 the Covid-19 pandemic via a Scottish Government support package.
 Research groups and Centres provide leadership roles for PGRs, for example in organising
 seminar programmes, equipment training for more junior PGRs, and leading on initiatives such as
 maintaining laboratory booking systems and equipment loans. The School has a strong culture of
 groups and Centres working in shared laboratory spaces and shared office spaces to develop
 cohort identity. The JWNC additionally offers extensive training for all PGRs whose research can
 benefit from developing nanofabrication skills. The School trains all PGRs as Graduate Teaching
 Assistants, developing their skills in supporting the academic development of our undergraduate
 students. We also support students’ growth and ambition beyond their PhD. For example,
 substantial mentoring from the School supported Millar, Jiminez and Middlemiss in being
 awarded RAEng Research Fellowships.
 Our PGR students are members of the College of Science & Engineering Graduate School,
 providing a strong environment for co-learning and training across disciplines. Good supervisor
 practice is fundamental to the success of PGR training and the Graduate School delivers PGR
 Supervisor Development courses, with a particular focus on first-time supervisors. The Graduate
 School PGR training programme includes mandatory components in responsible research and
 innovation, integrity, ethics, data management and good practice. Elective components include
 career preparation courses, entrepreneurial training and communication skills, plus training and
 opportunities in public engagement (see Section 4.3.4).
 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities
 3.1 Research Income and Awards
 The School’s growth strategy has enhanced the intellectual vitality of our research environment.
 As a result of building capacity in our Divisions, creating new Centres and uniting our research
 strengths in challenge-led technology areas, we have both increased and diversified our research
 income. We have increased the number and percentage of larger collaborative grants and the
 number of staff holding grants. In 2014 70% of grant income was held by 11% of our staff and
 72% of R&T staff held grants, whereas in 2020, as a direct outcome of our strategy and thematic
 structure, the respective values are 70% held by 19% and 74% holding a grant.
 During the assessment period, we have won 660 awards. These represent an increase in our
 income (Fig. 3) over the assessment period from £42.2M reported to REF2014 to £104M and an
 increase in average income per FTE per annum from £100k to £125k (see also Fig. 2). 2019/20
 has been an outstanding year for research awards in the School, totalling over £25M, with our
 current operating research portfolio now over £100M.
 Diversification of research income has also been achieved (Fig. 4). By embedding mentoring for
 grant writing and reviewing in the Research Divisions (supporting the training of the ECDP), ECRs



                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have been very successful at winning grants (e.g. EPSRC NIA, Gonzalez-Garcia, Zhang) and
 Fellowships (e.g. RAEng Research Fellowships, see Section 4.1).




                     Figure 3. School of Engineering income in REF period
 Our senior staff are leading more large grants (e.g. EPSRC Programmes, see Section 3.2.1). The
 rise in EU funding has resulted from our investment in supporting staff to build and join consortia,
 as well as targeting and supporting staff to pursue ERC awards, with the University EU Office
 providing additional training and expertise. Thus, we have been successful in ERC, H2020, H2020
 FET Open and ITNs. We have increased charity funding and industry funding, assisted by our
 external engagement initiatives, including support to enhance, manage and leverage external
 relationships provided by our external consultant (Dr David Fraser) (more in Sections 1.3 and 2.5).

                                                    Grants by funder

                  Industry (£M)               1.2
                                        0.5
                  Charities (£M)       0.2 1.2
                  UK Gvmt (£M)                      2.4
                                        0.5
                        EU (£M)                                        7.1
                                                                5.1
              UKRI councils (£M)                                               8.9         13.3

                                   0           2          4      6         8     10   12   14

                                                      2019/20    2013/14


                           Figure 4. Grants awarded by funder (in year)
 3.2 Research Grant Portfolio
 3.2.1 Large and Significant Awards
 The School is playing a major role in the UK’s Quantum Technology programme, primarily through
 our research excellence and innovation in QT devices delivered through the JWNC (the sole major
 cleanroom in the UKQT programme). We are a key player in all 4 QT hubs (Cumming, Paul,
 Hadfield, Sorel, Weides). In supporting and sustaining the JWNC’s world-class facilities, the
 School successfully bid for an EPSRC equipment award for an electron beam lithography tool
 (£2M).
 The School has led 7 EPSRC programme grants; Frontier Engineering in Synthetic Biology and
 Industrial Biotech (Sloan), GaN Power Electronics (Thayne), Sonopill (Cochran), Multicorder
 (Cumming), Engineering Growth Factor Microenvironments (Salmeron-Sanchez), Ultrasurge

                                                                                                  Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Lucas), and Transformative Healthcare Technologies 2050 in Quantum Imaging (Cooper). Five
 are/were hosted in Centres (ESDC, CeMi and C-MIU) and all seven are based in our challenge-
 led areas, demonstrating our success in investing in our strengths. We are Co-Is on a further 6
 EPSRC programme grants, with participation from Yin and McGinty (SofTMech), Dahiya (Hetero-
 print), Paul (Engineering Photonic QT), Paul (SPEXS), Imran (COG-MHEAR) and Gollee
 (Closed-Loop Data Science). Salmeron-Sanchez is also leading a major (£2.8M) Sir Bobby
 Charlton Foundation programme to develop bone regeneration for landmine victims.
 Pearce received £2.4M as an EPSRC strategic support package to appoint Steinmann and
 establish the Glasgow Computational Engineering Centre, with a further EPSRC award (£1.2M)
 supporting predictive modelling of manufacturing processes.
 Awarded individual fellowships demonstrate the high international reputation of the School. We
 have hosted 4 ERC Consolidator awards (Hadfield, Gadegaard, Weides, Salmeron-Sanchez).
 Salmeron-Sanchez has been awarded 2 ERC-PoCs to commercialise his bone technology
 following from his ERC Fellowship. Fellowships awarded during the REF period from EPSRC have
 been held by Dahiya (2 successive: Engineering Fellowships for Growth in Robotics, and an
 Innovation Fellowship) and Paul (QT Fellowship). Finally, McInnes, Paul and Sloan currently hold
 RAEng Chairs in Emerging Technologies and Pearce and Smith hold RAEng Research Chairs
 (others are reported in Sections 2.5.6 and 4.1).
 Our target for growth of our PGR per FTE ratio (as described in Section 2.6) focused on supporting
 funding bids for cohort training. We are now leading 2 new CDTs (Salmeron-Sanchez, Cochran),
 are Co-Is in another 3, and lead 4 ITNs (Franke, Wasige, Dahiya, Lavery).
 3.2.2 Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF)

  Strategic use of Block Grants – supporting GCRF          The School has been successful in
                                                           winning 27 GCRF grants, totalling
  We engaged College BDMs to organise workshops            >£1.1M. Our focus on societal
  with the College of Social Sciences around global        challenge-led areas, to unify our
  sustainability themes. As an outcome, the School         research around important technologies
  joined the Sustainable Futures in Africa (SFA)           (as described in Section 3.4), has been
  network, an interdisciplinary collective of academics,   a particularly strong platform for GCRF,
  NGOs and practitioners across Uganda, Nigeria,           with significant awards in Zero Carbon
  Malawi and Botswana. Two further workshops (in           Technologies (>£2.5M) and Healthcare
  2017 and 2018) were organised in Lagos, Nigeria,         Technologies (>£2.2M). The School’s
  hosted by Prof Ajayi, Deputy Vice Chancellor at the      success in attracting GCRF funding is
  Technical University, and the School subsequently        already translating to impact and
  hosted Dr Pullanikkatil, Co-Director of SFA, for two     informing REF ICSs (e.g. Novel Low
  months in 2018, enabling our academics, including        Cost Diagnostic Tools and their Impact
  ECRs, to establish strong links with African partners.   in Africa, Cooper).
 Our success in GCRF funding was facilitated by our EPSRC and Scottish Funding Council (SFC)
 block grants, as a catalyst to build collaborations. We awarded small grants to support new
 collaborative projects with ODA partners. Our strategy is to build future leaders in our challenge-
 led areas. We therefore proactively supported ECRs with applications to these funds, and through
 project initiation and network building in ODA countries. We have awarded seed funding to 8
 ECRs, thereby extending our reach into Africa, Asia and South America.
 3.2.3 Industry Funding
 Industry funding has increased by 149% in the REF period, assisted by our support of developing
 InnovateUK applications. For example, the JWNC has enabled partnerships in 23 InnovateUK
 industrial projects of total value £37.5M (£4.3M income to the School). The School works with
 hundreds of companies, many directly funding and supporting UKRI and EU research projects,
 CDTs and/or research students. For example, activities in the communications sector remain
 strong with optoelectronics manufacturer CST Global (Kelly) and, more recently, our 5G
 communications research with Huawei and Vodafone (Imran). In 2019 we formed a new strategic
 partnership with Leonardo (Cumming). We have increased industry funding of PhDs (see Section
 2.6.1) including with Teledyne Bowtech, Stryker, CST Global, Thales, Facebook Reality Labs,

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 BAE Systems, and Scottish Power Energy Networks. Gold Standard Simulations (Asenov), a
 School spin-out, has been acquired by Synopsys, the largest electronic design automation
 company in the semiconductor sector (see related ICS).
 3.3 Infrastructure
 Estate – Campus Development. The School plays a central role in the University’s campus
 development plan, and staff drawn from 3 of our research strengths (QT, BME, and environmental
 engineering) will relocate to the new Advanced Research Centre which will open in 2022.
 Representing a £113M investment with capacity to house 600 academics, postdoctoral
 researchers and PGRs, it will create and support a highly collaborative environment to attract,
 stimulate and enable interdisciplinary research.
 Estate – Laboratories and Workspace. The School has benefited from significant investment in
 its infrastructure during the assessment period with refurbishment of approximately 20% of its
 space, including labs and workspace. The School has invested £14.2M expanding and
 refurbishing its estate to accommodate the growth experienced in the past six years. BME labs
 and C-MIU labs have been refurbished to accommodate the growth in researchers and equipment.
 We have developed new Quantum Technology labs (Weides, Hadfield) and an Additive
 Manufacturing laboratory (Unluer, Kumar). In 2020 we have committed a further £3.35M to
 refurbish 1200 m2 of new office space to create a modern and engaging environment for
 approximately 100 staff and researchers.
 High Performance Computing. We have invested £550k in high performance computing (HPC)
 equipment in support of the School’s strength in the Glasgow Computational Engineering Centre
 (GCEC), including for Computational Mechanics (Pearce, Steinmann) Device Modelling
 (Asenov) and Computational Fluid Dynamics (Barakos). The HPC facility consists of 5000 CPU
 cores and over 87600 CUDA cores in a mix of dedicated and shared resources available to all
 staff, supported by an HPC manager.
 3.4 Major Facilities (also see Section 1.2)
 3.4.1 James Watt Nanofabrication Centre (JWNC)
 The JWNC houses £37M of nanofabrication tools in an 1800 m2 clean room expanded by 1000
 m2 since REF2014. The JWNC delivers micro- and nano-fabrication to develop solutions for many
 of our research groups, including nanotechnology, optoelectronics, medical diagnostics and
 energy. The JWNC facility is at the interface of research discovery and manufacturing, providing
 a globally unique capability and environment. A significant investment (£16.13M) has been made
 for equipment to deliver Quantum Technologies. The facility houses 3 high-end electron-beam
 lithography tools, multiple photolithography systems, metal and dielectric depositions systems, a
 comprehensive plasma processing suite capable of processing silicon, III-Vs, diamond and
 superconductors, and an extensive complementary suite of metrology tools, all supported by 22
 dedicated technical staff and 3 post-doctoral researches. This sets the JWNC apart as leading
 nanofabrication in the UK and widely recognised globally. The JWNC is operated as a major TRAC
 facility and, through an agreed CAPEX programme, follows a planned investment schedule, with
 approximately £1M per annum to replace and upgrade equipment. The JWNC also provides space
 for Kelvin Nanotechnology Ltd (KNT), the commercial arm of the facility. KNT is a School spin-out
 delivering commercial access to the JWNC and its expertise, providing advanced photonics and
 quantum components to more than 300 global companies and 100 academic institution
 customers, from micro-SME spin-out to global blue-chip corporations.
 3.4.2 National Wind Tunnel and Aerospace Testing Facility
 Experimental aerodynamics research is located in a bespoke building housing the deHavilland
 low-speed wind tunnel, a major facility for UK rotorcraft research and a component of the UK
 National Wind Tunnel Facility, funded by EPSRC and UK Aerodynamics (www.nwtf.ac.uk/) and
 accessible to the UK research community. An ATI funded rotor rig was created for the wind tunnel
 through the UK Vertical Lift Network and the facility supports grants including EPSRC Mentor,
 Innovate UK wind turbine and Jaguar Land Rover projects, and EU H2020 TailSurf with Airbus.
 Co-located experimental facilities include the AWE Multi-Phase Turbulence Shock Tube and the
 ESA/ESTEC funded Plume-Regolith Testing Facility (PRTF), one the seven ESA designated

                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strategic facilities, aligned with ESA’s Robotic Exploration Programmes for missions including
 Mars Sample Return.
 3.5 Research Centres (also see Section 1.1.3)
 Centre for the Cellular Microenvironment (Directors: Salmeron-Sanchez (Engineering) and
 Dalby (Institute of Molecular Cell & Systems Biology)). CeMi spans engineering and life sciences
 to target research within the remit of lifelong health and wellbeing. CeMi is pioneering research in
 stem cell engineering, advanced functional biomaterials, bone tissue engineering and in vitro
 tissue models, and leads a number of flagship grants including EPSRC Programmes (Engineering
 growth factor microenvironments, and Quantum imaging for monitoring of wellbeing & disease in
 communities), Sir Bobby Charlton Foundation grant (Regenerative medicine technologies for the
 treatment of civilian blast injuries), ERC (Synergistic growth factor microenvironments for bone
 regeneration) and EPSRC CDT (lifETIME – Engineered tissues for discovery, industry and
 medicine).
 Centre for Medical & Industrial Ultrasonics (Director: Lucas). C-MIU brings together research
 across the whole range of applications in ultrasonics, currently pioneering advances in ultrasound
 capsule endoscopy, interventional surgical devices, targeted drug delivery, and planetary, sub-
 sea and sub-glacial exploration tools. C-MIU has strong industry partnerships across sectors,
 reflecting ultrasonics’ pervasive presence in technology, and collaborates closely with NHS
 clinicians. The centre leads an EPSRC Programme (Ultrasurge – Surgery enabled by ultrasonics)
 and CDT (FUSE – Future ultrasonic engineering). The CDT has consolidated a partnership with
 Strathclyde University’s Centre for Ultrasonic Engineering, now forming the largest global centre
 for ultrasonics, based in Glasgow, the birthplace of medical ultrasound.
 Electronic Systems Design Centre (Director: Dahiya). ESDC supports a broad spectrum of
 heterogeneous electronics systems technology. Focussing on the synergistic design and
 development of high-speed electronic components, the centre develops breakthrough electronic
 systems with cutting-edge performances. In 2016 and 2017, ESDC was a finalist for the NMI
 awards in the Best University Research Centre category. ESDC provides high-end electronic
 system solutions for emerging cross-disciplinary applications across all 3 of our challenge-led
 research areas.
 Glasgow Computational Engineering Centre (Directors: Steinmann, McBride). GCEC was
 established following the award of an EPSRC strategic support grant, supporting the appointment
 of Steinmann from Germany to a Chair of Computational Engineering Science and recognising
 the School’s strength and leadership, but lack of critical mass, in computational engineering.
 GCEC has established an international network of centres (CIMNE, UPC Barcelona; CERECAM,
 Cape Town; CICDE, Michigan; Zienkiewicz Centre, Swansea) and has close industry partnerships
 with EDF Energy and Rolls Royce. GCEC promotes development of high-quality scientific
 software as community endeavours, exemplified by MoFEM (mofem.eng.gla.ac.uk), adopted by
 the nuclear industry for structural integrity assessment of the reactor cores of the UK’s fleet of
 nuclear power stations.
 3.6 Challenge-Led Research Strengths
 Healthcare Technologies (Champion: Reboud).
 Healthcare Technologies is the School’s strongest challenge-led theme in terms of breadth and
 size. It is a theme that has demonstrably attracted a diverse researcher community, including near
 50/50 gender balance, is strongly engaged with outreach, and has deep international links with
 low-income countries, for example developing origami diagnostics for blood-borne diseases.
 Healthcare Technologies derives from our internationally leading research in biomaterials, cell and
 tissue engineering, medical diagnostics, ultrasonics and digital health. Impact is created by
 spanning research and innovation from bench to bedside, from fundamental research through
 diagnostics to clinical trials (providing 2 ICSs, see Section 4.3.2). We bring together advances in
 science and engineering in new ways, e.g. combining nanotechnology, 3D printing, modelling, and
 machine learning, in the development of tissue repair technologies. This research links physical,
 clinical and life sciences in cell engineering and, for example, in health technology informatics
 which is experiencing a revolution in areas where we have strong collaborative research in

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 predictive analytics, home monitoring and smart intervention. Partnerships with MedTech
 industries and the NHS have been key and spin-out companies include Modedx, SAWdx and
 Clyde Biosciences.
  Impact – Veterinary Case Study
  A first outcome of the Sir Bobby Charlton Foundation Programme (Salmeron-Sanchez) was
  the treatment of Eva the dog, a 2 year old Mūnsterlander with a complicated 2 cm non-union
  bone defect and infection, after being hit by a car. In collaboration with the Small Animal
  Hospital, our new bone regeneration bioactive materials were trialled in Eva in surgery,
  preventing amputation. Two months later, bone had regrown, the fracture had consolidated and
  Eva has since enjoyed a normal life. The case attracted significant attention, including from the
  BBC, major national newspapers and other vets. The team secured an ERC Proof of Concept
  grant to perform a veterinary clinical trial and have now successfully treated 13 previously
  untreatable bone fractures in dogs and cats.
 Quantum & Nano Technologies (Champion: Weides). The School is an integral partner in the
 UK’s Quantum Technology strategy. Our strength in this area builds on more than 3 decades of
 excellence in micro- and nano-fabrication and is delivered through our JWNC. The School has
 made strategic investments to enhance our QT position in the UK and we are now an active
 partner in all 4 of the UK Quantum Technology Hubs. Impact is through the many industrial
 partners on the £53M research grants and contracts underpinned by the JWNC, evidential in the
 4 Impact Case Studies supported by this facility. Impact is also created directly by Kelvin
 Nanotechnology Ltd (KNT), which provides fabrication services for diverse market sectors and is
 a qualified supply chain partner for multiple global product lines. 170 companies in 23 countries
 have worked with KNT in the past 3 years.
 Zero Carbon Technologies (Champion: Yu). The climate crisis and resource depletion has
 brought the need to deliver zero carbon engineering solutions into sharp focus. In recognition of
 this, and building on existing strengths in renewable energy, carbon capture and storage, heat
 recovery and environmental engineering, the School coalesced these around a theme of zero
 carbon technologies. Our research in renewable energy reaches from South America to sub-
 Saharan Africa (e.g. through GCRF projects). Water and environment research is delivering low-
 carbon water technologies, from remote Scottish Islands to Thailand, India and Mexico. We
 recognise that increased renewable energy production has to be accompanied by lowering energy
 demand, so we have invested in new staff in low-energy manufacturing (Ying) and sustainable
 infrastructure materials (Unluer).
 4. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society
 4.1 Collaboration and Reach National Collaboration.
                                                               The vitality of the School’s
  Royal Academy of Engineering (RAEng)                         research is founded in the
  Elected Fellows, FREng: Cooper, Marsh, Cumming               interdisciplinarity empowered
                                                               by our thematic structure. This
  In REF period:                                               is evidenced by the broad
  Chair in Emerging Technology: McInnes, Sloan, Paul           portfolio of research income
  Research Chair: Pearce (EDF), Smith (Scottish Water)         where we collaborate widely,
  Visiting Professorships: White, Yu (see Section 4.1.2)       including the many large multi-
  Research Fellowship: Tassieri, Middlemiss, Jiminez, Millar   institution              EPSRC
  Senior Research Fellowship: Paul                             programmes, CDTs and other
  Development Fellowship: Vignola                              flagship grants (see Section
  Industrial Fellowship (Alba Orbital): Ceriotti               3.2).     Our    interdisciplinary
  Enterprise Hub: Reboud                                       research      is     increasingly
  Enterprise Fellowship: Siviter                               supported by BBSRC, NERC
  Scientific Adviser: Tassieri                                 and MRC, national academies
  Endorsement as UK Exceptional talent: Abbasi                 including the Royal Academy
 of Engineering and Royal Society of Edinburgh, and charities (e.g. Busse, Leverhulme
 Fellowship) including Wellcome, Sir Bobby Charlton Foundation and Cancer Research UK. We


                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 are also members of the UK Regenerative Medicine Platform (ukrmp.org.uk/hubs/acellular-smart-
 materials-3d-architecture).
 Industrial Partnerships. Reflecting the centrality of industry challenges to our research, the
 School reinvigorated the Industrial Advisory Board (IAB), with 20 new members representative of
 our major research areas and supporting our Research Divisions. The IAB have engaged with our
 ECR community to facilitate direct networking with industries and in the development of
 independence and leadership. The IAB also provides mentorship and support in careers advice
 for PhD students and we have established new research partnerships, for example with Leonardo.
 Our industrial reach is exemplified by our central role in the UK strategy for Quantum Technology
 and the corresponding importance of the JWNC, in providing access for UK researchers to world-
 class nanofabrication, and in facilitating industrial innovation through KNT. Our Centres for
 Doctoral Training are partnered with 95 industries, based in 19 countries, from spin-outs to major
 global corporations. We have strategic partnerships in key areas of expertise, including Thales in
 QT, Stryker in Ultrasonics, and EDF Energy in Computational Engineering, providing sustained
 funding of Research Chairs, PGR studentships and research contracts.
 The College has strategically used EPSRC IAA funding to appoint Impact Associates with
 expertise of business partnership development in our three challenge-led technology areas. We
 have also leveraged Visiting Professorships to enhance our industrial reach in these areas, with
 three examples given here. White is RAEng Visiting Professor in Technological Entrepreneurship.
 He was CEO of two life science AIM-quoted companies and is now CEO of Novel Technologies
 Holdings and Chairman of Mikota. His extensive experience in manufacture of medical devices,
 advanced biologics and API's has brought valuable links to wide international industrial expertise
 and partnerships in Healthcare Technologies. Ma played a visionary role in the development of
 the Synopsys TCAD tools and was instrumental in the acquisition of Gold Standard Simulations
 in 2016. As a result, Synopsys now has a 25 strong R&D division in Glasgow, representing a
 substantial career pipeline for our PGRs and PDRAs. Yu is the RAEng Visiting Professor in
 Integrated Energy Systems. He is Head of Future Networks at Scottish Power Energy Networks
 and is supporting our Zero Carbon Technologies research, cementing a strong partnership with
 Scottish Power through research grants and funded PhD studentships.
 International Partnerships. The School’s strategy for developing international partnerships
 comprises three distinct mechanisms: Firstly, working in collaboration with TNE partners with
 UESTC in Chengdu we have established a new PhD programme. The Ministry of Education in
 China has approved the dual PhD programme in the field of electronics and communications, for
 5 years of cohorts, totalling 45 studentships, benefiting from shared supervision and funding for
 extended research visits. Our PGR cohort is based in the School of Information &
 Communications, where we have our strongest existing links in the areas of communications and
 healthcare technologies.
 Secondly, the School has successfully created ODA country partnerships to win significant GCRF
 awards (see Section 3.2). We have also been proactive and successful in engaging with the
 RAEng GCRF initiatives, with a focus on developing the international reach of our early and mid-
 career academics to tackle global socioeconomic and healthcare challenges. Again, this initiative
 has been supported by the College Impact Associates, providing seed funding from the College
 to facilitate ODA partnerships and grant applications in Zero Carbon Technologies in Kenya,
 Nigeria, Cameroon and Bangladesh. The School has been lead or partner on 27 GCRF awards,
 and an RAEng Engineering for Development Fellowship (Vignola).
 Thirdly, the School has grown its academic and industrial collaborative research through the
 H2020 European funding initiatives, including strong engagement with the European Research
 Council (6 awards). The School has also targeted the funding of ITNs in order to grow and diversify
 the number of partnerships.
 Finally, the Scottish Research Partnership in Engineering (SRPe) has provided a mechanism for
 international engagement through the Pools Engagement in European Research (PEER awards)
 and Postdoctoral ECR Exchanges (PECRE awards) (see Section 2.5.4).



                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2 Research Leadership and Recognition
  Engaging with Government                        Our contribution to the research base is widely
  Paul is a Dstl Visiting Fellow, a member of    recognised    through leadership on strategic
  the MOD Defence Science Expert                 positions of funding  bodies. During the census
  Committee, chaired the MOD Position, period our staff have been on EPSRC’s Strategic
  Navigation and Timing Deep Dive (2019), Advisory Teams: Paul (Capital Equipment),
  was UK technical senior for TTCP Cooper (Healthcare Technologies), McGinty
  negotiations for Five Eyes Quantum Enabled (Mathematics), Thayne (Physical Sciences) and
  Navigation programme (2018), chaired the Pearce (Engineering). Cooper is a member of
  EC ICT Energy Strategic Research Agenda the ERC starter grants panel (LS7) Diagnostic
  (2016), provided scientific support on QT to Tools, Therapies and Public Health, Thayne was
  the Minister for Defence Procurement in an Evaluator for the EU Critical Space
  2020 and is on the Government Office of Technologies Programme, Salmeron-Sanchez
  Science Scientific Advisory Group for is a member of the Welcome Trust panels,
  Emergencies (SAGE) register since 2014.        Busse sits on the EPSRC Strategic Advisory
                                                 Committee for e-Infrastructure and Lucas is on
 the UKRI FLF College. We have 35 members of EPSRC College. Weides was co-author of
 Opportunities for Superconducting Quantum Technology in the UK, NPL Report 2018 and lead
 author of The UK Superconducting Quantum Circuit Centre (SQCC): A Vision for the National
 Foundry for Quantum Computing Circuits, report to government 2019 and Member of the BEIS
 Quantum Computing Deep Dive: Roadmapping Workshop 2020. McInnes Chairs the UK Space
 Agency Space Technology Advisory Committee and Kontis is a member of the Advisory
 Committee for Aerospace Research in Europe Working-Group 3: Protecting the Environment and
 the Energy Supply. Falcone is United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) Vice-
 President of the Expert Group on Resource Management and leads the Geothermal Sub-group
 for the development of geothermal specifications and guidelines for the UNFC. Cumming was a
 Member of the Scottish Science Advisory Council (2012-16).
 Fellows of Engineering and Science Professional bodies include:
 • Royal Academy of Engineering: FREng (Cooper, Cumming, McInnes, Marsh).
 • Royal Society of Edinburgh; FRSE (Asenov, Cooper, Cumming, Lucas, Marsh, McInnes,
   Paul, Sloan, Hadfield and Salmeron-Sanchez)
 • Royal Society Wolfson Merit Awards: Cooper, Cumming, Cochran, Steinmann, McInnes,
   Sloan
 • Fellows of Engineering and Science Professional Bodies including: FICE (Pearce); FIEEE
   (Asenov, Cumming, Marsh, Dahiya plus 14 Senior Members); FAIAA (Kontis); FIET
   (Cooper, Cumming, Marsh, Imran); FIMechE (Kontis, Lucas, Harkness); FRAeS (Kontis,
   Barakos); FIoP (Cooper, Hadfield, Marsh, Paul, Cochran, Hutchings, McInnes, Weides);
   FOSA (Hadfield, Marsh).
 Significant Prizes and Awards include: McInnes, MBE 2014; Paul, IoP President’s Medal 2014;
 Hadfield, IoP Joule Prize 2019, Lavery, Mobile World Scholar Gold Medal 2018, RSE Sir Thomas
 Makdougall Brisbane Medal 2019; Barakos, RAeS Written Paper Silver Award 2018; Clerici,
 Italian Physical Society Sergio Panizza Optoelectronics prize 2014; Cochran, National
 Instruments Engineering Impact Humanitarian Award 2019; Heidari, IEEE Sensors Council Young
 Professional Award 2019; Imran, IEEE Communications Society Fred W. Ellersick Prize 2014;
 Vellaisamy, 47th International Exhibition of Inventions Gold Medal 2019; and Lucas, IET
 Achievement Medal 2020.
 4.3 Impact and Contribution to the Wider Research Base
 4.3.1 International Technical Societies and Conferences
 Dahiya is President-Elect (2020-2021) and Distinguished Lecturer (2016-2021) and was Chair of
 UK and Ireland Chapter of IEEE Sensors Council (2016-2018); Cochran and Lucas were General
 Co-Chairs IEEE International Ultrasonics Symposium 2019 and Cochran is Vice-President for
 Ultrasonics IEEE UFFC Society; Salmeron-Sanchez was Chair of the FEBS conference,
 Biological Surfaces and Interfaces 2017; Heidari was General Chair of 27th IEEE International


                                                                                         Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Conference on Electronics Circuits and Systems; Hadfield was Co-Chair, European Conference
 on Applied Superconductivity 2019.
 Keynote and plenary lectures were given at international conferences by Asenov (9), Imran (6),
 Salmeron-Sanchez (6), Cooper (4), Cumming (2), Lucas (2), McInnes (2), Sloan (2), Grassl
 (2), Hadfield (2), Paul (2), You (2), Falcone, Ijaz, Kontis, and we have 2 Editors-in-Chief and 19
 Associate Editors of high quality International Journals.
 Our staff successfully brought major international conferences to Glasgow, including: IEEE
 Sensors (Dahiya); IEEE International Conference on Electronics Circuits and Systems (Heidari);
 UK China Emerging Technologies Conference (UCET) (Imran, Zhang); European Conference on
 Computational Mechanics (Pearce); Computational Modelling of Complex Materials across the
 Scales (Steinmann, McBride); European Conference on Applied Superconductivity (Hadfield);
 IEEE International Ultrasonics Symposium (Cochran, Lucas).
 4.3.2 Impact Mechanisms
 As detailed in Section 2.5, we have an established programme of training and coaching at all
 levels to support and encourage entrepreneurship. This has led to a number of spinout companies
 during the REF period, including Acu-Flow and Multicorder DX. The School is proactive in
 generating impact from our research as provided in the Impact Case Studies (ICS). Where the
 majority of the ICSs rely on IP and know-how for commercialisation, the School also recognises
 the importance of mechanisms for impact. The University has pioneered the route of Easy Access
 IP which aims to maximise knowledge transfer through simple transactions and agreements
 before focusing on monetary aims. The School goes beyond this by implementing an open impact
 environment to provide the wide academic and industrial community access to tools and research
 developed in the School. In a similar spirit to Open Access for research outputs, we openly share
 research innovations with the wider research base, especially where there is no clear route to
 market. Examples include:
 • Cooper and Reboud, development of origami-based diagnostics. This is currently being trialled
   in Tanzania and also forms the basis of an ICS.
 • Pearce and Kaczmarczyk, development of open source finite element modelling software,
   MoFEM (mofem.eng.gla.ac.uk/mofem/html/). MoFEM (Mesh Orientated Finite Element
   Method) is an open source finite element analysis code that has been widely adopted, with
   applications in nuclear graphite developed in partnership with EDF Energy and forming an ICS.
 • Asenov and Georgiev, building on the success of simulation software for semiconductor
   devices developed by Asenov and acquired by Synopsys (see ICS), the team has continued
   to develop open source software for transistor designs.
 • Porr has developed and commercialised data acquisition hardware and software using open
   source code (www.linux-usb-daq.co.uk/).
 • Imran has 3 projects with Huawei on latency and reliability control for open loop multi-hop V2X
   communication.
 4.3.3 Response to Covid-19
 The School’s structure facilitated many rapid responses to covid-19 and a few examples of the
 research contributions are:
 Scottish Funding Council GCRF Covid Emergency Response Fund – Characterising Covid-19
 occupational exposure among healthcare workers through the validation of point-of-care
 diagnostics (Cooper).
 Mobile Health Clinic VAN – CODIS: Jointly with Telefonica O2 our researchers developed a mobile
 connected health clinic to provide medical care and delivery of essential supplies to people in
 remote locations and care homes (Imran).
 EPSRC funded Risk EvaLuatIon FAst INtelligent Tool (RELIANT) for Covid-19. This is a new
 interactive tool that evaluates the risk of infection from droplets and aerosols in the indoor
 environment generated when breathing, talking, coughing and sneezing (Cammarano).



                                                                                           Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.3.4 Communicating with the Public
 Disseminating our research to the public and championing engineering to communities, from
 school children to government, are at the heart of our School ethos. We support all of our staff
 and researchers to train as STEM Ambassadors and provide media and outreach training.
 Working closely with the University’s Dean for Public Engagement, we have developed a strategy
 to showcase the breadth and diversity of our research, presented here.
 Researchers have presented their research at the Parliamentary and Scientific Committee STEM
 for Britain in Westminster (e.g. Aggarwal 2019). In 2018, PhD student Mason won the STEM for
 Britain Gold Medal in Engineering in a presentation to MPs at Westminster. In the same year
 Salmeron-Sanchez presented to The Royal Society Summer Science Exhibition, Material
 matters: biomaterials for bone repair.
 We also work closely with our (more than 20) engineering student societies. Cooper and Reboud
 supported Handprints to work with the STEM Academy Scotland to take research on prosthetics
 into schools, and worked with FemEng (female engineering society) to run workshops on low-cost
 disease diagnostics during their annual FemEng in Rwanda project.
 To celebrate the RAF Centenary, a state-of-art flight simulator created by researchers in the
 School (Barakos) allowed school pupils to pilot a virtual WW1 Bristol Fighter, in the project Wings
 to War – Glasgow and the birth of the RAF.
 We organise many events at the annual Glasgow Science Festival including two UK Space
 Agency funded events; Get Me into Orbit, and Roving with Rosalind (Worrall). The Amazing World
 of Quantum Physics (Pusino, Escorzia) developed Quantum Technology-based ideas to help
 resolve a zombie apocalypse, also presented at TEDx Glasgow. Floodopoly, an interactive
 exploration of flood risks in the UK, led to PhD student Koursari winning the Womens Engineering
 Society Top 50 Women in Engineering Sustainability and the Women Leaders Association Rising
 Star in STEM awards in 2020.
 4.3.5 Influencing Policy and Advocacy through Public Engagement
 Quantum & Nano Technologies are a significant arena of influence through government
 engagement. For example two lectures on QT and Quantum Communications were given to the
 Ministry of Defence and to all global UK embassies (Paul), and IndiPix™ (Mid-infrared sensing
 and imaging technology) was presented to the House of Commons Science and Technology
 Committee (Cumming).
 Researchers have also worked with engineering professional societies, such as IEEE CommSoc
 on Busting the Myths About 5G – Facts Versus Fiction (Imran).
  Staff have been awarded funding from the RAEng Ingenious scheme, including Dahiya to
 demonstrate ubiquitous tactile surfaces and the science of landslides through the Electronic Touch
 project, and Jiminez, who worked with secondary school teachers to co-create new tools to
 integrate biomedical engineering into the Physics curriculum, >10% of Scottish secondary schools
 now use the tools.
  Supporting training in Outreach
  Middlemiss won the Scottish Famelab, explaining a complex scientific topic in 3 minutes to a
  lay audience. He then won the UK final of Three-Minute Thesis, explaining his entire PhD in
  180 seconds, and the University of Glasgow Science Slam, a speed lecturing event in a
  Glasgow pub. In 2018 he won the Isambard Kingdom Brunel Award Lecture from the British
  Science Association in recognition of his research and outreach activities. He has been
  interviewed for BBC Radio 4’s flagship science show, Inside Science, and the BBC World
  Service’s Science in Action programme, where he has also presented and produced several
  short documentary films.




                                                                                            Page 24
