Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Anglia Ruskin University

 Unit of Assessment: 20 Social Work and Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and structure

 Our Unit is primarily drawn from the Faculty of Health, Education, Medicine and Social Care
 (FHEMS) at Anglia Ruskin University (ARU). Faculty structures and research strategies have
 undergone recent revision, providing exciting opportunities for collaboration and
 interdisciplinarity. The majority of our researchers returned in this UoA have been strategically
 consolidated in the School of Education and Social Care (11.51 FTE) or our interdisciplinary
 Veterans’ and Family Institute for Military Social Research (VFI) established in 2014 (3 FTE),
 which has a growing profile and reputation and now hosts the Forces in Mind Trust (FiMT)
 Research Centre. One full-time colleague (Schneider) is located in the Faculty of Arts,
 Humanities and Social Science (FAHSS), demonstrating cross-faculty collaboration with social
 policy and sociology.

 Our over-arching theme is social inclusion and marginalised communities. The strength of our
 work is reflected in ARU’s Research and Innovation Strategy 2018-2022, which defines this
 theme as one of eleven priority areas for institutional investment. The UoA excels in applied
 mixed-methods and interdisciplinary participatory research, demonstrating strong links to
 practice, policy development and the meaningful engagement of service users and communities
 in the research process. Our research is inherently interdisciplinary and also reflects our
 backgrounds in social work, social policy, sociology and psychology.

 Research strategy

 A clear research focus around social inclusion and marginalised communities has facilitated our
 success in meeting or exceeding all our strategic goals since REF 2014, which were to:

        1.   Develop priority areas for new research
        2.   Forge and strengthen national and international collaborations
        3.   Increase research income within the UoA by 10% per researcher
        4.   Diversify research funding streams
        5.   Consolidate numbers of research students whilst focusing on supporting them into
             early career researcher posts.

 1. Develop priority areas for new research

 A cornerstone of our strategy is the reshaping of research around three key clusters to which
 staff have a primary affiliation. Doing this has generated a critical and sustainable mass of
 researchers in each. Clusters explore different modes of marginalisation within methodological
 approaches that are characterised by an emphasis on partnership, co-production and
 meaningful involvement of communities. This coalesces in the Participatory Research Group
 (PRG) which brings together staff and PGRs to share and discuss their research.

    a. Migration and mobility

    This cluster (6 FTE) centres on experiences of social inclusion of mobile communities
    (Anghel, Lane, Sandu, Schneider, Smith, Spencer). We have particular expertise in Gypsy
    and Roma communities (Lane), strengthened by the recruitment of Smith in 2018. Lane has
    worked with the National Federation of Gypsy Liaison Groups (NFGLG) to review UK
    progress on the European Union Framework for National Roma Integration Strategies. A co-
    produced national report was launched at the House of Commons with the Select Committee
    on Gypsy and Traveller issues in 2014. Lane also supervised Dr Siobhan Spencer, one of

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    the first women from the Gypsy community to complete her PhD (2018), on a university
    studentship. Smith has also worked closely with community groups to produce robust policy
    and practice solutions. For example, he worked with the University of Greenwich and
    community groups (Diversity House, Medway Ethnic Diversity Forum, and One Voice for
    Travellers) on Health Education England-funded research into palliative care among BAME
    communities (2018-19, £16,000 (£3,000 to ARU)).

    Staff also explore the experiences of refugees in transit and following resettlement (Anghel,
    Sandu), whilst Spencer investigates young migrants and their families’ management of long-
    term conditions (General Nursing Council Trust, 2019-21, £26,662). Schneider’s research
    represented in one of our case studies reflects a collaboration with Cambridge University,
    funded by the Bell Foundation, exploring the impact of migration on educational experiences
    and language development of young people with English as an Additional Language (EAL)
    and matching their needs to educational provision (2013; 2014-16, £89,893 (£59,875 to
    ARU)).

    b. Social support

    Within this cluster (6.51 FTE), social support is framed as exploring and fostering ways
    citizens can support themselves or be supported to enhance their wellbeing (Boyce, Burch,
    Dadswell, Fox, Munn-Giddings, Grierson, Nyathi, O’Brien, Preston). Research by or with
    people who have direct experience is an enduring ethos of our work, reflected for example in
    Fox’s work as a service user researcher developing this experiential perspective in mental
    health through autoethnography. Additionally, Boyce and Dadswell’s research with the
    charity women@thewell reflects sensitive strategies to include women involved in prostitution
    (2017-21, £47,142).

    A particular expertise is the impact of participatory arts (Munn-Giddings, Dadswell, Boyce,
    with Bungay, Wilson (UoA3)) on older people’s wellbeing in care and community settings.
    This includes scoping reviews funded by AHRC (2014, £23,813) and ‘Creative Journeys’, a
    collaboration with Essex County Council and the citizen-led Older People’s Research Group,
    Essex (OPRGE) exploring arts participation, social relationships and social isolation in
    residential care, funded by Arts Council England (2016-18, £123,955).

    Loneliness and social isolation amongst older people were also the focus of Preston’s
    evaluation of Esther Rantzen’s Silver Line, a national helpline (2014-15, £82,000). Related
    research by Burch and Preston includes the evaluation of ‘Dementia Buddies’ support for
    people with dementia in hospital, funded by South Essex Partnership Trust (2014-15,
    £6,380) and developing an evaluation framework for a Befriending Programme, funded by
    Essex County Council (2016-17, £24,122).

    At another stage of the lifespan, Grierson’s collaborative work with the Anna Freud National
    Centre for Children and Families explores social support for young people with mental health
    challenges through a social network analysis lens. O’Brien and Nyathi’s research also
    focuses on children and youth, including training and supporting young people as peer-
    researchers in areas such as bullying and self-exclusion.

    c. Transitions

    The VFI has championed the work of this cluster (3 FTE), which explores forms of transition
    from military into civilian life (Caddick, Engward, Fleuty, Fossey, Godier-McBard). Their
    research is characterised by co-production with the sector, demonstrated by the strong
    presence of military charities in shaping recommendations.

    Key studies include (a) ‘Caring and Coping’, a collaboration with Blesma The Limbless
    Veterans (Engward, Fossey), funded by the Forces in Mind Trust to examine the life-long
    impact of caring for a family member with limb loss (2015-18, £137,605); (b) ‘Outcomes

                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Monitoring Framework’ (Fossey), funded by the Armed Forces Covenant Trust to develop
    systems for monitoring the impact of Armed Forces charities (2017-2020 and 2020-2022,
    £226,795); (c) ‘Spouse employment’, a collaboration with the Ministry of Defence (Caddick,
    Fossey, Godier-McBard), funded by Forces in Mind Trust to address challenges faced by
    military spouses in obtaining and sustaining employment (2015-18, £199,229). The VFI’s
    work is reflected in our other case study. Nascent work from Anghel and Sandu also
    contribute to the wider themes around transition in the cluster.

 2. Forge and strengthen national and international collaborations

 As illustrated above and in section 4, our clusters now benefit from a wide range of productive
 partnerships, which underpin our bidding activities.

 In strengthening our collaborations, we have drawn on institutional network support funding. For
 example, Sandu was awarded £1,000 to organise an interdisciplinary conference for Refugee
 Week, ‘Refugee Crisis: Challenges and Opportunities in Creative Practice and Research’
 (20/6/18), in collaboration with ARU’s StoryLab (UoA32). Presenters included staff and PGRs in
 FHEMS and FAHSS as well as representatives from the Cambridge Migration Research
 Network and City of Sanctuary.

 Institutional funding has also supported attendance at network-enhancing events, such as
 conferences. Researchers have been able to participate in training and development sessions
 on establishing and developing collaborative partnerships. For example, building on an existing
 partnership from REF 2014, Törrönen won a Marie Curie PEOPLE bid with Munn-Giddings
 (2016-18, €195,454) enabling a two-year UK-Finnish study on how to support young adults
 leaving care. The project was delivered in collaboration wth Essex County Council where
 young care leavers were trained as peer-researchers by Törrönen, O’Brien and Munn-Giddings.

 The VFI has also developed an extensive network of national collaborations, including the
 Ministry of Defence, Confederation of Service Charities (Cobseo), NHS England, Blesma the
 Limbless Veterans, Blind Veterans UK, Waterloo Uncovered, the Soldiers Arts Academy, Turn to
 Starboard, and Royal British Legion Industries.

 3. To increase research income within the UoA by 10% per researcher

 Reflecting our strategies above we have achieved significant growth in research income rising
 from £100,166 per FTE researcher in 2014 to £204,373 per FTE researcher in 2020, a growth of
 over 100%.

 4. Diversify research funding streams

 Public and third sector organisations have remained important and we continue to bid very
 successfully to them. In addition, we have succeeded in winning AHRC Council (2014) and Arts
 Council England (2016-18) funding (Munn-Giddings with Bungay (UoA3)) with a combined total
 of £149,493, and have secured a further AHRC grant in March 2020 £822,598 (Caddick), which
 will now commence in 2021 due to the Covid-19 pandemic.

 5. Maintain numbers of research students whilst focusing on supporting them into early
    career researcher posts

 We have supported a steady growth in doctoral completions almost doubling our students from
 16 in 2014 to 30 in the current census period, exceeding our target. Our completions include ten
 staff members, four of whom successfully applied for regrading since obtaining their doctorates
 (Boyce, Fox, Nyathi, O’Brien). Three of our PGRs funded by ARU studentships went on to work
 within ARU. Preston joined the Unit as a Research Fellow, Kaminskiy became a Senior Lecturer
 in FSE (and is returned in UoA4), whilst Hughes was employed as a Research Assistant in
 FHEMS.

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Impact strategy

 Our strong commitment to putting co-production with our partners at the heart of our research is
 reflected in research designs which ensure meaningful outcomes for the communities we work
 with. In keeping with this ethos, we work closely with our partners to achieve impact as reflected
 in our case studies. Where possible this includes embedding service users and citizens in the
 development of bids and the conduct of research. For example, we have worked closely with the
 OPRGE who formed in 2007 after training provided by Munn-Giddings, Boyce, O’Brien and
 McVicar (UoA3). This citizen-led older people’s group uses their experiential knowledge to
 inform the focus of research and they are particularly helpful in providing insights during co-
 analysis and optimising impact relevance.

 To enhance our impact we have prioritised capacity-building for staff and PGRs through in-
 house training sessions. We also used the preparation of REF case studies as a catalyst for
 wider staff benefit. We supported case study authors with advice from a University Impact Co-
 ordinator (2019-20) and external advice and review (RAND, Bulletin). Key messages were
 shared widely through an impact briefing document and we worked with colleagues to improve
 their documentation of impact. The latter includes using our bid peer reviewing processes to
 identify focussed pathways to impact that specify benefits and beneficiaries, the mechanisms
 that lead to impact, and the support and resources required.

 Open access

 When publication timing or a particular journal has implications for the impact of a paper we
 have been able to draw successfully on a University fund which supports payment of charges for
 gold route open-access, through which 25% of our submitted staff have been supported (Burch,
 O’Brien, Smith, Spencer). Open access systems ensure the broadest reach including the
 institutional repository ARRO (Anglia Ruskin Research Online), which holds copies of peer-
 reviewed articles and archives research reports, book chapters and other outputs. In addition,
 the Unit is able to access the institutional Figshare data repository.

 Research integrity

 We are active in Institutional and Faculty based committees to ensure the high quality and
 integrity of our research. Burch sits on the central Research Integrity Working Group and has
 delivered research integrity training across the university. All submitting staff have completed the
 Epigeum Research Integrity course and adopt the principles in the ARU Good Practice
 Research Guide and the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. We are active on the Faculty
 Research and Innovation Committee which reports to and informs the University Research and
 Innovation Committee. Our research goes through a rigorous ethical process at School level
 which is managed by the Faculty Ethics Panel reporting to the University Ethics Committee. To
 improve the quality of bids all funding applications are scrutinised at an early stage by a
 Statement of Intent Panel which is chaired by the Deputy Dean (Research & Innovation) and
 includes senior staff in the discipline. We are able to bring to these committees subject and
 methodological expertise to inform decision-making – for example, Grierson’s extensive
 knowledge of LGBTQ+ issues and O’Brien and Spencer’s understanding of the rights of children
 and young people in research.

 Future strategic aims and goals

 Our overall aim is to contribute to the advancement of knowledge, practice and policy in the field
 of social inclusion and marginalised communities and groups. We will achieve this by:

    •   Strategic growth and alignment of research clusters, staff and PGRs



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    To consolidate and integrate both established and emerging areas of research and
    innovation, we will revisit formal structures and ensure that our staff and students are
    attached to Research Groups and Institutes. We will support the development of our nascent
    subject-based research interest groups, which are growing from the current focal areas, with
    potential for cross-Faculty critical mass and impact (anticipated areas include Arts and
    Wellbeing, Childhood and Youth, and Migration and Mobility).

    •   Capacity building

    We will continue to manage the profile of our workforce by ensuring an appropriate balance
    of Professors and Readers working with ECRs/MCRs across clusters to deliver our goals.
    Our recruitment strategy for staff and students will align with our research priorities and
    support our research clusters. We will adopt a whole-career approach drawing on and
    contributing to University training that supports career development and improves
    succession planning. Mentoring within the Unit will tailor the institutional programme to
    achieve our specific needs.

    •   Strengthening networks

    Building on the strong external partnership networks developed since 2014 (see Section 4)
    we will consolidate these by further developing our co-production and public engagement
    processes to ensure the early identification of practice-led research issues. Within the
    University, to broaden our interdisciplinary range, Caddick will initiate a cross-Faculty ‘Theory
    and Culture’ reading group. The VFI intends to maintain and build on relationships with key
    partners in the military charity sector and governance environment, including as members of
    numerous Cobseo Committees, the Contact Armed Forces Network, and as advisors to
    NATO, the Ministry of Defence, and the Office for Veterans’ Affairs.

    •   Doctoral completions

    We will consolidate the growth in our doctoral completions seen since REF 2014 by
    enhancing the student experience through the strategic alignment of recruitment of students
    to our research clusters. Our experience of moving student cafés and seminars online during
    Covid-19 lockdown has shown us that mixing face-to-face with online engagement is more
    inclusive, especially in the context of our distinctive profile of mature, professional, practice-
    embedded students, and we will therefore extend this strategy permanently.

    •   Focusing on the context of diversity and inclusion, both nationally and
        internationally

    Our body of emerging researchers in this Unit include staff whose recently completed PhDs
    (Sangha, Okpokiri) bring particular strength in areas of diversity and inclusion, especially in
    relation to ethnicity and race. Grierson is integral to the leadership of the LGBTQ+ Research
    Group that has recently been established across the University. This interdisciplinary group
    will bring synergistic opportunities for collaboration and impact for staff and students. As
    significant growth areas for scholarship, we will leverage our expertise to enhance bidding,
    impact and engagement in these domains.

    •   Research income

    We will continue our successful record of growth in research income. Whilst recognising the
    challenging funding landscape post Covid-19 and Brexit, we will aim to increase our income
    by 30% per FTE over the census period.




                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing strategy

 The staffing profile of the submitted UoA comprises researchers (17 headcount/15.51 FTE) at
 different career stages, which is essential for a stable, sustainable, and supportive community.
 This includes two Professors (Munn-Giddings, Grierson) who are part of the School Leadership
 Team, and work with the Faculty Deputy Dean (Cellek) and Director of Research (Burch) to
 provide intellectual leadership and line management. They are supported by three Readers
 (Lane, Schneider, Smith). Fossey is Director of the VFI and two submitted staff are ECRs
 (Dadswell, Godier-McBard).

 Staff in this research area, but not currently eligible to be included in this submission (13
 headcount/11.72 FTE), are mostly undertaking PhDs or early postdoctoral. They are encouraged
 to engage with all the initiatives and events below and regularly contribute to the seminar series
 run by our Research Groups and Institutes.

 To complement our research strategy, our staffing strategy has had two principal strands:

 1. The strategic creation of new research posts to support our research clusters

 We have used both institutional and QR funding to bolster the critical mass in research clusters.
 In 2018, institutional funding supported us in appointing Spencer as a Ruskin Research Fellow,
 bringing her expertise in migration and participatory research with young people, primarily to the
 migration and mobility cluster. This cluster was further strengthened by the appointment of Smith
 in 2018. We used QR funding to support two posts: Preston was recruited as a Research Fellow
 in 2016, specialising in the social support of older people and Dadswell, appointed in 2016 as a
 Research Assistant to support project development and delivery.

 Our core staff group is enhanced by two Visiting Professors who work across our research
 clusters and contribute to seminar programmes. The VFI hosted Professor De Boer (Social
 Work, Memoria University, Canada) in 2018, whose research focusses on impacts on identity for
 veterans transitioning from the services and the role of peer support. Professor Törrönen (Social
 Work, University of Helsinki, Finland), our Marie-Sklowdowska Fellow (2016-18), is a current
 Visiting Professor of the PRG providing annual seminars open to staff and PGRs across the
 University.

 2. Support existing staff in the development of their research careers

 Staff development is responsive to the needs of colleagues at different career stages. Support
 and development needs are identified through appraisal processes and line management. In
 addition to identifying goals and training needs within the appraisal, staff complete an individual
 research report (IRR), an evolving document which staff can update to form a continuous record
 of research activity and research goals. This allows researchers a genuine sense of trajectory in
 their career.

 We value the retention of staff and actively encourage and support promotion ambitions. Since
 REF 2014, Fox, Nyathi, O’Brien and Boyce have completed doctorates and of these Boyce and
 O’Brien have both successfully been promoted to Senior Research Fellows and Nyathi from
 Senior to Principal Lecturer. Schneider has gained a Readership. Dadswell, appointed as a
 Research Assistant, is being supported to undertake her doctorate and has developed her
 expertise in relation to young women, anxiety and creative methodologies, leading to her
 promotion to Research Fellow.

 To enable staff to develop their focus on research, we created a 0.5 FTE research internal
 secondment opportunity in 2016. Sandu took up this post and has developed her research on
 migration experiences of women, girls and children in educational settings.

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 All staff, including those without significant responsibility for research, are encouraged and
 supported to access ARU’s Researcher Development Programme, which offers extensive
 training and development opportunities that are mapped to Vitae’s Researcher Development
 Framework and organised under themes such as writing and publication; communication,
 engagement and impact; business engagement; and personal effectiveness. We also have
 Faculty-level training such as Principal Investigator training for MCRs, and external training in
 systematic reviewing. Staff participate in networks including the cross-University Researcher
 Development Network, seminars, research cafés and the annual Faculty Research Conference
 showcasing staff and PGR research.

 Staff development is underpinned by investment in a range of activities. For example, the
 Faculty has funded multi-day off-site writing retreats, held jointly with UoA3 and UoA23, which
 are facilitated by senior staff experienced in writing for publication and bid development. To
 assist staff in moving beyond dissemination to impact, dedicated training in this area is offered,
 including media skills led by our institutional Press Officer, and impact seminars.

 Investment also directly supports staff research. A competitive annual Faculty Research and
 Innovation fund awards up to £3,000 to develop early research by employing Research
 Assistants or buying out staff from teaching, for example. Also, a centrally-funded research
 internship scheme promotes research skills amongst undergraduate and masters students,
 whilst providing staff with support to initiate or sustain projects. Research internships are
 available on a flexible basis during the summer months or spread out across the year so the
 scheme can support a range of staff research projects and enable flexible, inclusive student
 participation. Since REF 2014, seven staff in the Unit have supervised eleven student interns.

 Competitively-awarded institutional sabbaticals are available in two streams. The first supports
 specific research activities; Munn-Giddings (2015) and Schneider (2015) have been successful.
 The second enables doctoral completion; eight doctoral sabbaticals have been awarded in total,
 including to Boyce (2013) and O’Brien (2014).

 ECRs and MCRs play a central role within our unit. ARU’s ECR Charter sets out an extensive
 framework of support and expectations for ECRs. In line with the Charter, we prioritise ECRs
 when inviting applications for schemes such as student research internships. Dedicated funding
 of £2,000 per person is available for support needs throughout a researcher’s ECR period. An
 ECR/MCR Forum preceded the institutional Researcher Development Network. Senior members
 of the Unit offer mentoring and shadowing opportunities, and ECRs and MCRs are encouraged
 to contribute to Committees and Panels at Faculty and University level, as well as to the UoA’s
 REF Strategy Group. All our ECRs holding doctorates are supported to gain supervisory
 experience, often as third supervisors.

 Support mechanisms, training and supervision for PGR students

 We currently have 58 students in our UoA, an increase from the 44 reported in 2014. Since
 2013/14, a total of 30 doctorates have been awarded within the Unit (see Table 1). This
 compares with 16 from 2008-13 and seven in 2001-08. This steady growth reflects increased
 supervisory capacity from 12 of our submitted staff in REF 2014 to 15 in this submission, and the
 growing reputation of our research clusters.




                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Table 1: Doctoral degrees awarded

          Year             Doctoral degrees         PhDs awarded          Prof Docs awarded
                              awarded
        2013-14                    6                        6                       0
        2014-15                    1                        1                       0
        2015-16                    3                        3                       0
        2016-17                    3                        3                       0
        2017-18                    8                        7                       1
        2018-19                    3                        2                       1
        2019-20                    6                        5                       1
         Total                    30                       27                       3

 Faculty studentships have supported five students who completed since 2013 and we currently
 have two students supported. The Unit has successfully bid for one competitive institutionally-
 funded VC Studentship (Townsend).

 Our PGR students are predominately part-time, mature, geographically dispersed and in
 employment, primarily in the social care field. This means that research is firmly anchored in
 practice. We offer both part-time and full-time students training options and delivery methods
 that maximise participation.

 Multiple opportunities for interdisciplinary discussion and debate are offered. Institutionally, PGR
 students access the ARU Doctoral School’s Researcher Development Programme. Sessions are
 delivered by experienced academics from multiple disciplines, providing a rich and challenging
 experience for students. Our students are encouraged and supported to present at the staff and
 student Faculty Research Conference and institutional PGR Research Conference. We augment
 institutional provisions within the Unit with training, seminars and development forums. In
 addition to face-to-face teaching, there is online support and training through Canvas sites,
 webinars and Epigeum modules.

 Supervision is at the heart of the PGR experience. Supervisor forums promote and share good
 practice. All supervisors undergo training including on equality, diversity and reasonable
 adjustments for students with disabilities. They also participate in assessment processes, such
 as annual reviews, proposal reviews and upgrade events. Students are exposed to a range of
 independent assessment styles, in addition to supervision. Our experienced supervisors also act
 as viva chairs for PGR students from other Faculties and as external examiners for other
 institutions. Supervisors undertake CPD every two years as a minimum.

 Since March 2020, all PGR training, assessment and supervision has been delivered online, in
 response to Covid-19 restrictions. We have ensured minimal disruption to students while being
 responsive to problems they may have encountered due to Covid-19 in their personal or
 professional lives. All PGRs are contacted by supervisors on a fortnightly basis and virtual coffee
 mornings have been held three times weekly to provide contact, support, social activities, and a
 forum to present and discuss work in progress. Two students have completed their PhDs during
 the lockdown period (Gangitano, Warner).

 Supporting and promoting equality and diversity

 We are intrinsically committed to equality and diversity, as these values reflect and underpin our
 overarching focus on social inclusion and marginalised communities and are embedded in our
 participatory practice. We place advocacy, social change and representation at the heart of our
 research and intellectual practice. Staff from the Unit (both submitted and developing
 researchers) are currently leading a strategic response to diversity and inclusion issues relating
 to race and ethnicity within the Faculty and with partner organisations (Sangha, Okpokiri, Lane).


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These activities reflect an emerging research profile in this area, alongside strengthened
 practices within the Faculty.

 Equality and diversity are embedded in policies and practices at institutional and Faculty levels,
 and we draw upon and contribute to the enactment of these policies at both Unit and Faculty
 level in multiple ways:

    •   We recognise and celebrate how staff and students often occupy dual positions as
        academics and members of the communities with whom we work. Our work with citizen-
        led research and service users recognises and supports staff who move across
        boundaries (for example, Fox’s research which reflexively documents the challenges of
        occupying roles as academic and service user).

    •   We have championed awareness of LGBTQ+ issues within the Unit, Faculty and wider
        institution (Grierson), through the establishment of a research network focusing on
        sexualities, through research seminars, collaborations and publications, and through
        involvement in projects such as the School-level Athena Swan bronze application
        (Grierson, Boyce, Nyathi, Spencer) which is currently in process.

    •   We promote gender equality and women’s development, for example supporting staff
        onto the Aurora Development Programme for women in higher education (Dadswell,
        O’Brien). In 2020, the VFI appointed Godier-McBard as research lead for women and
        equalities; she has since submitted an NIHR funding application for women veterans’
        mental health support.

    •   In 2018 Nyathi was nominated to undertake a Diversifying Leadership Programme run by
        The Leadership Foundation. He has since been promoted to Principal Lecturer (2019)
        and is the Faculty representative on the institutional Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
        Group. In this role he contributes to strategic work related to Athena Swan and the Race
        Equality Charter. Nyathi is also lead for our disabled student satisfaction project.

    •   We support flexible working, and in the census period four members of staff have been
        able to move from full to fractional roles, and vice versa, in response to family
        responsibilities or changed circumstances (Boyce, Fossey, Munn-Giddings, O’Brien).

 Equality and diversity are also reflected in our submitted staff group, not only in relation to
 different career stages, but also in terms of full-time and part-time working, genders, sexual
 orientations, ethnic origins, and ages. Research staff act as advocates and supporters for staff
 engaging with diversity and equality through assisting with evidencing stigma and discrimination,
 providing intellectual mentorship (for example around decolonising the curriculum) and acting as
 visible role models where appropriate, for example discussing the challenges and benefits of
 being an openly gay researcher. However, we are not complacent and we regularly review our
 research strategy in relation to equality and diversity.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 Since 2014, we have made significant investment in the support and facilities available to staff at
 all research career stages through institutional and UoA-specific initiatives. At the institutional
 level, the Research and Innovation Development Office (RIDO) has a dedicated Research and
 Innovation Funding Development Manager to support our UoA by sourcing funding opportunities
 and providing support throughout the bidding process. A robust coordinated peer-review process
 involving the Faculty’s Deputy Dean (Research and Innovation) and the Unit’s Professors
 provides advice early in the bidding process on choice of funder, research design and pathways
 to impact. This is supplemented by more in-depth critical review as bids progress. Particular to
 our UoA, this advice includes guidance around maximising equality and diversity considerations

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in research bids since they often relate to marginalised populations; for example, including
 appropriate consideration of gender identities, de-colonising research, and ensuring research
 tools fit the needs of those with disabilities. During the review period, support from RIDO was
 particularly helpful to Munn-Giddings and Törrönen to successfully raise the grading of their
 highly competitive Marie Curie application from 85% on first attempt to 93% on resubmission,
 successfully securing funding (€195,454). Once a bid is won, RIDO’s Post-Award Research
 Grants Manager works with us to support management of the project including reports to
 funders.

 Our UoA research strategy has been supported by a funding approach that aims to: consolidate
 and build our network of partners; diversify funding streams; support senior colleagues in
 applying for larger grants; and involve ECRs and MCRs in bidding and project delivery to learn
 all aspects of project management. Faculty-wide workshops cover sourcing relevant funders,
 tips for successful bid writing, becoming a Principal Investigator, building pathways to impact
 and embedding public engagement as part of the research.

 This strategic approach is reflected in our grant capture during the assessment period. As
 detailed in section 1, we have more than doubled our research income and diversified our
 sources of income to include international funders, an increasingly wide range of charitable
 bodies, as well as consolidating our success with UK local and central government and health
 authorities. New to the UoA is our success in securing funding from the Research Councils. Our
 greatest source of funding is from the UK charitable sector, reflecting our commitment to
 undertaking applied research that meets grassroots, as well as policy and practice priorities.
 Examples from each of our clusters reflect our strategy:

        a. Migration and Mobility (MMC)

        Income in this cluster is characterised by close working relationships with community
        groups, partners and funders, predominately in the charity sector. In addition to the
        examples detailed in section 1, two of Smith’s research projects were funded by the
        Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government's ‘Controlling Migration Fund’
        (2018-19, £34,000 (£18,740 to ARU)), which explored service use and plans post-Brexit
        for migrant agricultural workers, as well as integration practices via education and
        training.

        b. Social Support (SSC)

        Our broadest cluster has the widest portfolio of income, with grants spanning the EU,
        Research Councils, charities and regional councils. A particular feature of this cluster is
        how partnerships built over time have resulted in sustained grant success. For example,
        an AHRC grant (2014, £23,813) to Munn-Giddings, Boyce, Bungay and Wilson (UoA3)
        for a scoping review of the impact of participatory arts formed the foundation for securing
        further funding from Arts Council England (2016-18, £123,955) in a multi-partnered
        project with a regional council, national arts organisations, and a citizen-led research
        group. Boyce’s current Big Lottery-funded project with women@thewell (2017-2021,
        £47,142) builds on her previous Big Lottery-funded research into peer support. Both
        example projects include researchers at all levels in their development and delivery.

        c. Transitions (TC)

        Research Institutes typically play a central role in grant capture, reflected in the wide
        range of grants secured in this cluster by the VFI. In addition to the examples given in
        section 1, grants include £248,750 (2014-16) from the Royal British Legion Industries
        related to support for veterans in the criminal justice system; £28,664 (2017-18) from
        Forces in Mind Trust to explore support provision for Commonwealth personnel, veterans
        and their families; and £48,426 from the Royal British Legion to explore independence for


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        older veterans with limb loss, in collaboration with Northumbria University. The impact
        from some of this research is reflected in the case study from this cluster.

 In addition to the above, a series of institutional and Faculty pump-priming and networking
 initiatives have assisted Unit members develop research teams and pilot projects to build the
 foundations for bidding. Competitive pump-priming funding has resulted in four awards to the
 UoA (Boyce, Fox, O’Brien, Smith). For example, pump-priming for O’Brien’s participatory
 research with young people who self-exclude from school due to bullying has led to a current
 bidding partnership with charities Red Balloon and the Anti-Bullying Alliance.

 Facilities

 Our research facilities have been developed over the review period to enhance the research
 environment for our staff and PGRs. These include relocating to new and purpose-designed
 Faculty buildings in Chelmsford (SAL) and Cambridge (Young Street) at a cost of £9,396,999.
 The office design enables the co-location of research staff, designated space for research
 students, separate areas for Research Institutes, and shared meeting spaces for research
 seminars and cafés. Facilities are designed with optimal access for staff with disabilities. These
 enhancements boost the opportunities to develop critical mass in research clusters and
 consolidate and strengthen our research identity. These facilities are also used to host research
 events for internal and external audiences, for example, an international VFI Research
 Conference in 2015 and a national showcase event for ‘Creative Journeys’ in 2018.

 Underpinning the Transitions cluster is a £2.5 million Forces in Mind Trust (FiMT) Research
 Centre funded by FiMT in September 2017 which provides a resource hub of current information
 on veterans and families, a repository for research on veterans, and a tool for media and
 government to inform and guide reporting, policy decisions and service delivery. Research
 findings are routinely published and translated into lay summaries and presented at an annual
 Veterans Research Conference. The FiMT Research Centre recruited an Engagement and
 Evaluation Manager (June 2019) to undertake partner engagement and assist in maximising the
 profile of the Research Centre and its activities.

 Our virtual environment is important in supporting our research community. This has become
 particularly important during Covid-19 to ensure the continuity of support and advice when staff
 and student access to campus was limited. Throughout the University and at home, enabled by
 a virtual desktop facility, staff are able to access their electronic workspace through a newly-
 designed portal – The Heron - which gives access not only to the user’s personal files but to the
 full range of University facilities. All of the above are underpinned by responsive IT Services who
 work with Faculty Champions to promote tools and technology that can assist in research impact
 and integrity such as Symplectic (including ORCID registration) to manage records of research
 grants and outputs.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 During the census period we have built on the strong foundations reported in REF 2014 in
 leading, delivering and disseminating regional, national and international research within the
 rubric of meaningful participation. Research endeavours include multi-partner collaborations
 such as with other HEIs (UK and international), practice partners in statutory and voluntary
 sectors, and citizen-led organisations who help shape the utility, pragmatism and policy strength
 of our work.

 International, national and regional partnership working

 We have extensive partnerships; core collaborations include 15 international, 34 national and
 regional collaborations, and 9 networks with citizen-led organisations. While many emerged from
 funded projects, collaborative activity also embraces writing partnerships, research bids and
 networking events across the clusters:

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    a. Migration and Mobility (MMC)

    Colleagues collaborate with the international Universities of Hildesheim, Germany; Oslo
    Metropolitan, Norway; and Syracuse and Fordham, USA; and UK Universities of
    Cambridge, Greenwich, and Buckinghamshire. Statutory and voluntary partners include
    the Bell Foundation, the Learning Alliance for Palliative Care & End of Life (LAPCEL),
    Medway Plus and Medway Council, and citizen-led groups such as the Rosmini Centre
    Wisbech, National Federation of Gypsy Liaison Groups (NFGLG), Derbyshire Gypsy Liaison
    Group, One Voice 4 Travellers, and the Gypsy Council Cooperative. As well as the case
    study from Schneider’s work with the Bell Foundation, impact from these collaborations
    includes Lane’s work with the NFGLG, which formed part of the Parliamentary Research
    Briefing for MPs on Gypsies and Travellers (House of Commons Library, 2019) and was also
    used by the Derbyshire Gypsy Liaison Group to secure Big Lottery funding (£68,000) to
    assist elder and disabled people in their community.

    b. Social Support (SSC)

    Collaborations in this cluster include partnerships with international Universities of
    Helsinki, Finland; Ghana & Midland State Zimbabwe, Africa; Dillman, Philippines; New South
    Wales & La Trobe University, Australia; Koblenz & Landau, Germany; and George Mason,
    West Florida, and Yale, USA. Collaborations with UK Universities include Loughborough,
    Nottingham, Liverpool Hope, University College London, and London School of Hygiene and
    Tropical Medicine. Statutory and voluntary partners include British HIV Association, Anna
    Freud National Centre for Children and Families, Essex County Council, Essex Partnership
    University Trust, Self Help UK, Anti-Bullying Alliance, and Red Balloon. Citizen-led groups
    include Dhiverse, Kite Trust, and the Older Peoples Research Group, Essex. The longer-
    term impact of collaborative working is illustrated by the ongoing impact included in one of
    our REF 2014 case studies which was a partnership between Munn-Giddings and Boyce,
    Self Help UK, and Nottingham University on how best to support self-help groups. Since
    2014 the findings have included the delivery of a CPD Standards Office-accredited training
    programme to over 1,000 health and social care practitioners which is now online, as well as
    contributing to a knowledge bank for self-help groups to develop their own training.

    c. Transitions (TC)

    Partnerships in the Transitions cluster reflect the breadth and importance of our work and
    include Universities of Sheffield, Hull, Loughborough, Kings College London, York, Exeter,
    and Manchester Metropolitan. Key international policy-maker partners include the World
    Health Organisation, Canadian Institute for Military and Veterans Health Research, and
    Dutch Veterans Institute. We have ongoing dialogue, engagement and partnership with
    governmental and regional statutory bodies including the Ministry of Defence, Office for
    Veterans Affairs, Transition Intervention and Liaison Service, NIHR, AHRC, and the
    European Commission. Collaborations with charities include Blind Veterans, Forward
    Assist, Transition, Armed Forces Covenant Trust, The Communications Group, Galahad
    SMS Ltd, Forces in Mind Trust, Confederation of Service Charities (Cobseo), Waterloo
    Uncovered, Soldiers Arts Academy, Turn to Starboard, Royal British Legion, Army Families
    Federation, Blesma the Limbless Veterans, and the Defence Research Network. Examples
    of the impact from some of these partnerships are included in our submitted case study.

 Contribution to national and international policy working groups or debates

 We have been called on by a range of committees to give oral and written evidence to
 sessions for the House of Commons in each cluster. Examples in the MMC include Lane and
 Smith to expert panels on Gypsy, Roma and Traveller Policy - Ministry of Housing, Communities
 and Local Government (October 2019, Lane; September 2019, Smith), and the House of
 Commons all party discussion on the rights and care of migrant children (January 2017, Lane).

                                                                                         Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Smith’s expertise has also been sought as Senior Survey Consultant on the EU Fundamental
 Rights Agency/Ipsos MORI Roma and Travellers Survey (2018-19). In the SSC, O’Brien has
 given evidence to the All Party Parliamentary Group on Bullying (November 2016) and in the TC,
 Fossey has given evidence to the House of Commons Defence Committee concerning reviews
 into the mental health of the military and veterans, as well as the Armed Forces Covenant Trust
 review (2018). Godier-McBard has contributed to the MOD Spouse Employment Partnership
 Board (March 2017) and the NATO Working Group: Sexual violence in the military (October
 2019).

 Our expertise is regularly requested to inform international and governmental policy, for
 example in our TC, drawing on the work of the VFI, Fossey has made pivotal contributions to
 NATO in their Research Group on Wellbeing in the Military (2019-current); Military Sexual
 Violence and Harassment (as Co-Chair, 2018-current); and Military to Civilian Transition (2015-
 19). As a result of the latter, a technical report has been submitted to NATO and an academic
 book published. The work of the group has been recognised by NATO and the panel has been
 nominated for a NATO research award. In addition, Fossey contributes to the WHO Consensus
 Conference on International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health, a core set for
 multi-trauma rehabilitation.

 Our advocacy for the critical role of scholarly evidence in policy and practice is evidenced by the
 key roles we have held in working groups and associations in our fields of expertise. In the
 SSC, Spencer served as Vice-President of the Public Health Association Australia (NSW
 Branch, 2016-18) and contributed to position statements and consultations on global health
 policy as a member of the International Union for Health Education and Promotion (2019-
 current). Grierson has contributed to the revision of the Standards of Care for People living with
 HIV for the British HIV Association (BHIVA) (2018), and Nyathi leads the Africa Intraprofessional
 Education Network which promotes research and policy development in sub-Saharan Africa. In
 the TC, Fossey has served on the North American Working Group on Transition (December
 2017); 5-Eyes Wellbeing Forum (2019-current), the International Advisory Group on Transition
 (Kiev) (April 2018); 5-Eyes Ministerial Advisory Group on Veterans’ Transition (2018-current),
 and an International Working Group on Military Families (March 2018).

 Staff in the MMC have also been advisors on influential policy boards and committees such
 as: Project PDP4 Integrated Approach for Preventing Victimization in Roma Communities,
 Romania Ministry of Internal Affairs/Institute of National Economy Romania (2016, Smith), the
 Traveller Movement London and London Gypsy and Traveller Unit, Joseph Rowntree Charitable
 Trust ‘Mapping the Pathway to Equality’ project (2019; 2017, Smith). Additionally, Lane has
 submitted evidence to the Academy of Social Science: Asylum, Migration and Settlement Study
 Group (2017) about the effects of policy shifts on UK refugee, migration, citizenship, and border
 issues.

 Reflecting the breadth of expertise and the esteem of our members we are assessors and
 reviewers for national and international competitive funding rounds. Examples in the MMC
 include the review of two bids by Lane for the Welsh Government (NIHR) (September 2015) and
 on Gypsy Health (2018), and Smith for the Department of Health, PLOS ONE Policy Research
 Programme (2018). In the SSC, Spencer has reviewed for the European Research Council
 Synergy Grants Scheme (2019-current), Grierson for the Health Research Council of New
 Zealand (2016), Fonds National de la Recherche Luxembourg (2017), aidsfonds Netherlands
 (2017), National Health and Medical Research Council (Australia), and Australian Research
 Council (2018). In the UK, SSC colleagues have reviewed for NIHR (2019, O’Brien, Grierson);
 and in the TC, Research Councils ESRC and AHRC (2017; 2020, Caddick) and FiMT (ongoing,
 Godier-McBard).

 External events and public engagement

 Our overarching ethos is to seek to build public engagement into the entire process of research
 from conception to publication and beyond.

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We make a sustained contribution to the development of knowledge nationally and
 internationally through keynote presentations, conference papers and through prestigious
 invitations. In the MMC, examples include a keynote by Smith on ‘Preventing Victimisation in
 Vulnerable Communities’ at the Institute of National Economy - Romanian Academy (December
 2016), and the General Inspectorate of Romanian Police, Bucharest as well as the Network of
 Academic Institutions in Romani Studies at Soderton University, Stockholm (September 2018).
 In the SSC, Boyce delivered a keynote on ‘Enabling individual and collective gains through self-
 help/mutual aid’ at the Maximising Community Resilience through Mutual Aid Conference,
 London (September 2017) and O’Brien on Bullying to the Independent Schools Association (May
 2016).

 Plenary speaker invitations in the MMC include Lane at a symposium on ‘International Health
 Care: Challenges, Best Practices, and the Human Rights Mandate’ in Rome, Italy (June 2018)
 and Sandu at the Institute for Women and Girls Annual Conference at Fordham University, USA
 (March 2016); and in the TC Fossey regularly gives plenaries for the VFI, for example, at the
 British Psychological Society Military Psychology Conference, and on ‘Transition in the UK
 Military’ at Yonsei University, South Korea.

 We also provide opportunities for sharing and developing practice internationally, such as the
 International Knowledge Exchange Symposia on Leaving Care organised and hosted by
 Anghel and Morosanu in May 2019 at ARU in Cambridge. This brought together guest
 practitioners and policy makers (17) from England, Romania, Bulgaria and Moldova with
 Concordia, an Austrian charity, to share research and debate social work practice. In addition,
 colleagues from MMC and SSC, Boyce, O’Brien and Sandu, collaborated on an international
 conference at ARU in Chelmsford on Forced Migration in collaboration with Fordham University,
 USA (January 2017). The TC hosted a FiMT Conference in Westminster with 150 delegates and
 prominent speakers including Hans Pung of RAND Europe and Lord Ashcroft, Prime Minister’s
 Special Representative on Veterans and former ARU Chancellor (October 2018).

 Engagement of staff around key consultancies and as advisors reflects the depth of expertise
 and the breadth of our esteem. Notable examples include MMC Schneider’s role as an
 International Advisor on social inclusion at both the Norwegian University of Science and
 Technology (NTNU) and Stockholm University (2018-current), and Smith’s role as UK Scientific
 Expert for the EU/Interreg IV A Manche Programme Action to Generate Inclusion for Residents
 of Migrant Background in Amiens, France and the UK (March 2015). In the SSC, Grierson was
 co-opted by the European Health Programme in 2018 to provide an expert assessment of
 findings from the prestigious European Men-Who-Have-Sex-With-Men Internet Survey and the
 European Community-Health-Worker Online Survey.

 Editorial and research networks activities

 A substantive contribution to our discipline is made through our editorial and peer-review
 activities. For example, submitted staff are editors for Cogent Social Sciences (Spencer) and
 Educational Action Research Journal (EARJ; Munn-Giddings). For the latter Munn-Giddings also
 has a strategic role for the Journal with the global Collaborative Action Research Network, where
 she leads on annual awards for promising new action researchers who receive support pre-
 formal publication submission. Since 2014, this scheme has seen 16 awards reflecting 14
 countries and enabled the publication of 7 new articles (17 co-authors).

 Our colleagues are also editorial review board members for International Journal of
 Environmental Research and Public Health, and Journal of Aging and Social Change (Lane),
 Psicologia: Reflexão e Crítica (Grierson), Critical Military Studies (Caddick), and Military
 Behavioral Health: Military Sexual Harassment and Violence (Godier-McBard). Staff have been
 guest editor for Armed Forces and Society and Journal of Human Resource Management
 (Fossey) and led or co-edited special issues including ‘Gypsy, Roma and Traveller Strategies
 of Survival and Adaptation’ for Transnational Resilience and Change and ‘Governing

                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 underprivileged Roma migrations within the EU: Receiving country responses and Roma
 resilience’ for Local Economy (Smith) and ‘Social Inclusion and Mental Health: The
 transformation of identities and intersectional relations of power and oppression’ for
 Intersectionalities (Munn-Giddings with Stokken, Norway).

 We are also active reviewers for scholarly articles and books (more than 70) including
 prominent journals in social work and social policy: British Journal of Social Work, Practice,
 Health and Social Care in the Community, Social Science and Medicine, Children and Youth
 Services Review, European Journal of Social Work, International Social Work, International
 Journal of Social Work, Advances in Social Work, Nordic Social Work Research, Journal of
 Social Policy, and Social Policy and Society. We provide expert review for specialist journals
 that reflect topic and methodological expertise such as: Romani Studies, Central and Eastern
 European Migration Review, Culture, Health and Sexuality, International Journal of Bullying
 Prevention, Armed Forces and Society, and Critical Military Studies.

 Prestigious awards

 The esteem we command is reflected in the prestigious positions held during this period. Within
 the MMC, this included a Visiting Scholarship for Schneider at the Faculty of Education,
 Cambridge University. In the SSC, O’Brien received an honorary Fellowship of the UNESCO
 Chair on Tackling Bullying in Schools and Cyberspace (National Anti-Bullying Centre, Dublin
 City University), Munn-Giddings a Professorial Docent at Helsinki University, and Grierson an
 honorary Professorship at Chelsea and Westminster NHS Trust. Spanning both clusters,
 Spencer is an honorary Senior Lecturer in the Faculty of Medicine and Health and Britton Craigie
 Scholarship at the University of Sydney.

 Projects and outputs have also attracted acclaim. For example, the multi-partnered ‘Creative
 Journeys’ project (Munn-Giddings, Dadswell) received an Outstanding Achievement Award by
 Essex County Council in October 2019. Smith was recognised in two awards for outstanding
 papers: Local Economy Policy Unit Sam Aaronovich Prize (2019) for Best Paper on Roma
 migration, and an Emerald Literati Awards (2018) on Roma inclusion post-Brexit. Grierson’s
 work with colleagues in ‘Sex and Sexualities in Contemporary Indonesia’ was recognised in the
 2017 International Convention of Asia Scholars Edited Volume Accolade and the 2015 American
 Anthropological Association Ruth Benedict Prize for Outstanding Edited Volume.




                                                                                          Page 15
