Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Bishop Grosseteste University (BGU)

 Unit of Assessment: 27 – English Language and Literature

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Bishop Grosseteste University’s (BGU’s) return to Unit of Assessment (UoA) 27
 demonstrates a new level of ambition and attainment in research reflected in the submission
 of five staff and 13 outputs, building on the two staff and eight outputs submitted to REF
 2014. Spanning the Faculty’s delivery from foundation to doctoral level, English Studies is
 an established element of the University’s academic portfolio. The growth is paralleled by an
 increase in the department’s research productivity and enhancement of research culture.
 Benefitting from economies of scale which facilitate cohesion, interaction and strong senses of
 collegiality and collective identity, there is a shared commitment to producing high quality
 academic output, expanding public impact through projects developed with local communities, as
 well as others with national and international reach, and cultivating student engagement in the
 co-production of knowledge.

 1.1 Context and structure

 At BGU, the English department contributes to the Arts and Humanities portfolio area within a
 single Faculty structure. Until 2018 English was part of a School of Humanities that facilitated
 cross-disciplinary research and knowledge exchange collaborations, particularly in areas such
 as gender and transsexual studies, narrative psychology, and children’s literature and literacies.
 Over the current REF cycle, this has resulted in collaborative projects between English and
 Archaeology and History, Early Childhood Studies, Education Studies, Drama, and Sociology.

 Since 2014 the English department has contributed to cross-institutional activities that have
 fostered cross-disciplinary mentoring schemes, research skills and writing workshops, and
 channels of communication. These have assisted the widening of the reach of internal and
 public events enriching a proactive and vibrant research culture that has encouraged and
 valued staff members at all stages of their career through creativity, diversity, and good
 practice. The research of the department enhances taught provision in English and Sociology
 programmes, in particular, through project-based modules, final-year research projects and
 dissertations, and contribution to the department’s research and knowledge exchange (RKE)
 events and projects with students as co-producers of knowledge. These staff-student
 collaborations have strengthened public engagement events, guest lecture series,
 professionalisation workshops, and outreach and knowledge exchange activities in the local
 community. For example, a new anthology, The Leonid, was produced by students and
 launched in 2019 to celebrate and make available the artistic and literary creations of staff,
 students, and local secondary school students.

 All eligible staff members of the English department are returned, together with the programme
 leader for Sociology whose interest in socio-cultural linguistics and media studies aligns with
 this UoA. The English provision has included a single honours award since 1997 and an MA
 since 2015. Joint honours undergraduate programmes are available with Drama, Education
 Studies, History, and Psychology. International research collaborations and strategic
 partnerships exist through Erasmus Bilateral agreements, with European exchange colleagues
 welcomed into postgraduate teaching and research seminar series.

 The department introduced the English Awards for Research Excellence (in 2014) for the best
 two final-year research projects, and the BGU Tennyson Poetry Award (in 2015) in partnership
 with The Tennyson Society. Successful applications to internal funding schemes have
 sustained collaborative research projects between staff and students, also increasing
 interaction with local communities through school academies, libraries and arts centres (e.g.,
 Lincoln Central Library, City of Lincoln and North Kesteven District Councils, the Fawcett
 Society, and Caistor Arts and Heritage Centre). The research environment for staff and

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students is also enriched by individual contributions to national and international professional
 associations, trusts and funding bodies in addition to attendance at national workshops led by
 subject associations (e.g., University English).

 1.2 Research and impact strategy

 This is BGU’s third consecutive submission to this UoA (or previous equivalents) and is its
 strongest yet. In 2014, English was the University’s smallest REF return but showed potential
 by scoring the highest proportion of 4* research. The increase in the number of staff returned in
 2021 to 5 FTE has been a goal for the department, and its research and impact strategy for
 REF 2021 was shaped by the institutional strategies for 2014-2019 and 2019-2025.
 Consistent with the University’s goals, English has increased its research productivity and
 enhanced its quality. The department has supported the continuing progress to achieving
 Research Degree Awarding Powers (RDAP) by contributing to the doctoral programme (see
 section 2.2). It has also contributed to the Lincolnshire Open Research and Innovation Centre
 (LORIC), and the external Sandford Award and Heritage Education Trust (both based at BGU).

 The University’s infrastructure to support research includes its Research and knowledge
 Exchange Units (RKEUs). Two of these are led from within the English department:
 ‘Literature and Literacies’ (led by Erle) and ‘Voicing the Past: Culture, Legacy, and Narrative’
 (led by Capancioni). They are interdisciplinary and inclusive of all members of staff,
 postgraduate students and colleagues from other institutions in the UK and internationally. Both
 RKEUs have grown in ambition and have secured some success in funding applications. They
 have fostered collaboration and developed co-production of knowledge and impact through the
 themes of children’s literature and literacies, local and regional history, the University Archive,
 the Gothic, and Victorian women’s writing and activism. They have hosted international
 conferences and facilitated public engagement including displays and exhibitions as well as
 conference papers and posters. The RKEUs are also central to the planning for the next REF
 cycle.

 Building on established research on literature from the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries,
 cultural history, textual criticism, art history, and history in relation to science and visual
 technologies, the department has extended its chronological and thematic span of attention.
 This includes examining contemporary responses to memory, trauma and William Blake,
 current international scholarship and reception, as well as increasing its exploration of the
 diversity of media, authors, and debates on gender, sociolinguistics, and legacy. It has also
 investigated connections between the local and global, and the significance of uncovering new
 individual lives and their narratives.

 Delivery in English promotes and sustains research-led and research-engaged learning and
 teaching with students as active partners; enhanced optionality within the English department
 has increased this alignment further. Together with the optional modules at undergraduate
 level, the MA in English Literature has added to the institutional offer of courses underpinned by
 research expertise. The postgraduate community has grown alongside the number of
 collaborations with other institutions. For example, the programme was involved in organising a
 one-day colloquium funded by GuildHE for postgraduate students at BGU, with the Leeds
 Centre for Victorian Studies, Leeds Trinity University (Victorian Representations in 2016), and
 Newman University (Victorian Fears in 2018).

 Research-related projects have been assisted through internal competitive funding schemes:
 Learning & Teaching Innovation Fund (in 2019 and 2020) and Research Innovation Fund (in
 2017 and 2018) – see Section 3.1. This funding has sponsored students’ archival research and
 collaboration in designing and delivering public engagement such as events and displays for
 Being Human the Festival of the Humanities (in 2017 and 2018), National Heritage Day (in
 2018), and A Lincolnshire View of Women’s Suffrage, a VOTE100 Exhibition (during 2018-19).
 In 2017, it also supported the contribution and attendance of eight students to the 2017 annual
 conference of the British Association for Victorian Studies (BAVS), entitled Victorian Unbound:

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Connections and Intersections at BGU. Students presented for the first time the results of two
 original archival projects based on the material kept in BGU’s Library Archive and Lincolnshire
 Collection with a display entitled Mapping Victorian Lincolnshire, and the exhibition BGU’s
 Victorian Origins: A Women’s Teacher Training College for the Diocese of Lincoln founded in
 1862. In 2020, successful outputs included the presentation of papers at BGU-based Death
 Conference, and the co-production of: ‘Provincial newspapers, sports reporting and the origins,
 rise and fall of women’s football: Lincolnshire, 1880s-1940s’ (Midland History, 45, 2, 244-57),
 co-written by staff (Capancioni and Jackson) and MA students (Hope-Johnson and Johnson).

 Other opportunities for students to collaborate as co-producers with staff, and assisted by
 internal funding, have included supporting: the George Meredith and His Circle: Intellectual
 Communities and Literary Networks conference (at BGU in 2015); Placing the Author: Literary
 Tourism in the Long Nineteenth Century – an international conference (at Elizabeth Gaskell’s
 House, Manchester in 2015); The Monster Conference (at BGU in 2018), the Death Conference
 (a collaboration between BGU and its Chaplaincy in 2017); Locating the Burneys: from the
 Margins to the Mainstream – Conference of the Burney Society (at BGU in 2019); and
 Narratives of Ageing in the Nineteenth Century (at the University of Lincoln 2019).

 Staff and students regularly contribute to the running of a growing number of activities and
 events including Being Human at the Festival of Humanities, World Book Night, and National
 Poetry Day. They also shadow children’s literature awards (e.g., Carnegie and Greenaway
 Medals, the UK Literacy Association Book Awards). The department leads the institutional
 contribution to the Lincoln Book Festival in collaboration with colleagues in history, drama, and
 postgraduate teacher training. It has also promoted engagement with the seminar series
 Identity, Culture and Communication and other public lectures series (e.g., the Annual Literature
 and Literacies Lectures, the BGU Associate Award seminars, and the ‘English Film Series at
 The Venue’).

 1.3 Strategy for post-REF 2021

 Aligned to BGU’s Strategy 2019-2025, the department’s strategy for post-REF 2021 will build on
 the current cycle through its two RKEUs. It will contribute to institutional objectives of extending
 impact and partnerships by sustaining interdisciplinary themes that capture significant
 commemorative anniversaries. This will be pursued through original local and regional
 perspectives, a focus on socio-cultural and political transformative change, emerging
 disciplinary debates, and continued co-production across research and teaching.
 Interdisciplinary and collaborative projects will be built on existing strength and the growing
 interests in age, environmental, reception studies, and institutional archives work up to the
 University’s 160th anniversary in 2022.

 The department will remain focused on enhancing outputs and extending impact more
 generally, sustaining the growth of income generation, and contributing to achieving RDAP.
 There is also an ambition to establish subject-specific doctoral and postdoctoral programmes in
 collaboration with other national and international providers. The department will seek to
 improve its quality profile and enhance its reputation through increased production of research
 monographs and will target national and international funding councils for grant capture. The
 inclusion of English language and linguistics in the same portfolio of taught programmes also
 offers new and stimulating opportunities to extend scale, capacity, productivity, collaboration
 and internationalisation in research, most evidently with staff delivering Teaching English to
 Speakers of Other Languages and linguistics.




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staff submitted to UoA 27 by BGU are highly active in RKE and continue to deliver teaching
 excellence across the suite of provision. At the close of the current REF cycle, the department
 had grown to the largest it has ever been and included a Reader (Erle) who was promoted
 during the present REF cycle and another (Capancioni) whose application for promotion had
 been submitted and was later approved. The department also engaged an external peer
 reviewer to support the open process of output quality evaluation and to provide mentoring
 support in the latter stages of the assessment period.

 2.1 Staffing strategy and development

 The number of research-active members has increased through both recruitment and staff
 development from in-house mentoring and support. Recruitment has targeted programme
 delivery for increasing student numbers and an expanding portfolio. Table 1 (below) provides a
 summary of the staff submitted to UoA 27 by role, stage of academic career and doctoral
 supervision.

 Table 1: English department permanent staff establishment (FTE)


                  FTE      Submitted      Reader       Senior        Lecturer     Doctoral
                                                       Lecturer                   Supervisors
  REF 2014         3.5         2.0             -          3.5             -            -
  REF 2021         5.0         5.0           1.0           3.0           1.0            4.0

 This submission is also enriched by the contributions of two former full-time members of staff
 who worked at BGU during the REF cycle, Crossley (2014 to 2016) and Ulph (2017 to 2019).

 During the current REF cycle, two members of the department were awarded one-semester
 Sabbaticals under the internal competitive scheme – Erle in 2016-17 and Capancioni in 2018-
 19. Opportunities for researcher development have also been pursued actively through external
 service on committees and panels and supported applications to external funding bodies (see
 Section 4). Members of the department have been actively involved in institutional research
 committees (Capancioni and Erle).

 The department was a founding and contributor to the former research cluster, Identity, Culture
 and Communication, set up with other humanities disciplines. This has since been superseded
 by its two RKEUs as well as the History department’s RKEU History on Record: Unlocking the
 Archives. These RKEUs have facilitated staff development through cultivating collaboration,
 project development, event planning, bid-writing, and mentoring of early and mid-career
 researchers. Additionally, they have hosted seminar series, public events and talks that have
 provided opportunities for colleagues to present their research and invite external specialists
 and international partners.

 2.2 Postgraduate Students

 The University’s development of doctoral student research provision is supported by the
 validating partner, the University of Leicester. During this REF cycle, the English department
 has actively contributed to interdisciplinary supervisory teams, whilst working towards the
 opportunity having first supervisor capacity. There are currently three Doctorate of Education
 candidates, and one successful completion to date – see table 2.




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Table 2: Doctoral Students’ Supervision, 2014-2021


       FTE      Doctoral Second        Internal Second         External        Completions
                  Supervisors            Supervisions        Supervisions
        5.0            4                       3                  1                  1

 Four members of the department have ‘second-supervisor’ status with the University of
 Leicester, with two currently supervising internally (Capancioni and Erle), and one (Memel)
 supervising externally with the University of Nottingham as part of the AHRC-funded Florence
 Nightingale Comes Home for 2020 project.

 Staff attend institutional training events for researchers including doctoral supervision, ethics
 and integrity, and REF preparation. They have also taken up external development
 opportunities offered by organisations such as the BAVS, and through English Shared Futures
 arranged by the English Association and University English. Capancioni is also a member of the
 Teaching Committee for the Doctoral Degree Programme in Languages, Literatures and
 Interconnecting Cultures (Collegio dei Docenti del Dottorato di Ricerca in Lingue, Letterature e
 Culture in Contatto) at the University G. d'Annunzio, Chieti-Pescara in Italy.

 2.3 Equality and diversity

 Equality and diversity (E&D) are overseen and reported at institutional level, with UoA-specific
 profiling monitored and evaluated as part of centrally directed REF Equality Impact Assessment
 (EIA).

 The E&D data are reported in summary form in the Institutional Environment Statement, the
 EIA final report, and made available for audit as appropriate. Data are not given in detail in
 BGU’s REF5b Environment statements with full protected characteristics profiling, given the
 relatively small numbers of staff comprising the submission to this UoA.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 This English department aimed to grow its research income through application to Research
 Councils, independent research charities, and internal funding schemes championing research
 and innovation in collaboration with the students – see table 3.

 Capancioni has consistently secured internal research funding by applying to BGU Learning
 and Teaching Innovation Fund in 2019 (£2,006 for BGU’s Heritage: Legacies of the Lincoln
 Diocesan Training College, a project in collaboration with the Old Student Association at BGU)
 and 2020 (£1,500 for Intergenerational Legacy: Women Principals’ Contribution to
 Transformative Education, with Whiteoak). In 2017, she was awarded funding from BGU
 Research Innovation Fund for two projects: BGU’s Victorian Origins: a women’s teacher training
 college for the Diocese of Lincoln founded in 1862 (£ 4,690) and Mapping Victorian Lincolnshire
 (£ 3,310). Their results were the basis of a display and an exhibition staff and students
 presented at the 2017 annual conference of the BAVS, hosted at BGU. For this international
 conference, Capancioni received more than £2,500 in sponsorship (including from BGU and the
 University of Lincoln). In 2018, Capancioni also secured £1,242.08 for #Vote100BGU a project
 designed in collaboration with Jackson (returned to UoA 28).




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Table 3: Department Research Income


      Awarded           External Funding                   Internal Funding
         in
     2020     £1,620 – School of Advanced Study £1,500 – BGU Learning & Teaching
              (University of London), AHRC and  Innovation Fund
              British Academy, Being Human
              Festival
     2020     £7,860 – Church Universities Fund
     2019                                       £2,006 – BGU Learning & Teaching
                                                Innovation Fund
     2018                                       £1,242 – BGU Research Innovation
                                                Fund
     2017                                       £8,000 – BGU Research Innovation
                                                Fund
     2015     £439 – BAVS Events Funding Award £2,000 – BGU’s Research Project
                                                Award Scheme
     Total    £2,059                            £14,748

 A trustee of the Lincoln Book Festival, Capancioni contributed to the successful application to
 Arts Council England (£11,400) in 2018. In 2015, she received a BAVS Events Funding Award
 for the conference George Meredith and His Circle: Intellectual Communities and Literary
 Networks (£439), organised with Crossley at BGU. In the same year, she also secured internal
 competitive funding by applying successfully to BGU’s Research Project Award Scheme
 (£2,000).

 More recently, Capancioni and Memel received funding for Open Spaces, a project included in
 the programme for Being Human 2020. From 2019 to 2020, Memel contributed to the AHRC
 Nightingale exhibition funded by the Higher Education Innovation Fund, Nottingham Institute for
 Policy and Engagement (£2,112 spent January to July 2020).

 Erle, who has been organising Academic and Creative Approaches to Death and Dying with the
 BGU Chaplaincy since 2017, successfully applied with Green, to the Church Universities Fund,
 which awarded the Chaplaincy £7,860 for the organisation and running of the Death
 Conference at BGU in the spring of 2020.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 3.2.1 Library Services

 The department’s research has been assisted by the general expansion and development of
 University Library Service provision. Since August 2015, approximately £24k has been invested
 in 980 printed books and £24k on 380 electronic resources. The Modern Language
 Association’s MLA International Bibliography was first acquired in 2015, the first subscription to
 Gale Reference Complete in 2017 (including access to Gale Literary Sources and costs
 approximately £5,000 per year), access to multidisciplinary collections and databases, such as
 JSTOR and Project MUSE, and, since 2015, access to the Cambridge, Wiley, SAGE and Taylor
 & Francis journal collections. Overall, BGU library subscribes to twenty-four dedicated
 collections and databases that cater for the English department at a cost of approximately
 £150k per year.




                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2.2 University Archive

 Records and documents about BGU’s long history are kept in the University Archive, located
 within the Library and maintained by the University Archivist. Dating back to 1862 when the
 University was the Lincoln Diocesan Training College for women, this archive has treasured
 records, artefacts and life writings of its staff and students. It is here that the funded projects
 BGU’s Victorian Origins, Intergenerational Legacy, and BGU’s Heritage have been created and
 carried out. Continuing the synergistic partner working that gathered momentum during the
 current REF cycle, there are further plans to celebrate the University’s 160th anniversary in 2022
 through a collaborative project between the English and History departments.

 3.2.3 Lincolnshire Collection

 The Lincolnshire Collection comprises approximately 4,000 items including books on
 Lincolnshire history, archaeology, flora and fauna, geology, trade and industry, language,
 heritage and architecture. The collection also incorporates a number of publications by the
 Lincoln Record Society, the books and papers of Tom Baker (1911-1998), former Lincoln City
 Librarian and distinguished local historian, and the library of the Society for Lincolnshire History
 and Archaeology (which has a dedicated study space within the library). The funded project
 Mapping Victorian Lincolnshire (in 2017) began with and expanded on the material available in
 this collection, demonstrating its value for Victorian Studies.

 3.2.4 Teaching Resources Collection

 The Teaching Resources Collection (TRC) is home to approximately 24,000 resources for
 primary and secondary trainee teachers, students intending to work (or already working) in
 educational settings, and students who are interested in children's literature. It has a dedicated
 Teaching Resources Librarian, who edits The Four Corners newsletter. This is the successor of
 Hullabaloo! which also promoted children’s literature and the TRC’s children’s literature
 collection between 2005 and 2019. During the current REF cycle, English staff and students
 contributed to Hullabaloo! as writers, reviewers and editors, under the expert guidance of the
 current Head of Library Services, and the previous Teaching Resources Librarian. This
 collection stimulates the work of the RKEU Literature and Literacies, and hosts some of its
 activities and events.

 3.2.5 Lincolnshire Open Research and Innovation Centre (LORIC)

 Established in 2018 with £2.0 million support European Regional Development Fund, LORIC
 incorporates a digitisation suite to support the capture of large format and cradled historic
 documents. In 2018, the Tennyson Society made use of the centre to evaluate a donation made
 by the family of Jack Kolb, and Capancioni facilitated access to it for USA doctoral candidate
 (Emily Kramer, supervised by Professor Christopher Ricks, Boston University) as well as use of
 the digitisation suite.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 This English department has consolidated partnerships with local organisations (e.g.,
 Lincolnshire Archives, Museum of Lincolnshire Life, Tennyson Research Centre, Lincoln Central
 Library, Mansions of the Future, Lincoln Book Festival and SlamJam), national charities (e.g.,
 First Story and English Speaking Union) and professional associations (e.g., BAVS, Blake and
 Tennyson Society), and international institutions (D'Annunzio University of Chieti–Pescara). It
 also provides specialist support to ‘masterclasses’ on campus and in schools. The following
 individual profiles offer details on relevant collaborations and contributions.




                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.1 Collaborative partnerships and networks

 Capancioni is the institutional academic lead for the Lincoln Book Festival, the Sandford Award,
 and of the RKEU Voicing the Past: Culture, Legacy, and Narrative. She has organised
 collaborative events and projects in partnership with BAVS, the Tennyson Society, Lincolnshire
 Archives, Being Human, the English Speaking Union, First Story, Lincoln Central Library, Slam
 Jam, and World Book Night. She has collaborated with the Old Students’ Association, BGU’s
 Centre for Enhancement in Learning and Teaching on Wellbeing and Creative Writing, and
 strengthened partnerships with the University G. d’Annunzio, Chieti-Pescara, Italy, through the
 Erasmus programme, their doctoral programme and the Centre for Victorian and Edwardian
 studies (CUSVE).

 Erle is a member of Intercultural Relations: Anglo-German Research Group and Research
 Network for Visionary Art and Visionary Objects. She was a member of the AHRC-funded
 Institutions of Literature, 1700-1900 (in 2017) and AHRC-funded Passions of War: Cross-
 Disciplinary Perspectives on Gender, Sexuality and Conflict, 1550-1945 (in 2016). The RKEU
 that she leads, Literature and Literacies, engages with external partners, such as Autistic
 Voices, Meadows Primary School, Lincoln Cathedral, St. Barnabas Hospice and UKLA.

 Memel collaborated in 2020 with project partners English Heritage, the National Caribbean
 Heritage Museum, Heritage Education Trust and the National Trust (The Workhouse,
 Southwell) as co-investigator on the AHRC bid Women Remembered. He was a co-lead of
 Open Spaces, a public event in collaboration with environmental social enterprise Hill Holt
 Woods, Lincolnshire and Being Human: A Festival of the Humanities (School of Advanced
 Study, University of London; AHRC; British Academy).

 4.2 Committee membership and leadership of associations and societies

 Begley is a member of The Contemporary Studies Network, The British Association for
 Contemporary Literary Studies, and The Thatcher Network.

 Capancioni is BAVS Membership Secretary, a member of the Board of Directors of the Heritage
 Education Trust, and a trustee of The Lincoln Book Festival since 2018. She has been a
 member of the Lincoln Book Festival Organising Committee and the Lincoln Book Festival
 Flash Fiction Competition Organising Committee and Shortlisting Panel since 2017. She has
 been a member of executive committee of The Tennyson Society since 2016, as well as a
 member of the Association of Italian Scientists in UK (AISUK), Centro Universitario di Studi
 Vittoriani ed Edoardiani (CUSVE) in Italy, and the Contemporary Women’s Writing Association.

 Erle is a trustee and executive committee member of The Blake Society and a member of The
 Tennyson Society, The Hazlitt Society and the British Association of Romantic Studies.

 Memel has been a member of BAVS Executive Board since 2018. From 2015 to 2021, he was
 a member of the Council of Management, Thomas Hardy Society.

 4.3 Publication editorial positions and reviewing activities

 Attenborough is a member of three editorial boards: Gender and Language Journal from August
 2012; Journal of Language Aggression and Conflict and Journal of Gender Studies from June
 2015.

 Begley has peer-reviewed for Contemporary Literature, University of Wisconsin Press,
 Manchester University Press and the journal Close Encounters in War. He is a judge for the
 Tennyson Poetry Award (since 2015), the English Awards for Research Excellence (since
 2014) and The Leonid, Creative Writing Prize (since 2020) at BGU.



                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Capancioni is a member of two editorial boards: "AngloSophia: Studies of English Literature and
 Culture" published by Mimesis Edizioni (since January 2020) and "Il Segno e le Lettere”,
 academic series led by the Modern Languages, Literatures and Culture of the University G.
 d'Annunzio, Chieti-Pescara, published by LED (since October 2020). She is a peer reviewer for
 Demeter Press, Victoriographies, the Journal of Victorian Culture, Journal of Adaptation in Film
 and Performance, and New Readings.

 Erle is on the Advisory Board of Blake/An Illustrated Quarterly (since 2017) and the Centre for
 Reception Studies at the University of Craiova (since 2017). She is Editorial Board member of
 The Reception of British and Irish Authors in Europe (since2012) and of Humanities & Social
 Sciences Communications (since 2020). She is editor of VALA: The Journal of the Blake
 Society, and a reader for REAKTION. She has written several reviews for Blake/An Illustrated
 Quarterly (academic books and exhibitions); Comparative Critical Studies, Working with
 English: Modern and Medieval Language, Literature and Drama; and Studies in Gothic Fiction,
 Romanticism on the Net.

 Memel has served as a member in the editorial boards of the Thomas Hardy Journal and Hardy
 Society Journal. He was editor of BAVS Newsletter (2019 to 2020), and a judge for The Leonid,
 Creative Writing Prize, BGU, in 2020.

 4.4 Conference and symposium organisation

 Capancioni co-hosted two international conferences at BGU: BAVS 2017: Victorian Unbound:
 Connections and Intersections, the annual conference of the British Association for Victorian
 Studies, and George Meredith and His Circle: Intellectual Communities and Literary Networks in
 2015. In 2019, she arranged the first Voicing the Past Lecture, to launch the RKEU she leads.

 Erle has organised the Academic and Creative Responses to Death and Dying Conferences
 (2017-2020) in collaboration with the BGU Chaplaincy and the RKEU Literature and Literacies.
 At BGU she also organised The Monster Conference in 2018 and Books-Place-Space:
 Tennyson in the 1860s in 2017. The latter was in collaboration with the Tennyson Society and
 Lincolnshire Archives. In 2019, she organised Blake in Europe: A Symposium and, in 2018, co-
 organised Celebrating the 200th Anniversary of Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein – two public
 lectures as part of Frankenreads, with a themed display.

 Memel was a member of the organizing committee for the 2020 International Thomas Hardy
 Conference (Dorchester, postponed until 2021). In 2020, he also organised The Home in
 Modern History and Culture, AHRC-funded project conference, University of Nottingham.

 4.5 Grant/project external peer refereeing/reviewing

 Capancioni has been an AHRC Peer Review College Member since January 2017, and BAVS
 Funding Streams panel since 2015. She was a panel member for BAVS Bursary Conference
 Schemes between 2016 and 2018. Since 2017, she has also been a member of the Doctoral
 Research Committee for the Doctoral Degree Programme in Languages, Literatures and
 Interconnecting Cultures (Collegio dei Docenti del Dottorato di Ricerca in Lingue, Letterature e
 Culture in Contatto), University G. d'Annunzio, Chieti-Pescara, Italy.

 Memel is a reviewer for BAVS Funding Grants since 2018.

 4.6 Awards, prizes, distinctions and fellowships

 Erle is a Fellow of the Royal Society for the Arts, Manufactures and Commerce (2012). The
 German Scholars Organisation awarded her a fully funded fellowship on leadership in 2019.




                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.7 Keynote addresses and public lectures/workshops/performances/media

 Capancioni organised public events on campus for Being Human in 2018 and 2017 (debating
 workshops and exhibition), for Heritage Open Day 2018 (exhibition and talks), for International
 Women’s Day in 2018 with English Speaking Union, and for BAVS 2017 (exhibition and
 presentations). She co-curated Tennyson’s Intellectual Community & Literary Network, a
 display of archival material with Crossley and the Collections Access Officer of the Tennyson
 Research Centre, for the George Meredith and His Circle: Intellectual Communities and Literary
 Networks Conference, in 2015. At BGU, she has organised public events to celebrate National
 Poetry Day since 2014, and World Book Night since 2013. As a member of the Lincoln Book
 Festival Organising Committee since 2017, Capancioni has organised, introduced, and
 supported the festival events yearly. She co-organised Gothic Fiction Masterclass: Terror and
 Wonder for local schools and colleges held at the University of Lincoln in 2017 as well as
 Children’s Literature Creative Workshops in 2019. The 2019 festival programme also included
 her event, In the Tuscan Kitchen of Janet Ross. In 2020, she contributed an Online Author Talk
 in conversation with William Sitwell.

 Capancioni has presented at BAVS annual conference every year since 2014 (except when she
 co-hosted it). In 2013 and 2017, she contributed as a speaker to the global conferences
 organised by the Victorian Studies Association of the UK, North America (NAVSA) and
 Australasia (AVSA). She disseminated the results of her research on Victorian author Janet
 Ross at “Sphere-Born Harmonious Sisters, Voice and Poetry”: The Interconnections between
 Music and the Written Word (2016, Michel de Montaigne Foundation, Italy); Writing Lives
 Together: Romantic and Victorian Biography (University of Leicester), George Meredith and His
 Circle: Intellectual Communities and Literary Networks (BGU), Placing the Author: Literary
 Tourism in the Long Nineteenth Century (Elizabeth Gaskell’s House, Manchester) and the
 Nineteenth Century Research Group (University of Lincoln) in 2015. Her work on Tennyson and
 Garibaldi was presented at the Tennyson Society’s Service of Commemoration (invited) and
 Books-Place-Space: Tennyson in the early 1860s (conference at BGU) in 2017. She delivered
 papers focusing on contemporary British author Michèle Roberts at Victorian Metamorphoses:
 Rewritings, Remediations, Translations, Transcodifications (CUSVE, Italy, invited) in 2018 and
 1st Food and Culture in Translation (FaCT) Conference (University of Bologna, Italy) in 2014.
 Together with talks at events for Being Human (2018, 2017) and Heritage Open Day 2018, she
 presented the results of the collaborative projects on BGU’s Victorian Origins at the Arts and
 Heritage Centre, Caistor, with Hope-Johnson in 2019 (Wolds Women of Influence Programme
 2019) and Literature, Education and the Sciences of the Mind in Britain and America, 1850-
 1950 (University of Kent, Canterbury) in 2018. In 2019, she also delivered papers on Victorian
 fairy tales at Narratives of Ageing in the Nineteenth Century (University of Lincoln) and neo-
 Victorian crime fiction at Captivating Criminality 6: Metamorphoses of Crime: Facts and Fictions
 (University G. d'Annunzio, Chieti-Pescara, Italy). In 2017, she gave a paper on Dickens and
 Arctic narratives atTransgressive Appetites: Deviant Food Practices in Victorian Literature and
 Culture (University G. d'Annunzio, Chieti-Pescara, Italy). More recently she contributed to
 Action on Teaching University English, online satellite event of English Shared Futures with
 Grenham (July 2020); and the Roundtable: Living memory? The challenge of heritage without a
 house at the annual conference of the Burney Society (2019, BGU, invited).

 Erle delivered keynote addresses and public lectures for Lincoln Theological Network Lecture
 Series, John Rylands Library, and Deutsch-Britische Nürnberg e.V. in 2019; New Mondays Art
 Group at The Usher Gallery/The Collection in 2018). In the same year, she was on public
 lecture tour organised by Deutsch-Englische Gesellschaft Ruhr e.V. Essen in Düsseldorf,
 Essen, Münster and Schwerin, and addressed the Swedenborg Society to coincide with the
 exhibition Swedenborg and the English Romantics at the Swedenborg House. In 2017, she
 delivered public lectures at Whitworth Art Gallery; Ben Uri Gallery and Museum, as part of the
 events programme of Refugees: The Lives of Others: two exhibitions of works by German
 refugee artists, selected works by Eva Frankfurther (1930-1959), and German refugee artists to
 Britain since 1900; and in 2015 at the Centre for Anglo-German Cultural Relations (CAGCR),
 Queen Mary; Haus der Romantic, Marburg; Philipps Universitaet Marburg. In 2016, her

                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 keynotes and lectures where at the Museum Giersch der Goethe-Universität, Frankfurt – one of
 two invited, public guest-lecture on Ludwig Meidner (1884-1966), accompanying the exhibition
 Horcher in die Zeit – Ludwig Meidner im Exil; and the Nineteenth-Century Research Group,
 University of Lincoln. Erle gave keynotes at the annual Death Conferences at BGU (2017, 2018,
 2020). She also delivered papers at Tennyson Society Annual Conference (Christ Church
 College, 2019), University of Birmingham (2017), Eötvös Loránd University, Budapest (2017),
 University of Sheffield (2016), University of Newcastle (2016), KU Leuven/Campus Brussels
 (2015) and University of Leeds (2015).

 Erle contributed with Jim Cheshire (University of Lincoln) to the 2017 Tennyson Conference
 with a workshop in the Tennyson Research Centre, Lincoln. For the bi-centenary of the
 publication of Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein, in 2018 she organised a public reading of the novel
 as part of Frankenreads, and two movie screenings, with interdisciplinary panel discussion (for
 adults) and artistic workshop (for children), and was interviewed on BBC Radio Lincoln. She
 collaborated with artist Marina White Raven (London) and musician Ana-Cristina Perez (Mexico
 City) in an online event seeking to venture beyond death’s limitation and make contact with
 William Blake’s artistic genius.

 Memel was the curator (with Richard Bates and Hayley Cotterill), of the exhibition Florence
 Nightingale Comes Home, Weston Gallery, Nottingham Lakeside Arts, which launched digitally
 in 2020. He also co-authored the book Florence Nightingale at Home, which covered by The
 Observer, The Independent, BBC Radio 4 Today, BBC East Midlands Today, ITV News
 Central, and regional radio. In 2020, he also presented The Home Front: Cultures of Domestic
 Accountability in the Crimean War, at the North American Conference on British Studies (online
 in the USA) and Health at Home at the European Association for the History of Nursing,
 Florence, Italy.




                                                                                          Page 11
