Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: City, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 19 Politics and International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Established just 12 years ago, the Department of International Politics (part of City, University of
 London’s School of Arts & Social Sciences) has continued its rapid growth from 12 full-time
 equivalents (FTEs) in the previous REF to the current figure of 27.2 FTEs. As in the previous
 REF, our young Department is still composed largely of early career researchers (ECRs). Of our
 28 (headcount) members of staff, 20 joined in this REF period and 16 of those joined in the past
 three years. The Department has made remarkable advances during this REF period in
 developing its external funding strategy, having increased its income from £17,500 in REF 2014
 to £2 million in this exercise. We awarded 15 doctoral degrees during this cycle compared to just
 5 during the previous period. From our modest beginnings, we are now a vibrant research unit
 with a well-established reputation as a major force in the discipline, delivering timely, prescient
 insights across various areas of enquiry while effecting positive change within societies as they
 grapple with the ever-changing and tumultuous arena of politics both in the UK and around the
 world.

 The Department’s growth follows a strategic plan for enhancing our research, community
 engagement and education. Our hallmark is rigour and openness towards new approaches to
 the subject while at the same time maintaining its traditional strengths. This is achieved by
 pursuing an orientation towards research in innovative subfields, such as Comparative Politics,
 Political Economy and International History coupled with concentrated engagement with
 policymakers and other stakeholders supplemented by extensive press and media engagement.
 During this REF period, as well as doubling its annual internal research support budget (to
 around £34,000 per annum), the Department intensified its institutional support for grant capture
 and media engagement to raise the profiles of academic staff, ensure stakeholder outreach
 (through interactions with politicians and regulators) and undertake dissemination (including
 outputs designed to engage practitioners). The success of this strategy is evidenced in the sharp
 increase in our grant income, a very high media presence in top-tier UK and international media
 outlets, and our three impact case studies: McDowell’s ‘Changing International Policy to
 Improve Legal Protections and Resettlement Outcomes for Refugees and Other Displaced
 Persons’; Murphy’s ‘Tax Spillovers in Global Civil Society: Building Understanding and
 Changing Policy’; and Palan’s ‘A New Equity-apping Forensic Technique to Prevent Illicit
 Financial Flows, Improve Corporate Regulation, and Aid Investigative Journalism’. These efforts
 underscore the capacity of our intellectual efforts to effect positive change in society.

 Our researchers authored an impressive 23 single and co-authored book manuscripts during the
 REF period, of which 14 were published by university presses (including Cambridge, Oxford,
 Princeton, Cornell, Stanford and Johns Hopkins). Others were published by prestigious
 multinational outlets such as Penguin, Hurst and Routledge. Members of the Department
 authored nearly 100 peer-reviewed journal articles, including several in some of the highest-
 ranking outlets in our field, such as the American Journal of Political Science, International
 Security, International Studies Quarterly, the Journal of International Business Policy, the
 Journal of Common Market Studies, the Journal of Peace Research, Political Geography,
 Political Psychology, Review of International Political Economy and Socio-Economic Review.

 Structure of the Unit
 The Department produces excellent scholarship in three core areas: International Political
 Economy, Foreign Policy and Diplomacy, and International Social Justice. The strength in
 International Political Economy was bolstered during this REF period by the recruitment of five
 additional members (Benton, Hager, Lysandrou, Madani and Sgambati); the Foreign Policy
 and Diplomacy group was enhanced by the hiring of Innes and Swenson; and four new hires
 have a focus on International Social Justice (Blunt, Fleischman, Schouenborg and


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Slootmaeckers). We have also made strategic investments to build research capacity in new
 areas – in the emerging field of Comparative Politics (Kovras, Kutlay, Rasaratnam and
 Vossing) and in Modern History (Barnes, Butler, Fainberg, Mulich and Rosenboim). We have
 also cultivated expertise in the important new subdiscipline of Quantitative Political Economy,
 encompassing research into recently digitised historical data sets as well as the ‘big data’ that
 has become available, as evidenced in publications of Benton, Hager, Lysandrou, Pagliari,
 Palan, Slootmaeckers and Vossing.

 The intellectual life of our Department is greatly enhanced through our three main research
 centres: City Political Economy Research Centre (CITYPERC), the Centre for International
 Policy (CIPS) and the Centre for Modern History (CMH). We also participate in two
 interdisciplinary centres: the Q-Step Centre (Slootmaeckers) and the Violence and Society
 Research Centre (Innes). The three main centres reflect the current research agendas of our
 faculty and are the major fulcrum for raising external research funding. They are directed and
 managed by a faculty member and supported by a departmental administrator. The directors
 have responsibility for shaping the research agenda of their centre, managing its funding and
 linking its work to the wider mission of the School. The centres have lively seminar and events
 series that bring together members of faculty and students, and they provide important links
 between theoretical research and the practical needs of non-academic audiences, including
 policymakers, journalists and those working in the third sector. Workshops organised by the
 research centres and funded by the Department are designed to bring groups of academics
 together for the purpose of making funding applications.

 City Political Economy Research Centre (CITYPERC)
 CITYPERC co-hosts the annual international conference of the Tax Justice Network (TJN), one
 of the most successful international networks of activists and researchers committed to social
 justice and fair taxation. It also hosted the inaugural annual conference of the Finance and
 Society Network in 2016 and further conferences in 2017 and 2019, each of which was attended
 by more than 150 delegates from across the world. CITYPERC has supported the Department’s
 impact efforts by running several invite-only workshops with academics, policymakers and
 researchers from non-governmental organisations. Such meetings have included two events
 supporting Nesvetailova’s participation in the advisory committee for the UK’s Shadow Cabinet,
 with around 25 attendees. CITYPERC has also organised smaller workshops with KPMG, the
 TJN and the Financial Times. These efforts led to invitations to present at Chatham House
 (Nesvetailova) and the 2017 Financial Times Festival (Palan), an invitation to join the
 International Academy of Financial Crime Litigators (Nesvetailova), and various invitations to
 deliver keynotes at the annual conferences of specialist organisations, such as Tax Link (Palan)
 and the Financial Services Centres Annual Report, the body representing European tax-planning
 lawyers (Palan). CITYPERC is also home to collaborative research funding efforts, including a
 European Research Council advanced grant with the Copenhagen Business School and a
 Horizon 2020 grant with CBS, The University of Utrecht, Warwick Business School, Tax Justice
 Network, Charles University in Prague and Kemmy Business School, Limerick

 Centre for International Policy Studies (CIPS)
 Between 2014 and 2017, the CIPS, which blends work on Area Studies, International Relations
 and Comparative Politics, hosted the Middle East Forum, bringing together academics and
 practitioners working on Middle East Studies. The CIPS also hosted events relating to the Arts
 and Humanities Research Council’s Research Network on the Presidency of Barack Obama; the
 Global Knowledge and World Orders; the 1919–2019 Network; and the World Order Watch, an
 international network of leading scholars from a range of universities (including Aberystwyth,
 Amsterdam and American University in Washington, DC). In addition, the CIPS hosted several
 international conferences and workshops on topics including social movements and non-
 governmental organisations (Davies), US and Middle East foreign policy (Aran and Parmar),
 foreign policy analysis (Aran) and ethics in world politics (Hirst, Kovras and Rasaratnam).
 Such collaborations go hand in hand with the funded grants yielded by CIPS members (Kovras
 and McDowell). The CIPS further welcomed presentations by Israel’s Deputy Prime Minister,

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Dan Meridor, and received visiting research fellows from China and India to facilitate a joint
 project culminating in a successful Global Challenges Research Fund grant application and two
 collaborative journal articles. The CIPS’s projects with scholars from the Free University
 Amsterdam have led to several publications that have combined historical, International
 Relations and International Political Economy approaches to American power and Sino-US
 relations. In 2017 CIPS hosted a delegation from the Henan Administration Institute in China.

 Centre for Modern History (CMH)
 The CMH was launched in 2018 to serve as a platform for public engagement by our
 Department’s historians (Barnes, Butler, Fainberg, Mulich and Rosenboim) and has rapidly
 developed many intellectual and impact-oriented activities. It aims to serve as a vehicle for
 advancing interdisciplinary research, bringing together in its membership historians, political
 scientists, economists, voluntary sector studies experts and sociologists. Together with the
 CIPS, it also seeks to facilitate close collaborative approaches to foreign policy, diplomacy and
 international political justice, combining political science methods with historical archival work.
 The CMH’s inaugural conference in 2019 (‘Food and International Thought’) brought together a
 transatlantic panel of academics with representatives from international journalism and cultural
 bodies such as London’s Victoria and Albert Museum. Perspectives from CMH members have
 been sought on an array of contemporary issues by media organisations such as the BBC and
 ITV. CMH staff have also been engaged by policy institutes (such as The Young Foundation) in
 areas of their expertise with respect to social inequalities.

 Research and Impact Strategy
 Our research and impact strategy for 2014–2020 was designed to support individual research
 ambitions by first identifying areas of existing research strengths, then building on these by
 making appointments in areas close to the research interests of existing staff, thereby reinforcing
 these areas. The areas of existing strengths are in the fields of International Political Economy,
 Foreign Policy Studies and International Social Justice. We also wanted to inject new vigour into
 the Department and so we made strategic investments to build research capacity in new areas
 that address contemporary challenges and subsequently are more likely to attract funding. The
 new specialisms are in Comparative Politics (complementing our existing strength in
 International Political Economy) and Modern History (complementing our existing work in foreign
 policy studies). At the same time, we continually strove to raise the profiles of academic staff
 who publish world-leading research through press and media activity, and our decisions around
 hiring and rewards took into account existing and potential engagement with stakeholders.

 The Department also sought to encourage cross-fertilisation between different research
 agendas, both within academia and beyond, by creating and supporting departmental research
 centres and informal research clusters, and by encouraging staff participation in University
 interdisciplinary centres. Generally, the Unit sought to consolidate expertise in theory,
 methodology and empirical approaches to produce both rigorous academic outputs and selected
 practitioner-oriented research outputs or theory-to-practice thought experiments. The goal was
 to engage wider and newer audiences who were energised by the recent exceptionally turbulent
 period in politics both domestically and internationally, especially in the US under the
 administration of President Trump and, in the UK, against the backdrop of three general
 elections in only four years and the fallout of the Brexit referendum.

 Broadly consistent with the research budget of the previous REF period on a per capita basis,
 the Department’s annual research budget allocates approximately £1,200 per FTE, totalling
 approximately £34,000. The Department further supports conferences and workshops taking
 place at City, with between £2,000 and £3,000 allocated for this purpose each year. We have
 sought to build a supportive culture and encourage the cross-fertilisation of ideas through weekly
 departmental research seminars and the appointment of fellows from related disciplines and with
 real-world experience to our research centres. Some seminars serve as forums for our faculty
 and doctoral students to present their work internally; at these seminars, we aim to create a
 more informal atmosphere than our normal ‘external’ seminars allow. Work at all stages is

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 welcome, including projects at the early design stage and also ‘revise and resubmits’, where the
 presenter is looking for ideas on tackling specific referees’ comments. The idea is to be
 constructive and to help the person presenting to progress.

 Colleagues are encouraged to set their own research goals, confident that they will be fully
 supported in attempts to open up new ground for their specialist subfield. Their efforts are
 supported by the Department’s Research Committee, which continually reviews the practices in
 the Unit (including having oversight of new entrants’ career progression), monitors the PhD
 Programme and reinforces the culture of grant-seeking among staff. In this regard, the
 Committee set up a series of interviews with successful grant holders across the UK and
 Europe. In addition, the Committee organised a number of departmental seminars on the topic of
 grant capture, including presentations by successful grant holders to our early career
 researchers.

 Since 2014, the Department has benefited from the support of an Impact Support Officer, who
 provides detailed strategic advice and practical support to individual researchers and clusters of
 researchers, helping them to identify, generate and capture research impact from funded and
 unfunded research projects. While this role was introduced for REF 2021, it leaves an enduring
 legacy of strengthened links with government, industry, the media and other stakeholders. Our
 media engagement has been outstanding, with upwards of 5,000 media mentions each year
 (see Section 4). We also operate the City Politics Podcast, introduced in 2020, which has
 already enjoyed much success in terms of attracting listeners and should play an important role
 in delivering future impact.

 Open Scholarship
 The Department is committed to open scholarship and research integrity. In addition to placing
 our outputs on the institutional repository, City Research Online, our researchers publish their
 work on open access platforms including SSRN (the Social Science Research Network).
 Moreover, 95% of our Category A submitted staff have an ORCiD registration, which facilitates
 the discovery of faculty research and ensures they receive due credit. Around 50% of the Unit’s
 publications on Web of Science since 2016 have been open access; this number is high given
 that many hires are from overseas, where open access is not common practice.

 Research Ethics and Integrity
 Staff in the Unit conduct their research to the highest standards. To ensure this is the case, we
 conduct research ethics and integrity workshops for our staff and PhD students, and specialist
 advice is available on the ethical implications of research proposals. Ethical reviews and
 approvals to ensure that research involving human participants or the use of personal data –
 whether undertaken by faculty, staff or student researchers – are undertaken in conformity with
 the law and in accordance with best practice. Low-risk projects are approved within the
 Department, mid-risk projects are approved by the School Ethics Committee (which has
 membership from across the School) and high-risk projects (e.g. research involving viewing
 terrorist material) goes to the Senate Research Ethics Committee. There is an online University
 tool (Haplo Ethics Monitor) that assists researchers through the process.

 Future Plans
 Our future research and impact strategy consists of five main elements.

 First, we believe in the importance of promoting a dual strategy of scholarly research and
 societal impact by fostering feedback loops between the two – for example, the involvement of
 partners tends to improve the quality of research questions. However, in order for this dual
 strategy to grow, scholarship needs to be translated through the process of engagement with
 users and policymakers, and embedded to make it useful and relevant. Staff are recognised for
 engaging with the wider community and are supported by a Knowledge Exchange Manager, an
 Impact Support Officer, and press, media and web content teams. In keeping with the growing


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 importance of research impact, we increasingly ask candidates interviewed for academic
 positions to describe their research impact strategy at job presentations.

 Second, we will continue to foreground the role of the research centres in fostering grant capture
 and impact activities. Each of our centres is making plans to ensure that past successes can be
 extended into the future. CITYPERC has appointed Hager and Samman to Deputy Director
 positions and tasked them with a strategic review. The CIPS is developing a new range of
 student-centred initiatives that may serve as models for other centres with a view to stimulating
 new ideas and perspectives on our colleagues’ research projects and potentially encouraging
 new doctoral students. The CMH has begun to strike up external partnerships with relevant
 bodies, including the Centre for Modern and Contemporary History at the University of
 Birmingham and the Institute of Historical Research in the School of Advanced Study at the
 University of London. In all cases, emphasis is being actively placed on planning for change,
 development and sustainability.

 Third, we will continue with our targeted recruitment and retention strategy (see Section 2) while
 recognising that there is strength in diversity of subdisciplinary coverage. We plan to hire seven
 new posts in the next two years, comprising one chair (in Modern History) and six lecturers: one
 in Politics, two in International Political Economy, two in International Politics, and one in both
 International Politics and International Political Economy. Additionally, Benton and Vossing are
 developing ideas for formalising a new Quantitative Political Science and Economy research
 group. Equally important is staff retention. As our ECRs transition to mid-career, we expect them
 to take on greater responsibilities in their disciplinary networks and associations, but they can
 only meet these expectations if they have reasonable teaching workloads and academic
 support.

 Fourth, whereas the Unit had successes during this REF period in obtaining a number of
 prestigious grants (see Section 3), we recognise the need for wider participation in grant
 capture. The Department’s strategy is therefore oriented towards the development of teams of
 researchers within the Unit, the University and beyond to sustain a high level of grant
 applications.

 Fifth, our strategy aims to develop a stronger postgraduate research community, both through
 recruitment and by continuing to host research students from other universities. We currently
 have 25 PhD students and are aiming to raise this number to around 30 in the coming years.
 Participation in an Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) doctoral training centre is a
 key objective, as is developing training and research facilities more broadly in conjunction with
 City’s Doctoral College. We also aim to undertake more collaborative supervision – and
 supervision across Units of Assessment – of our PhD students in the future.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy
 The University has invested heavily in the Department of International Politics since 2014 under
 the pillar of its institutional Vision and Strategy 2026 related to growth. City targeted existing
 disciplines (including Politics and new related areas, such as Modern History, Comparative
 Politics and International Political Economy) for expansion in the first half of its ten-year plan.
 These were identified as the areas with the closest potential synergies with our existing research
 excellence. The growth was funded by the strategic investment fund and sustained by an
 increase in student numbers.

 The Unit’s policy is to recruit the best staff it can identify and then to provide them with the
 support and freedom to excel. Our approach to recruitment is three-fold: we exploit existing staff
 networks to make appointments in areas close to the research interests of existing staff, thereby
 reinforcing these areas; we make fast-track appointments in any area with the aim of promoting
 new vigour in the School; and we make strategic investments to build research capacity in new
 areas.
                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Turnover is relatively low at about three members of staff per year. Many of the individuals who
 departed during the most recent REF period returned to their country of origin. Our ability to
 avoid staff losses close to the REF census date, while clearly helped by the REF ‘rules’, was
 facilitated by our supportive and inclusive research culture and a consciously proactive attitude
 to staff retention, backed by the institution and by a willingness to pay competitive salaries.

 Since REF 2014, the Department has benefited from its growing national and international
 reputation and has been able to attract scholars of the highest calibre. The majority of our new
 recruits joined City after holding postdoctoral positions at prestigious universities such as
 Harvard (Hager and Vossing), Stanford (Barnes), Cambridge (Blunt, Butler, Mulich and
 Rosenboim) and the London School of Economics (Swenson). Four of our new recruits were
 promoted to senior lecturer during this REF period (Barnes, Rosenboim, Slootmaeckers and
 Swenson), joining three of our ECRs from the previous REF period (Davies, Pagliari and
 Samman).

 The Department’s strategy on expansion has been to focus on ECRs, with the objective of
 attracting talent early on and developing it internally through a strong mentoring scheme. Of the
 28 FTEs in the current REF submission, 20 were recruited during this REF period, and for 12 of
 them this was their first permanent academic position. Each cluster develops through the
 leadership and direction of a senior academic. Palan and Parmar were recruited during the
 previous REF period to cultivate the clusters in International Political Economy and Foreign
 Policy Studies, while Kovras was recruited to develop Comparative Politics but departed in 2020
 to join the University of Cyprus. His post will be replaced in 2021. The Modern History cluster will
 be headed by a chair, recruited in the next two years.

 Staff Development
 All Category A submitted staff have permanent posts. The only fixed-term appointments to have
 passed through the Department since 2014 have been research assistants, postdoctoral fellows
 and teaching fellows. In addition, all academic staff – whether they have a ‘research and
 education’ or an ‘education-only’ role type – are treated in the same way when it comes to
 bidding for departmentally approved support. Among other things, this makes it possible for all
 staff to attend leading international conferences. Both postdoctoral fellows and education-only
 faculty tell us that they appreciate the access to departmental resources and the training
 opportunities we provide via the University’s Learning Enhancement and Development team.
 The only aspect of our facilitative research culture that fixed-term staff members cannot access
 is sabbatical leave.

 ECRs are supported through the provision of competitive pump-priming grants for larger
 research projects. Pump-priming grants in the region of £4,000 were awarded during this REF
 period to four early career researchers (Butler, Hager, Rosenboim and Swenson) and two
 mid-career scholars (Aran and Pagliari). The Department and the School also run seminars on
 how to craft a successful grant application and provide introductory seminars with
 representatives of funding bodies. A range of other types of training is available, covering topics
 such as effective writing for research grant applications, research integrity and publication ethics,
 UK research council mock panels and skills for doctoral researchers writing up theses. We also
 hold an ECR development day. Equally, if individuals have needs that are not being met through
 the current portfolio, they can raise this with the Research & Faculty Office, which will endeavour
 to source appropriate skills training.

 The Department takes a hands-on approach to nurturing early career researchers. All new
 colleagues are appointed a mentor, who observes and provides feedback on draft articles,
 grants, and book proposals and manuscripts, while also offering guidance on other aspects of
 their mentee’s career development. We maintain a fair and transparent work allocation model,
 including details of teaching, marking and administrative loads. Staff surveys reveal that the vast
 majority of colleagues feel supported by the Department and have a clear idea of their career
 progression via annual appraisals.

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The School also maintains a depository of successful grant applications. Wherever possible, the
 Department aims to reduce the administrative burden on colleagues in the early stages of their
 career by linking them with a more experienced colleague who ‘clears their path’ through the
 University processes so they may focus more intensively on research projects and grant
 applications.

 Mentoring and support of a broadly similar nature is provided to mid-career colleagues as well. A
 panel composed of senior academics considers, on an annual basis, the publications of all
 members of the Department. Each published item is ranked using the REF criteria, with
 additional commentary provided on the strengths and weaknesses of the publication. Panels are
 often followed by one-to-one ‘debriefing’ meetings with colleagues to help them improve the
 quality of their research outputs. In addition, there is a yearly appraisal process for all academic
 staff, with discussion focused on aims, goals and ways of supporting colleagues’ career
 development.

 As part of its staff development strategy, the Department seeks to provide colleagues with the
 time needed not only to conduct research but also to write, reflect on and develop new research
 projects. The Department ensures that colleagues are able to devote at least 40% of their time
 to research. Moreover, whenever possible, the Department accommodates colleagues’ research
 preferences to alternate between teaching and research-heavy terms. The third-year
 undergraduate teaching curriculum, in particular, is closely aligned with individual staff members’
 current research projects.

 The University supports the Department’s efforts by allowing one term of sabbatical per seven
 terms of full-time teaching, research and administration. Staff took approximately 63 months of
 sabbatical leave during the most recent REF period. Sabbatical leave was central to many of our
 key research outputs. For example, sabbaticals were used to support the completion of Aran’s,
 Fleischman’s and Samman’s monographs. Parmar used his sabbatical leave to be a visiting
 fellow at Princeton and the Rothermere American Institute (University of Oxford), and Palan was
 a visiting professor at Luiss (Rome) during his sabbatical. Sabbaticals also enabled our ECRs to
 develop their profile. Going forward we will seek, through annual appraisals and mentorship, to
 encourage more colleagues to take advantage of sabbatical leave.

 In recognition of the challenges associated with running large research projects, the School has
 devised a Research Sustainability Fund, whereby a proportion of grant overheads, amounting to
 8% of the grant plus one third of the income associated with the principal investigator’s (PI) time,
 are returned to the lead researcher. These funds are accessible to the PI and can be used for
 research activities such as academic visits, the hiring of additional research assistance, bridging
 salaries for research assistants, equipment, workshops and (subject to approval) teaching buy-
 out.

 Our promotions strategy has been to back talent when we see its potential and we are not curtailed
 by financial considerations. Career development is assisted by the running of annual academic
 promotion seminars in order to demystify the criteria and process of making applications. There
 are also opportunities to hear the experiences of those who went through the process in previous
 years. Our current career pyramid of Category A submitted staff is approximately 7:1 non-
 professorial to professorial staff ratios, but this ratio is not fixed and we expect that over time it will
 fall as our less experienced colleagues gain promotions to higher-level positions.

 During this REF period there were nine promotions: one to professor (Nesvetailova), one to
 reader (Kovras) and seven to senior lecturer (Barnes, Davies, Hager, Pagliari, Rosenboim,
 Slootmaeckers and Swenson). Given that many staff only took up their first permanent academic
 post in the Unit during this REF period, promotions to senior lecturer are significant achievements
 for the individuals and signal that staff are finding a ‘home’ in the Unit.



                                                                                                     Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Lastly, our Academic Visitor Programme hosted six scholars during this REF period, including
 Prof. Benjamin Cohen of the University of California, Santa Barbara; Prof. Jean-Christophe Graz
 of the University of Lausanne; and Prof. Donald Abelson of Western University, Canada.

 Equality and Diversity
 The Department is a keen advocate of equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) in research careers.
 We organise our own Unit-level EDI training sessions with invited speakers addressing issues
 relating to race, gender and sexuality. Fleischman and Slootmaeckers run a seminar on
 inclusive teaching, covering topics such as non-conforming genders and diversity planning.

 The Unit is a multinational and multiculturally diverse group of scholars from 13 nations and
 diverse ethnic groups. In terms of gender balance, 39% members of our staff are female. They
 make up 25% of the professoriate, 36% of senior lecturers and readers, and 46% of lecturers.
 The recipient of our first internal promotion to professor in the history of the Department was a
 woman (Nesvetailova). There were two additional promotions of female colleagues, from
 lecturer to senior lecturer (Barnes and Rosenboim). Regarding senior leadership roles, a
 woman served as Head of Department in 2019–2020 (Nesvetailova) and another served as
 Deputy Head of Department in 2020–2021 (Benton). A non-white member of staff served as
 Head of Department from 2015–2019 (Parmar).

 As outlined in our REF5a statement, the University provides a supportive environment in which
 EDI values are championed and maintained. For example, the Learning Enhancement and
 Development Unit strongly encourages the further professional development of women in
 leadership initiatives; the University has a family-friendly policy such that members of staff can
 opt for a teaching schedule that accommodates their commitments at home (such as no
 teaching after 4pm); and an optional sabbatical is available for those returning from maternity or
 adoption leave (three members of staff took up this option during this REF period). Childcare is a
 recognised expense item for conference attendance funding. Finally, the Athena SWAN initiative
 has full support at the Department, School and University levels.

 Each year since 2011, the Department has conducted an exercise to monitor the quality of the
 research outputs of our academic staff in between the external reviews provided by REF. The
 output grading process is conducted by a departmental panel with external assessors. In line
 with the Athena SWAN award, senior management in Schools who decide on panel or subpanel
 membership must consider EDI matters within their panels. A maximum of four research outputs
 must be listed against each member of staff included in the submission. Members of staff may
 submit fewer than four outputs without penalty where their individual circumstances have
 significantly constrained their ability to produce four outputs or to work productively throughout
 the assessment period (e.g. disability, maternity leave or ECR status).

 Research Students
 Our Department currently enrols 25 doctoral students and awarded 15 PhDs during this
 assessment period, a three-fold increase over the previous REF period. New research students
 attend an induction programme split between School provision and the University’s Doctoral
 College. This programme covers research methods training and provides inductions to
 familiarise students with the facilities available within the institution. The School runs an ongoing
 series of research methods training sessions, which continue throughout the student’s
 programme of studies. These cover fundamental skills – for example, in qualitative and
 quantitative methods, research ethics, thesis writing and viva preparation. PhD training activities
 have been augmented recently through the introduction of sessions specifically oriented towards
 impact, including one-day events on media engagement and training (led by our Department of
 Journalism) and social engagement. PhD students are offered financial support for conference
 attendance (on a competitive basis). The School also works with the careers service to offer a
 range of career development sessions specifically catering to PhD students, including CV
 writing, career planning and publishing strategies.


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Department has a wide-ranging set of policies in place to support the training and career
 development of our PhD students. All PhD students are co-supervised and must give a
 presentation each year at our departmental colloquium. Our PhD cohort also run their own
 seminar series with financial support from the Department and are encouraged to present at the
 departmental research seminar as well. Our invited speaker series addresses topics related to
 career development (such as academic publishing and grant capture) on a biannual basis. In
 addition to these internal provisions, the Department offers generous research funds to support
 the participation of PhD students in academic conferences and cover costs associated with
 fieldwork, research visits to other institutions and consultation of archives. Extensive teacher
 training is also provided to PhD students, including the opportunity to undertake the University’s
 MA in Academic Practice. All PhD students are given the opportunity to undertake paid teaching
 work at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels. The Department has been successful in
 obtaining six prestigious University studentships since 2014. Other students have received
 studentships from their home countries; for example, Sabbagh obtained a $30,000 grant for two
 years from the Israel Institute.

 The Department has hosted PhD students from other universities for periods spanning one week
 to a full year, with visitors from the Max Planck Institute for the study of societies; the University
 of Bergen; the University of California, Berkeley; the University of Erfurt; KU Leuven; and
 Sciences Po. During this REF period, students obtained fellowships at various other institutions:
 three at Harvard University (Kuznetsova, Murau and Petersen), one at Columbia University
 (Murau), one at the London School of Economics (Guter-Sandu) and one at the University of
 Cambridge (Yishayahu). Additionally, one undertook an internship at NATO (Sabbagh).

 Among the 15 doctoral degrees awarded, the destinations of graduates included the University
 of Dhaka, Bangladesh (Biswas); the University of Padova, Italy (De Perini); City, University of
 London (Fleischman and Jafri); the London School of Economics (Guter-Sandu) and the
 University of West London (Nouri).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income
 Since REF 2014, we have met our two primary research income objectives: first, attracting more
 research income and, second, by making successful applications to more funders than ever
 before. This was achieved within the context of significantly diversifying our resource base so as
 not to be overly reliant on a single research funder during times of increasingly difficult financial
 circumstances for all funding bodies.

 In 2016, in recognition of our recent significant research-led expansion, the University initiated a
 strategic review of research and enterprise administrative functions. This resulted in an
 increased number of personnel supporting academic staff overall and the School expanded the
 number of its locally based support staff to 3.0 FTEs, up from 1.6 in 2014. The University
 maintains a strong research support service unit, which includes specialists in UK and EU
 funding, contracts, post-award activities and audits. Additionally, the School-based research
 development and support comprises a Research Support Manager, a Knowledge Exchange
 Manager and an Impact Officer. They integrate with the central office but support research
 activity in other ways, such as (i) maintaining the research information system, (ii) servicing the
 Faculty Research Committee and Research Ethics Committee, (iii) administering the pump-
 priming fund, (iv) organising training events and (v) offering enthusiasm and energy to those
 involved in individual scholarship. There is also a Communication and Media unit, with one
 Media Officer shared across all units in the School.

 Internal Funding
 The Department supports research directly in a number of ways, in addition to its promotion of
 research grant income. The Unit receives from the University an annual allocation of £34,000
 (£1,200 per person) for individual research activities and conference attendance. The funds are

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 distributed to staff by the research committee on request. In addition, the Department provides
 financial support for organising conferences and workshops taking place at City. Typically,
 between £2,000 and £3,000 is allocated per year for these activities.

 Staff have made use of other internal funding mechanisms at the School or University level,
 including City’s Global Challenges Research Fund, for research that may benefit developing
 countries; the University’s Pump Priming funding scheme, aimed at ECRs and those returning to
 research; the School’s Pump-Priming Scheme for Mid-career Researchers; the School’s Impact
 Development Fund; and the School’s Enterprise and Knowledge Exchange Seed Fund.

 External Funding
 Faculty – mainly more senior faculty – who require significantly larger amounts of research
 funding are encouraged to work with the School’s research support team. The team identifies
 funding sources, matches these to relevant individuals, and ensures the production of a well-
 written proposal that meets all funder and/or partner requirements. The team also makes sure
 the proposal is delivered to deadline and with a realistic price that is within the funder’s
 guidelines, fully taking into account the true cost of the proposed research and institutional costs.

 These efforts yielded astonishing results in terms of both raising the aggregate level of income
 (from £17,500 during the previous REF period to £2,028,109) and achieving success across a
 range of thematic areas. The current trajectory of success additionally reflects a more even
 distribution across our centres and research cluster structure, showing that our greater emphasis
 on research pluralism is paying dividends in this area of our activities. The growth in headline
 research income figures has benefited since 2014 from the receipt of six major research grants
 from four major funders.

 The highlights, by magnitude of grant, are:
 (1) A four-year (extended to five) European Research Council advanced grant: ‘Corporate
     Arbitrage and CPL Maps: Hidden Structures of Controls in the Global Economy’
     (CORPLINK) (€1,728,000, December 2016 to November 2021, Palan PI). This is an
     interdisciplinary project that combines expertise in International Political Economy
     (Nesvetailova and Palan), accounting (Murphy), data science (Gandrud and Phillips) and
     sociology (Seabrooke and Wigan from Copenhagen Business School). It presented the first
     systemic and comprehensive analysis of the technique of jurisdictional arbitrage, employed
     by multinational corporations. The project also developed a new comparative forensic
     technique for corporate organisations, generating the interest of the Financial Times after the
     team presented a seminar on the method to a group of investigative journalists from the
     publication in 2017. The team was subsequently invited to present their findings at Bank J.
     Safra Sarasin, London, in 2019, and at many other venues, including the Organisation for
     Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in Paris.

 (2) Participation in a €5 million Horizon 2020 project: ‘Combating Fiscal Fraud and Empowering
     Regulators’ (COFFERS). The project was headed by Prof. Brigitte Unger of the Department
     of Law, Economics and Governance at Utrecht University. City was placed in charge of Work
     Package 1 (€700,000). The PI of this work package was Palan, with participation by Murphy
     and Nesvetailova from City in collaboration with Prof. Yuval Millo, Head of the Department
     of Accounting at Warwick Business School, and Dr. Nikiforos Panougrias of the Leicester
     School of Business. City’s contribution was the development of the theoretical framework for
     the entire project and included an assessment of the European tax gap, the effect of country-
     by-country reporting, and the use of sophisticated financial instruments such as swaps and
     derivatives in tax avoidance.

 (3) An ESRC-funded project titled ‘The Politics of Accountability After Economic Crisis’
     (£521,277), with Kovras as PI and an interdisciplinary team including Prof. Neophytos
     Loizides (School of Politics and International Relations, University of Kent), Prof. Kieran
     McEvoy (School of Law, Queen’s University Belfast) and Prof. Sally Wheeler (School of Law,

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Queen’s University Belfast). The project provides an account of the variations in
    accountability mechanisms in various countries, including truth commissions (Cyprus and
    Iceland), trials (Greece and Ireland) and de facto impunity (Portugal and Spain).

 (4) An ESRC-funded project titled ‘Missing Migrants in the Mediterranean’ (Strategic Urgency
     Grants, £161,874), with Kovras as PI. This collaborative project explores the novel
     humanitarian problem of migrants/refugees who die or go missing in their effort to cross the
     EU’s border in the Mediterranean Sea.

 (5) An ESRC-funded project titled ‘From the Diasporisation to the Transnationalisation of Exile
     Politics: Understanding When Extremism Gives Way to Moderate Politics – The Case of Sri
     Lanka, 1983–2016’ (£111,320), with McDowell as PI. This project is examining the response
     of Sri Lanka’s diaspora, specifically the Tamil diaspora, to the end of fighting and
     reconciliation in Sri Lanka.

 In addition to these major grants, the Unit obtained two important contract commissions:
    (1) Work Stream 2 of an OECD programme on illicit finance and energy trading (€52,000),
        with Nesvetailova as PI and with the participation of Palan and the CORPLINK team.
        The project mapped and analysed the organisation of 20 energy-trading firms to assess
        weaknesses in corporate governance that may be used for illicit financial activities.

    (2) Monitoring and evaluation of the UK Government’s resettlement programme, including
        the Syrian Vulnerable Persons Resettlement Scheme (£25,135), funded by the Office of
        the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees with McDowell as PI. The project is
        evaluating the successful resettlement of Syrian refugees in the UK.

 Overall, grant capture during this REF period amounted to slightly more than £19,000 per FTE
 per year.

 Infrastructure
 Colleagues at the Department of International Politics benefit from extensive office space in a
 new state-of-the-art £23 million building, which opened in 2004. This building has enabled an
 increase in capacity, improved the research environment for collaboration and facilitated world-
 class research. We continue to leverage our unique location as a bridge between the City of
 London (the UK’s centre of international trade and finance) and the City of Westminster (the
 legislative and executive seat of government in the UK).

 Staff and PhD students alike continue to benefit from the hugely significant research-oriented
 resources held in the University Library. As outlined in our REF5a statement, researchers at City
 have access to an extensive portfolio of specialist databases including Scopus, Web of Science
 and Academic Search Complete, which provide vital sources of information and research
 content. There are over 300 University-wide databases available to support education and
 research across the University. In addition, Library Services subscribes to thousands of online
 journals, which provide researchers with access to a broad range of current and archived titles.

 Library resources are enhanced through engagement with corporate sponsors. This enables
 access to a number of high-quality and high-cost resources, such as the Orbis database, the
 largest comparable data resource on private companies, which is used by our CORPLINK
 impact case study. In addition to our online resources, researchers have access to the Financial
 Resources Suite at our Northampton Square Library and the dedicated Financial Resources
 Zone and two simulated trading rooms at our Bunhill Row site. The School has a dedicated
 Subject Librarian (who organises tailored research skills training to assist in the identification and
 analysis of relevant research materials and is a member of the University Library Services
 Research Service Group) and two Subject Librarians.



                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Looking to the future, the Department is seeking funding for a new Political Science Research
 Lab in which to conduct experimental research and policy evaluation. It would serve both
 qualitative and quantitative researchers, as well as community-oriented researchers and those
 using focus groups to gauge responses to different policy options.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our faculty is international in make-up; many individuals started their careers by collaborating
 with UK scholars (among others) before moving to the UK. While this reflects well on the UK’s
 research excellence and its attractiveness as a collaborator, it also means new hires bring their
 global networks with them to City. The end result is that more than half of all our journal papers
 since 2014 have had international collaborations. The Web of Science database of scholarly
 outputs shows the extent of our collaborations: 180 outputs in political science since 2014
 produced from over 100 collaborations with other higher education institutions, half of these with
 a co-author based overseas. The outputs acknowledge over 20 funding agencies and were
 published in journals from 20 disciplines ranging from Demography to Public Administration,
 Women’s Studies, Communications and Economics.

 Research Organisations and Learned Societies
 Our colleagues are regularly recognised for their academic and professional contributions
 through appointments to prestigious research organisations and learned societies. During this
 REF period, two colleagues were elected to the Academy of Social Sciences (Nesvetailova and
 Parmar) and another two to the Royal Historical Society (Barnes and Rosenboim). Parmar
 obtained fellowships at the London School of Economics, Princeton University and the University
 of Oxford. Palan was a visiting professor at Luiss (Rome). Hager is a research fellow with the
 Global Institute for Sustainable Prosperity. Swenson is a member of the US Council on Foreign
 Relations and the Stimson Center’s Just Security 2020 Working Group for UN Reform. He is
 also an external affiliate of the Ostrom Workshop at Indiana University Bloomington and
 International Policy Fellow with the Bridging the Gap Initiative, which strives to make academic
 research more accessible to policymakers. Additionally, on the recommendation of the editor of
 International Security, Swenson was selected for the pilot working group of the Annotation for
 Transparent Inquiry initiative in 2017. Slootmaeckers is Co-chair of the Council for European
 Studies’ Gender and Sexuality Research Network for 2018–2021 and is on the advisory board of
 the Equal Rights Association for Western Balkans and Turkey.

 Keynote Lectures
 Our researchers regularly deliver keynote lectures, notably Rosenboim at the conference
 ‘States, Empires and Global Spaces’ (Manchester, 2019) and Nesvetailova at an event of the
 Association for Heterodox Economics (Edinburgh, 2016).

 Editorial Boards
 Members of the Unit serve on the editorial boards of numerous world-leading publications.
 Samman is Founding Co-editor of Finance and Society and Nesvetailova Founding Co-editor of
 the Review of Evolutionary Political Economy. Aran is Co-editor of the Routledge Foreign Policy
 Analysis series, has served for five years on the steering committee of the European Association
 of Israel Studies and is on the advisory board of I. B. Tauris. Parmar co-edits a Routledge book
 series on US foreign policy, Davies is Associate Editor of Voluntaristics Review and Barnes is
 Reviews Editor for H-Diplo for Humanities and Social Sciences Online. Butler is the
 Commissioning Editor for Renewal: A Journal of Social Democracy. Rosenboim serves on the
 executive committee of the Historical International Relations section of the International Studies
 Association. Parmar serves on the UK’s REF committee and Palan served on the Research
 Council of Norway panel evaluating political science and was a consultant to a similar exercise
 conducted by the Swedish Research Council.




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Advisory Roles
 Departmental researchers have undertaken advisory roles for a number of organisations.
 Nesvetailova served as a member of the UK Labour Shadow Chancellor John McDonnell’s
 Economic Advisory Committee, which included Nobel Prize winner Joseph Stiglitz and other
 renowned economists, such as Thomas Piketty. She also participated in a number of high-profile
 outreach events, including one with Yanis Varoufakis, the ex-Treasury Minister of Greece,
 chaired by John McDonnell. She served as an economic advisor to the Institute for Public Policy
 Research Commission on Economic Justice and was invited by the New Economics Foundation
 and Open Democracy to contribute to their series of public briefings by leading female
 economists and influencers upon Andrew Bailey’s appointment as Governor of the Bank of
 England. She was also invited to present at an inter-governmental meeting on the future of the
 world’s development organised by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
 (UNCTAD). Nesvetailova and Lysandrou wrote The Corporate Debt Bubble: Another Global
 Financial Crisis in the Making? UNCTAD’s 2020 World Trade and Development Report.
 Nesvetailova and Palan served as advisors on an OECD project on energy trading and illicit
 finance, and Palan was engaged by the OECD in its reach-out programme to the African Union.
 He also advised the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative on new guidelines for the global
 energy sector. Palan is a senior advisor to the Tax Justice Network. He presented evidence at
 Brussels to the EU’s Panama Papers committee and is an advisor to research on corporate tax
 avoidance commissioned by the EU’s Taxation and Customs Union (TAXUD) Commissioner.

 McDowell is advising the UK Home Office on refugee resettlement, the Northern Ireland
 Government on Syrian refugee resettlement, and the UK Counter Terrorism Police Headquarters
 on security and refugee movements. He also served as a member of an inspection panel of the
 World Bank in 2017. Aran has been providing briefings on the Arab–Israeli conflict to UK
 ministers, the Ministry of Defence, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, the Department for
 International Development, the European Parliament, and ambassadors assigned to the Middle
 East. Slootmaeckers has served as an expert witness in the asylum cases of LGBT claimants
 from Serbia in both the UK and the US and as an independent expert for Stonewall’s Access to
 Justice programme in Southeast Europe, which was funded by the Foreign and Commonwealth
 Office.

 Prizes
 Our researchers have won or been nominated for several prestigious prizes for their work during
 this REF period. Rosenboim’s monograph The Emergence of Globalism (Princeton University
 Press, 2017) won the Francesco Guicciardini Book Prize in 2019. Parmar’s Foundations of the
 American Century (Columbia University Press, 2012) was runner up for the Francesco
 Guicciardini Book Prize in 2014 and was translated into Chinese by Peking University Press in
 2018. Kovras’s Grassroots Activism (Cambridge University Press, 2017) received an
 honourable mention in the 2017 International Law Book Award of the International Law Section
 of the International Studies Association. Nesvetailova and Palan’s Sabotage: The Business of
 Finance (Penguin/Public Affairs, 2019) was selected by the Financial Times for its ‘Horizons
 2020’ list and was book of the week for both the Financial Times and The Guardian. The book
 was reviewed in many national and international outlets, including British Airways’ High Life
 Magazine (February 2020). Kutlay’s co-authored article won the Elizabeth Meehan Prize for the
 best article published in Government & Opposition in 2019. Samman’s book History in Financial
 Times (Stanford University Press, 2019) was reviewed in the Los Angeles Review of Books and
 Palan’s co-authored article in the Journal of International Business Policy was the subject of
 two-page articles in the French magazine Alternatives économiques and the Belgian daily La
 Libre. Slootmaeckers’s PhD was awarded the University Association for Contemporary
 European Studies’ Prize for Best Thesis.

 Outreach Projects
 Our colleagues have also launched their own outreach projects focused on the dissemination of
 their research. For example, Rosenboim is the founder of the Migrants’ Supper Club, an
 initiative aimed at sharing historical knowledge on migration routes and histories with a wider

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 audience through food. At Chatham House, Parmar launched a special issue of International
 Affairs dedicated to analysing the crisis of the liberal international order, and subsequently
 addressed the future of transatlantic relations on another occasion at Chatham House. Samman
 is Founder and Co-chair of the Finance and Society Network, the premier association for the
 study of finance in the social sciences and humanities, which also runs major international
 conferences each year at City.

 Media Presence
 The Unit’s media presence is exceptionally strong. We enjoyed a monthly average of 84 media
 mentions over the past three years (2017–2020), accounting for more than 80% of the media
 mentions across City’s entire School of Arts & Social Sciences. Parmar is a regular contributor
 to CNN, Al Jazeera and CNBC, and is a columnist at The Wire magazine. He usually makes
 between five and eight media appearances per month and has dozens of published
 commentaries and op-eds, including in The Conversation, Fortune and Newsweek.
 Nesvetailova regularly appears on the BBC’s Newsnight, Channel 4 News, CNN and other
 international news outlets, and her op-eds in The Conversation have been reprinted in
 Newsweek and The Independent. Palan has featured in a number of full-length documentaries,
 including The Price We Pay (InformAction, Canada, 2017), The UK Gold (Brass Moustach, UK,
 2014) and The Spider’s Web: Britain’s Second Empire (Independent, 2017), the last of which
 has had over 4.2 million views on YouTube. He was also an academic consultant on a BBC
 documentary on the Cayman Islands: Britain’s Trillion Pound Paradise (2016). Aran, Barnes,
 Blunt, Butler, Hager, Kovras and Silvestri have each made many media contributions to
 outlets such as the BBC, Bloomberg, the Financial Times and The Guardian. Finally, the
 Department has maintained a Twitter account (@CityIntPolitics) since January 2014 that has
 over 1,400 followers.




                                                                                          Page 14
