Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Stirling

 Unit of Assessment: C14 Geography and Environmental Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Biological and Environmental Sciences (BES) at the University of Stirling addresses the major
 interconnecting challenges in water, carbon and biodiversity across scales in space and time. Our
 mission is to embed the environment and whole systems understanding into decision-making,
 promoting resilience and prosperity in a changing world. We deliver this mission through the co-
 development of research-based solutions with policymakers, environmental agencies, non-
 governmental organisations, industrial partners and local communities.

 Our strategic objectives are to:

     •   deliver novel mission oriented research, catalysed by technological and inter-disciplinary
         research collaborations;
     •   deliver creative research impact emphasising evidence-based environmental policy
         impact, stakeholder conflict management, citizen science participation, and integration with
         industry research initiatives;
     •   address major global challenges by leading and working with global partner networks;
     •   develop next generation research leaders through our commitments to postgraduate
         researchers (PGRs), post-doctoral training and early career leadership programmes.

 Building on positive REF2014 submission outcomes and set within the University Research
 Strategy priority themes of Cultures, Communities and Societies, Global Security and Resilience
 and Living Well, we have strategically grown our research endeavours during the assessment
 period.

     •   Our REF2021 research staff cohort is 46.3FTE. This includes 20.0FTE new colleagues
         appointed since 2014 and 4.4FTE Research Fellows; 5.4FTE of our colleagues are early
         career. Our staff retention over the review period is exceptionally high with only four
         colleagues on open-ended contracts leaving during the census period;
     •   Annual research income has increased by 289%, from £864k (2013-14) to £2,502k (2019-
         20); new awards for 2020-21 are already over £8m. NERC success rate is currently 40%
         and we hold a portfolio of grants across a spectrum of funders including EU-H2020, ERC,
         UKRI, international research councils including US National Science Foundation,
         Australian Research Council, and from research charities including Leverhulme Trust;
     •   We lead Climate Emergencies and Biodiversity Crisis research and address directly the
         UN Sustainable Development Goals of Zero Hunger, Clean Water and Sanitation,
         Sustainable Cities and Communities, Climate Action, Life Below Water and Life on Land;
     •   Our most recent innovation is the foundation and leadership of Scotland’s International
         Environment Centre with £22m of investment from the UK and Scottish Governments
         through the Stirling and Clackmannanshire Growth Deal. This is delivering a new living
         laboratory approach to lead the post-Covid19 green recovery that is co-developed and co-
         delivered with business, industry and policymakers with a focus on building transitions to
         a net zero carbon economy.

 We are structured across six inter-connected Research Groups:

     •   Earth and Planetary Observation
     •   Ecosystem Change
     •   Environmental Biogeochemistry
     •   Evolving Organisms
     •   Healthy Environments - Sustainable Societies
     •   Quaternary Science and Palaeoenvironments

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These groups define our identity and expertise, promoting multi-disciplinary research across BES,
 the University and internationally. Eight specialist laboratory and field facilities integrate our
 Research Groups and underpin shared cross-divisional and University capability, all with high
 quality technical support (Figure 1).




                                                                       c ie n t s




                                                                       en &
                                                                                 y
                                                                              ms
                                                                                s
                                                                   So m e




                                                                  t io t a r
                                                                            tie



                                                                            ge




                                                                  nm ce
                                                                       s tr l
                                                               h e e n ta




                                                                           ts
                                                                         n is
                                                                            y




                                                            r v a la n e




                                                             iro c ie n
                                                            b le ir o n




                                                                        an




                                                                      ga




                                                                       n
                                                                     ch




                                                                   mi
                                                       ge onm




                                                      -e r y S
                                                       in a n v




                                                                   P
                                                                Or
                                                            te m




                                                   O b and
                                                  s ta y E




                                                 B io v ir




                                                          in g




                                                 le o n a
                                                           oc




                                                          nv
                                                        se
                                                        ys
                                              S u a lth




                                              P a a te r
                                                       En




                                                     r th
                                                     o lv
                                                    os
                                                 He




                                                 Ea
                                                 Ev
                                                 Ec




                                                Qu
                                                            Controlled Environment Facility


                                                        Environmental Radioactivity Laboratory
            U n ive r sity R e se a rc h                                                                   F u n d a m e n ta l
                    S tra te g y                       Micromorphology Laboratory & SEM-EDX                   R e se a rc h


                                              Laboratory for Optical Bio-geochemistry and Remote Sensing


                                                             Biogeochemistry Laboratory
                   Funders                                                                                     R e se a rc h
           E U U K R I In te rn a tio n a l                                                                     Im p a ct
                                                               Field Station in Gabon

                                                         CAT2 Pathogen & Microbiology Laboratory


                                                          Genomics & Cell Biology Laboratory               N e xt G e n e ra tio n
            Po lic y a n d B u sin e ss                                                                       R e se a rc h e r s
                C o m m u n itie s




 Figure 1: Inter-relationships and interactions between Research Groups, key facilities and
 stakeholders

 Each with Professorial leadership, our Research Groups integrate all academic, post-doctoral and
 PGR researchers. Boundaries between groups are porous as evidenced in output authorship,
 holding joint grants and shared PGR supervision. Research Groups are where we embed, enable
 and mentor new colleagues, where collaborations form and international networks are shared.
 Critically, Research Groups are a space to formulate ideas, develop grant applications and
 publications, and cultivate leadership. The groups are sustainable in that they each host grants
 and have recruited new colleagues over the REF2021 period. Our Research Groups drive growth
 as evidenced in outputs (improving publication quality and visibility), income (increasing grant-
 winning applications), impact (delivering agreed impact agendas), successful PGRs (sharing high
 quality supervisory practice) and mentoring of post-doctoral researchers (supporting career
 development). Groups are overseen strategically by BES Research Committee and Faculty of
 Natural Sciences Research Committee. Evidence for the success of our Research Groups and
 their synergies is summarised below.

 1. Earth and Planetary Observation is pioneering in Earth Observation of inland and coastal
 waters to enable better management of these vulnerable environments impacted by climate and
 society at global and local scales. We have secured funding through FP7, H2020, UKRI and more
 recently European Space Agency (ESA) programmes and have made four new appointments
 since 2014. Our research exploits ESA’s Copernicus missions for inland water quality monitoring
 using an innovative processing chain that intelligently selects the most appropriate algorithm on a
 per pixel basis. This significantly reduces the uncertainty of water quality estimations on a global
 scale (NERC GloboLakes). In leading the GloboLakes consortium, and coupling outputs with
 numerical models, new understanding of the sensitivity of lakes to environmental change is being


                                                                                                                                     Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 revealed. Our research on novel data processing techniques initiated by GloboLakes has been
 continuously funded through FP7 and then through FP7, H2020 and ESA. These developments
 are driving new paradigms of monitoring inland waters in the UK and internationally (Impact Case
 Study) and now form the foundation of the observation node for a new pan-European infrastructure
 to deliver functioning and climate resilient river-sea systems (DANUBIUS-RI, ESFRI roadmap).
 Research impact is supported through commercial and user-based service platform developments
 for inland and coastal water monitoring, driving the GEO AquaWatch Initiative and new H2020,
 EPSRC-GCRF and ESA programmes. Vital new perspectives and synthetic aperture radar (SAR)
 expertise has been introduced to this research group through new appointments with a focus on
 the observation of ‘sea-clutter’, platforms and shipping. This helps build new portfolios of research,
 complementing inland, coastal and sea observation analyses. Within the review period the group
 has extended its remit to include planetary observation. Looking beyond Earth, we identify hazards
 (asteroids) and explain the environment of our own planet by investigating other planets (Mars) as
 analogues. On this theme, we have investigated geochemical cycling, the role of Fe and other
 elemental cycles in terrestrial and extra-terrestrial environments together with the thermal histories
 of solar system ices. Stirling’s planetary researchers are supported by STFC and the UK Space
 Agency and through participation in major international space missions (NASA MER, NASA
 InSight, JAXA Hayabusa2, ESA ExoMars Rover).

 2. Ecosystem Change focuses on ecosystem function and the UN Sustainable Development
 Goals by identifying linkages between biodiversity, land use changes, carbon reserves and food
 security. At the heart of this group’s work is the understanding, prediction and monitoring of the
 impacts of change and working from individual to policy levels to improve environmental
 management and sustainability. This group develops early warning systems for detecting changes
 in ecosystem composition and function, supporting policy makers and managers in protecting and
 restoring resilient ecosystems and communities (UKRI-FLF, NERC ForeSight and SPECTRAL).
 We co-lead research on the long-term impacts of land-use change on woodland biodiversity to
 identify policy and management interventions that improve ecosystem services and halt
 biodiversity loss, funded through Government agencies, industry and conservation charities. The
 inter-disciplinary H2020-ERC ConFooBio programme addresses conflicts between food security
 and biodiversity conservation, integrating socio-ecological systems to understand the interaction
 between human decision-making and dynamics of ecological processes. It offers solutions to
 mitigate impacts of these conflicts on biodiversity and human livelihoods. Application of
 computational modelling, interactive computer simulations, and "serious games" further enhances
 consideration of socio-ecological systems, assessing public engagement with plant biosecurity
 (DEFRA and Forestry Commission) and strategic management of invasive weed incursions in
 South-East Asia (GCRF). Our field station in Gabon (Lopé National Park), established 40 years
 ago, and our permanent office in the Gabon National Science Centre (since 2008), provide vital
 insights on tropical forest resilience and climate change, biodiversity loss and exploitation (hunting
 and deforestation; Impact Case Study) through a long-term partnership with the Gabon
 Government (GCRF TRADE Hub, US Fish and Wildlife Service, Gabon National Parks). New
 capabilities in remote sensing and environmental informatics applied to ecosystem change have
 been co-developed with the Earth and Planetary Observation group. Together, our researchers
 are transforming our understanding of large-scale forest habitat processes and related human
 impacts.

 3. Environmental Biogeochemistry conducts research on biogeochemical processes with a
 focus on C and N cycling and dynamics, making explicit links between terrestrial, freshwater and
 marine realms. This group attracts major funding from NERC, including Discovery Science and
 NSFDEB-NERC. Research on terrestrial C and N dynamics has spanned arctic to temperate
 ecosystems and now extends to tropical grasslands. Work is focused on responses to, and
 feedbacks between, terrestrial ecosystems and global change drivers including climate change
 and land management regimes. Work in the Arctic integrating land-atmosphere and land-
 freshwater fluxes of C has applied cutting-edge isotopic techniques, including stable isotope pulse-
 chase experiments and natural abundance 14C sampling and analysis, to understand C and N
 dynamics of ‘permafrost-carbon feedback’ and the delivery of C from the terrestrial to the
 freshwater realm. Long-term engagement with, and leadership of, the International Tundra

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Experiment (ITEX) has underpinned leading global meta-analyses of Arctic ecosystem responses
 to global change drivers. In temperate regions we focus on upland and peatland ecosystems,
 plant-soil interactions, and land-use (including tree planting) implications for C management. In
 the marine realm, we investigate the molecular and population biology of microbes driving major
 biogeochemical cycles in the oceans, with a particular focus on picoplankton and cyanobacteria.
 Using state-of-the-art proteomics approaches, important changes have been revealed in gene
 expression and light–dark cycles of marine microbes in response to changes in ocean acidification
 and radiation balances. Related techniques are now being applied within the NERC-NRF-BEIS
 South-East Asia Plastics (SEAP) programme to investigate biodegradation of microplastics, and
 their potential role as vectors of pollutants and pathogens. Work on the global C cycle and ocean
 acidification also includes a multidisciplinary focus on biominerals, creating new ways of extracting
 environmental data from marine calcifiers and determining how such organisms will be affected
 by continuing acidification. This has transcended our understanding of the shell-bone divide,
 determining how stem cells respond to topography of molluscan nacre to produce bone.

 4. Evolving Organisms addresses fundamental and applied aspects of the ecology and evolution
 of biological systems. This group offers urgently needed eco-evolutionary approaches to
 understand how species adapt to rapidly changing environments. These include responses to
 climate change, environmental contamination, antimicrobial and pesticide resistance, and
 biological invasions. The group has designed strategies to reduce evolution of resistance by insect
 herbivores to agricultural pesticides and make bio-pesticides more effective at pest suppression,
 improving crop yields in developing countries (BBSRC in collaboration with FAPESP-Brazil).
 Artificial intelligence and mathematical modelling are optimising antibiotic dosage regimes for
 treating bacterial infections and combating emerging resistance in agriculture and aquaculture
 (CEFAS, NERC). Researchers in this group investigate the ecological and co-evolutionary
 response to different pathogens in natural host-parasite systems, using the crustacean Daphnia
 and its bacterial and fungal parasites as model systems. The group also investigates how plants,
 including crop species, rely on specialised bee pollination systems (buzz pollination) in light of
 recent and rapid declines of bee populations around the world (Leverhulme Trust). A key focus is
 on understanding how ecological systems adapt to environmental stresses caused by exposure
 to ionising radiation and on how cellular and molecular mechanisms may be impacted (NERC,
 Environment Agency and Radioactive Waste Management Ltd). This work uses field cases,
 including the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone, and parallel controlled laboratory exposure studies that
 are unique in the UK and provide evidence to underpin international recommendations for
 radiological protection of the environment. Investigations incorporating population-level data into
 understanding species responses to global change using genomic, macro-ecological and macro-
 evolutionary approaches also yield significant insights (Impact Case Study). These also include
 how maternal effect and early-life adversity influence offspring phenotypes, and how species
 invasions may affect food security (BBSRC, Carnegie, CEFAS).

 5. Healthy Environments, Sustainable Societies is delivering solutions to ecosystem and
 resource degradation that promote societal resilience. Our leadership in freshwater science
 provides the evidence behind impact assessment and restoration of freshwater ecosystems, and
 support for implementation of international water policy (Impact Case Study). This work is
 exemplified by leadership of the NERC-funded Hydroscape project on interactions between
 stressors and connectivity within freshwater ecosystems. Complementing this are strengths in
 catchment management, sustainable soil and water use, environmental microbiology and public
 health. Studies of contaminant behaviours in soil-water systems have advanced process
 understanding in environmental and agricultural systems and served to mediate changes in
 farming practice (NERC). Our work brings a multi-disciplinary approach to provide both
 transformative and sustainable solutions to food and water security challenges. It is driving new
 major programmes on the impact of marine plastics, including their role as host vectors for
 microbial pathogens (NERC-GCRF, SPACES, SEPA). Through research on sand beach
 ecosystems we have explored the use of algal saprophytes as alternative sustainable sources of
 protein and health-promoting fatty acids in food and aquaculture feed. Use of interdisciplinary and
 participatory approaches has exposed the risks from air pollution to public health for residents of
 low-income urban areas within developing countries together with the complex socio-

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 environmental interactions within the energy landscape. This research integrates public
 understanding and reaction to energy transitions, energy justice and the social challenges
 associated with the shale gas industry and other sub-surface energy technologies across national
 and international contexts (NERC, ESRC-GCRF, EPSRC, UKRI, BGS).

 6. Quaternary Science and Palaeo-environments creates new evidence of long-term
 environmental change and human adaptations, giving deeper temporal perspectives to
 environmental issues. Late Pleistocene and Holocene environment reconstructions in glaciated
 terrain and based on submarine glacial landforms, modern-day analogues and numerical
 modelling offers new interpretations and predictions of ice-sheet processes (NERC). Integration
 of process-based numerical modelling and geophysical data underpin new insights on patterns of
 storminess and geomorphological responses to past and contemporary extreme coastal events in
 the NE Atlantic and SW Indian oceans (ERC). We have identified common critical factors
 contributing long-term sustainability, resilience and adaptation in historic sub-Arctic, semi-arid and
 tropical regions (US-NSF). Our work on site and landscape histories in UNESCO World Heritage
 Sites includes the Lumbini site where we are defining new timescales and sacred space
 interpretations for the emergence of Buddhism and which contributes to heritage tourism initiatives
 in some of the poorest areas of South Asia (UNESCO). Post-earthquake (Gorkha 2015) research
 in the Kathmandu Valley World Heritage Site has guided restoration planning and given new
 insight to the emergence of urbanisation and monumentality (AHRC-GCRF, BA-GCRF). In the
 Middle East, using Bayesian statistical approaches to geo-chronologies we have enhanced
 understanding of Neolithic origins of urbanisation and associated art forms at the iconic site of
 Catalhoyuk (AHRC-NSF). Further methodological developments integrating our Micromorphology
 and Environmental Radioactivity Laboratories have given new understanding of archaeological
 human burials, maximising data recovery and interpretations where visual remains are no longer
 present (ERC), and revealing the contamination legacies of historic metal lead mining (Carnegie).

 We exploit research synergies across Research Groups when targeting those challenges that
 require multiple and diverse approaches. Highlight exemplars include:

    •   Water quality modelling capabilities in Earth and Planetary Observation that enhance
        freshwater habitats programmes and use remote sensing to refine models of primary
        productivity in inland and coastal waters, and which interface with Environmental
        Biogeochemistry group. They also refine recognition of marine plastics, contributing to
        work on plastics as vectors for bacteria and viruses within the Healthy Environments,
        Sustainable Societies Group;
    •   Earth and Planetary Observation, Ecosystem Change and Environmental Biogeochemistry
        interface to deliver large-scale observations of forest change over extended time periods,
        underpinned by mechanistic understanding of rhizosphere processes, forest structures
        and whole-ecosystem C dynamics;
    •   Integration of physical and biological drivers of biogeochemical cycling brings together
        Environmental Biogeochemistry, Earth and Planetary Observation and Quaternary
        Science and Palaeo-environments together, providing integrated analyses of C dynamics
        and long temporal reach of historical environmental contamination;
    •   Quaternary Science and Palaeo-environments interfaces with Ecosystem Change and
        Environmental Biogeochemistry giving chronological control and long-term perspectives
        on the dynamics and responses of ecosystems to perturbations;
    •   Bringing Evolving Organisms and Ecosystem Change colleagues together to understand
        habitat change as drivers of disease and epidemiology, together with assessments of
        natural pathogens of crop pests to provide sustainable alternatives to synthetic pesticides;
    •   The common theme of ice legacies draws together Quaternary Science and Palaeo-
        environments and Planetary Observation, giving new understanding of landscape
        morphologies ranging from asteroids to sea-beds.

 Our research programmes are inherently applied as they are co-produced with partners and
 agencies in direct response to need, external policy drivers and horizon scanning priorities. Our


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 approach to research impact, developed through the Faculty Impact Strategy, emphasises impact
 literacy, support structures and impact tracking. It is implemented through our divisional Impact
 Champion with support from the University Research Impact Officer. We have integrated four key
 strands that enable impact:

 1) The active inclusion of stakeholders through regular business engagement events highlighting
 research opportunities and stakeholder needs. These lead to co-produced research programmes,
 including PGR studentships, with formal PGR supervision from stakeholders and embedded
 impact training as necessitated by the applied nature and mission oriented focus of the research.
 This approach gives direct access to business organisational structures and contributes changing
 cultures, practices and evidence-based influences on public policy with specific foci on issues of
 long-term sustainability. Examples include new PGR driven research programmes on modelling
 climate change impacts on heritage sites (Historic Environment Scotland) and on woodland
 ecological networks (WrEN; Forest Research, DEFRA, Woodland Trust).

 2) Our laboratories (with ISO 17025 accreditation, as required) regularly work with external
 partners on a range of research services and in so doing deliver state-of-the–art analyses in situ
 and mobile instrumentation and data processing that further enhances our awareness of
 commercial opportunities. For example, the Environmental Radioactivity Laboratory delivers key
 evidence and technologies to support SEPA’s regulatory activities.

 3) We have developed knowledge exchange beyond NERC funded programmes with the
 appointment of a NERC-KE Fellow. This enables communication of scientific outputs from the
 Radioactivity in the Environment (RATE) programme to relevant stakeholders by fostering and
 developing strategic partnerships with industry, regulators and other interested parties, addressing
 the challenges of radiation protection and radioactive waste management. A second NERC-KE
 Fellow appointment in earth observation has now transferred to lead SEPA’s earth observation
 and digital landscape initiative.

 4) Citizen science approaches, in collaboration with Social Science and Education colleagues,
 include shared ESRC studentships and allied user engagement workshops in both national (Living
 Landscape Programmes) and international contexts (air pollution impacts) focussed on delivering
 enhanced research capacity, public knowledge of science and influencing national environmental
 policies.

 Our research activities are inherently interdisciplinary, embedded in University research themes
 as our organising framework and emphasising synergistic approaches; The University Research
 and Innovation Service provides dedicated and efficient administration of inter-disciplinary
 programmes. Institutional support for researchers includes developing workshops as catalysts for
 integrating disciplines and the inclusion of international collaborators. Recent workshops in cross-
 disciplinary arenas have included the ‘reach of drought’, ‘local supersite approaches to
 infrastructure development’, ‘vacant and derelict land’, ‘global challenges in heritage’, ‘Earth
 Observation for water quality and capacity building in ODA countries’. Programmes are supported
 with funding enabling participation of international colleagues in Stirling-based workshops. This
 support also enables Stirling colleagues to travel internationally for the purpose of initiating and
 fostering international and interdisciplinary research collaborations. Our weekly internal seminars
 give opportunities for all Research Groups, including PhD students, to present recent ideas and
 research findings, and in doing so test and stimulate new collaborative research. These activities
 enhance our interconnectedness, contributing to international authorship of research outputs and
 opportunities for early career researchers.

 Open access is a priority for all research outputs from BES via green and gold routes in a manner
 compliant with funder, publisher, ethical and legal requirements. Research data associated with
 research projects is stored in DataStorre (Stirling Online Repository for Research Data), publicly
 accessible at https://datastorre.stir.ac.uk. DataStorre enables safekeeping, with a unique and
 persistent identifier and fully searchable metadata.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Based on The Concordat to Support Research Integrity the University implements a Code of Good
 Research Practice that all staff and PGRs follow. This sets out standards and responsibilities for
 staff involved in research – from project initiation through to publication and data curation - and
 serves to encourage and maintain a culture of respect and practice for the highest standards of
 integrity and honesty. All research projects from concept through to field, laboratory and data
 analyses are subject to ethical scrutiny through General University Ethics Panel or the Animal
 Welfare and Ethical Review Body. We reinforce this through Research Groups sharing exemplary
 practice and giving guided support to all colleagues. Concentrated support is given to PGRs in
 developing exemplary ethical practice, particularly where there may be different cultural norms.
 Where we work internationally our norm is to develop and work within the boundaries of an agreed
 Memorandum of Understanding and we draw on and respect the three domains of COHREDs
 Research Fairness Initiative.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 Our staffing strategy of attracting and retaining high quality staff is based on the research portfolio
 of applicants, potential for development and in response to external environments and
 opportunities. Each of the six Research Groups have been strengthened during the REF2021
 review period with recruitment at all grades to give early career opportunity, mid-career
 establishment and research leadership.

 Our REF2021 cohort is 46.3FTE comprising 11.0FTE Professor (two of our Professors hold senior
 Faculty positions as Dean and Associate Dean - Research), 11.8FTE Associate Professor / Senior
 Lecturer, 19.1FTE Lecturer and 4.4FTE Research Fellow; 5.4FTE are ECRs. During the
 assessment period we have recruited 3.9FTE Research Fellows 12FTE Lecturers, 2FTE
 Associate Professors, and 2FTE Professors. We also support 20.2FTE Research Assistants.

 We have a balanced demographic range from early career to senior colleagues and our
 succession approach has focussed on strategic development of opportunities for successful
 transitions between academic grades. There have been 17 promotions during the review period,
 primarily based on external review of research performance indicators (five to professor, six to
 associate professor / reader and six to senior lecturer). We have created a research culture of
 enthusiasm, dynamism and opportunity, stimulating increases in research awards and impact by
 all Research Groups.

 The University was one of the first signatories in the UK of the RCUK Researchers Concordat
 2009 and we are signatories to the revised Concordat 2019. Its implementation earned Stirling the
 EU HR Excellence in Research Award in 2011 continuing to our most recent 2020 award.
 Evidence of the Concordat’s continuing positive influence within BES are research induction
 programmes upon employment, peer to peer mentoring arrangements for all staff, and mentoring
 of early career staff by senior colleagues. Dedicated funds are available for RFs and RAs to attend
 specialist training events and conferences. Limited bridging funding from one grant to another is
 also available for RFs and RAs although the emphasis is on creating open-ended posts for these
 colleagues where possible.

 The Stirling Researcher Development Programme, mapped to the Vitae Researcher Development
 Framework and managed by the University’s Institute for Advanced Studies, is available for all
 staff. To support and develop the potential of individual researchers an annual performance review
 scheme, ‘Achieving Success’, is undertaken by all staff. This framework provides the opportunity
 to reflect on achievements and plan short- and long- term goals guided by workload modelling.
 This review is also used to provide information on staff activities, aspirations and resource
 requirements, in turn facilitating development of Faculty planning and promotions processes. Our
 environment is highly supportive for early career colleagues and includes start-up and recurrent
 financial support, mentoring, reduced teaching load (typically a maximum 25% of workload time
 in the first year) together with training opportunities to expand potential.

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Post-doctoral and post-graduate forums contribute directly to BES strategy and management
 through research and staff committees. Introduction to inter-disciplinary research is made through
 the Stirling Crucible programme, working with colleagues from across the University. This offers
 models and practical experience for interdisciplinary working and pump-priming opportunities.
 Direct research support for all research grant applications is given by a dedicated Research
 Development Officer. This, together with the Research Groups, supports colleagues in the
 research grant application process, including grant craft workshops, review and mock interviews.

 Non-probationary academic staff are eligible for one six-month period of research leave after six
 full semesters of completed service. Appropriate activities include development of new ambitious
 research proposals, extended field and laboratory research and leading on major team-based
 research paper writing and impact development. Between 2014-20 nine colleagues have
 undertaken thirty-nine months of research leave.

 Our Honorary staff are drawn from statutory environmental agencies, NGOs and businesses to
 develop partnerships and provide guidance on matters ranging from research innovation to
 maximising research impact. Our consultations and workshops with industry and involving national
 and international organisations stimulate ongoing engagement with industry representatives
 ensuring that our research is co-designed and of maximum relevance to the user community.
 These partnerships are increasingly embedded within research programmes and enhance our
 research environment through funding and co-supervision of PGRs, providing placement facilities
 and career expertise for PGRs, and input into project advisory boards. The effectiveness of this
 approach is now exemplified by the creation of Scotland’s International Environment Centre.

 Success in research, innovation and impact endeavours is rewarded financially with uplift in
 personal research accounts based on an internally agreed weighting of income, studentships and
 publications, and is invested to enhance networking, support new staff, research studentships and
 facilities. Reward is also through a promotions system that explicitly includes research
 performance indicators.

 We support colleagues in the delivery of impact through the work of a designated impact
 ‘champion’ with close links to industry and through Faculty initiatives that include a series of impact
 workshops and fora with case study discussions, toolkits developed to highlight routes to impact,
 recording and curation of impact and impact related to public engagement.


 Equality and Diversity

 Equality and Diversity is integral to the BES research environment and is embedded in our
 committee structures, recruitment processes and staff training. The Equality and Diversity
 Committee within BES was instigated in 2013, and we received Bronze Athena SWAN awards in
 2015 and 2019. BES colleagues are active participants in the Aurora programme - designed to
 encourage and develop research leadership in women through mentoring and role models and
 which has enhanced research participation. All colleagues at grades 7 and above have
 participated. We ensure equality within our committee structure and recruitment panels, actively
 encourage female speakers in seminar programmes and as alumni speakers at our PGR
 symposium.

 In 2014, we pioneered a 6-month ‘return to research sabbatical’ to support lecturing staff returning
 from parental/adoption leave enabling them to focus entirely on research. Three sabbaticals to
 date have been awarded (2017, 2019, 2020) leading to outputs that include high profile papers
 (Science; Science Advances). This policy covers teaching and administrative duties of academic
 staff returning from parental leave through short-term teaching appointments. This exemplary
 practice has now been adopted across the University.



                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have introduced commitments to flexible working and support for staff and research students
 returning from periods of leave by giving particular attention to research application processes and
 implementation that recognises commitments to caring responsibilities. In doing so we have
 enhanced support for all colleagues across all areas of activity. The University’s technical
 infrastructure enables home access to shared drives and a wide range of licensed online
 applications so academic staff can work flexibly and remotely, with the supportive atmosphere of
 a scholarly community maintained. Most flexible working is implemented informally, and staff
 adjust working hours to cater for family commitments and travel needs. Staff surveys indicate that
 informal flexible working is appreciated and used regularly to enable care for families during
 pressured times, for example school holidays, when children or family members are ill or for care
 of elderly relatives. There has been one application for formal flexible working within the past three
 years as part of new arrangements for parental leave, and this was successful. Following periods
 of leave (for parental leave, illness, or carer responsibilities), staff can apply to work flexibly or
 part-time upon their return. If they wish, they can request a move to part-time work for a defined
 period and return to full-time work (two requests between 2015 and 2017 were granted).


 Research Students

 Current PGR cohort is 65 (head count; years 1-4) and our recruitment strategy has delivered a
 critical mass of PGRs that consistently delivers research outputs of significant impact to both
 academic and industrial partners. Recruitment success draws from four strands: integration within
 leading UKRI Doctoral Training Partnerships supported by additional university investment and
 industrial partners; strong ability to secure end-user/industry funding, often co-funded with
 University investment; our capability to recruit overseas students on prestigious home-country
 funding bursaries; and attracting self-funded PGRs, including those on part-time programmes.

 Since 2013 BES has been a core member of the NERC IAPETUS DTP through which we have
 achieved significant recruitment success. NERC IAPETUS2 is now one of the largest DTPs in the
 UK placing us in an expanded collaborative PGR training consortium (alongside Durham,
 Newcastle, Glasgow, Heriot-Watt, St Andrews, Centre for Ecology and Hydrology, British
 Geological Survey and British Antarctic Survey). The University supports a minimum of two
 studentships a year as part of the NERC-DTP. From 2013-14, 40% of our DTP PGRs have been
 CASE with fourteen different organisations providing CASE support. We are also a member of
 NERC-SUPER, ESRC-funded Scottish Graduate School of Social Sciences and BBSRC-EastBio.
 We are strategically placed to exploit national funding sources with Historic Environment Scotland,
 NatureScot and Scottish Government’s HydroNation Scholars scheme all supporting our PGRs.
 Just under a third of our PhD projects receive some form of co-funding from end-users or industry;
 these close industry ties help maximise the impact of our research, strengthen PGR training
 opportunities and enhance PGR career prospects in government, industry and environmental
 charities. Our PGR community benefits from an extensive support network and rigorous,
 constructive progress monitoring. This is independent from supervisors and includes regular
 meeting with the PGR Tutor and Associate Faculty Dean-Research. The student-led BES PGR
 Forum meets regularly to discuss PGR issues and support needs. It also interfaces with the
 Postdoctoral Forum, giving a clear understanding of career progression within academia, and is
 represented on Faculty and Divisional Research Committees, Equality and Diversity Committee
 and in the divisional Staff Committee.

 New PhD students are assigned a peer mentor (an established PhD student) and attend a
 programme of internal induction events to assist integration and facilitate cohort building. We have
 three dedicated PGR Tutors - members of academic staff who offer independent academic
 guidance, pastoral support and implement training activities. PhD progress is monitored by PGR
 Progress Committee at four checkpoints: 10 weeks, 9 months, 22 months and 36 months. For
 each checkpoint, students submit a structured document on which feedback is provided by
 supervisors and the PhD Progress Committee. The latter three checkpoints involve a formal
 independent progress viva that includes student presentation, assessment of research progress,
 and mentorship of completion plans. This close monitoring of progress has supported

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 achievement of an on-time completion rate exceeding 85%. Our overall supervision attracts 91%
 approval in the most recent PRES2019 survey, comparing favourably to the sector average (85%).

 Our weekly internal seminars (online throughout the COVID-19 pandemic), at which the majority
 of presenters are PhD students, provide speaker training and feedback experience. Our annual 2
 day ‘winter symposium’ gives all PGR students further experience of oral (2nd and 3rd years) or
 poster (1st year) presentations. Here we celebrate the research successes of our community,
 including prizes for presentation quality, publication output and outreach activities. At this event
 we provide inspiring role models by featuring plenary addresses from recent alumni, professorial
 staff, Honorary staff and external collaborators. Our approach to skills development is exemplified
 by our PGR student-led (and staff mentored) bi-weekly statistical support group Semin-R, our
 community’s extensive outreach activities via social media and in person (Science Fair, Festival
 of Research, I’m a scientist get me out of here, Pint of Science), and mentorship through Research
 Groups. In parallel, our PGR students gain formal training through frequent DTP training events
 (often with access granted to non-DTP students), Strategic Alliance for Geosciences, Environment
 and Society research pooling graduate schools, NERC advanced training short courses. The
 Stirling Institute of Advanced Studies also operates a programme of generic researcher
 development courses in which BES students meet and share experience with those from other
 disciplines.


 Approach to supporting the wellbeing of staff and research students.

 We work hard to develop a cohesive, open and collegiate division for the benefit of both staff and
 students through our common mission. Our success is exemplified in recent surveys (2019, as
 part of our Athena Swan action plan) indicating 100% of academic/research staff feel that “work
 related social activities are welcoming to all genders” and that 94% of academic/research staff feel
 that BES is a ‘great place to work for any gender’. During COVID-19 lockdowns we have ensured
 that ‘Lab-groups’ meet regularly online and involve all research staff and PGRs together with
 informal weekly individual catchups for PGRs. Individual staff also have a ‘critical friend’ for support
 through regular discussions. As part of the University Mental Wellbeing Campaign, two champions
 have been appointed in BES to raise awareness of mental health issues and signpost available
 support and the University’s Employee Assistance programme offers counsellor support and
 information.

 An agreed workload model is used by the HoD in discussion with colleagues and, after annual
 appraisal, ensures responsibilities are allocated transparently and fairly. The model accounts for:
 (i) research activity (outputs, grant applications, impact, PGR supervision) (ii) teaching provision;
 (iii) internal administrative and leadership roles within BES, FNS, University as well as externally.
 This typically approximates 40% research, 40% teaching and 20% administration, varying with
 research grant commitments, management and leadership responsibilities. Our yearly analysis of
 commitments suggests no systematic bias towards either gender; where potential for imbalance
 is noted we address this through reallocation of duties. There are frequent, regular events that
 help foster research communication amongst all staff and PGRs, including scheduled coffee times
 and the weekly internal seminar to which both academic staff and students contribute. PDRAs and
 PGRs also meet individually with supervisors at least once a week.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Funding and strategies for generating research income.

 Annual research income has increased from £864k to £2.50m p.a. during the period 2013-14 to
 2019-20, evidencing the success of University target-setting and Research Group responsibilities
 for research income generation (Figure 2). As further evidence of our funding success over the
 REF2021 review period, total research awards between 2013-14 and 2019-20 are £14.40m
 compared to £4.56m for REF2014. Our positive awards trajectory continues with awards in 2020-
 21 currently over £8m.


                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




          Figure 2: UoA Research awards and income over the REF2021 review period

 As part of our post-REF2014 review and to enhance award success rates we assessed research
 income potential against EU, UKRI and research charity funder demand. We agreed to the
 principle that all research active staff should hold a research grant, and implemented an internal
 application process that includes concept assessment, peer support and review of draft
 applications, and appropriate workload management during large grant applications. From these
 foundations we have implemented four strategic approaches to generate income, evidenced as
 awards in Figure 2:

 1) Work with and mentor early career colleagues to build portfolios of research funding, including
 seeking success in internal pump-priming initiatives and smaller research grant applications
 (<£50k) as stepping-stones to major grant applications;

 2) Encourage collaboration of early career researchers as Co-PIs and PI researchers in their own
 right, building experience in major grant applications;

 3) Widen our funding network by explicitly encouraging international funding collaborations,
 examples of which are with National Science Foundation, Australian Research Council, the Global
 Challenges Research Fund programme (with AHRC, British Academy, EPSRC, Royal Academy
 of Engineering and GCRF Hub Grant funding), Newton Stage 1 and 2 awards, six H2020
 programmes and ESA CCI awards;

 4) For more experienced colleagues we encourage peer mentored major grant applications above
 a £500k threshold. To drive excellence in application for NERC standard grants, at least six
 months ahead of each deadline, internal competitions are held to select the best applications to
 put forward to ensure high quality applications. Implementing this approach has significantly lifted
 our research grant successes >£500k. Leading major and prestigious awards during the review
 period include ERC ConFooBio (£1.2m), NERC Hydroscape (£2.9M, £663k to Stirling), NERC
 PrimeTime (£771k), TransferExposureEffects (TREE) (£455k), NERC GloboLakes (£2.6M; £632k
 to Stirling), NERC ForeSight (£800k; £526 to Stirling), BBSRC-FAPESP (£628k), NERC
 ‘Plastisphere’ (£1.85m, £550k to Stirling.

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 As further evidence of our performance in major research awards our most recent (2020)
 successes include Future Leaders Fellowship Beacon Project (£1.19m) – evidencing our
 commitment to early career colleagues – NERC-GCRF SPACE (£3.415m, £2.811m to Stirling),
 NERC-GCRF SEAP (£1.5m, £364k to Stirling), NERC SPECTRAL, (£798k), NERC RestREco
 (£2.5m, £715k to Stirling), H2020 WaterFoCE (€3.0m, €314k to Stirling) and H2020 DOORS
 (€9.0m, €408k to Stirling).


 Organisational infrastructure

 The organisational infrastructure underpinning our Research Groups includes our close working
 with the University Research and Innovation Services Office on intelligence gathering related to
 the recognition of distinctive and niche attribute in our research portfolio and which integrate with
 University research themes. This approach has stimulated investment in new posts across all
 Research Groups and in response to emerging themes, challenges and opportunities.

 Evidence of our effectiveness in bringing the organisational infrastructure together for major
 strategic developments is in leadership of the innovation workstream of the Stirling and
 Clackmannanshire City Region deal (February 2020). Scotland’s International Environment
 Centre (SIEC), supported through £22m of government funding, will lead regional scale
 environmental change assessments to tackle the climate emergency. This investment transforms
 relationships between BES and environmental management in policy making and business so that
 the protection and enhancement of our natural resources becomes a driver of clean, inclusive
 growth.

 SIEC is committed to delivering Scotland’s first net zero carbon region, achievable by breaking
 down traditional disciplinary and institutional silos, and working in partnership with a regional
 innovation community across the whole of the Forth Valley. This includes education, private,
 public, third, fourth sector partners and local communities. With water being the primary medium
 through which we will sense the effects of climate change, the initial phase of the SIEC project
 involves the establishment of The Forth Valley Environmental Resilience Array (Forth-ERA),
 driven by partnership between University of Stirling and BT Group.

 A demonstrator project is in place (Spring 2021), working with the Scottish Environment Protection
 Agency, Scottish Water, Diageo, NatureScot, Forth Estuary Forum, the Forth Valley Chamber of
 Commerce and UK Centre for Ecology and Hydrology. Forth-ERA harnesses our EO capability
 and sensor networks coupled with artificial intelligence-based models to deliver a digital twin of
 the Firth of Forth Catchment. BT’s 5G capability is being utilised to demonstrate how the ERA
 platform provides: (i) innovative ways to monitor water quality in drinking water reservoirs; (ii) near
 real-time forecasts of bathing water quality; (iii) early warning and monitoring of floods; and (iv)
 real time data on water temperature to help inform the brewing and distilling sector. The co-
 development of the platform with our partners builds valued outputs that will help transform
 traditional methods of working, business sectors and export capability to the global green
 marketplace.

 Recognising our innovation in coupling the Digital Revolution with the Green Recovery, the SIEC
 initiative has levered additional Scottish Government investment through the siting of Scotland’s
 first flagship 5G Innovation Hub with SIEC (announced by Paul Wheelhouse MSP, Minister for
 Energy, Connectivity and the Islands, September 2020). Further evidence of SIEC’s ability to
 leverage funding is the £3.5m Hydronation Chair award secured by the University (Scottish Water,
 December 2020), to lead research and innovation across the Scottish water sector and designed
 to be self-sustaining beyond the first six years of funding. Internationally, the establishment of
 SIEC has enabled us to secure a new £1.2m investment in ecology research to establish the
 forestLAB in Gabon, expanding our long-established work there, through a collaboration with the
 African Conservation Development Group and LSE.


                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Operational, specialist and scholarly infrastructure

 Infrastructure funding is optimised within the framework of our Campus Masterplan and through
 integrated Faculty and capital planning processes and there has been continuous upgrading of
 facilities throughout the review period. Infrastructure supporting our research and impact is shared
 across all Research Groups and provides collaborative research opportunities:

    •   Controlled Environment Facility (state-of-the-art >£1 million facility), supports research
        funded by NERC, EU Marie Curie, Royal Society, Carnegie Trust, Scottish Environment
        Protection Agency, Historic Environment Scotland, BBSRC-FAPESP, Newton Fund and
        commercial activity. This facility delivers bespoke experimental capabilities examining
        impacts of modelled future environmental changes on biological and environmental
        systems. It comprises walk-in and reach-in chambers where temperature, humidity, light
        and CO2 can be regulated for long- and short- term experiments. The facility enables
        programming of environmental change scenarios in experimentally replicated designs and
        controlled remotely. Managed by a joint academic and Technical Facilities Group this
        facility is fundamental to understanding climate changed futures;
    •   Environmental Radioactivity Laboratory (ERL) is an ISO 17025:2017 accredited laboratory
        supporting research funded by Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA),
        Environment Agency and NERC. Specialising in laboratory, in situ and mobile gamma ray
        detection capabilities and dose assessment, the ERL works with national environmental
        regulators and international partners on some of the most problematic legacy and
        decommissioning radiation pollution issues in the UK and Europe, whilst also delivering
        evidence to support regulatory action. The laboratory now includes a radiation exposure
        facility allowing exposure experiments at dose rates from background to those seen in the
        most contaminated sites as well as simulation of environmental radiation environments on
        Mars and on comets. The ERL is supported by two dedicated technicians, one RA and a
        PDRA;
    •   Micromorphology, Microscopy and SEM-EDX Facility, supporting research funded by
        ERC, AHRC-GCRF, UNESCO, US-NSF and commercial activity. Managed by a Facilities
        Group and with dedicated technical and academic support this facility is internationally
        unique in its bespoke thin section manufacture of complex samples and in its analytical
        capabilities that attract researchers and associated samples from across the world.
        Analytical facilities include advanced light microscopy with image analyses, and SEM
        imaging with associated EDX element-based capability. This facility works in close
        collaboration with the Instrument Laboratory, the Controlled Environment Facility, and
        external facilities including Scottish Universities Environment Research Centre and NERC
        Life Sciences Mass Spectrometry Facility. It currently supports the work of eight PGRs;
    •   The Laboratory for Optical Biogeochemistry and Remote Sensing (LOCHS) (new
        investment within review period) specialises in the development, validation and application
        of remote sensing for studying responses of terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems to natural
        and anthropogenic environmental change. The laboratory has delivered the capability to
        monitor more than half of the earth’s surface freshwater through the Copernicus Land
        Service and now provides operational monitoring for almost 1000 UK lakes. The
        laboratory, with associated research boat, houses state-of-the-art equipment for
        laboratory- and field- based optical and radar measurements. This underpins our work on
        the acquisition, processing and analysis of data from sensors mounted on near-ground
        platforms, UAVs, aircraft and satellites. This facility supports research and knowledge
        exchange activities funded by UKRI, European Commission, European Space Agency,
        Environment Agency, Scottish Environment Protection Agency and industry. The
        laboratory hosts four RFs, one RA-technician and PGRs;
    •   Our field station in Gabon (Station d’Études des Gorilles et Chimpanzés in Lopé National
        Park) has been established for over 40 years and is managed in partnership with the
        government of Gabon. The facility focusses on tropical forest evolution and ecology and
        holds unique long-term datasets on equatorial African ecosystem function unparalleled
        anywhere on the continent. Current research focusses on forecasting of ecosystem

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        change under climate change and realistic scenarios of future human impacts. The station
        has accommodation, field laboratory and transport capabilities attracting a vibrant
        international research community. Our Gabon programme staff currently collaborate on 10
        international research consortia using the Lopé facility and it provides an excellent
        environment for research innovation across our Research Groups;
    •   Ecological, Greenhouse and Experimental Garden facilities: Includes 1) an extensive
        range of field equipment facilitating research on animal and plant populations (including
        UAVs, environmental datalogging, e-fishing kit, automated samplers), bioacoustics arrays
        for recording animal vocalisations, plus a 12 m high Rothamsted-style suction trap
        providing data on aerial insect densities since the 1970s; 2) 200m2 of glasshouse space,
        and 3) a well replicated system of pond mesocosms. These resources support NERC,
        BBSRC-FAPESP, Newton Fund, Leverhulme Trust and industry funded research;
    •   CAT2 microbial laboratory: supporting research on establishing faecal indicators and
        pathogen risk in agricultural catchments and bathing waters. Funded by NERC this facility
        is now developing critical work on quantifying and understanding the pathways that support
        persistence and dispersal of potentially pathogenic microorganisms on marine plastic
        debris;
    •   Genomics and Cell Biology: fully equipped recently refurbished suite of three molecular
        ecology laboratories, with fragment analysis and sequencing being provided through
        commercial agreements with external partners. These facilities currently support work
        funded by NERC, Leverhulme Trust, BBSRC-FAPESP, Newton Fund and a range of
        conservation charities;
    •   Biogeochemistry Laboratories: Supports NERC-funded work on global change, ecosystem
        dynamics and C cycling with field and laboratory equipment including respirometers for
        CO2 emissions from soils and sediments, field portable infra-red gas analysers for
        ecosystem carbon flux measurement, gas chromatography, DPIR for methane flux
        measurement and temperature-cycling cooled incubators. Well established links to NERC
        facilities (Radiocarbon Facility and Life Sciences Mass Spectrometry Facility) augment our
        in-house provision;
    •   Mössbauer spectroscopy facility: allowing investigation of iron-bearing materials, ranging
        from rocks, soils and sediments and nanoparticles. The facility supports research funded
        by the Carnegie Trust, STFC, the UK Space Agency, and the Commonwealth Scholarship
        Commission;
    •   Planetary Ices Laboratory: simulates environmental conditions on Earth, Mars, comets and
        asteroids. The facility supports STFC, UK Space Agency and H2020 funded projects, and
        is part of a successful H2020 EuroPlanet Research Infrastructure award. It is recognised
        by the European Space Agency amongst European key facilities in experimental planetary
        science;
    •   Instrument Laboratory including ICP-OES, Coulter Counter – Particle size distribution and
        cation and anion chromatography, AAS, CHN and TOC, microwave digestion. We
        undertake development of wet and analytical chemistry techniques; all standards and
        results are NIST traceable. Supports a range of UKRI funded programmes and
        consultancy-based research.

 We also provide:

    •   Mechanical workshops;
    •   A divisional full-time IT technician and a University science-dedicated computing liaison
        colleague providing IT hardware and software support to researchers. Key roles are
        software support for remotely sensed image analysis, GIS based analyses and Big Data
        capabilities. All researchers, PGRs and laboratories are provided with their own networked
        computer;
    •   Library support include a dedicated Science librarian and web site with supporting
        documentation on information tools and resources. This enables effective early career
        researcher participation in the research process and includes electronic Document
        Delivery Service and membership of SCONUL Research Extra. We are an active

                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        participant in the University Open Access Digital Research Repository, holding all research
        theses and research output from 2006.

 Our facilities are developed, maintained and managed by 11FTE Technical Staff who provide vital
 support in research delivery. Through University level commitment to the Technician Charter, we
 ensure their training is complete and up to date in the facilities they are responsible for. Technical
 support staff make vital contributions to the skills training of PGRs and PDRAs in the use of
 specialist analytical capabilities.

 All academic staff receive an annual discretionary fund calculated using a performance-based
 algorithm based on research output, grant income, PGR numbers to cover basic laboratory
 expenses, pump-prime small research projects and attendance at meetings and conferences.
 PGR consumable monies are given directly to principal supervisors for allocation to individual
 research students. Funds for equipment purchases (typically £75k-£150k pa) are allocated to
 groups of academic colleagues on the basis of competitive bids for small equipment purchase,
 often match-funded by external sources, moderated for early career researchers, and with an
 emphasis on collaborative research and shared use. The Universities Infrastructure Fund and
 allocated through the planning process is available for more expensive equipment and regularly
 supports the division.

 Infrastructure and expertise in relation to impact

 Organisational, scholarly and facilities infrastructure and expertise contributes directly to impact,
 highlighted in our four Impact Case Studies and in our broader impact activities. Our high-quality
 IT, Big Data processing and optical biogeochemistry capabilities enable our work on global lake
 water quality and the design of mitigating measures. The Environmental Radioactivity Laboratory
 enables and calibrates our work on protecting wildlife and society from ionising radiation.
 Dedicated field support enables our research on protecting and restoring freshwater systems and
 the Water Framework Directive implementation impacts that emerge from this work. The Gabon
 Field Station is the foundation for our tropical conservation research programme contributing
 directly to the science that supports sustainable natural resource conservation policies and
 practices in these environments.

 More widely, our CAT2 microbial laboratory now directly contributes to quantifying pathogen and
 environmental risk in a range of socio-environmental contexts. Our micromorphology and
 instrument laboratories, together with cross-HEI shared laboratories, contribute the science that
 shapes sustainable futures related to UNESCO World Heritage Site designations in ODA
 countries; these laboratories also have a ‘travelling lab’ capability for work with schools and local
 communities. Our Controlled Environment Facility is shaping biological and heritage conservation
 organisation (charity and statutory agency) responses to the growing Climate Emergency.


 Cross-HEI sharing of research infrastructure

 There is substantial cross-sharing of research infrastructure and the building of strong
 collaborative networks as a result. As part of the Scottish Alliance for Geosciences, Environment
 and Society we share facilities with the Optically Stimulated Luminescence Laboratory at the
 Scottish Universities Environmental Research Centre (SUERC). This contributes to a range of
 palaeo-environmental and georchaeological dating programmes. We are a key collaborator with
 SUERC stable isotope laboratories contributing to contemporary global change and C cycle
 research. This work has also made extensive use of the Abisko Scientific Research Station in
 Sweden for Arctic C dynamics research programmes since1991.

 We work with the James Hutton Institute through CREW and Hydro Nation initiatives and their
 confocal microscopy facility in the visualising of organic decay features as well as their “MOORCO’
 experimental tree plantings. Our Gabon field station is working with the ESA-NASA AfriSAR
 programme calibrating sensors for the BIOMASS satellite (2021 launch). Planetary observation,

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by its nature, demands high-level facility sharing. We participate in the NASA Mars Exploration
 Rover and Mars InSight lander missions as well as the Japanese Hayabusa 2 sample return
 mission to asteroid Ryugu.

 Collaboration with the NERC Plymouth Marine Laboratory has contributed to the development of
 NEODAAS and COPERNICUS initiatives. We work with the NERC Life Sciences Mass
 Spectrometry Facility on environmentally indicative biomarkers and ecosystem processes, the
 NERC ship RSS James Cook for the recovery of ocean and seafloor cores, and NERC-CEH Loch
 Leven Observatory and CEH data centres. NERC facility payments ‘in kind’ totalled £452k
 between 2013/14 and 2019/20.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Arrangements for effective research collaboration

 Our framework for research collaboration is founded on leadership of national and international
 networks and partnerships. Locally, ideas are initiated and tested though our cross-Faculty
 University Research Programmes that include Environmental Change, Extremes in Science and
 Society, Global Food Security, and Cultural Heritage. Initiatives from University Research
 Programmes are supported by a Research and Innovation Service programme manager. These
 programmes have been successful in establishing wider partnership links in Scotland, through the
 Scottish Universities Insight Institute, the National Centre for Resilience, the Scottish Alliance for
 Geosciences pooling initiative, James Hutton Institute and NERC research centres (UK Centre for
 Ecology and Hydrology; British Geological Survey and Plymouth Marine Laboratory).
 Collaborations and leadership across Europe are also stimulated by these programmes and
 integrate with research infrastructure and research-synergy based developments. This includes
 Stirling’s role as the UK lead alongside BEIS and UKRI NERC in the development of the
 DANUBIUS-RI pan-European Research Infrastructure (consortium status pending) on river-sea
 systems roadmap, delivering a new paradigm in understanding and managing the catchment to
 sea water continuum.

 We have a dynamic internationalisation agenda that brings broader and cross-cultural inter-
 disciplinary frameworks and has enabled long-standing collaborations with over 30 countries. Our
 collaborations with US colleagues are driven by NSF support for programmes on Mycorrhizal
 drivers of soil organic matter formation and decomposition (NSFDEB-NERC), the Comparative
 Island Ecodynamics (NSF) and Threatened Science & Heritage in Greenland: Response and
 Capacity (NSF). More widely, our UKRI Future Leaders Fellow gives leadership in complex
 human-environment interactions in Kazakhstan, India and Brazil. We currently contribute to and
 lead working groups on international advisory boards of major research programmes driving the
 linkages between research and impact for intergovernmental agencies and stimulating new
 collaborative programmes. These include the International Ocean Colour Coordinating Group
 (IOCCG); the Group on Earth Observation (GEO) AquaWatch Initiative; International Atomic
 Energy Agency, International Electrotechnical Commission, International Committee for
 Radiological Units; Scientific Committee of the North Atlantic Microplastics Centre - Bergen.

 During the review period we have hosted self-funded research collaborators (>1 month) from 14
 countries, bringing new research ideas and vitality to our laboratories. Increasingly we develop
 Memoranda of Understanding as foundations for our research activities and as exemplars of best
 working practice, supported through the University’s International Office. Our adoption of this
 approach includes cross-disciplinary collaboration with Stirling Faculty of Arts and Humanities and
 Historic Environment Scotland delivering environmental change research within two UNESCO
 World Heritage Sites partners in China; The Emperor Qinshihuang's Mausoleum Site Museum,
 Xian and The Palace Museum, Beijing.




                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Interaction and engagement with key research users

 Pathways to impact are developed though partnership training and mentorship activities
 stimulated by Faculty and Honorary staff and connecting academic and research ‘user’ partners.
 We stimulate interaction with the ‘research-user’ community’ through well-attended research
 beneficiaries’ workshops where our latest research agendas and outcomes are set out and
 discussed. As a matter of principle, our academic researchers work with end users to ‘translate’
 findings into workable outcomes, exemplified in our impact case studies. We are enhancing
 existing and growing new partnerships that will co-deliver research and user activity as the new
 SIEC emerges.

 Informal and regular group meetings and sharing of opportunities, experiences and best practice
 are also part of this ecosystem of academic and user interactions. We have close working
 relationships with a wide range of international and national organisations, for example UNESCO
 – World Heritage Sites, UNESCO – Geoparks, UN Environment GEMS/Water; Central African
 Forest Initiative, UNEP African-Eurasian Water-bird Agreement, IUCN Species Survival
 Commission, CAB-International, EU Joint Research Centre; UK and Scottish regulatory bodies
 (Scottish Environment Protection Agency, NatureScot, Historic Environment Scotland, Forestry &
 Land Scotland, Environment Agency); conservation charities (Royal Society for the Protection of
 Birds, Woodland Trust, Bat Conservation Trust, Wildlife Conservation Society, National Trust for
 Scotland) and environmental industries (Nuclear Decommissioning Authority). These partnerships
 lead to roles for researchers as members of advisory panels, commissions, or on peer review
 groups developing guidance on research impact, legal frameworks and environmental standards.


 Wider contributions to the economy and society

 Our wider contributions are focussed on public engagement activities, policy development,
 environmental management toolkits and work with schools. Public engagement activities include
 science fairs on campus including science and arts interactions showcasing the aesthetic and
 practical properties of bio-minerals, the ‘Pint of Science’ initiative explaining big science issues to
 local pub regulars, performance at the Beltane Network’s ‘Cabaret of Dangerous Ideas’ at the
 Edinburgh Festival Fringe and online events at the Edinburgh Science Festival - A Decade to
 Decide and Saving our Seas. Especially notable is our Buzz Pollination contribution to the ‘Brilliant
 Bugs’ Royal Mail stamp series which featured one of our research paper and figure on the sleeve
 of the Presentation Pack.

 Our research is underpinning science-based policy on peatland restoration for the Scottish
 Government’s National Greenhouse Gas Strategy in collaboration with the RSPB, and forest
 management for soil carbon sequestration with the Forestry Commission. Carbon cycling research
 in the Arctic, including the Permafrost Carbon Feedback is directly contributing to UK and
 international policy (All Party Parliamentary Group for Polar Regions; and the 2nd Arctic Ministerial
 process). In the tropics we are directly contributing scientific data to the Central African Forests
 Initiative, the International Consortium on Combating Wildlife Crime, the IUCN Red List of
 Threatened Species and the Congo Basin Forest Partnership.

 We are trialling environmental management tools such as quantitative PCR detection of
 Escherichia coli in contaminated farmland soils in work supported by NERC. Related, decision-
 support tools for catchment management have been developed and are being trialled to visualise
 pathogens and environmental risk in China and the UK. We are working with SEPA, Scottish Water
 and Anglian Water to exploit satellite remote sensing for monitoring and managing water quality
 of inland water bodies including drinking water reservoirs.

 In collaboration with Stirling colleagues in History and Education and supported by the
 Strathmartine Trust, ESRC, Royal Society and Scottish Wildlife Trust, we work with schools in
 remote areas and attainment- challenged locations. Here we translate and integrate Citizen
 Science and Travelling Labs approaches to learning into the school curriculum. Workbooks

                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developed for these projects are now being evaluated for wider school use. An unsolicited written
 quote from one of our partner teachers highlights our impact: …the kids did really well in their
 [Higher] exams – “the soil assignments that they wrote up based on the fieldwork really helped
 some of the kids pass when they might not otherwise have done so… “.


 Contributions to disciplinary and inter-disciplinary sustainability; national and international
 initiatives

 We explicitly apply our research to sustain disciplines across the environmental geo- and bio-
 sciences. Sustainability in a social sense is evidenced through research-based participation in our
 respective learned societies (research committees and boards of governance), our active
 involvement in school curriculums, research pooling initiative (SAGES) and the success we have
 had in making new academic appointments. We contribute in an economic sense to discipline
 sustainability through our anticipatory, horizon scanning and research lead in our successful
 research funding programmes, enabling collaborators in other universities, and ourselves, to
 thrive. In an environmental sense the continual upgrading of our laboratory facilities, made
 available to others, contributes discipline sustainability and we lead new sustainability initiatives
 on waste, travel and energy use in the University.

 We have excellent inter-disciplinary research collaborations in which we explicitly integrate our
 biological and environmental sciences with social and economic sciences approaches, humanities
 and engineering contexts. Exemplars include work in East Africa considering the spatial aspects
 of particulate pollutant impacts on urban social groups (MRC, social sciences), development of
 citizen science programmes in developed and developing nation contexts (ESRC PGRs, social
 sciences, education), energy policy related to fracking and community responses (NERC, social
 sciences), post-disaster management of World Heritage Sites (GCRF, arts and humanities,
 engineering) and integration of human decision-making processes with ecological processes in
 biodiversity and livelihood conflicts (ERC, social and economic sciences). During the review period
 we have focussed on environment and development issues through international development
 GCRF imperatives, inter-disciplinary research demands made possible through UK Industrial
 Strategy and local ‘levelling up’ opportunities through ‘place-based’ research.


 Indicators of wider influence

 Senior colleagues contribute to the leadership of learned societies. This includes the Royal Society
 of Edinburgh Vice President (Physical Sciences, 2017-2020), chairing the Learned Societies
 Group and Scottish Government STEM Strategy Advisory Group, and in these roles advising on
 COVID impacts on STEM Education (Cusack).

 Recent prizes highlighting transformational leadership include the 2017 Schlumberger Medal from
 the Mineralogical Society (Cusack), the 2018 Sistema Nacional de Investigadores Nivel II,
 CONACyT, Mexico (Vallejo-Marin), the prestigious Romanian Order of Cultural Merit for
 leadership in developing the pan-European infrastructure DANUBIUS-RI 2019 (Tyler), the 2014
 IEC 1906 Award for Excellent Leadership of Working Group International Electrotechnical
 Commission (Tyler).

 We currently contribute as members and Chairs to a range of national and international
 environmental committees. Highlights include:

    •   Environmental Radioactivity: Convenorship of the Instrumentation Subcommittee 45B-
        Environmental Radiation Protection; Membership of the Particle Recovery Advisory Group
        (Dounreay); Dalgety Bay Particle Advisory Group; Member of Committee 4 (Applications
        of the Recommendations of the ICRP), International Commission on Radiological
        Protection; Chair of the ICRP Task Group 105 on considering the environment when
        applying systems of radiological protection; Chair of the Society for Radiological

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Protection’s Non-Nuclear Industry Committee and Treasurer to the UK’s Co-ordinating
        Group on Environmental Radioactivity;
    •   Earth observation and Water: International Ocean-Colour Coordinating Group (IOCCG)
        expanding the remit to inland waters; GEO AquaWatch initiative leading the global capacity
        building working group in Earth observation; recent appointment to the leadership council
        of the UK Water Partnership and member of the United Nations World Water Quality
        Alliance;
    •   Environment and Heritage: Contributions to the UNESCO Chairs panel, as an expert
        member of the UK National Commission for UNESCO and membership of the peer review
        committee for Historic Environment Scotland;
    •   Arctic Science: Chaired the International Arctic Science Committee's (IASC) Terrestrial
        Working Group (2017-2019), currently co-Chair the Action Group on Carbon Footprint,
        Steering Committee member of the International Tundra Experiment (ITEX), and Steering
        Committee membership of the EU ‘INTERACT’ Transnational Access Board (since 2011);
    •   Biological Conservation: Colleagues are members of the IUCN Species Survival
        Commission, The UK DEFRA Darwin Expert Committee and Chair of the UK Bat
        Conservation Trust;
    •   Within and through the National Academies there is lead of the review of research funding
        within RSE; membership of the Royal Society Partnership Grants Panel for school STEM
        projects (2019-), membership of the Scottish Government STEM Advisory Group and the
        Sustainable Stirling Partnership. In these roles we provide academic research policy
        expertise that guides development of disciplinary areas.

 In media contributions we give informed opinion on matters ranging from biological conservation
 to planetary exploration across national and international printed and web media, television and
 radio, including primetime current affairs programmes. Furthermore, we train Thomson Reuters
 editors and journalists globally in science foundations for media reporting in relation to
 environmental radioactivity and nuclear safety.


 Our future

 Biological and Environmental research at Stirling draws tremendous energy, commitment and
 excitement from our mission oriented research leading to the successes evidenced in our research
 environment. We have strong trajectories in staff FTE growth, accelerating research grant income
 together with quality and volume of research outputs, strong commitment to the development of
 early career researchers and PGRs, significant impact in our research outcomes, and leadership
 in local, national and international collaborative and partnership networks.

 Our research environment is now the platform for the partnership-based Scottish International
 Environment Centre that will deliver the next step-changes in our journey. This includes the drive
 towards achieving net zero carbon at local, regional and global scales, water management in multi-
 purpose landscapes through the new Scotland Hydro Nation Chair, addressing the challenges of
 biodiversity loss, conservation and restoration, and the new insights needed to explain and
 mitigate the consequences of plastic wastes and related environmental contaminants.

 The environmental systems of our planet are facing unprecedented pressures. Biological and
 Environmental Sciences at the University of Stirling has the agenda, insight, skills, passion and
 resources to make positive differences to our shared home. Leading by example, the University
 has signed the Global Climate Letter for Universities and Colleges, committing us to becoming a
 net zero organisation.




                                                                                           Page 19
