Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Bath
 Unit of assessment: Psychology, Psychiatry, and Neuroscience (UoA4)
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context

 UoA4 comprises the Department of Psychology and staff from the Department for Health and
 School of Management with complementary research expertise in cognitive, health and clinical
 psychology.

 Reflecting the interdisciplinary nature of our work, in REF2014 staff from UoA4 were submitted
 across four Units of Assessment: Allied Health Professions, Computer Science and
 Informatics, Social Work and Social Policy, and Business and Management Studies.
 Considerable strategic growth and consolidation in the Unit has led to more than double the
 number of Category A staff since 2013 (30 to 66) through the addition of early to mid-career
 academics. This growth has been the result of a concerted, collaborative, and ambitious effort
 from staff coupled with significant support, commitment, and investment from the University.
 This commitment included a £30 million investment in a bespoke new building (since 2016) to
 extend provision of UoA4 research and postgraduate training by the University. The building’s
 new 1067m2 space provides two floors of state-of-the art laboratories to support research
 across a broad spectrum of UoA4 topics.

 This growth has allowed us to build a critical mass of world-leading researchers across
 strategic areas to, for the first time, make a cohesive and robust submission to UoA4. Although
 the unit context has changed considerably since REF2014, what has not changed is our
 commitment to a thriving shared research culture built on diversity and inclusivity, enabling
 staff and students to conduct cutting-edge, interdisciplinary, and theoretically innovative
 research with societal benefit.

 Research structure

 Our strategy during the assessment period was to (a) support international excellence in
 unique areas of critical research mass and strength, and (b) promote and facilitate high-quality
 research and impact across our research areas.

 Achieving our strategic aims required reconsideration of our research structure. We needed to
 form broad clusters of research strength to attract and retain high-calibre scientists, sustain
 and develop international leadership, boost competitiveness for research funding, continue to
 produce quality outputs and impacts, and better embed our postgraduates in our research
 activity. At the same time, these aims benefit from supporting research groups and centres that
 cut across clusters. With these objectives in mind, we consolidated our research and teaching
 culture within five major clusters:

    •   Clinical Psychology
    •   Cognitive Science
    •   Development and Psychopathology
    •   Health Psychology
    •   Social and Environmental Psychology

 These clusters enabled a more coordinated approach to our research activities, giving us
 flexibility to coherently tackle societal challenges and complex research questions that are of
 local, national and global significance, while more closely aligning our research to external




                                                                                       Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 priorities identified by UKRI (e.g., mental health, climate change, and 21st century products)
 and collaboratively optimising our ability to address and shape international and
 interdisciplinary research agendas.

 Mapping directly onto our clusters are research groups, labs, and centres of strategic research
 activity that have achieved sustained growth, been well-funded, and produced high quality
 outputs and impacts within the assessment period. Like our research clusters, these groupings
 pull together a critical mass of disciplinary and interdisciplinary knowledge and skills, while
 providing a greater level of focus through regularly timetabled meetings, PhD and research
 staff training, and grant development.

 All staff returned to UoA4 contribute to research in one or more of these clusters. Each cluster
 has a coordinator whose role is to be alert to new funding opportunities, facilitate research
 activities within the cluster, including co-working between groups, labs, and centres. The
 coordinator also facilitates activities designed to encourage interdisciplinary working across
 clusters, including sandpits and research-led teaching initiatives (e.g., dissertation group work).

 Below we summarise how our clusters and groupings relate to the achievement of strategic
 aims for research income, outputs, and impact during the assessment period. [Underlined staff
 were appointed within the assessment period, and academic rank is shown as: RF = Research
 Fellow, L = Lecturer, SL = Senior Lecturer, R = Reader, and P = Professor]

 Clinical Psychology [14.35 FTE: Allen (R), Atkinson (L), Butler (SL), Button (SL), Chadwick
 (P), Daniels (SL), Davis (L), Gregory (L), Griffith (L), Hamilton-Giachritsis (P), Jacobsen (L),
 Loades (SL), Marks (L), Millar (L), Randle-Phillips (L), Taylor (L), Walton (L)]

    Including clinical and non-clinical academics, researchers working within our Clinical
    Psychology cluster examine the cognitive, emotional, behavioural and physiological
    processes that link to psychological problems. Specific areas of strength include: child and
    adult emotional and behavioural disorders; mindfulness; anxiety in complex medical
    conditions; development of psychological therapies for psychosis; developing treatments for
    children with chronic illnesses; tinnitus; addiction; and the link between DNA methylation
    and mental health.

    Within the assessment period, staff within the Clinical Psychology cluster have produced
    high quality research outputs in internationally significant academic outlets (e.g., American
    Psychologist, BMJ, Lancet Psychiatry, JAMA Psychiatry, Journal of Child Psychology and
    Psychiatry, Nature), received funding from a variety of sources (e.g., Cancer Research UK,
    NIHR, NHS Trusts, NSPCC) and routinely generate impact from their research: For
    example, Marks’s Impact Case Study details how her research on mindfulness-based
    therapies has informed the NICE Tinnitus Guidelines.

    Within this cluster sits the Bath Centre for Mindfulness and Compassion (BCMC), which
    is a unique partnership between academic researchers across our clusters (Ainsworth,
    Atkinson, Chadwick, Jacobson, Marks) and University of Bath Student Services, working
    closely with the Student’s Union, local NHS and community leaders.

 Cognitive Science [13 FTE: Bultitude (SL), Hinvest (L), Hoffman (L), Johnson (L), Joiner (P),
 Lancaster (SL), Little (R), Petrini (SL), Proulx (R), Shah (SL), Stanton Fraser (P), Stothart (L),
 Voinescu (RF)]

    Our interdisciplinary team working within this cluster examines both the behavioural and
    computational aspects of cognitive science with a blend of expertise in human computer
    interaction, multi-sensory integration, perception, cognitive neuroscience and
    neuropsychology, and judgement and decision making.



                                                                                         Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



    Within the assessment period, staff working within Cognitive Science have produced
    outputs in diverse international journals (e.g., Brain, Cerebral Cortex, Cognitive Psychology,
    Lancet Psychiatry, JEP: General, Psychological Science, Science). One key strength of this
    cluster is its interdisciplinary work which has (a) enabled us to attract funding from research
    councils (AHRC, EPSRC), charities (e.g., Leverhulme Trust) and industry partners (e.g.,
    Atkins Global, BBC, Microsoft); and (b) generated significant impact. As further detailed in
    Section 4, for example, Proulx’s research is informing architectural design and Stanton
    Fraser has developed strategic relationships with creative industry partners to inform the
    design and evaluation of products and services.

    Research groupings within this cluster include:
      • The CREATE Laboratory (Stanton Fraser, Proulx, Voinescu, and staff from
        Computer Science at Bath). Research in the CREATE lab is in human computer
        interaction and focuses on the design and evaluation of mobile, virtual and ubiquitous
        technologies.
      • Crossmodal Cognition Laboratory (Proulx, Petrini, Bultitude, and staff from
        Computer Science and Health at Bath). Their research focuses on multisensory
        perception and cognition, with applications for pain treatment and assistive
        technology for visual impairments.
      • Neurostim (Ashwin, Bultitude, Button, Fairchild, Freeman, Hinvest, Hoffman,
        Lancaster, Petrini, Proulx, Shah, Stothart, Walton). This cross-cluster group is actively
        engaged in cognitive neuroscience, brain imaging and brain stimulation methods.

 Development and Psychopathology [10.9 FTE: Ashwin (L), Bedford (SL), Brosnan (P),
 Fairchild (R), Gjersoe (SL), Halligan (P), Hiller (L), Lavi (L), Maras (SL), Russell (R), St Clair
 (SL), Stallard (P)]

    This cluster includes internationally recognised expertise in child trauma, autism, the
    development of antisocial behaviour and aggression, cognitive and language development,
    and the use of technology to deliver therapeutic interventions to children.

    Within the assessment period, staff within this cluster have attracted research funding from
    numerous sources (e.g., ESRC, European Commission, Leverhulme Trust, MRC, NIHR)
    and regularly published their work in outlets with international reach (e.g., Child
    Development, Clinical Psychology Review, JAMA Pediatrics, Journal of the American
    Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry,
    Lancet Psychiatry, PNAS). Two of our submitted Impact Case Studies resulted from
    research within this cluster: Maras’s research has resulted in changes to training and
    practice among police officers working with autistic individuals. Stallard’s research created
    the first effective smartphone application for use as an intervention with young people who
    self-harm.

    Research groupings within Development and Psychopathology include:
      • Centre for Applied Autism Research (Ashwin, Bedford, Brosnan, Maras, Russell).
        Research within CAAR seeks to understand and address challenges faced by autistic
        people using education, employment, mental health and criminal justice services.
      • Child Mental Health and Development (Allen, Fairchild, Halligan, Hiller, Hamilton-
        Giachritsis, Jordan, Loades, Shah, Stallard, St Clair, Walton). This group examines
        key questions relating to mental health, wellbeing and development in children and
        young people, including a focus on intervention research. Group members draw from
        diverse disciplines, including forensic, health, developmental and clinical psychology,
        and neuroscience and genetics.




                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Health Psychology [12 FTE: Adams (L), Ainsworth (L), Barnett (P), Dack (L), Eccleston (P),
 Fisher (RF), Freeman (SL), Jordan (SL), Keogh (P), P. Smith (SL), Tabor (L), Weyman (R)]

    Staff working within our Health Psychology cluster focus on developing innovation and
    impact in understanding the antecedents and consequences of health issues. Research
    strengths within the cluster include stress and well-being, psychosocial management of
    long-term conditions, addiction and mental health, pain and pain-related behaviours, child
    and adolescent health, and risk communication and risk management.

    Staff working within this cluster have produced high-quality publications in journals with
    international and interdisciplinary reach (e.g., Addiction, Lancet Psychiatry, New Media &
    Society, Pain, Psychological Medicine), and they have attracted considerable research
    funding from diverse national and international sources (e.g., AHRC, Arthritis Research
    Campaign, BBSRC, ERC, EPSRC, European Commission, NIHR, MRC). The Impact Case
    Study from Eccleston, Fisher, Jordan, and Keogh, in the Centre for Pain Research
    highlights how their research has led to the creation of assessment tools that enable
    clinicians to optimally diagnose and treat children suffering with chronic pain.

    Research groupings within Health Psychology include:
      • Centre for Pain Research (Bultitude, Eccleston, Daniels, Fisher, Jordan, Keogh,
        Tabor). Researchers in this world-leading centre are exploring the best ways of
        helping people learn how to manage pain. They conduct research on cognitive
        processes and social factors involved in pain, children and adolescents with chronic
        pain and their family structures, virtual reality solutions for chronic and acute pain,
        evidence-based pain management, and supportive care.
      • Addiction and Mental Health (Adams, Freeman, Griffith, Halligan, Jacobsen, Taylor,
        Walton and colleagues from Pharmacy at Bath). Researchers in this interdisciplinary
        group aim to reduce the impact of addiction and mental ill-health on individuals and
        communities. They use state-of-the-art experimental, epidemiological and clinical
        methods to produce evidence that is both robust and relevant for people and society.

 Social and Environmental Psychology [11.2 FTE: Bain (R), Blackwood (L), Callan (P),
 Gavin (SL), Goclowska (L), Hahn (SL), Kurz (SL), Maio (P), L. Smith (SL), Verplanken (P),
 Walker (SL), Whitmarsh (P)]

    Researchers within the Social and Environment Psychology cluster have made significant
    theoretical and empirical contributions in furthering our understanding of values, morality
    and justice, creativity, attitudes and implicit social cognition, environmental beliefs and
    behaviours, and identity and discourse in online and offline social contexts.

    During the assessment period, staff within this cluster have published their research in
    rigorous, high quality journals in general psychology (Annual Review of Psychology, PNAS,
    Psychological Bulletin, Psychological Science), social psychology (Advances in
    Experimental Social Psychology, Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, Personality
    and Social Psychology Review), and environment studies (Global Environmental Change,
    Nature Climate Change, Nature Sustainability). Their research has been funded by varied
    national and international sources, including the AHRC, Australian Research Council,
    British Academy, ESRC, EPSRC, ERC, European Commission, John Templeton
    Foundation, and Leverhulme Trust. Researchers within the cluster generate international
    impact from their research. For example, Walker’s impact case study details how his
    research on cycling safety has informed legal changes in Australia.

    Research groupings within Social and Environmental Psychology include:




                                                                                      Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


         • Social and Cultural Cognition (Bain, Callan, Goclowska, Hahn, Hoffman, Johnson,
           Kurz, Maio, Shah, L. Smith, Verplanken). This cross-clustered group explores
           individual cognition and behaviour within broader social and cultural contexts.
         • Environmental Psychology (Bain, Kurz, Maio, Verplanken, Walker, Whitmarsh).
           This group investigates values, attitudes, and behaviours in relation to climate
           change, energy and transport. Within this group, Whitmarsh is the Director of the
           ESRC Centre for Climate Change and Social Transformations, a collaboration
           across UK university and charitable partners who research and develop the social
           transformations needed to produce a low-carbon and sustainable society.
         • Critical Research in Social Psychology (Barnett, Blackwood, Butler, Gavin, Kurz).
           This group includes academic staff and PG students from across our clusters and the
           University. Their interests lie in the study of identity and discourse in different social
           contexts, especially online.

 Future Strategic Aims and Objectives for Research

 Consolidating our research activities across overarching clusters of research excellence and
 critical mass has allowed for greater focus on further developing funding, impact, and
 international recognition aims over the next five years, including these objectives:

     •    Further enhance the quality of our research outputs. Our UoA4 researchers have
          produced an impressive volume of research outputs within the assessment period.
          Against this backdrop of research intensity, we have recently increased our efforts to
          further enhance the quality and international reach of our research outputs, with the
          aim of increasing the proportion of staff producing outputs that are world-leading. To
          achieve this objective, we revitalised our internal staff development processes by
          formalising a Staff Development team with co-directors from different clusters of
          research. This team has oversight of development and performance reviews and
          mentoring, with the aim of making our performance reviews supportive of staff’s ability
          to meet our shared research aims. These aims support long-term, creative thinking in
          promoting innovation, impact, integrity, and inclusivity in world-leading research. Going
          forward, these initiatives will allow us to continue to realise the societal impact of our
          research whilst maintaining the high quality of scientific inquiry that underpins it.
     •    Further enhance our portfolio of funded research. The applied nature of our
          research has opened opportunities for interdisciplinary collaborations across the
          Humanities, Sciences, and Engineering, and with industry and policy partners. We
          have seen evidence of a shift towards a funding landscape which includes longer,
          larger collaborative grants that address key societal problems (e.g., ESRC priorities on
          mental health, climate change, productivity and ways of being digital, EPSRC Healthy
          nation, secure nation, productive nation, connected nation). We are well-placed to
          build on our research strengths by increasing the range of staff applying for large
          grants and fellowships through such initiatives, setting clear expectations for staff
          during annual performance reviews, our robust peer review and pitching panel system,
          and seeding funds to support larger grant development.
     •    Strategically develop and retain excellent research-active staff through the vitality
          and sustainability of our inclusive research culture. To meet this aim, our staff have led
          the development of a set of values (innovation, impact, inclusivity, and integrity) that
          are intrinsically satisfying and motivating for our collective aims. Our staff development
          and retention plans promote these values by financially underwriting training,
          supporting an adventurous, inclusive, and visionary research culture through increased
          sabbaticals and programmatic objective setting, and rationalising workloads in a way
          that creates time through efficiency savings (e.g., by reducing the range of tasks
          undertaken). This strategy has therefore been underpinned by the Unit’s dedication to
          diversity and inclusivity and supporting staff development and wellbeing.




                                                                                          Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Future Strategic Aims and Objectives for Impact

 The research we conduct has implications that extend well beyond academia. As highlighted in
 Section 4, we conduct research that improves the social, psychological, economic, health and
 commercial circumstances of those whose lives and livelihoods are touched by our research.

 Our future strategic aim for impact is to continue this tradition of conducting world-leading
 research that produces impact with wide reach and significance by (1) identifying the potential
 for impact from research projects at the earliest possible stage, (2) scanning the horizon for
 situations where research results may have greatest effect, and (3) targeting potential
 sponsors of future work. We will thus integrate impact into the entire research cycle.

 Mechanisms for this integration include biannual meetings with our External Advisory Board
 (see Section 2), and management of the aims through our Director of Research, Director of
 Impact and Director of Engagement administrative roles, sitting within our Research
 Committee. This group will signpost and utilise the available support and resources for
 developing impact provided departmentally and centrally by the University. Through these
 efforts, we have already identified, and are beginning to nurture, many new lines of impact
 arising from our research.

 Approach to Supporting Interdisciplinary Research

 Many of the research problems we address require interdisciplinary working. We have
 established mechanisms for supporting interdisciplinary work. Stanton Fraser (as Associate
 Dean Research until 2014) initiated University sandpits to enhance cross-disciplinary working.
 The aim of these sandpits was to build collaborations, develop research ideas and to seed
 funding proposals particularly for large interdisciplinary grants. These sandpits continue with
 many staff attending University sandpits (Brosnan, L. Smith, Hinvest) and UKRI sandpits
 (Barnett, Stanton Fraser) and receiving funding based on sandpit participation (Barnett,
 Brosnan, L. Smith, Hinvest, Stanton Fraser). Members of the UoA engage in hackathons,
 secondments and host workshops with other disciplines, industry and the public sector which
 have led to larger interdisciplinary initiatives such as the Centre of Excellence on Human-
 Computer Interaction in User Experience with the BBC and 5 other UK Universities (Stanton
 Fraser); the AHRC/EPSRC Centre for the Analysis of Motion and Entertainment Research
 (CAMERA) which is a cross disciplinary initiative involving Proulx and has recently received a
 second round of funding; and the EPSRC GCRF RENEW project on developing resilient
 nations, which involves ten academics across Psychology, Engineering, Chemistry and Biology
 and international partners in South Africa and Lagos through a new follow up, EPSRC Edge,
 just funded. We collaborate closely with all the cross-disciplinary initiatives internally. These
 include secondments (Button, St Clair) in the Institute for Mathematical Innovation (IMI) and
 the Institute for Policy Research (IPR), for which Barnett is on the management board and
 where many other staff engage in policy briefings (Blackwood, Maras, Stanton Fraser).
 Researchers in Health and Clinical Psychology (Eccleston, Keogh, Jordan) collaborate
 closely with the Royal United Hospital in Bath.

 Approach to Open Science and Research Integrity

 Open and reproducible science. The Unit has made significant strides in encouraging a
 culture that values open and reproducible science conducted with integrity and high ethical
 standards. This has been aided by our appointment since REF 2014 of academic leaders who
 promote these practices through their scholarly and advocacy work (e.g., Button, Hahn). We
 further detail these initiatives, activities, and achievements in Section 4 (under Section 4,
 supplementary criteria for Panel A). In addition to these activities, the University’s library




                                                                                       Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 supports staff to ensure that their research outputs are made available via open access,
 supporting the process from training to grant applications and through to publishing.

 Research integrity and ethics. We embrace the principles outlined in The Concordat to
 Support Research Integrity. Within the unit, research integrity and ethics is monitored by the
 Departmental Directors of Research as Chairs of the respective Department Research
 Committees (DRC). Reporting to the DRC, the Department of Psychology operates a
 Psychology Research Ethics Committee (PREC; a subcommittee of the University Ethics
 Committee), which includes a Chair, several academic members within Psychology, and at
 least one lay member. All research conducted in the Department of Psychology is subject to
 ethical review by the PREC, to ensure that it meets broad ethical standards and guidelines
 (e.g., those set out by the British Psychological Society). Research involving clinical
 participants is subject to NHS ethical committee review.

 Section 2. People

 This submission includes 66 Category A researchers (59% female) from the Department of
 Psychology (n=61), the Department for Health (n=4), and the School of Management (n=1),
 including: 14 Professors, 7 Readers, 21 Senior Lecturers, 22 Lecturers, and 2 Research
 Fellows (61.45 FTE in total).

 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Staff development strategy. Our strategy enables early career staff to develop into effective,
 independent researchers and established staff to continue to thrive as leaders in their
 respective fields. Mechanisms to achieve this include:

    •   Development opportunities for research staff. UoA4 research staff are represented
        on the Departmental Research Committee, Equality and Diversity Committee, Ethics
        Committee, Executive Committee, and Staff Meetings and they are eligible to apply for
        conference funds to present their research and develop their research networks.
        Embracing the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, the
        University’s Academic Staff Development Unit offers all research staff workshops and
        events, an Academic Career Academy Programme, a Careers Beyond Academia
        Programme, and researcher development courses.
    •   Workload reductions and start-up funds. ECR/Probationary staff are given teaching
        and administration reductions in their workload allocation during their first three years of
        employment. This workload reduction tapers down from 400 hours per FTE to 200
        hours per FTE and allows ECRs to focus on initiating and developing their programmes
        of research. New staff are also provided with start-up funds, and returnees from
        maternity or shared parental leave are allocated twice the usual annual funding for their
        research in the year after they return.
    •   Staff Development and Performance Review (SDPR). All post-probation staff
        complete annual SDPRs, which enable them to receive feedback on their performance,
        discuss and set objectives for the coming year with a senior member of staff, and
        explore and support their learning needs and career aspirations. SDPR reviewers are
        provided with training on how to deliver an effective review, and a departmental Staff
        Development Committee oversees the SDPR process. A member of the SDPR team
        also liaises with the Department of Psychology’s Equality and Diversity Committee to
        report, monitor, and encourage equal opportunities in progression.
    •   Mentoring. Academic staff, research staff and doctoral students are all assigned a
        mentor. Mentors provide informal support, guidance, and advice on matters related to
        career progression, preparing grant applications and publications, supervising doctoral
        students, and research direction.



                                                                                         Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    •   Career Development Advisory Group (CDAG). The CDAG comprises all Professors
        in the Department of Psychology (5 female, 5 male) from across our research clusters,
        who review and feedback on applications prior to submission into the University
        promotion scheme. This group exists to provide supportive feedback and guidance
        prior to University review.
    •   Leadership Courses. We encourage staff to attend courses to develop their
        Leadership skills. During this assessment period, 12 staff have attended the Aurora
        programme (directed to early career female staff) or an Advanced Leadership Skills
        programme by Berkshire Consultancy, with upcoming attendance in the GW4 Elevate
        programme (directed to BAME staff).

 Staffing and recruitment strategy. The UoA’s staffing strategy embraces diversity of all
 backgrounds as a valuable cornerstone of successful research. We aim to be an inclusive Unit,
 where difference is celebrated, respected, and encouraged. We truly believe that diversity of
 experience, perspectives, and backgrounds leads to a better environment for our staff and
 students, creating a research environment and organisational culture that enhances health and
 wellbeing across our community.

 Our recruitment strategy has been to further strengthen our research activities across our
 research clusters. New posts to cover UG and PG student expansion along with replacement
 posts from staff retirements and departures have provided us the opportunity to strategically
 appoint early career and mid-career researchers to ensure a critical mass of exceptional
 scientists across these priority areas.

 We have appointed 39 new Category A staff since 2014. Research excellence, occasionally
 with a clinically focused element, has been an essential criterion for these appointments. In
 terms of promotions within the assessment period, 11 staff have been promoted to Senior
 Lecturer (9 female, 2 male), 3 to Reader (1 female, 2 male), and 5 to Professor (2 female, 3
 male).

 Early career support and integration into the research culture. We take seriously the need
 to integrate and develop the next generation of research leaders. Early career staff have a
 representative on both the Department of Psychology Executive Committee and the
 Department of Psychology Research Committee; each of these committees has a standing
 agenda item for the discussion of early career matters. In 2016, we started an Early Career
 Researcher Forum with monthly catered lunch meetings where staff are given professional,
 peer, and senior staff mentoring and support on diverse topics (e.g., effective PhD supervision,
 how to realise and generate impact from research, promotional routes, and maintaining a
 sustainable work-life balance).

 Policy for sabbatical leave. Academic members of staff on permanent contracts who have
 been in post for three years or more are eligible to apply for paid sabbatical leave. Staff who
 have been allocated a period of sabbatical leave are relieved of teaching and other
 administrative duties during their (6- or 12-month) sabbatical. During the assessment period, 4
 women and 3 men within the unit of assessment have been granted sabbatical leave to
 enhance the unit’s research income and output profile and/or develop and achieve impact from
 their research (Halligan, Hamilton-Giachritsis, Keogh, Russell (postponed due to COVID-19),
 Stanton Fraser, Verplanken, and Weyman).

 Procedures to stimulate and facilitate exchanges between academia and other bodies.
 The Unit fosters knowledge exchange through several initiatives, including the Royal Society
 Pairing Scheme (Hiller) and secondments to and from the department (e.g., staff from Rusty
 Squid came on secondment to collaborate on social robotics, and staff and PhD students have
 been seconded to BBC R&D). Through initiatives such as the AHRC REACT Hub and the




                                                                                      Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 AHRC Bristol and Bath Creative Cluster, we pair academics with industry partners, run joint
 workshops and have established a Third Thursday drinks meeting for the creative sector
 across academia and industry. We have staff working with artists in residence (Atkinson) and
 the We the Curious science centre (Gjersoe) to foster public engagement with our research.

 To further stimulate and facilitate exchanges between academia and other bodies, we have
 assembled an External Advisory Board that meets biannually (since 2019). This Board
 includes over 30 institutions and organisations with which we work and where policy and
 practice are made. These are the users, beneficiaries and audiences of our research. They
 include government institutions, health and social care services, charities, industry partners,
 and news media, all at the local, national and international levels. They also include the wider
 public, in the UK and beyond.

 Supporting and enabling impact from research. The Department of Psychology has
 invested heavily in supporting the development of research impact, following the creation of a
 Director of Impact role four years ago. In 2016, the Director of Impact (Kurz) met with all
 members of staff identified in a ‘self-audit’ process conducted in late 2015 as having research
 that had either created impact or had the potential to do so. These individual face-to-face
 meetings allowed for the creation of a snapshot of the range of impactful work across the unit
 and formed the basis of an initial long list of potential impact case studies for REF2021. Similar
 one-to-one ‘impact surgeries’ were provided to new members of staff on an ad hoc and
 ongoing basis. The purpose of this activity has been to ensure an awareness of the impact that
 has already been achieved by members of staff so that it can be appropriately evidenced, and
 also to identify fledgling impactful work (especially by ECRs) that can be helped to flourish
 through the provision of appropriate departmental mentorship and resource. The latter is
 underpinned by a section of the department’s annual research budget to support the
 development of impact (e.g., meetings with stakeholders, workshops, community engagement
 resources etc). Impact development is workload modelled and supported through internal and
 University funding.

 The Director of Impact also runs regular workshops on developing and enhancing impact
 within the Department of Psychology (e.g., in the ECR Forum, Research Away Days) and an
 impact half-day event for the Departments of Psychology and Health, at which researchers
 from across the two departments who had led highly impactful research projects gave a series
 of presentations about their work.

 Research Students

 Psychology currently has 69 registered PhD and 55 Doctorate in Clinical Psychology students.
 Currently registered PhD students are broadly distributed across our research clusters, and
 there is co-supervision of PhD and Clinical doctorate researchers by staff across our research
 priorities.

 In August 2017, the University created the Doctoral College (DC), which is responsible for the
 recruitment and administrative support to all doctoral students across the University. The DC
 provides institution-wide support, training, development and administration for our diverse
 doctoral population.

 Studentships. In addition to funds that the University makes available for studentships, within
 the assessment period, the UoA has successfully secured studentship funding from major
 funding bodies, including the ESRC (through the Southwest Doctoral Training Centre), MRC
 (GW4 BioMed Doctoral Training Partnership), EPSRC, and Innovate UK. In 2020, 20 PhD
 researchers within the Department of Psychology were awarded studentships, including 3 of
 the 18 MRC GW4 BioMed DTP studentships available across all biomedical departments at
 the Universities of Bath, Bristol, Cardiff and Exeter. Likewise, in 2020, Psychology secured 7 of



                                                                                        Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 the 45 ESRC SWDTP studentships available across 5 institutions and 30+ departments. This
 success in securing UKRI funded studentships is a testament to the high quality of PhD
 researchers attracted to Psychology at Bath.

 Collaborations with the public sector and industry have also resulted in studentship funding
 from the Food Standards Agency, Pain Relief Foundation, Whorrod Scholarships, Wiltshire
 County Council, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, Asthma, Allergy and Inflammation Research
 Charity, Police Foundation, and Escaping Victimhood Charity.

 Approach to recruitment of doctoral research students. Working closely with a recruitment
 committee in Psychology (including ECR representation) and Review Panels for the Faculty
 and DTPs, the DC Recruitment team is responsible for ensuring that recruitment and selection
 processes for funded and unfunded students are fair and transparent. All applicants,
 regardless of background or characteristics, are assessed on their academic achievement,
 understanding of the research, self-motivation, and fit to the proposal and team. All short-listed
 candidates are interviewed, and an Interview Decision Record must be completed in each
 case. Staff involved in the recruitment of doctoral students are required to complete online
 Unconscious Bias and Diversity in the Workplace training. To ensure a strong pool of potential
 PhD applicants, the Department offers opportunities for staff to advertise PhD projects on
 jobs.ac.uk or FindAPhD, with priority given to ECRs and to staff who are not currently lead
 supervisors of students.

 Monitoring and support mechanisms. All doctoral student supervisors complete progress
 reports every six months. These reports include contributions from the student and either their
 departmental Director of Studies for Postgraduate Research or the Head of Department. All
 students complete a PhD Confirmation review process after their first year. During
 Confirmation, students are assessed by two internal Examiners to determine whether they
 have reached an appropriate level of understanding in their area of research, are capable of
 carrying out their research at doctoral level and are capable of completing on time. The
 process enables students to receive constructive feedback from academic staff internal to the
 University, but independent from their supervision team.

 The University's Student Services works with students, departments, and the DC to ensure
 support through a number of teams dedicated to doctoral students:
    • Doctoral students with disabilities speak to an advisor who can help them to undertake
        a bespoke Disability Action Plan.
    • Doctoral students struggling with mental health can meet with a dedicated Wellbeing
        Team, and the DC hosts a number of events to encourage positive mental health and
        wellbeing.
    • International doctoral students can contact the International Experience Coordinator in
        Student Services, who offers bespoke advice, and their integration into study and life in
        the UK is aided by supportive induction sessions.
    • The Department of Psychology provides support from a dedicated team of academic
        doctoral mentors outside of the supervision team.

 Skills development and careers preparation. Our training and development of PhD students
 is overseen by a Director and Deputy Director of Studies for PGR Training. They lead a
 specific induction programme for new PhD students. In 2017 the unit of assessment created a
 PhD Forum, which involves monthly catered breakfast meetings where PhD students are
 provided with professional, peer, and near-peer mentoring and support. Recent topics include
 open science, research budget management, confirmation and candidature preparation, how
 to publish and derive impact from research, new career transitions (e.g., applying for
 postdoctoral positions, transitioning to an independent researcher), and working effectively with
 supervisors.




                                                                                       Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Doctoral students are active participants in our research group meetings, often leading and
 coordinating group meetings and using them to practice conference talks, and receive and
 provide input into new projects. They organise an annual Departmental PhD Student
 Conference and Clinical Doctorate Conference to gain further experience delivering research
 presentations and gaining valuable feedback from staff and students. This sets the foundation
 for constructively utilising feedback from peer-reviewed journals. Within the assessment
 period, our PhD and Clinical Doctorate students have authored over 260 peer-reviewed journal
 articles in diverse international outlets (e.g., Addiction, Emotion, Pain, PNAS, Psychological
 Medicine, and Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry).

 The Doctoral College provides a skills development programme for doctoral students delivered
 by internal and external training providers aligned to the Researcher Development Framework.
 Current activities include the online platform LinkedIn Learning. Students summarise their
 engagement with these diverse opportunities in their 6-month reports, completing several
 supplementary training opportunities per year.

 The University has dedicated careers support for doctoral students. Examples include
 extensive web resources for researchers, regular blog articles tailored to the career
 development needs of doctoral students, frequent emails on career opportunities inside and
 outside of academia, career panel events with doctoral alumni (sourcing alumni case studies),
 career management training sessions in online and in-person formats, and professional
 network engagement inside and outside of research. Dedicated doctoral Skills and Careers
 teams work together to improve guidance for students from the start of their studies in how to
 build a comprehensive/meaningful suite of skills by the end of their studies, to facilitate the next
 stage of their careers.

 Equality and Diversity

 We are committed to providing a supportive and inclusive environment for all staff and
 students. The recruitment of new staff and students and opportunities for support, progression,
 and internal funding (e.g., promotion and reward processes, recruitment for leadership roles,
 sabbatical leaves, submission of funding applications, conference funding, rolling research
 funds) are based on equality and merit rather than one’s background, identity, beliefs, or
 individual characteristics or circumstances.

 We have specific policies and codes of practice on Childcare, Dignity and Respect, Flexible
 Working, Maternity and Paternity, Occupational Health, Recruitment and Selection, and Trans
 Equality, which are published and regularly reviewed. The University’s Dignity & Respect
 policies apply to all staff (including casual workers), honorary and visiting staff and students
 and third parties.

 We encourage staff to engage in equality and diversity training, and we promote equality,
 diversity, and inclusivity through several processes and structures:

 Commitment to Athena Swan Charter. Principles of equality and diversity have been
 systematically integrated into the fabric of the UoA, most prominently in the context of gaining
 an Athena Swan Bronze Award in 2018, recognising our good practices towards the
 advancement of gender equality. In line with these practices, genders are well-balanced within
 this submission, and female staff currently occupy several prominent leadership roles within
 the department and faculty, including Director of Research (Stanton Fraser), Director of Clinical
 Research (Allen), Clinical Director (Butler), DClin Academic Director (Daniels), both Deputy
 Heads of Department (L. Smith and Butler), Faculty Associate Dean for Research (Barnett),
 and Faculty Associate Dean for Learning and Teaching (Gjersoe).




                                                                                        Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Departmental Equality and Diversity Committee. The Athena Swan application included the
 development of an action plan, which included the Department establishing an Equality and
 Diversity Committee (EDC). The Chair of the Committee is a member of, and reports to, the
 Department’s Executive Committee and Staff Meetings. The EDC monitors data on recruitment
 and promotions and conducts yearly or half-yearly surveys of staff and students which are
 used to monitor equality and diversity issues, including awareness and attitudes.

 Flexible working. Our work allocation includes a commitment to flexible working hours,
 benefitting our members of staff with young families and caring demands, and departments
 have committed to holding meetings within core working hours (10:00 to 16:00) and not during
 local school term breaks or holidays. We also allocate the same internal research funding to
 part-time staff as for full-time staff and have introduced staff and student Reading Weeks with
 the intention of aligning these with half-term school holidays.

 Staff returning from periods of leave. We routinely support applications to adjust working hours
 after a period of leave for caring or health reasons to ensure a smooth and gradual transition
 back to work, while also covering the duties of staff taking maternity, adoption, or shared
 parental leave through temporary staff, and we invite staff to take part in this recruitment to
 ensure comfort in the continuity of the provision. During leave, staff can use up to 10 paid
 “Keeping in Touch” days to maintain links to their work, colleagues and job-specific activities.
 The Department of Psychology also doubles the annual internal research funding for staff
 returning from maternity or extended shared parental leave. Staff who have required extended
 leave due to other circumstances (e.g., ill health, bereavement) are supported through
 Occupational Health Counselling and phased return to work plans, with workload adjustments
 to facilitate research progression.

 Staff with protected characteristics. These needs are diverse and are met on a case-by-case
 basis. This support includes workplace assessments, training for staff working with others who
 require more support (e.g., neuro-atypical staff and students), training for staff with a disability
 where indicated by an Access to Work assessment, Personal Emergency Evacuation
 Planning, and reasonable adjustments developed on the basis of Access to Work assessments
 and on a case-by-case basis through discussion with the affected staff. Examples of
 reasonable adjustments include adjustments in type of workload (e.g., to account for autism,
 dyslexia), tailored equipment (e.g., noise cancelling headphones) and software (e.g., for
 dictation).

 Widening participation and mentoring. Within the assessment period, we appointed our own
 Widening Participation officer, tasked with leading a range of endeavours to increase the
 diversity of our student recruitment, with an emphasis on the diversity of research leaders and
 research foci in psychology during our outreach and in our research-led teaching. In addition,
 our Clinical Director (Butler) has established a mentoring programme for BAME students which
 encompasses research careers and training, including clinical and nonclinical academic staff
 and external clinical psychologists in the southwest region.

 Output selection. Consistent with the University of Bath’s REF 2021 Code of Practice, the
 procedures used to select outputs for submission were consistent, transparent, accountable,
 and conducted in an inclusive manner and in accordance with our institutional values and
 existing policies, including Equality and Diversity policies. In line with these practices, output
 selection was well-balanced by gender (52% of all outputs were attributed to female staff).

 Integration of clinical academics and NHS-employed active researchers

 Beyond co-location within our new building, the clinical team is well-integrated in the
 Department of Psychology and wider University. Our Clinical Director is a Deputy Head of
 Department, and the Programme Director is Director of the Centre for Mindfulness and



                                                                                         Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Compassion, which is a joint initiative with University Student Services, and also sits on the
 University’s Health and Well-being Steering Committee. Clinical academics have leadership
 positions on the Psychology Research Ethics Committee (PREC), ESRC SWDTP Committee
 and in departmental research clusters. Clinical and nonclinical academic staff co-supervise
 postdoctoral, doctoral and MSc students, collaborating on more than 20 research projects.
 Clinical academics teach on the undergraduate Psychology and MSc programmes, nonclinical
 academics teach on the DClinPsy programme, and all staff present at the departmental
 seminar series and research group seminar series. The DClinPsy team hosts a monthly
 seminar on clinical research skills that is open to all staff and PGR students in the department,
 and our DClinPsy Research Director co-leads a mentoring scheme for PhD students in the
 department. Final year DClinPsy students organise an annual conference to disseminate their
 research, attended by a range of academic staff and PGR students.

 Research career development of clinical researchers

 Development opportunities available to all staff and postgraduate research students are also
 available to clinical trainees and researchers. Trainees from our DClinPsy programme have
 successfully obtained appointments in academic roles, including doctoral and postdoctoral
 clinical fellowships (NIHR, Wellcome Trust) within the Department and other institutions
 (Oxford Centre for Anxiety Disorders and Trauma). Clinical academic staff provide an annual
 information evening on clinical research fellowships. Our Academic Director of the DClinPsy
 programme (Daniels) is on the steering committee for the British Association for Behavioural &
 Cognitive Psychotherapies (BABCP) which held its annual research conference at the
 University in 2018. Our DClinPsy students receive financial support to disseminate their
 research at conferences.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding

 We have a diverse portfolio of competitively funded research including from national and
 international research councils or commissions (Australian Research Council, AHRC, BBSRC,
 British Academy, ESRC, EPSRC, ERC, EU Commission, Innovate UK, MRC, NERC, and
 Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research), national and international charities (e.g.,
 Academy of Medical Sciences, Alcohol Research UK, Alzheimer's Research UK, Arthritis
 Research Campaign, Baily Thomas Charitable Fund, Cancer Research UK, John Templeton
 Foundation, and Leverhulme Trust), health trusts (e.g., NIHR), central government and local
 councils (e.g., Home Office, Food Standards Agency), and industry (e.g., Open Bionics,
 Wessex Water, Western Power Distribution).

 We focus on securing funding that will produce high quality research outputs and impact. The
 funded activities are numerous, but some examples help to illustrate. For example, Halligan’s
 ESRC-funded project on parental responses to child trauma produced several excellent
 publications in outlets with international reach (e.g., Hiller et al., 2018, Journal of Child
 Psychology and Psychiatry). Based on Maras’s research funded by the ESRC and British
 Academy, police policy and practice have changed to accommodate the needs of autistic
 people during contact with the criminal justice system. Whitmarsh’s ERC Fellowship and ESRC
 Centre are yielding international reach in both outputs and impact regarding key
 interdisciplinary issues in addressing climate change.
 Strategies for generating income

 Generating research income is supported and incentivised via several institutional and
 departmental mechanisms:




                                                                                      Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institutional strategies and support. The University’s Research and Innovation Services
 (RIS) provides advice on grant preparation and submission procedures, project costing and
 financial management. RIS also provides specific research development training, such as
 workshops on funding proposals, “Application Surgeries” and “Shut Up and Write” sessions.
 Research Development Managers, who organise and facilitate these initiatives, have extensive
 experience preparing successful funding applications. The University helps researchers
 identify sources of research funding through Research Professional, the University's database
 for research funding opportunities. These updates are communicated to staff regularly through
 “Funding@Bath” communications and they highlight funding opportunities for part-time staff
 and staff returning after career breaks.

 Departmental strategies and support. Adopting a creative think-tank approach, our lab
 group or centre meetings perform informal peer review (e.g., by discussing grant proposals in
 development), and a Deputy Research Director leads formal peer review, including a regular
 Peer Review Pitching Panel. Through the panel, staff receive supportive and constructive
 feedback on their research project ideas from key staff in RIS and from diverse colleagues with
 experience on grant assessment panels (e.g., Callan, Maio, Stanton Fraser) or a track record
 of achieving external grant funding through competition (e.g., Barnett, Freeman, Halligan). The
 panels facilitate growth in general ideas and draft proposals, while signposting opportunities for
 international and interdisciplinary working. Our internal funding allocation mechanisms ensure
 diversity of assessment panels, to ensure a broad range of voices and perspectives in the
 decision-making and feedback processes.

 Infrastructure and facilities supporting research

 The unit’s research infrastructure transformed dramatically within the assessment period
 following the opening of the £30 million 10 West building in 2016, reflecting a major investment
 in UoA4 research by the University. Along with significant investments in state-of-the-art
 research facilities and equipment, the opening of 10 West resulted in a four-fold increase in
 total research space available to research staff and students (from 260m2 in 6 West to 1067m2
 in 10 West). This transformative expansion has enabled UoA4 staff and students across our
 research clusters to explore new lines of research that were not previously possible, including
 research on cross-modal integration, human-computer interaction, real-time social interaction,
 inter-brain synchrony, judgment and decision making in virtual environments, and child
 development.

 Reflecting our strong culture of inclusivity, collaboration, and maximising benefit for PhD
 researchers, all research space and equipment is freely bookable (using a centralised online
 booking system) for all staff and students.

 10 West features a suite of purpose-built, specialised laboratories alongside general research
 and teaching accommodation. The world-class, cutting-edge facilities comprise:

    •   Virtual Reality Suite. The VR Suite is a blacked-out 25m2 space with motion sensor
        cameras, networked computing and software (e.g., Unity), and Oculus Rifts.
    •   Pain Labs. These labs comprise Electrical, Pathway and Cold Pressor rooms, with a
        networked PC and experimental software in each room.
    •   Centre for Applied Autism Research (CAAR) Lab. The CAAR lab has two research
        rooms with a networked PC in each.
    •   Eye Tracker Lab. This lab uses a stationary Tobii Eye Tracker to run experiments with
        Tobii Studio or E-Prime, and an additional networked PC.
    •   PsychoBiology Suite. This suite includes a research kitchen (for preparing
        experimental substances), waiting area, a testing area with a two-way mirror and a bio-
        storage area.




                                                                                       Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    •   CrossModal Perception Lab. This lab includes a sound proofed testing area and
        separate small and large testing spaces.
    •   EEG Faraday Cages. One large Faraday Cage is used for interactive and social EEG
        experiments. Two smaller Faraday cages enable single EEG recording. The two
        smaller cages include Geodesic EEG System 400.
    •   Flexible Lab. The flexible lab contains the Research BioPac system. There are 19 PCs
        in this room for use with the BioPacs and 10 Tobii mobile eye trackers.
    •   Baby Lab and Developmental Observation Suite. Alongside a baby-friendly waiting
        room, this suite features a two-way mirror and several integral recording cameras. A
        networked PC in the suite is equipped with Observer XT software for conducting video
        and audio analysis.
    •   Social Observation Suite. This suite features a two-way mirror and several integral
        recording cameras. A moveable wall allows for two smaller rooms or one large
        interaction space.
    •   CREATE - Human Computer Interaction Lab. This 49m2 space includes networked
        PCs using a range of equipment, including a Nao robot, Cozmo robots and VR
        equipment such as Oculus Rifts and Oculus Go’s.

 The University provides fully-funded and licenced specialist experiment generation (e.g.,
 PsychoPy, E-Prime, Inquisit/Inquisit Web, Qualtrics) and data analysis (e.g., MPlus,
 Covidence, Atlas, Express Scribe, NVivo, Matlab) software. Staff and student researchers
 have access to large participant pools, including a robust undergraduate Research
 Participation Scheme and a Research Community Participation Panel. Clinical researchers
 draw on links with local NHS Service-User groups and those developed in partnership with
 local and national charities (e.g., OCD-UK, Hoarding UK). We also have a committee for
 People with Personal Experience (PPE) who advise staff and clinical doctorate students on
 individual research projects at all stages. In 2019, the Department invested in a Prolific.co
 Fund to enhance the quality of our research outputs through professional, highly-powered
 online survey and experimental research.

 Research management and technical support. Our research is supported by a Research
 Hub Team, which includes two academics, an Experimental Officer and a Research
 Technician. The technical team has specialist expertise in the available software, equipment
 and facilities (e.g., BioPacs), and they provide continual support and training to research staff
 and students (e.g., one-to-one support, workshops). They are also part of the Departmental
 Research Committee with a standing agenda item.

 Maintaining and upgrading infrastructure and facilities supporting research.

 Within the assessment period, the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences annual research
 infrastructure budget has supported ongoing software and equipment upgrades (e.g., license
 renewals, EEG consumables). This budget and external grant funding have also stimulated
 expansions and upgrades, including specialised programmes and software packages (e.g.,
 SPM12, FSL, FreeSurfer) and high specification equipment capable of complex mobile
 recording and analysis involving research with infants (e.g., Eye Link 1000 eye tracker, lab
 furnishing for infants and their carers). These investments have led to a step-change in the
 NeuroStim group’s capacity to analyse data collected in Bath and at other imaging facilities
 (e.g., the FMRIB centre in Oxford, the Centre of Neuroimaging Sciences at IoPPN in London,
 MRC CBU in Cambridge), and increased the range of research options for studies of infant
 development.




                                                                                       Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Arrangements for effective collaborations, networks, and partnerships

 Effective local, national, and international research collaborations are achieved by a variety of
 mechanisms. Within the University, the Research Development team in RIS host workshops
 and sandpits to help develop interdisciplinary collaborations across the University.

 Collaborations within and across our UoA4 research groupings and centres are developed
 through, for example, cross-grouping supervision of PhD students and collaboration and team
 building sessions during Departmental Research Away Days. The Department of Psychology’s
 Conference Support Fund supports bids to attend international meetings that provide
 opportunities for international networking and collaboration. These collaborations are also
 aided by a Psychology Seminar Series featuring national and international experts and pre-
 and post-interaction with speakers, now jointly led with the University of Bristol.

 Regionally, the University’s key involvement with the GW4 Alliance (Bath, Bristol, Cardiff and
 Exeter) and the GW4’s Building Communities Generator Fund supports the creation of new
 GW4 communities and the development of ideas emerging from our existing communities.
 Within the assessment period, UoA4 researchers have received GW4 alliance funding to
 collaboratively investigate trauma and posttraumatic stress disorder in young people
 (Halligan), suicide, self-harm, and homicide in parent carers (Maras), and self-harm and
 suicide in children (Stallard).

 National and International Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

 National collaborations. Noteworthy funded research collaborations within the UK include:
 University of Southampton and several other partners (NIHR FeNO project; Ainsworth),
 University of Northumbria (ESRC CuRAtOR project, also with Newcastle University and
 University of Nottingham; Barnett), Loughborough University (cross-council funded LIDA
 project, also with University of Exeter and Northumbria University, Barnett), Imperial College
 London (cross-council and government funded project on understanding public risks, Barnett),
 University of Edinburgh and 6 other UK partners (Arthritis Research UK PACFiND project;
 Eccleston), University College London (MRC CANN-TEEN project; Freeman), University of
 Reading and several other UK university partners (ESRC Emerging Minds project, Halligan),
 University of Edinburgh and other UK university partners (NIHR project on addressing trauma-
 related distress of young people in care; Hiller and Halligan), Cardiff University and other UK
 Partners (ESRC Mental Representations of Children and Templeton Foundation Intellectual
 Humility, Maio), The AHRC Bristol and Bath Creative Industries Cluster (AHRC; Stanton
 Fraser), Bristol University and UWE (EPSRC Virtual Realities), Cardiff University and other UK
 partners (ESRC Centre for Climate Change & Social Transformations; Whitmarsh), and
 University of Exeter and other UK partners (NERC project on the dynamics of community
 responses to shale gas; Whitmarsh).

 International collaborations. Our team is engaged with partners in over 40 nations, including
 many less developed nations. Noteworthy funded international collaborations include: Taisho
 University, Tokyo (The John and Lorna Wing Foundation; Ashwin and Brosnan), Victoria
 University Wellington and University of Queensland (Australia Research Council; Bain), The
 EU Horizon 2020 Stance4Health project (consisting of 19 partners from 8 European countries;
 Barnett), Stellenbosch University EPSRC ReNEW; Barnett and Stanton Fraser) Karnataka
 University, India, and Universidade Federal do Mato Grosso do Sul (UFMS) in Brazil
 (Research England GCRF; Maio, Smith), McGill University and other global partners (Family
 Navigator Project, Canadian Institutes of Health Research, Bedford), Western University,
 Canada (Leverhulme Trust; Callan), EU-funded FemNAT-CD Consortium (including 17



                                                                                       Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 partners; Fairchild), University of Cologne (German Research Foundation, Hahn), University of
 Cape Town (MRC project on psychological and physical health impacts of childhood trauma;
 Halligan and Fairchild), Stellenbosch University (Research England GCRF, Hiller, Halligan, M.
 Loades, P. Smith), University of Connecticut (Templeton Foundation changing attitudes in
 public discourse project; Maio), the ENIGMA consortium (worldwide, over 1400 scientists
 across 43 countries; Walton), EU Horizon 2020 Foresee Project (collaboration involving 18
 partners; Walker), EU Horizon 2020 EarlyCause Project (collaboration between 13 European
 research institutions; Walton), EU Horizon 2020 CHEETAH project (Energy Research Centre
 of the Netherlands and several EU and UK university partners; Whitmarsh).

 Collaboration with commercial, charitable, and governmental bodies. Our researchers
 have collaborated extensively with and/or received research funds from numerous commercial,
 charitable, and governmental bodies. Examples include: Coca-Cola Enterprises (Barnett),
 Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Barnett, Whitmarsh), Food Standards
 Agency (Barnett, Whitmarsh), Cabinet Office (Barnett), Bath & N E Somerset Council (Barnett,
 Kurz, Shah), Wessex Water Enterprises Ltd (Barnett), National Childcare Trust (Bedford),
 Early Years Alliance (Bedford), JP Morgan Chase (Brosnan), National Autistic Society (CAAR,
 Shah), Dartmouth-Hitchcock Foundation (Bultitude), MayDay Foundation (Eccleston), Pain
 Relief Foundation (Jordan), NSPCC (Hamilton-Giachristis), Home Office (Hamilton-
 Giachristis), College of Policing (Hamilton-Giachristis), Addaction (Joiner), RB UK Commercial
 Limited (Keogh, Eccleston), Haruv Institute (Lavi), Common Cause Foundation, Common
 Vision, and More in Common (Maio), Avon & Somerset Police (Maras), Manchester Police
 (Maras), Advocacy Training (Maras), Adlens Limited (Proulx), Cauldron Science Limited
 (Shah), Foreign and Commonwealth Office (L. Smith), Sleepio (Stallard), the BBC (Stanton
 Fraser), Aardman Animation (Stanton Fraser), Sciencescope (Stanton Fraser), Friends
 Provident (Walker), and Western Power Distribution (Walker), Citizens Advice (Whitmarsh),
 Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (Whitmarsh), and the Welsh
 Government (Whitmarsh).

 Co-operation and collaborative arrangements for PGR training. The UOA’s key role in the
 ESRC South West Doctoral Training Partnership has allowed for meaningful collaboration for
 PGR training within the South West of England. The SWDTP offers PhD students funding (and
 a stipend) to study in one of 17 subject pathways as well as offering further funding for
 additional projects. At its heart, the SWDTP focuses on collaboration between the universities,
 which includes sharing best practice, resources and academic knowledge. The UoA also plays
 a key role in doctoral training partnerships supported by the MRC (Freeman as Deputy
 Director) and EPSRC, and interinstitutional supervisory collaborations supported by NIHR.

 Integration with health and social services. Several UoA4 staff are integrated and/or have
 collaborated with a number of health services, including Surrey & Borders Partnership NHS
 Trust (Chadwick), North Bristol NHS Trust (Daniels), Royal United Hospital NHS Trust
 (Daniels), Avon & Wiltshire NHS Trust (Maras),University College London Hospitals (Marks),
 Royal Brisbane & Women’s Hospital, Australia (L. Smith), Avon & Wiltshire Mental Health
 Partnership NHS Trust (Randle-Phillips, Stallard), Oxford Health NHS Foundation Trust
 (Stallard), Bristol Brain Centre, Southmead Hospital (Stothart).

 Staff in this UoA include fully integrated clinical academics and NHS staff on honorary
 contracts. Our clinical academics are representatives on NHS committees and employed in
 NHS services, including veterans’ services, hospitals, adult mental health services and child
 and adolescent mental health services (CAMHS). Others have clinical fellowships and are
 employed part-time in NHS services. Clinical academics conduct randomized controlled trials
 (RCTs) in collaboration with NHS researchers in IAPT and in general and dental hospitals
 based in the southwest region, Oxford and London. Clinical and non-clinical academics
 collaborate with NHS staff in the joint supervision of trainee research portfolios in the mental
 health of children, adolescents, adults, older adults, and people with intellectual disabilities, as



                                                                                         Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 well as numerous specialist services and in general and dental hospitals. First-year clinical
 trainees attend an annual research fair where regional NHS supervisors present proposals for
 service evaluation projects, co-supervised with clinical academic staff. Within the assessment
 period, clinical academics in the UoA provided treatment for anxiety disorders in children and
 adults in a specialist clinical research lab on University premises, funded by the Avon and
 Wiltshire Mental Health Partnership NHS Trust, facilitating the dissemination of empirically-
 supported treatments to the community and the research of academics, doctoral and MSc
 students in the unit.

 Wider contributions to the economy and society and public engagement

 The majority of our UoA4 researchers have engaged in wider public engagement and impact
 activities not captured in our submitted impact case studies. Other examples of impact and
 engagement with diverse communities and publics include:

    •   Ainsworth’s research on Germ Defence, a website that uses behaviour change
        techniques and provides simple advice to help people reduce the spread of COVID-19
        at home, is leading to the development of an NHSX app and has informed multiple UK
        SAGE reports and government recommendations during the COVID-19 pandemic.
    •   Barnett’s research on the eating out experience of those with food allergies and/or
        intolerances, funded by the Food Standards Agency, is guiding national policy
        decisions and practitioners who have the role of implementing food safety standards.
    •   Bedford and the Toddler Attentional Behaviours and LEarning with Touchscreens
        (TABLET) project team are informing guidelines and recommendations on screen time
        for 0- to 5-year-olds, through a range of public engagement activities (e.g., co-creation
        workshops with parents and children).
    •   Research by the Centre for Applied Autism Research (CAAR) has led to changes to
        training, policy, and practice, including widening participation activities to support
        autistic people in inclusive compulsory education and improving their access to higher
        education and employment. CAAR (i) created the first ever empirically-based transition
        to university programme; (ii) developed Massive Open Online Courses which have
        been taken by over 10,000 community members across 100 countries in multiple
        languages, resulting in greater understanding of autism and the capacity to support
        autistic people; and (iii) championed the University of Bath achieving Leader status
        from the UK government’s Disability Confident employer scheme.
    •   Hamilton-Giachritsis’s research with the NSPCC has led to a step-change in
        awareness of the severity of technology assisted child sexual abuse, changes to UK
        legal precedent, and to the development of training and resources for practitioners
        distributed in the UK and other nations (e.g., Australia, Norway).
    •   Kurz and Shah have been researching how the implementation of a Clean Air Zone in
        the City of Bath will influence the behaviour of car drivers, working with funding from the
        Bath and North East Somerset Council.
    •   Proulx’s research using Virtual Reality with an industrial partner (Atkins Global) is
        informing a range of guidelines for the incorporation of psychological factors into
        building design, creating commercial impact through reports for the industrial partner
        and best practice guidelines for the architecture industry.
    •   Stanton Fraser and the CREATE Lab have co-designed human-computer interaction
        projects with industry partners and charities including the BBC, the Watershed (Bristol),
        Sciencescope, Microsoft and Aardman. This work has embedded academics in
        industry, included industry secondments to the university, leading to the development of
        products and services and changes in industry practice.
    •   Weyman’s research contributed to the Department for Work and Pension’s strategy in
        its ‘Extending Working Lives Sector Initiative’, which is designed to help employers




                                                                                      Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


        manage the abolition of the default retirement age, and is continuing in an ESRC-
        funded project on implications of Covid-19 for NHS staff retention.

 Engagement with diverse communities and the public

 The University’s Public Engagement Unit (PEU) supports researchers to develop and advance
 their public engagement practice through training and professional development (e.g., running
 training courses), reward and recognition (e.g., raising the profile of scientists doing excellent
 public engagement), and leadership (e.g., liaising with key sector influencers and funders).

 Within the UoA, a dedicated Engagement Team is led by a Director of Engagement
 (Bultitude) and Media Press Team Liaison (Shah). The team works with the central PEU and
 apprise staff of ongoing opportunities for outreach and public engagement. Consequently, staff
 have taken part in numerous TV (e.g., BBC 1), radio (e.g., Radio 4), newspaper (e.g.,
 Guardian), online (e.g., social media, blog posts) and live public engagements (e.g., Pint of
 Science, I’m a Scientist Get me out of here, Science Festivals) in each year during the
 assessment period.

 The COVID-19 pandemic and associated national lockdowns led staff to take on additional
 public engagement activities. Daniels provided clinical expertise on the management of mental
 health during lockdown (adults, children, frontline workers), which resulted in over 1,000 media
 articles, over 30 media interviews, an Instagram takeover, podcasts, and dissemination
 through charities. Likewise, Loades provided public engagement around the impact of
 lockdown on young people’s mental health (>600 media articles, >10 media interviews,
 podcasts, public lectures, and implementation by the Department for Education), and
 Whitmarsh lent her expertise to Welsh, Scottish, and UK governments and their agencies
 (e.g., DEGRA, BEIS) on the impact of lockdown on low carbon behaviours.

 Approach to encouraging and developing best practice in undertaking reproducible
 research

 A survey completed by all UoA4 staff highlighted the increased adoption of open science and
 reproducibility practices within the assessment period. Over 70% of staff reported adopting
 open science practices of some kind (e.g., open data, open access, open code and materials,
 pre-registration, registered reports). Highlights include several publications with pre-registered
 studies or systematic review protocols from staff across our research clusters (e.g., Bultitude
 and Proulx, https://osf.io/8fduw; Callan, https://aspredicted.org/xb3rr.pdf; Eccleston and Keogh,
 https://aspredicted.org/4qs2f.pdf, Hiller and Halligan, PROSPERO protocol 42014014544;
 Jacobsen and Chadwick, PROSPERO protocol 42015025623). Many staff and their students
 routinely deposit their data and/or analysis code in repositories such as the Open Science
 Framework, Github, or institutional repositories. Additionally, Hahn has been involved in
 international collaborative projects aiming to improve the reproducibility of scientific research
 (e.g., Landy et al., 2020, Psychological Bulletin).

 Much of this adoption of open science practices within the unit during the assessment period
 has stemmed from Button’s internationally leading advocacy and scholarly work around open
 and reproducible science. Her high-profile scholarly contributions on open science and
 research integrity (e.g., Button et al., 2013, Nature Reviews Neuroscience) have had broad
 impact on journal and funder policies and researcher behaviour both internationally and within
 the Unit. Highlights of the approaches the unit has taken to encouraging and developing best
 practices in undertaking reproducible research include:
     • Working collaboratively with their supervisors, MSc Applied Clinical Psychology
         students preregister their dissertation projects where appropriate.




                                                                                       Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    •   A practical workshop at Bath on open and reproducible science targeted at PhD
        students across the GW4 Alliance (with the keynote address open to all staff). The
        workshop included sessions on preregistration, registered reports, open data and
        resources, and reproducible workflows.
    •   A (virtual, due to COVID-19) workshop on reproducibility and research integrity aimed
        at academic staff within the unit.

 Indicators of wider Influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base

 Prizes and awards. Early career and senior members of staff have won prestigious national or
 international awards for their research excellence during the assessment period. Highlights
 include:
     • American Psychological Society Rising Star Award: Bedford
     • British Association for Psychopharmacology Award: Freeman
     • British Tinnitus Association Marie & Jack Shapiro Prize: Marks
     • European Association of Social Psychology Kurt Lewin Medal: Maio
     • European Pain Federation Pain Champion Award: Eccleston
     • European Psychiatric Association Early Career Researcher Prize: Lancaster
     • International Association for the Study of Pain Ronald Melzack Lecture Award:
         Eccleston
     • International College of Neuropsychopharmacology Rafaelsen Young Investigator
         Award: Freeman
     • International Society for Justice Research Early Career Contribution Award: Callan
     • Society for the Study of Addiction Fred Yates Prize: Taylor
     • UK Society for Behavioural Medicine Early Career Award: Taylor

 Fellowships. Research fellowships awarded to staff within the assessment period include:
 ESRC Future Leader Fellowships (Hiller, Maras). British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship (L.
 Smith), NIHR Doctoral Fellowship (Loades), NIHR Clinical Trials Fellowship (Jacobsen),
 Arthritis Research UK Fellowship (Fisher), Ser Cymru II Research Fellowship (Lancaster),
 European Regional Development Funds (EDRF) Wellcome Trust ISSF Fellowship (Lancaster),
 Sir Henry Wellcome Fellowship (Bedford).

 Participation in national and international funding bodies. UoA4 staff have served on key
 national and international grants committees, including NIHR Health Technology Assessment
 Commissioning Committee (Ainsworth), ESRC Grant Assessment Panel A (Callan, Maio),
 Arthritis Research UK Health Grant Sub-committee (Eccleston), Marie Curie Strategic
 Research Committee (Eccleston), Norwegian Research Council Grant Panel (Halligan, as
 panel chair in 2018), ESRC Commissioning Panel for Understanding, Countering and
 Mitigating Security Threats (Maio, as panel chair), ESRC Open Research Area Panel (Maio),
 ESRC Commissioning Panel for New Forms of Data Centre for Doctoral Training (Stanton
 Fraser), Interview panel for UKRI Innovation Fellowships (Stanton Fraser), EPSRC ICT
 Prioritisation Panel (Stanton Fraser), EPSRC ICT Programme Grants Panel (Stanton Fraser,
 as panel chair in 2019), EPSRC PETRAS Panel (Stanton Fraser), and EPSRC Fellowships
 interview panel (Stanton Fraser), EPSRC International Centre to Centre panel (Stanton
 Fraser), ESRC COVID-19 Emergency Funding (Whitmarsh) EPSRC Decarbonising Heating &
 Cooling (Whitmarsh), and EPSRC Energy Revolutions (Whitmarsh).

 Staff have also reviewed grant proposals for the EPSRC (Stanton Fraser), ESRC (Callan,
 Maio, Maras, Proulx, Stanton Fraser, Walker, and Weyman are members of the Peer Review
 College), European Research Council (Barnett), Foundation for Polish Science (Goclowska),
 Hong Kong Institute of Education (Maio), Israel Science Foundation (Goclowska), the
 Leverhulme Trust (Maio), Marsden Fund (New Zealand; Maio) MRC (Stallard), National
 Science Foundation (St Clair), NIHR (Daniels, Russell), Social Sciences and Humanities



                                                                                   Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research Council of Canada (Callan), UKRI Future Leader Fellowships (Whitmarsh), United
 States and Israel Binational Science Foundation (Maio), and Volkswagen Foundation (Barnett).

 Committee, board, and council membership. Committees, boards, and councils on which
 staff have served within the assessment period include: Society for Research on Nicotine and
 Tobacco Europe (Adams, Secretary), NICE Adoption and Impact Reference Panel (Allen),
 Executive Committee and Regional Representative for International Association of Cross-
 Cultural Psychology (Bain), Advisory Committee for Social Science for the Food Standards
 Agency (Barnett), Poland National Science Centre IdeaLab Expert Panel (Barnett), Autistica
 Scientific Board (Brosnan), Berlin Institute of Health QUEST Scientific Advisory Panel (Button),
 NICE ME/Chronic Fatigue Clinical Guidelines Development Committee (Daniels), Research
 Strategic Advisory Committee for Marie Curie Cancer Care UK (Eccleston), Pain Research
 Strategy Group for Arthritis Research UK (Eccleston), NICE Expert Witness for Cannabis-
 Based Medicinal Products Advisory Committee (Freeman), UK Trauma Research Council
 (Halligan), Police Academic Advisory Board (Hamilton-Giachritsis), UKRI Emerging Minds
 Mental Health Network Advisory Board (Hiller), BPS Division of Health Psychology (Jordan,
 Secretary), NIHR Research Design Service (P. Smith), EPSRC Digital Economy Programme
 Strategic Advisory Board (Stanton Fraser), EPSRC ICT Strategic Advisory Team (Stanton
 Fraser), NICE Public Health Advisory Committee (Weyman).

 Journal editorship and refereeing. UoA4 staff serve/have served as Action Editors for
 diverse international and prestigious academic journals. During this assessment period,
 journals include Addiction (Freeman), Asian Journal of Social Psychology (Bain), Behavioural
 and Cognitive Psychotherapy (Daniels, Gregory, Hiller, Russell, Stallard), British Journal of
 Social Psychology (Callan, Kurz, L. Smith as Editor-in-Chief), Child Abuse Review (Hamilton-
 Giachritsis), Clinical Child Psychology and Psychiatry (Loades), Energy Research & Social
 Sciences (Whitmarsh), European Child & Adolescent Psychiatry (Fairchild), Frontiers in
 Personality and Social Psychology (Maio), International Journal of Workplace Health
 Management (Weyman), Journal of Applied Social Psychology (Goclowska), Journal of
 Contextual Behavioral Science (Dack), Molecular Autism (Ashwin), Pain (Eccleston), PLoS
 ONE (Proulx), Psychology & Health (Keogh), Psychology & Psychotherapy: Theory, Research
 & Practice (Jacobsen), Psychology Learning & Teaching (Joiner), Restorative Neurology &
 Neuroscience (Proulx), Social Justice Research (Callan), WIREs Climate Change (Whitmarsh)

 Keynote addresses and conference organisation. Notable keynote or plenary addresses at
 international conferences include Button’s keynote on teaching reproducible science at the
 Psychological Society of Ireland’s Annual Conference, Callan’s Early Career Award address at
 the 2016 International Society for Justice Research conference, Halligan’s keynote on
 children’s posttraumatic distress at the 2018 Annual Congress of the European Association for
 Behavioural and Cognitive Psychotherapies, and Whitmarsh’s 2020 Independent Transport
 Commission Annual Lecture and address at the 2019 Beyond Oil Conference.

 Bath UoA4 researchers have served on the scientific or organising committees for national and
 international conferences, including Association for Contextual Behavioral Science World
 Conference (2019, Dack), British Association of Behavioural and Psychotherapies Conference
 (2019, Daniels), British Pain Society's Annual Scientific Meeting (multiple years, Keogh),
 Congress of the European Association of Forensic Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (Fairchild,
 2016), European Association for Social Psychology General Meeting (2020, Callan),
 International Cycling Safety Conference (multiple years, Walker), International Psychological
 Applications Conference and Trends (Hamilton-Giachritsis, 2014), International Society for
 Justice Research Biennial Meeting (2016, Callan), International Society for Traumatic Stress
 Studies Annual Meeting (2019, Hiller as co-Chair), and Society for the Study of Addiction
 Annual Conference (2019, Freeman).




                                                                                     Page 21
