Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Suffolk

 Unit of Assessment: 20 – Social Work and Social Policy

     1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Academic teaching at the University is based around four academic schools. Each school has its
 own academic focus that is reflected in its portfolio of courses. Our research activities are
 structured around our areas of distinctiveness and their associated research institutes and centres
 (see REF5a.1.1).




 Although a relatively new university, we have quickly established a track record for excellence in
 social policy and social work research across a number of specialist areas. Our research profile
 also extends to other distinct areas, as we establish further key research institutes and centres.
 UoA 20 Social Work and Social Policy is the only UoA submission we are making to REF 2021
 and, as such, consider our research in this area to be a key strength. The submitting unit includes
 staff from the School of Social Sciences and Humanities, Suffolk Business School and the
 Research Directorate. All our CAT A staff are members of a research institute and/or centre. Each
 of these are interdisciplinary and pan-university structures, creating an excellent research
 environment for all researchers, while bringing staff together.

 Staff from the submitting UoA 20 – Andell, Ayling, Dogaru, Gartland, Seal, Sinha and Thomas
 – are members of the Institute of Social Justice and Crime (formerly the Suffolk Institute of Social
 and Economic Research). The institute includes two themed centres: Centre for Children and
 Childhood Studies (Boggis, Clark, Coombs, Richards and Marsa Sambola) and the Centre for
 Abuse Research and Evaluation (CARe – Bond, Adisa and Tyrrell).




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 The submitting unit’s vision is to be an intellectual and operational vehicle that is committed to the
 development of transformational research. We explore new areas of enquiry from a
 transdisciplinary perspective, to provide real life solutions to key social problems. Staff from the
 submitting unit work with government departments, local authorities, health and social care
 providers, NGOs and policy makers. Focusing on one of our six distinctives, the Institute for
 Social Justice and Crime builds on our research strengths in this area. It informs our strategic
 approach to research in relation to UoA 20 Social Work and Social Policy, and we have developed
 a number of key specialisms in this field: including research on disadvantage and inequality;
 research on abuse and safeguarding, and children and childhood research.

 Supporting our open and inclusive approach, as set out in our Code of Practice for REF 2021,
 staff in the submitted UoA for Social Work and Social Policy total 15 who, according to research
 interest, are broadly distributed into three specialisms:


  1)      Insight into disadvantage and           Ayling, Boggis, Dogaru, Gartland, Seal, Sinha
          inequality                              and Thomas

  2)      Research on abuse and                   Adisa, Andell, Bond, Dogaru and Tyrrell
          exploitation

  3)      Children and childhood studies          Boggis, Clark, Coombs, Dogaru, Marsa
                                                  Sambola, Richards and Tyrell



 We intentionally work collaboratively with public, private and charitable sector partners in our
 research programme, constantly evaluating service delivery to evidence ‘what works’.
 Subsequently, relatively quickly, we have made significant regional and national impact by
 engaging effectively with commissioners, service providers and service users.

 And so, to build on our successes to date over the next five years, we will:
    • Provide effective support for our social work and social policy research programme post-
        pandemic
    • Embed our use of research data to strengthen our research governance, evidence success
        and impact evaluation
    • Strategically invest any QR funding resulting from this submission in new and emerging
        areas and support cutting-edge research



                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •    Identify, grow and support new talent in important research areas to increase the number
         of CAT A staff to 60%
    •    Continue to develop and establish a world-class social justice and crime research
         environment
    •    Increase the number of PGRs to 100 (Social Work and Social Policy)
    •    Build on our new partnership with the University of Brighton to exploit new opportunities
         towards our application for Research Degree Awarding Powers (RDAP), especially in
         relation to widening participation internationally.

 The unit’s research defines and seeks to understand social problems and their impact. It has a
 strong focus on social work, especially in relation to safeguarding, social policy, criminology and
 criminal justice policy. The aim of the submitting unit is to respond to the research needs of our
 community. We have successfully achieved this objective and will continue to build on our
 contributions to research, knowledge and practice to address the pressing social problems that
 face our society, including:

    •    theory
    •    methodology
    •    empirical research
    •    ethics and values
    •    pedagogy comparative research
    •    research into international institutions and forms of welfare politics, policy and practice
    •    conceptions of crime and criminal justice.

 Using a range of disciplinary and interdisciplinary approaches, the unit considers policy and
 practice, governance and management, service design and evaluation of ‘what works’ in service
 delivery and use, as well as inter-professional relationships (Andell, Adisa, Bond, Dogaru,
 Gartland, Thomas and Tyrrell). For example, Andell conducted research (see REF3) on
 improving safeguarding practices for young people involved in county lines; Adisa explored
 effective interventions for victims and perpetrators of domestic abuse; Bond researched online
 harms (see REF3) and Tyrrell researched how young people can effectively contribute to policy
 making. A key element of the research programme has been to purposefully link with and in some
 cases, co-produce with a variety of stakeholders (public and private), professionals, volunteers,
 service users/participants and carers.

 A significant body of the work produced by the submitting unit analyses, evaluates and provides
 critical insights into where the key dimensions of representation and identity intersect – particularly
 with marginal and/or excluded groups and communities in relation to gender, sexuality,
 ‘race’/ethnicity, disability, age and migration/citizenship status (Adisa, Ayling, Boggis, Coombs,
 Richards, Seal and Sinha).

 Institute for Social Justice and Crime
 Supporting the University’s Research and Scholarly Activity Strategy introduced in 2018, the
 Institute for School Justice and Crime drives forward one of the university’s six areas of
 distinctiveness (see REF5a.1.5):

    1.   Health and wellbeing
    2.   Sustainability
    3.   Digital futures
    4.   Crime and social justice
    5.   History and heritage
    6.   Excellence in Education.

 Our research active staff from all four academic schools and different disciplinary backgrounds
 are integrated effectively to fulfil our pan-university distinctives and drive our approach to
 interdisciplinary research. Attracting over £1M since 2015, the Institute for Social Justice and

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Crime provides an innovative approach to interdisciplinary research and a high-quality evaluation
 service on domestic abuse, sexual abuse, online risk, social migration, youth justice and youth
 unemployment, informing real-world public policy. The submitting unit’s interdisciplinary approach
 comprehensively works with national governments, local authorities, charities and private sector
 companies. We offer substantial research experience, cutting-edge expertise, a focus on
 delivering high impact findings which make a difference, and a passion for designing robust,
 efficient solutions. The research of the submitting unit plays a vital role in our University’s aim to
 make a significant impact on our society. We work closely work with our external partners to deliver
 new insights and ‘what works’ findings for reaching potentially world-changing conclusions.

 One example of how our research has made a difference to society is through the Better Policing
 Collaborative (BPC). Underpinned by the principle that good decision-making should be informed
 by the best available evidence, submitting unit staff (Bond and Dogaru) undertook a
 comprehensive programme of academic-practitioner collaborative research in 2015, as part of the
 BPC, and funded by the College of Policing. To help build sustainable capabilities to understand,
 critique and use research evidence to improve public safety and the use of resources in
 responding to crime, they worked with Police Forces and Police and Crime Commissioners. One
 of the work packages, by way of example, identified effective interventions for preventing and
 reducing domestic abuse in England and Wales.

 Our strategy for impact
 Our impact strategy supports staff in their activities, enabling positive results from our research
 efforts. We have, as outlined in REF5a.2.4, pioneered making our research reports publicly
 available (in an accessible format on the University website) alongside evaluations of ‘what works’,
 recommendations and toolkits to provide solutions to social problems and improve service
 delivery. We use social media tools to disseminate and share our research findings and to highlight
 specific examples of the impact that our research is having on society. Our external relations team
 work closely with academic staff from the submitting unit to effectively communicate our research
 findings and engage the public with our research programme, through public events, workshops,
 digital and print media.

 As previously detailed, the submitting unit has intentionally worked with a range of key
 stakeholders to identify research priorities. We deliberately design social policy and social work
 research projects to identify potential impact (for example, using Theory of Change approaches
 that include objectives for impact). Staff from the submitting unit undertake stakeholder mapping
 activities to identify groups and organisations who may be interested in our research and actively
 plan for building knowledge exchange events and programmes. Subsequently, we consistently
 monitor and evaluate our research impact through stakeholder engagement and feedback. For
 example, in 2018 we explored perceptions of dementia through a multi-stakeholder event bringing
 together researchers, people living with dementia, carers, practitioners, public and voluntary
 organisations. Additionally, we also bring together 180 safeguarding professionals and educators
 annually for Safer Internet Day.

 While our externally facing impact activities are monitored through the Research Management
 Group, we have embedded research impact into induction sessions for new staff, annual
 appraisals for CAT A staff, and provide training for staff with external experts. We host impact
 workshops and events with external experts to foster a collaborative, shared understanding of
 impact, how to best deliver it and how to evaluate it. All staff from the submitting unit have attended
 an impact workshop delivered by Professor Mark Reed and are expected to outline their plans for
 impact in their five-year research plans, with impact indicators included and agreed within annual
 objectives in appraisals.

 Our costing model incorporates required funding for dissemination activity, public engagement
 and impact resourcing. The research directorate provides advice, guidance and resources to
 support staff in the submitting unit with monitoring and capturing impact. They also assist in
 obtaining testimonials and feedback from stakeholders, help devise dissemination strategies and
 impact evaluation frameworks. We encourage all our CAT A staff to put forward potential impact

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 case studies for consideration and adopt an open and transparent process for selection. As
 exemplified by our two impact case studies submitted for REF 2021, we have supported our staff
 in identifying the benefits of their research through external review and feedback. Staff from the
 submitting unit work collaboratively to provide feedback on how to evaluate impact and
 communicate it effectively.

 We have also enhanced how we monitor and evaluate impact. To expand and maximise our
 impact, our more proactive and structured engagement with research users and beneficiaries is
 reported via a Research Management group to the Senior Leadership team. We have invested in
 resources and mechanisms both to support impact delivery (for example, on our website) but also
 to help in recording and communicating internally and externally what the impact of our research
 is. For example, our research is showcased in the University’s Annual Review and the institute’s
 Annual review document, specifically showcases the work from the submitting unit.

 Staff from the submitting unit are actively involved with the university’s research committee and
 governance structure, including the University Research Ethics committee. Staff from the
 submitting unit also lead the school ethics committees where our robust terms of reference,
 guiding principles and academic expertise ensure that we support our students to ethically engage
 in empirical research with children, prisoners, and vulnerable groups.

 As a university, our vision (see 5a.1.4) is to be a community impact university. The research
 undertaken by the submitting unit concerning Social Work and Social Policy strategically supports
 the University’s vision. In developing our area of distinctiveness in social justice and crime, the
 initial strategy for the submitting unit focused on providing insight into disadvantage and
 inequality to help provide understanding and effective solutions to identified social problems. As
 our body of research grew, it was clear that within this broader remit two specialist strands were
 emerging – abuse and childhood – with a number of staff researching in these fields. The
 research from the submitting unit, therefore, is clustered into three themes:



                 Disadvantage and inequality

                   Abuse

                 Children and Childhood

 Theme 1: Insight into disadvantage and inequality

 Our research on social justice, disadvantage and inequality has continued to grow and inform
 solutions to social problems. For example, Dogaru’s research, commissioned by Suffolk
 Community Foundation (a significant funder to Suffolk’s voluntary and community sector,
 distributing more than £27,000,000 in grants to local charities and community groups across the
 county) demonstrates how deprivation manifests itself across Suffolk to highlight the concept of
 ‘hidden’ needs. Also challenging hidden disadvantage, Thomas’ research analyses the impact of
 reforms (designed to address economic and demographic challenges in England) on the current
 reform agenda as it threatens care service quality for older people, outlining improvements to the
 way in which services might be organised. This work has been highly influential in health and
 social care management, focusing on responses to the ‘wicked’ problems caused by economic,
 demographic and social pressures.

 In overcoming disadvantage, our focus on social mobility is key to understanding inequality.
 Leading developments in this field with work on STEM, race, migration and queer pedagogies are

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Gartland, Ayling, Sinha, Adisa, and Seal. The insightful body of work they have created
 showcases the importance of ethnicity, class, gender and sexuality in understanding
 contemporary experiences of identity in late modernity within an increasingly globalised society.
 Our work in this field (see REF2) is making important contributions to the debates in widening
 participation. This supports our reputation as a widening participation university, reflecting our
 position of being ranked third in the country by HESA for the proportion of students from low-
 participation backgrounds. Our programme of empirical research has led to new insights: on the
 role of student ambassadors to inspire young people to follow careers in engineering, science and
 other STEM subjects (Gartland); how heteronormativity in higher education can be interrupted
 and resisted (Seal); how Nigerian parents use the international secondary education market,
 privilege and elitism to retain social standing (Ayling) and has sought young people’s perspectives
 and marginalised voices within this discourse to debunk anti-migrant arguments (Sinha).

 Theme 2: Research on abuse and exploitation

 The growing body of research specialising in understanding the nature of and effective responses
 to abuse, grew out of the volume of abuse research the University undertook in the first few years
 of independence. Bond analysed offending rates across five police forces and a comprehensive
 evidence review of interventions to respond to, prevent and improve reporting rates of domestic
 violence in the UK. Adisa’s work has further developed the University’s reputational expertise and
 links to policy efforts in improving and strengthening the evidence base for 'what works' in tackling
 such crime. The unit’s work on migrant survivors is helping to improve our understanding of the
 vulnerabilities migrant communities face concerning domestic abuse and how we might best
 respond to this. This work has been commended by the Ministry of Housing, Communities and
 Local Government. With respect to prevention, Adisa’s research on domestic abuse perpetrators
 is contributing to the knowledge base on working with men in community-based settings towards
 addressing their behaviour. The University hosts the Domestic Abuse Research Network
 (DARNet) established in 2019 to support knowledge exchange and collaborative research on
 domestic abuse. Members representing 17 UK universities contribute to the network, alongside
 four police forces, county councils, statutory sector social care services and the voluntary DA
 sector.

 Having established a substantial body of work on online risk, Bond and Tyrrell’s research on
 online abuse and harassment has included ground-breaking insights into young people’s
 experiences with social media, sexting, revenge pornography and how to more effectively
 safeguard vulnerable groups online. This programme of work led to funding from OfS (formerly
 HEFCE) for research on Digital Civility in UK universities, which informs the UUK guidelines for
 Changing the Culture: Tackling online harassment and promoting online welfare. This work
 supported Amnesty International researchers to investigate experiences of gender-based violence
 online and, working with the Marie Collins Foundation, their research on effectively supporting
 children after online sexual abuse and image-based abuse forms one of our impact case studies
 (see REF3).

 Both our impact case studies relate to safeguarding. Andell’s research (see REF3) highlighting
 the criminal exploitation of vulnerable children and young people involved with “county lines” has
 shaped policy and guidance at local and national levels to enable a more effective response to
 this problem. The work underpins new approaches in professional practice and training in child
 and adolescent safeguarding.

 Bond, Dogaru and Tyrrell have undertaken pioneering work with helplines. Working closely with
 UK Safer Internet Centre, Bond and Dogaru carried out the first evaluation of the national
 Revenge Porn Helpline, with Bond and Tyrrell providing the follow up study in 2018. Bond and
 Dogaru also produced the research for Child Helplines International on the awareness of 116 111
 across Europe in 2017.

 Dogaru, Bond and Adisa, working in partnership with Survivors in Transition, have produced a
 programme of research on the impact of child sexual abuse, benefitting survivors in getting their

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 views heard, while educating key stakeholders. In a world that rightly demands proof of purpose,
 we have been able to create a robust evidence base – not only for use with commissioners and
 stakeholders but for other organisations supporting survivors of childhood sexual abuse – to use
 as leverage for funding to better support survivors. The work has also been used to inform and
 amend professional practice with survivors as a psycho-educational tool.

 Our specialisms in creative research design and effective knowledge exchange is underpinned by
 the rigour of scholarship together with the provision of high-quality research and evaluation for
 statutory and non-statutory agencies located locally, nationally and internationally. Which is how
 we have built on our inter-disciplinary research specialisms on sexual and domestic abuse, digital
 rights, and undertaken policy-focused research to effectively safeguard victims and prevent
 abuse.

 Theme 3: Children and Childhood Studies

 The submitting unit has built a substantial body of research in relation to children and childhood
 (see REF2). The work is supported by an interdisciplinary centre that acts as a catalyst and
 facilitator for research, education and training, policy development, media engagement and
 community awareness. The research based on the interdisciplinary study of children and
 childhood at regional, national and international contexts stems from the successful and high-
 profile work of interdisciplinary academics across the University to bring together the diverse
 disciplines that study children’s lives. These include sociology, health studies, disability studies,
 social policy, education, anthropology, and psychology. It builds upon the successful International
 Childhoods Conference (2013, 2015, and 2017), the online journal Childhood Remixed, and a
 growing community of postgraduate and doctoral students.

 The work of Richards, Clark and Boggis has driven the rapidly developing field of childhood
 research to advance methodological conversations about what constitutes ethical research with
 children. Their extensive body of work includes those messy spaces of traditionally taboo topics,
 such as research on intercountry adoption (Richards); childhood sexuality (Clark); disability
 (Boggis); race (Ayling and Sihna) children’s perceptions of death (Coombs), youth justice and
 inclusion (Tyrrell) and adolescent mental health (Marsa Sambola). As such, the centre has
 demanded a prominent place in the global agenda for childhood research extending theoretical,
 ethical, and methodological conversations into new territories that can inform contemporary
 practice, policy and academic debate.

 New areas of research activity include children’s mental health, decolonisation of education and
 childhood research, and supporting young children in school experiencing bereavement.

 New directions

 As a submitting unit, we will continue to ensure that our interdisciplinary research strengths have
 a clear focus, identity and presence, to further encourage research collaboration both within the
 university and with other external partners. As our research culture develops, we will appoint
 research leaders to drive and develop new research themes. For example, we have an increasing
 body of work across the university on LGBTQI+, and decolonisation of education curriculums.
 These leaders will work in partnership with staff at all levels to consolidate existing research
 strengths and develop new opportunities for synergy and collaboration across the University and
 externally. We will continue to support and encourage excellent research that does not align with
 current themes to encourage new ideas and areas of interest. We will, however, agree
 performance indicators for the research themes, which acknowledge and respect different
 research arenas, taking into account different research models. These will be monitored through
 the University Research and Enterprise Committee, using their assessments to inform decisions
 on the life span of each theme.

 In support of the wider organisational goals for achievements in the next five years, the submitting
 unit will be:

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   significantly strengthened with the new Professorial appointment for leading the Institute
        for Social Justice and Crime, and the appointment of a business development manager to
        identify, support and maintain new partnerships and research opportunities
    •   investing the HEQR funding to engage further in long-term strategic planning for research
        as it relates to social work and social policy
    •   doubling our income from partnership working and externally funded research
    •   strengthening our track record for high-quality research internationally
    •   establishing a M-Res programme
    •   supporting the achievement of Research Degree Awarding Powers
    •   supporting our staff to achieve a critical mass of Category A (60%)
    •   building a more substantial submission for UoA 20 for the next REF, supporting staff to
        develop high quality research outputs, extensive knowledge exchange activities and
        impact case studies.


 Public engagement

 We have invested in a stronger web presence for our research, especially in relation to social work
 and social policy. We have also highlighted our partnership approach with examples of how our
 current research projects are making an impact. Research related to social work and social policy
 draws a wide range of academic colleagues, potential collaborators, and policy makers so we
 ensure that the University’s strength related to research in this field is actively promoted and
 disseminated in good time with the wider public. In addition to the public engagement (outlined in
 REF5a.2.4), staff from the UoA engage with the public at a variety of events including:
     • Voice of the Service User events which actively bring together academics, professionals
         from statutory and non-statutory organisations and people in the community who rely on
         public services to consider how to better engage with service users to improve outcomes
         in an increasingly challenging environment
     • Safer Internet Day (organised by the joint Insafe-INHOPE network with the support of the
         European Commission) is celebrated by 170 countries worldwide on an annual basis. The
         event brings academics, police, social care, educators, parents and children together on
         our campus to raise awareness of emerging online issues and current concerns. It enables
         all stakeholders to join together to make the internet a safer and better place for all,
         especially for children and young people
     • Three Focus on Survivors events brings together 180 commissioners, policy makers,
         academics, professionals, volunteers and survivors of childhood sexual abuse to discuss
         how to bring about whole system change by ensuring that the voice of the survivor is heard.

 As outlined in REF5a, this UoA follows the wider institutional strategy and compliance with
 concordats on open data, research integrity and public engagement. Linked to our public
 engagement and impact strategy, we have also purposefully been pioneering an agenda of
 publishing nearly 20 research reports, evaluations and toolkits publicly, available on the university
 website since 2015.

    2. People

 Our staff

 The submission for UoA 20 includes 15 staff, two professors (Bond and Seal); five associate
 professors (Boggis, Dogaru, Gartland, Richards and Thomas); six SLs (Andell, Ayling,
 Coombs, Clark, Marsa Sambola and Sinha) and two ECRs (Adisa and Tyrrell).

 The majority of the submitted staff are based in the School of Social Science and Humanities, with
 one staff member from Suffolk Business School (Thomas) and two from the Research Directorate
 (Bond and Tyrrell). The staff base for the submitting unit is a stable one. Staff are retained and
 supported through promotion, and only Clark has left (in 2019) with Seal being recruited into the

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 submitting unit in early 2020. All research active staff have individual, five-year research
 development plans. These are used to outline research and publication activity as well as identify
 support and professional development needs to help realise these outputs. These plans are used
 in the annual appraisal process, aiding the discussion and planning of research across the
 submitting unit. The University introduced protected research hours for research active staff (see
 REF5a.2.1) and for this submitting unit, a research mentoring programme is in place where
 mentors have received training to effectively mentor colleagues and support their research
 development. The voluntary mentoring programme is separate from managerial arrangements
 and provides less experienced research staff with support and encouragement from more
 experienced colleagues. All staff in the submitting unit hold a mentor role to help other staff
 members develop a personal research strategy, plan and targets. They provide constructive
 feedback and act as a critical friend, helping their peers to monitor the achievement of targets and
 outcomes. Reading and commenting on draft papers for publication is expected, as well as offering
 advice and guidance on suitable journals in which to publish. Working with the Research
 Directorate, they additionally provide guidance on funding opportunities, as well as (as
 appropriate) collaborators, and comment on draft grant applications. The mentoring scheme is
 having a positive impact for all staff and fosters collaborative research endeavours across the
 submitting unit with the highest level of ethical integrity.

 As outlined in REF5a.3.3. and REF5a.3.4, the University has the HR Excellence in Research
 Award and a highly comprehensive programme of research training opportunities. All staff in the
 submitting unit contribute to the Research Development Programme and have access to the
 weekly workshops, seminars and events. We have developed an annual progression process in
 line with the Suffolk Academic Model (see REF5a.2.1) where staff can apply to move from CAT B
 to CAT A, supported by their individual research plan which identifies training needs accordingly.
 All staff in the submitting unit have access to funding to attend conferences, and access different
 forms of development activity, including personal study, online learning opportunities, internal and
 external courses, workshops, plus planned research activity and experiences.

 Additionally, we have adopted a collaborative ‘round table’ approach to bid development where all
 the people with relevant expertise build bids and share their knowledge to increase collaboration
 and cultural competence across the submitting unit. There is a weekly drop-in surgery where staff
 can meet with the AD Research and the Research Development Manager to receive advice and
 support with their research ideas. There is a very active, thriving research seminar programme
 where staff and PhD students come together to present and discuss research and an explicit
 recognition and celebration of research achievements which are widely publicised.

 In the last few years, staff from the submitted unit have been supported through:

    ¨ The introduction of a Workload Allocation Model (WAM) to ensure all research staff have
      protected time for research, which also acknowledges that high quality research outputs
      and developing research bids require resourcing
    ¨ New working practices that promote research time and are flexible enough to support
      impactful outcomes, respecting different approaches and disciplines
    ¨ Using funded research projects to support buy-behind for teaching and for funding potential
      PhD research
    ¨ A programme of support for ECRs and those currently CAT B (see REF5a.2.1) wishing to
      become Cat A, including 75 hours protected research time on the WAM
    ¨ All staff have 18 days protected time for research and scholarly activity
    ¨ The new mentoring programme
    ¨ Seminar series
    ¨ Dedicated funding for external staff development and conference attendance.

 100% CAT A staff (as defined on census date) aligned with UoA are being returned to REF 2021
 in accordance with our Code of Practice. The 15 CAT A staff in the UoA 20 constituted 52% CAT
 A (on census date) staff across the university as a whole, demonstrating that the UoA is by far the

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strongest at UoS. We were granted exemptions for eight other UoAs due to the small number of
 associated FTE. Staff in the UoA Social Work and Social Policy come from a range of
 backgrounds, research expertise and experience and we are very proud that we have been able
 to submit such a body of excellent research outputs. Membership of research institutes and
 centres is open to all and 100% of CAT A staff are members of an institute, actively contributing
 to the research agenda. The submitting unit doubled the number of CAT A staff (autumn 2020)
 and also made senior appointments to strengthen the research expertise and leadership. Seal
 was appointed a Professor of Social Mobility and education early in 2020. He is leading the
 evaluation of our Access and Participation plan and research on LGBTQI+. A new professorial
 position as Director of the Institute for Social Justice and Crime was approved in 2020. Our revised
 policy of only recruiting research active academics with PhDs is helping to strengthen the research
 culture, increasing our research activity and capacity to supervise PGR students. Over the past
 12 months we have had new CAT A staff in Psychology, Education, Childhood Studies, Law and
 English. These academics are all research active, building funding applications, producing
 publications and taking leadership roles in some of our newly created research interest groups.

 Postgraduate Research

 Ours is a growing, thriving, multi-disciplinary postgraduate community. With the support of our
 validating universities (University of Essex, University of East Anglia and since 2020, the
 University of Brighton) the School of Social Science and Humanities has played a leading role in
 the development of postgraduate research culture. The school now supports 34 PGR students –
 nearly half the PGR population at UoS – with the other PGRs in the three remaining academic
 schools. In 2017, the School of Social Science and Humanities introduced and piloted a 1-2-1
 support programme to assist PhD applicants develop their proposals and applications to study
 with us. This project was specifically designed to assist applicants from a widening participation
 background. As outlined in REF5a.1.1, we are, as an institution, exemplary at supporting WP
 students at undergraduate and postgraduate levels and in this project, we extended this expertise
 to PhD applicants. Each applicant was invited to meet the school PhD programme leader; talk
 informally about their proposed research; receive detailed advice and feedback on their proposal;
 be guided towards specific reading to build their knowledge around proposed method,
 methodology and ethics, and given access to literature to support the building of their proposal.
 All applicants involved in this project were successful in their applications. All of these PGR
 students have since successfully passed their progression board and are part of our growing PGR
 community. Having proved to be successful in supporting applicants to improve the quality of
 research proposals, the scheme was subsequently rolled out across the institution. The school is
 supporting 10 fee-waiver scholarships for PGR students, and we anticipate growing the PGR
 numbers in Social Work and Social Policy to 100 in the next five years.

 Of the 15 staff in the submitting UoA, 10 supervise PGR students. All PGR students have a
 supervisory team consisting of at least two members of research active staff and benefit from an
 individualised annual review board, chaired by the school ADR to advise on progress. In addition
 to the comprehensive research development programme provided by the Graduate School (see
 REF5a.3.4), all new students have a school specific induction to their PhD programme. As
 members of the school, students join and contribute to the monthly research seminar programme,
 receive and contribute to the school magazine, and have access to specific methodology support
 from academic colleagues across the school. Staff also contribute their specific knowledge and
 expertise to the PGR workshops organised by the Graduate Office.




                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality and diversity

  Staff demographics                                   University context
  13% of submitted UoA defined as ECR at
  REF 2021 census date
  100% UoA 20 submitted staff are on
  permanent contracts at REF 2021 census date
  93% of UoA submitted staff returned with no          Compared to overall staff profile of 5% who
  known disability; 7% disability declared at REF      have a declared disability
  2021 census date
  Gender of submitted staff FTE returned are           Compared to overall staff profile of 64%
  53.84% female and 46.16% male                        female and 36% male
  67% of submitted staff returned as White             Compared to overall staff profile of 81%
  British; 20% BAME and 13% White other                identifying as White British; 7.6% as BAME
                                                       and white other at 7.9%


 University of Suffolk’s recruitment and selection process is a partnership between People and
 Organisational Development and the school or department. As outlined in REF5a.3.2, the school
 supports the University’s Equality and Diversity Policy. Staff from the submitting unit promote
 equality and diversity within the school and across the university, advancing equality of opportunity
 for all (for example, through membership of Senate and other relevant committees and groups)
 including all groups with protected characteristics for both staff and students. All staff undertake
 mandatory online EDI training every three years. Applications for and successful progression to
 SL/Associate Professor are evaluated, and since 2015, there is a similar success rate for gender
 and ethnicity. We ensure that our admissions processes for PGR are equitable and we actively
 provide opportunities and access events and channels to a broad, diverse range of students. Our
 experience of being a widening participation university (see REF5a.1.1) ensures that we are
 mindful of the different needs of different students at all levels, including postgraduate. In line with
 our institutional values and mission statement, we offer open, recruitment and admissions
 experiences to welcome potential students, and foster a positive relationship with future students
 from the outset. We recognise that a diverse student and staff body brings with it a range of skills
 and experience which adds to the PGR experience and improves satisfaction.

 Currently our PGR profile for PhD students studying social work and social policy is:

                                       83% Female: 17% Male
                           White British 83%: BAME 11%: White other 6%

 We actively review and refine our practices to implement equitable admissions practices. The PGR
 committee includes PGR representation from the school to ensure that we are open, respectful
 and responsive to a diverse student body. On an ongoing basis, we monitor the range of
 applications by gender, ethnic group, sexual orientation, disability and age to identify areas where
 discrimination could potentially occur.

 The school actively addresses any equality, diversity and inclusion issues identified by the Staff
 Survey and PGR feedback, and we regularly solicit staff views and feedback through the School
 Executive and the PGR committee. Staff from the submitting unit supported the action plan’s
 development for the concordat of HR Excellence in Research Award (REF5a.3.3.), they have
 devised and recommended measures in support of the University’s Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion objectives and will be actively involved in the forthcoming application for Athena Swan.




                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The University’s Research and Scholarly Activity Strategy (see REF5a.2.1) sets out how research
 income opportunities are sought and supported. We have a dedicated research office and finance
 team who work with staff in the unit to support and advise on developing, costing and managing
 research grants. The research development manager provides fortnightly ‘drop in’ surgeries for
 staff in the submitting unit and supports both the Associate Dean for Research in facilitating
 interdisciplinary approaches to bid writing, as well as the peer review process for applications.

 The success of the strategy is evidenced by our sustained record of successful research funding.
 From being a new university in 2015, staff from the submitting unit are responsible for generating
 over £1M in income since the University gained independence – 57% of the total research income
 for the University as a whole (See REF5a.4.1). This Unit has returned HESA research income of
 £1,068,892 including funding from HEFCE and the College of Policing; HEFCE/OfS Catalyst
 funding; UKSIC; UK Government Equalities Office and the Royal Society of Engineering,

 Our stakeholder engagement model with statutory and non-statutory organisations significantly
 contributed to our success in securing this amount of income when we have not been eligible for
 QR funding. We have purposefully sought a diverse range of funding sources as we have built
 and established our research profile for social work and social policy. We have developed a
 collegiate approach to developing bids, supported by the research office, peer review with staff,
 and work with colleagues in the Finance directorate, to ensure a time efficient process for
 approving bids.

 The submitting unit has specialised in creative research design and effective knowledge
 exchange, underpinned by the rigour of scholarship and the provision of high-quality research and
 evaluation for statutory and non-statutory agencies located locally, nationally and internationally.
 We have built on our inter-disciplinary research specialisms on sexual and domestic abuse, as
 well as digital rights, and undertaken policy-focused research to effectively safeguard victims and
 prevent abuse. We have worked with a range of statutory and non-statutory organisations,
 including the Joseph Rowntree Foundation, Amnesty International, Government Equalities Office,
 UUK, OfS, West Midlands Police, the Co-Op, Nominet Trust, Beat, Childnet International, the
 Marie Collins Foundation, Child Helpline International, Youth Offending Service, Royal Academy
 of Engineering, RSA, Comic Relief, the Home Office, Get Safe Online, Internet Matters, the
 Revenge Pornography Helpline, the Better Policing Collaborative, HEFCE, the College of Policing,
 Nominet; Survivors in Transition, Suffolk Constabulary, Norfolk Constabulary, Office of Police and
 Crime Commissioner, Suffolk County Council, Norfolk County Council, Anglia Care Trust, Iceni,
 and Surviving Economic Abuse.

  Percentage Statutory and non-statutory research partners by category
  81%            UK central government bodies/local authorities, health and hospital authorities
  12%            UK charities
  2%             UK other sources
  1%             UK industry
  1%             UK research councils

 The submitting unit is further supported by a network of social policy and social work visiting
 professors and senior fellows, each of whom actively contribute to the research programme,
 collaborations and funding applications. Since 2015, the submitting unit has built up a network of
 eight visiting professors and 14 visiting fellows who contribute to research, PGR supervision,
 seminars and collaborative bids, distributed across the different foci of the unit:

  Research focus                                   Number of visiting professors and fellows
  Criminology and policing                         6

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Sexual, domestic and online abuse                8
  Childhood and youth                              3
  Social policy, social work inequality            5
  and disadvantage

 Staff from the submitting unit are based at our Ipswich campus in the state-of-the-art waterfront
 building. We have invested across our campus to create environments that showcase the latest
 teaching and research facilities. All staff have a desk, networked PC, phone and access to a printer
 in open plan, shared office spaces. The design of the waterfront building where staff are based
 lends itself to collegiality, with seminar spaces, kitchen facilities and smaller meeting rooms. PGRs
 have dedicated shared office in the library – with a kitchen area, and comfortable seating, as well
 as office space and equipment.




 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Staff from the submitting unit advise policy makers, commissioners and service providers – both
 statutory and non-statutory – in the UK and overseas. They are active across the academic
 research community, providing reviews for leading journals, funding panels and professional
 bodies. Our staff are already actively contributing to the research base of social work and social
 policy, the economy and wider society.


 National and international collaborations:

 Our academic staff are continuously involved in a number of national and international research
 projects:

 Bond was scientific advisor to the Scientific Advisory Board German Consortium Health Literacy
 in Childhood and Adolescence (HCLA) 2015-2018. Co-ordinated by Bielefeld University, the
 consortium consists of four partners (Bielefeld University, University of Duisburg-Essen, Robert
 Koch Institut Berlin, University of Education Freiburg) funded by the Ministry of Education and
 Research investigating general, mental and e-health literacy of children, adolescents, families,
 and professionals working in education, health, and social care.

 Bond and Dogaru’s research significantly contributed to the Better Policing Collaborative
 (BPC) led by the Centre for Health and Justice at the University of Nottingham’s Institute of Mental
 Health. The BPC is a consortium of universities: Birmingham, Derby, Liverpool, Manchester
 Business School, and University of Suffolk alongside Skills for Justice (the national sector skills
 council) and Crest Analytics, their commercial partner. The BPC works with police forces and
 Police and Crime Commissioners to build sustainable capabilities to understand, critique and use
 research evidence to improve public safety and resource use.

 Andell leads UoS research on gangs and is a member of the International Eurogangs Group,
 consisting of leading European and American scholars researching gangs and troublesome youth
 groups. Researchers within this network have been working together for more than 15 years to
 develop and apply a common framework for comparative research, based on standardised
 methodological instruments and a common research design.




                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Adisa, Bond and Tyrrell lead the DARNet network hosted by CARe, University of Suffolk. The
 network currently has 186 members, including researchers from University of Essex, Coventry
 University, University of Exeter, Lancaster University, UCLAN, Centre for Criminology, University
 of Oxford, University of Roehampton, Birkbeck, University of London, Warwick Law School,
 University of Bedfordshire, Bournemouth University, University of Sussex, Brunel University,
 Institute of Criminology, University of Cambridge, University of Northampton, and four police
 constabularies (Suffolk, Norfolk – including OPCCN – Cambridge and South Wales).

 Journal editorship and preparation:

 Staff review for a range of social work and social policy journals. Andell is a reviewer for the
 International Journal of Addictions, Safer Communities, MPDP Social Sciences, and the Journal
 of Social Services. Thomas is a reviewer for the Journal of Sociology and Social Policy, Journal
 of Health Organisation and Management, and the European Journal of Business Research
 Methods. Boggis reviews Disability Studies Quarterly and is an editor of Childhood Remixed. Seal
 is an editor for the International Journal of Open Youth Work, Youth and Policy, and an editorial
 board member for Workability New Internationalist imprint. Richards was Special Editor
 of Genealogy’s special edition ‘Children and Childhood through a Genealogical Lens’. Sinha is a
 reviewer for the European Journal Cultural Studies and Qualitative Research, and Bond is on the
 editorial board for Sage Open (Sociology); reviewer for Media, Crime and Culture, New Media &
 Society, and the Journal of Applied Research in Higher Education.

 Service to professional associations or learned societies:

 Seal was convener of Post Compulsory and Lifelong Learning Special Interest Group, British
 Educational Association, 2020; Sexualities Special Interest Group, British Educational
 Association, 2014-2016; ‘Religion and Sexuality: Where are we now?’, Sexualities Special Interest
 Group Seminar, British Educational Association, in Sept 2020; and ‘Challenging Heteronormativity
 in and through Youth and Community Work’, Youth studies and Informal Education Special
 Interest Group Seminar, British Educational Association, in Sept 2020.

 Andell is a member of Alcohol Drugs and Crime, All-Party Political Group; Advisor to Regional
 Organised Crime Unit; Metropolitan Police County Lines Team; Expert Advisor to Welsh
 Government (Health and Care) and currently a member of the National Independent Advisory
 Group EQUAL, to input into MoJ and YJB policy, with regard to the Young and Lammy
 recommendations on disproportionality of BAME groups in the CJS.

 Boggis is a member of the CEOP Education Consultation Group and Consultant to the Down’s
 Syndrome Association.

 Bond was a member of the advisory Board Internet Matters (2015-2019) working collaboratively
 across industry, government and with schools to reach UK families with tools, tips and
 resources to help children benefit from connected technology smartly and safely, alongside
 BBC Own it. She is an invited member of the UK Council Internet Safety (UKCIS) Evidence Group,
 which provides UKCIS with a critical and rigorous account of the relevant research. It includes
 representatives from academia, government, NGOs and industry, and meets regularly in order to
 identify, evaluate and commission new research relevant to child internet safety. Bond is also
 Chair of the National Ethics committee for the NSPCC.

 Richards is an invited member of the East Suffolk and North Essex NHS Foundation Trust’s ethics
 committee, developing ethical responses and strategies that enable the trust to ethically respond to
 demanding, changing and very challenging circumstances about the treatment of patients in their care.

 Gartland is a member of the strategic board for NERUPI (a community of practice for those
 seeking to reduce inequalities in higher education access, participation and progression; over 60
 member organisations share expertise and explore new approaches to evaluating the impact of


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interventions) and a member of the Research and Evaluation Alignment sub-working group for
 Engineering UK and the Royal Academy of Engineering.

 Gartland was awarded the Memorial Trust Travelling Fellowship in 2015 and Gartland and Smith
 (2018) Supporting progression to HE: the role of colleges and vocational courses published in
 Education + Training, was selected by the editorial team as Highly Commended in the 2019
 Emerald Literati Awards.


 Peer review and support to research councils:

 Bond, Seal and Andell all review for the ESRC; while Bond is also a reviewer for the NHIR, The
 British Council Newton fund, The Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (the German Research
 Foundation) and the FWF (the Austrian Science Fund).

 Key notes:

 Staff from the submitting unit have provided invited keynote addresses including for example:

 Andell’s keynote addresses to the Gangs and County Lines Public Policy Conference; the
 Cuckooing National Housing Conference and the Gangs and Missing Young People Public Policy
 Conference in 2018 and Ayling was the invited keynote speaker to BERA REE SIG annual writing
 conference in May 2018.

 Bond has been the invited keynote speaker for national and internation conferences including, for
 example, Insafe, Vilnius, Lithuania (2014); Digital Lives and Vulnerable Young People, Tavistock
 Clinic, London (2015); Half a century of ICT in Education Meio século de TIC na Educação,
 Universidade do Minho, Braga, Portugal (2015); Click: Path to Protection Conference, London,
 (2015); the Health Literacy in Childhood and Adolescence at Bielefeld University (2016); Royal
 College Psychiatrists Annual Scientific Conference, University of Nottingham, (2017); Public
 Policy Exchange Reinforcing Child Protection Online: Minimising Risk, Boosting Digital Resilience,
 London (2018); What works in Safeguarding students online, Office for Students, London (2018);
 Public Policy Exchange Reinforcing Child Protection Online: Minimising Risk, Boosting Digital
 Resilience, London (2018); Tackling online harassment in Universities – adopting an holistic
 approach, UUK annual conference (2019); JISC international Security Conference (2019 and
 2020); Tacking Discrimination and Harassment across Higher Education Conference (2020) and
 UUK Technology Mediated Abuse Webinar, (2020).

 Gartland was the invited keynote speakers at the NERUPI network event in 2020; the
 LEAPS in partnership with SCAPP (Scotland’s Community of Access and Participation
 Practitioners) webinar event Working with student ambassadors and volunteers in Widening
 Participation in 2020 the UK and USA University STEM outreach practices; discourses and
 identities. Narratives of Widening Participation, SRHE (2018) and the Terminology of Widening
 Participation, OU (2015).

 Sinha provided the keynote address ate the BSA Cities, Mobilities, Place and Space Plenary in
 April 2019 and New Hierarchies of Belonging at SOAS, Centre for Migration and Diaspora
 Studies in 2014. Thomas was the invited speaker at the Beyond Participation, the ethic of care
 and emancipatory research funded by the Israeli Science Foundation in Tel Aviv, 2019 and at
 the 5th Finethikon conference at KU Eichstatt (Germany) Ethical Globalisation? Relational Ethics
 and the Migrant Worker.

 Conference organisation:

 UoS hosts a Safer Internet Day conference annually, organised by the joint Insafe-INHOPE
 network, with the support of the European Commission over the last 10 years. Safer Internet Day
 is an annual campaign supported by the technology industry, such as Microsoft, Apple, Twitter,

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Snapchat and TikTok, in conjunction with the European Commission. The annual event at UoS
 has directly reached over 1,600 professionals to date.

 The Centre for Children and Childhood Research has hosted a biennial International
 Conference on Childhood since 2013. This conference attracts childhood scholars and high-
 profile keynote speakers from over 25 countries. Conference papers are published in our in-house
 journal Childhood Remixed and our forthcoming edited volume Critical Perspectives on Research
 with Children, where international scholars from our conference write reflexively about their
 research with children.

 We have also established an interdisciplinary conference programme focused on the
 methodologies, methods and practices of storytelling. Our first conference held in 2018 attracted
 international delegates as represented in the forthcoming edited volume Stories, Storytellers, and
 Storytelling. Our second conference in this programme is scheduled for 2022.




                                                                                           Page 16
