Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of St Andrews

 Unit of Assessment: 19 Politics and International Studies

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 A. OVERVIEW
 The School of International Relations is a vibrant, multidisciplinary community of researchers,
 educators, and students from around the globe. At the time of REF census, we had 44 research
 focused members of staff within an overall community of 162 academics, professional services
 staff, visiting scholars, and Postgraduate Research (PGR) students (see Table I). Our academic
 staff currently hail from 12 countries with students drawn from dozens more.

 We have been a leader in International Relations (IR) scholarship since becoming a department
 in 1990 and one of the only Schools of our kind in 2003. We pioneered the study of terrorism with
 the establishment of the (now-named) Handa Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political
 Violence (CSTPV) in 1994. We also helped originate the study of International Political Theory,
 developing a Master of Letters degree (MLitt) in 2000 and then founding the Journal of
 International Political Theory. The School is recognised for its excellence both within the UK and
 internationally: The Guardian University Guide currently ranks us as the top Politics department
 in the UK while both the Times and the Complete University situate us in the top three, alongside
 Oxford and Cambridge. Internationally, our QS ranking sits annually between 51-100.

                                              Table I
                              School Membership (31st July 2020)
               Academic – Research Focused           44
              Academic – Education Focused           7
                           Postgraduate Tutors       15
                                   PGR Students      79
                Emeritus/Honorary Professors         2
                              Research Fellows       2
                               Visiting Scholars     3
                    Professional Services Staff      10

  Breakdown of Academic Posts across
  Research and Teaching Focus Members
                           Associate Lecturers       7
                                        Lecturers    12
                               Senior Lecturers      16
                                         Readers     1
                                      Professors     15

 We aspire to create an active research environment that operates equitably and inclusively,
 nurtures staff at all career stages, and prioritises diversity. The School starts from the principle of
 research autonomy, reinforced throughout our strategies: that staff should pursue projects based
 on their own intellectual curiosity and creativity. Our School structure and culture are then geared
 toward enabling this research to achieve its full potential. This collegial approach earned us an
 Athena-SWAN Bronze award in April 2019 while extending both the breadth and reach of our

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research and impact: our numerous outputs and activities span the world, from here in Scotland
 across the globe.

 Leveraging the University’s resources and global ambitions has allowed the School to become an
 international force in several intellectual areas including three of the priority areas in the University
 Strategy 2018-2023 (see Institution-Level Environment Statement, ILES, 2.5): Peace, Conflict and
 Security; Cultural Understanding; and Sustainability. We have extensive regional expertise on
 Europe, the Middle East, Central Asia, and sub-Saharan Africa—which is not to diminish the fact
 that we are presently engaged in at least one research project or collaboration on every inhabited
 continent.


 A.1 SCHOOL STRATEGY FOR RESEARCH AND IMPACT
 CREATION
 Building on our diverse, non-hierarchical, and flexible foundations, the School set itself ambitious
 targets to improve our research and impact production this REF-cycle and we met every one.
 These include:
      • Providing all research Centres, Institutes, and Think-Tanks (CITs) with generous funding
          and administrative support. (A.2.1)
      • Creating new CITs that complement university high priority strategic areas in: 1) Conflict,
          Peace and Security; 2) Cultural Understanding; 3) Sustainability. (A.2.2)
      • Hiring new staff to increase School strength in strategically targeted areas: 1) Conflict,
          Peace and Security; 2) Global and Supra-National Institutions; 3) Civil Societies and IR.
          (A.3)
      • Providing a comprehensive package of research/impact support (including research
          integrity and Open Access) (A.4), with the aim of:
              o Increasing research outputs and impact of international importance. (A.4.1)
              o Furthering staff Collaborations, Networks, and Partnerships (CNPs), which also
                   help translate research into impact. (A.4.3)
              o Retaining existing staff by making the School an excellent place to work. (see B.3)


 A.2 SCHOOL STRUCTURE—CITS
 We define IR broadly and have research staff trained as philosophers, political scientists,
 economists, sociologists, and historians. We support and encourage this interdisciplinarity through
 a structure of CITs that create bridges with other Schools and departments. Practically all staff
 actively engage in at least one of the School’s eight CITs—which coordinate seminar series, host
 conferences and workshops, engage in knowledge exchange and impact events (see section D),
 and oversee our five Postgraduate Taught (PGT) MLitt programmes. Staff and PGRs also actively
 participate in interdisciplinary CITs housed across the university. Table II shows the depth and
 breadth of our expertise:


                                                Table II
                           Centres, Institutes and Think Tanks (CITs)
          Existing CITs                Newly Created CITs                Interdisciplinary CITs
               (A)                            (B)                                  (C)

   Handa Centre for the Study
                                     Institute for the Study of
    of Terrorism and Political                                      Centre for Religion and Politics
                                     War and Strategy (ISWS)
        Violence (CSTPV)

      Centre for Peace and           Centre of Art and Politics
                                                                      Institute for Cultural Memory
     Conflict Studies (CPCS)                  (CAP)



                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     Institute of Middle East,                                    Centre for Russian, Soviet,
                                   Third Generation Project
   Central Asia, and Caucasus                                     Central, and East European
                                      (TGP) Think Tank
       Studies (MECACS)                                                     Studies

   Centre for Global Law and                                    St Andrews Institute for Gender
     Governance (CGLG)                                                     Studies

    Centre for Syrian Studies                                        Institute of Legal and
             (CSS)                                                  Constitutional Research


 A.2.1 SUPPORTING CITS
 Since 2014, we have significantly increased funding and administrative support for our CITs,
 allowing members to undertake additional ambitious research and impact projects.
      • Our CITs receive a generous funding package which has steadily increased during this
         REF cycle from a combined total of £171,000 in 2014-15 to £226,500 in 2019-20
         (Columns A and B above).
      • We support interdisciplinary centres not housed in the School (Column C above) with total
         annual grants of approximately £2000.
      • In this REF cycle, we also established and funded a full time ‘research and impact
         administrator’ charged with supporting CITs and their activities.

 This support has not only enhanced our research environment but also facilitated increased
 impact with all our CITs engaged in research-led knowledge-exchange activities. Our four impact
 narratives have all emerged from teams or individuals actively participating in our CITs (CSTPV,
 CSS, MECACS and ISWS). TGP, established in this REF cycle and the University’s first and only
 think-tank, has already generated knowledge-exchange with a worldwide reach. This was
 recognised when its Director, a long-standing School member, was awarded an OBE for her work,
 which focuses on ‘what happens when we look at the international system differently, and prioritise
 those not in power, rather than in power.’

 A.2.2 CREATING NEW CITS
 During this REF cycle we met our strategic goal of creating new CITs to expand our research
 strengths in three areas of importance to the university’s strategy (as stated in the institutional
 level environment narrative):
     • ISWS which further increases our strength in Conflict, Peace and Security
     • CAP which enhances our contributions to Cultural Understanding
     • TGP which builds new strengths in Sustainability


 A.3 HIRING NEW ACADEMIC STAFF
 Our REF 2014 environment narrative and subsequent School strategies, developed a hiring
 strategy to grow our key ‘consolidated thematic groupings as “transdisciplinary areas of
 excellence” in order to catalyse a step change in both the quality and impact of our research.’
 These targeted groupings were 1) Conflict, Peace, and Security; 2) Global and Supra-National
 Institutions; and 3) Civil Societies and IR.
 We successfully met these goals by hiring eighteen ambitious and forward-looking colleagues.
     • Ten hires consolidated our expertise in conflict, peace, and security and actively contribute
          to CSTPV, CPCS, and ISWS.
     • Five hires reinforced our expertise in global and supra-national institutions. They lead the
          School’s CGLG and collaborate with the interdisciplinary Institute of Legal and
          Constitutional Research.
     • Three hires were made with expertise in civil society and IR. This had led to strong support
          for CSS and MECACS.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These new hires have made tremendous research/impact contributions at all levels. One Early
 Career Researcher (ECR) was subsequently named the Chair of the International Studies
 Association’s (ISA) English School Section. One senior hire subsequently received the Samuel
 Eliot Morison Prize for excellence in military history (2018) and was elected a Fellow of the British
 Academy (2017).


 A.4 SCHOOL STRUCTURE—SUPPORTING RESEARCH
 AND IMPACT
 The School structurally supports the research and impact efforts of our members in many ways,
 stretching well beyond the nurturing framework provided by our CITs. The University supports the
 School with a sizeable operating budget and autonomy in its allocation. We devote two-thirds of
 these funds to research support. We provide generous individual research budgets, run
 distinguished speaker events and seminar series, fund undergraduate and post-graduate
 research assistant schemes, enable small group conferences and workshops, and provide pots
 of research and impact seed money. Staff can also apply to special University funds for support,
 such as the Knowledge Exchange and Impact grants.

 We fundamentally believe that every member of staff deserves research resourcing and that no
 project is too small to fund. This bears out in our research support:

    •   Research Leave: Each academic staff member is entitled to one semester of research
        leave in every six, a more generous allowance than the University minimum of one in eight.
        The timing of research leave is to be used at the staff member’s discretion, as to when it
        would most advance their research—and is not conditioned on publication stage or REF
        cycles.
    •   Individual Research and Travel Accounts: All colleagues are automatically allocated
        £2000 annually to use at their discretion. Staff are encouraged to use their funds creatively
        and can roll over unused funds from one year to the next. Funds are used to attend
        conferences, host events, conduct book workshops, hire research assistants, and take
        research trips.
    •   Special Research Funding: Staff are also able to apply singly or jointly for up to £3000 in
        School funding to hold research workshops, conduct knowledge exchange and impact
        events, or undertake other special projects.
    •   Incentivising and Supporting Grant Development: Since 2014, the School has
        expanded its research committee to better assist staff in developing both large and small
        grant bids—helping with networking at the start of projects and providing feedback on draft
        applications. A new program was also introduced wherein staff members developing large
        grant applications receive workload credit, reducing their administrative and teaching
        duties in other domains. A percentage of the indirect costs of awarded Full Economic
        Costing (FEC) grants are also now returned to principal investigators to further their
        projects.
    •   Dedicated Research Administrator: During this REF cycle, the School appointed its first
        full-time administrator dedicated to research and impact support. The administrator
        lightens many burdens on academic staff, by overseeing research budgets, assisting with
        grant bid development and finances, arranging logistics and advertising for events
        (including all seminars as well as large conferences and workshops), and providing crucial
        support to the Director of Research (DoR) and the Director of Impact (DoI).
    •   Research Integrity: The School’s Research and Ethics Committees provides support on
        good research practice, conflicts of interest and research misconduct.
    •   Open Access: Building on the University’s leading position in encouraging OA output
        publication, the School’s research committee has worked with great success to guarantee
        our research is open to all where possible. The School publishes two OA journals with
        another currently in development.
    •   Networking with Publishers: We have pioneered a new scheme of regularly inviting
        editors from the best publishers to meet with staff and PGR students to discuss their

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        projects and establish relationships. In 2018-19, we hosted the commissioning editor for
        Politics/IR at Oxford University Press and in 2019-20 a commissioning editor from
        Princeton University Press.

 A.4.1 OUTPUT AND IMPACT CREATION
 Our research and impact support systems have aided in the production of an impressive volume
 of high-quality, international award-winning outputs. During this REF cycle, we have published
 102 single or jointly authored books. These include more than 20 books published by Oxford and
 Cambridge University Presses and two by Penguin/Random House. As a sign of our international
 reach, our co-authored publications have involved 78 scholars from 19 different countries.

 We have also collectively published approximately 380 articles in journals throughout the world,
 reflecting our wide range of expertise. Many of these have come out in the very best journals of
 the field as we have published 62 articles in the top 35 IR journals (Incites Journal Citation Reports
 2019, last full year available).

 Our books and articles have won major awards in this REF cycle, including:
  • Jewish Book Council: Winner of the Annual Award for Best Book of the Year (2015)
  • Washington Institute for Near East Studies: Winner of the Gold Medal for Best Book (2015)
  • Pritzker Military Library: Winner of the Pritzker Award for Lifetime Achievement in Military
      Writing (2016)
  • American Political Science Association: Winner of the African Politics Conference Group
      (APCG) section Best Article Award (2017)
  • International Studies Association: Winner of the International Political Economy Section
      Best Book Award (2019)
  • North American Society for Oceanic History: Honourable mention for the Best Book of the
      Year Lyman Award (2020)

 All elements of the School, from individual researchers to CITs are involved in high impact-creating
 projects, most of which have emerged from our CNPs. See sections C and D and our impact
 narratives.


 A.5 FUTURE STRATEGIC GOALS FOR RESEARCH AND
 IMPACT
 Building on our achievements during this REF cycle, we have set out ambitious targets for the
 next five years. We will create new structures and processes to support this vision, as
 encapsulated in our 2020-2025 School Strategy. These goals and plans include:

 1) Enhancing diversity and inclusion within the School. We aim to earn an Athena-Swan Silver
    Award and will dedicate substantial financial and staff resources to the School’s Equality and
    Diversity Committee to implement our Athena SWAN action plan. We also seek to improve
    the gender and ethnic/racial balance of the School, in terms of both new hires and promotions.
 2) Refreshing our CITs and create additional research clusters to further encourage and
    support the research of academic staff. We have already convened a steering group to direct
    this rigorous process of self-examination. By early 2021, after extensive consultation both
    within the School and with the University, it will issue a full report and action plan.
 3) Significantly improving our external grant capture to be competitive with the top ten Politics
    and IR Schools in the UK. The Directors of CITs will meet annually with the Head of School
    (HoS) and DoR to coordinate external funding capture, especially large grant bids.
 4) Expanding our knowledge exchange and impact work such that each CIT is actively and
    routinely cultivating a potential REF impact cases. The School will expand its budget for
    funding such activities. The DoI will also meet annually with the Directors of CITs to coordinate
    plans and, with the new research administrator, develop internal systems to track evidence of
    long-term impact.


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 5) Growing our local, national, and international networks and partnerships. We will leverage
    our newly appointed Professor of Practice, as well as the process of refreshing CITs, to create
    additional strategic partnerships with world leading academic, think tank, and practice-oriented
    institutions as well as community activists. We will also invest in summer workshops and
    conferences to expand collaborations.
 6) Enhancing our facilities and interdisciplinarity by relocating to a new state-of-the-art social
    science building at the site of the B-Listed Madras College Building. We will use this
    opportunity to develop synergies with our co-located subjects, Economics and Management.


 Section 2. People


 B. OVERVIEW
 We aim to produce inspiring and world leading research by recruiting and nurturing the most
 promising talent at both the staff and PGR levels. This integrally involves creating an inclusive
 environment that embraces diverse identities, theoretical approaches, and methodologies. Our
 range of voices positions us to lead global research and debates on the politics of a better future:
 including on human rights, refugee migration, ethnic and racial conflict, gender- and sexuality-
 based bias and violence, and sustainable development.



 B.1 SCHOOL STRATEGY FOR IMPROVING EQUALITY
 AND DIVERSITY
 During this REF cycle, working hand-in-hand with the University’s commitment to a Diverse St
 Andrews (ILES, 3.1) we engaged in a deep, self-reflective process as part of our Athena-SWAN
 Bronze award. We sought to understand our past shortcomings and how we can change as a
 community to better embrace equality and diversity. We have investigated the issues facing
 women in IR, particularly the pipeline leak, glass ceiling, and publication gap. We have also started
 grappling with the structural biases facing Black, Asian, and Minority Ethnic (BAME) staff and
 students and those from socio-economically disadvantaged backgrounds. We recognise that there
 is a way to go in this area. Our ongoing conversations and a study of our output evaluation has
 made it crystal clear that we gain great strengths from our commitment to diversity; enhancing our
 collective research productivity and creativity.

 As part of our commitment to positive EDI reforms and to create a permanent structure of
 introspection while we begin addressing historic equality, diversity, and inclusion shortcomings,
 the School undertook a number of reform initiatives this REF cycle. These include:
     • Diversifying our management structures and ensuring equitable workload (B.2).
     • Incorporating EDI issues into our hiring (B.3.1) and promotion processes (B.3.4).
     • Establishing mentoring programs across career stages (B.3.2 and B.3.3).
     • Providing Unconscious Bias training covering EDI issues (B.3.3).
     • Recruiting and mentoring a diverse PGR community (B.4).



 B.2 SCHOOL MANAGEMENT AND WORKLOAD
 STRUCTURES
 The School is managed by the Head of School (HoS) in consultation with the administrative
 Directors (e.g. Research, Teaching, Impact, and Postgraduate Research, etc) and several
 important committees (e.g. Management, Research, and EDI). Centre, Institute and Think-Tank
 (CIT) Directors also play a substantial role, allocating research event funding and running speaker
 series. We also have regular school councils open to all members in which everyone is consulted.
 Improving the diversity of our management structure has been central to School reform during this
 REF cycle. In 2017, the EDI committee was established, with membership drawn from all different

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 career levels. It scrutinises School policies, analyse student and staff EDI data, monitors the
 diversity and representational burdens of teaching and administrative duties, and implements our
 Athena-SWAN action plan. The HoS now balances the membership of all committees to ensure
 fair representation. We have also required that seminar series be more cognisant of diversity, with
 each asked (by 2021) to achieve balanced representation across its annual invitation list.

 As part of our preparations for REF 2021, we reorganised the Research Committee (RC) with EDI
 issues in mind. Membership of the RC was opened beyond professors to mid- and early- career
 staff, allowing for much broader participation and improving female and BAME representation. Our
 commitment to EDI issues was also seen in our REF output selection, which is almost exactly
 representative in percentage terms of the gender and ethnic breakdown of the school as a whole.

 To help achieve equity, the School maintains a transparent and flexible workload model. The
 model accounts for teaching, administrative duties, committee work, supervision, and large grant
 applications. Each summer, the HoS consults with individuals over their workload and ensures a
 relatively equal spread of duties across the School. The model is also responsive: when staff
 members step into heavier service positions, adjustments are immediately made to other
 responsibilities so they can maintain an active research agenda. For example, in the semesters
 prior to the Athena-SWAN and REF submissions, the EDI Chair, the DoR, and DoI, respectively,
 were released from teaching obligations.


 B.3 STAFF RECRUITMENT, TRAINING AND
 DEVELOPMENT
 We have created an innovative and comprehensive package of support measures for staff that
 rival the best programmes in the UK. Beginning with recruitment, and spanning career stages,
 these measures build inclusivity, nurture talent, protect research time, and help staff achieve their
 full potential. This support package has fuelled our exceptionally high staff retention rate while
 facilitating strong research production (see Figure 1).




                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 B.3.1 STAFF RECRUITMENT
 During this REF cycle, the School has undergone a period of significant expansion (18 permanent
 hires). We have focused on attracting promising ECRs with demonstrated excellence in research
 outputs and grant capture. The Athena-SWAN process, and the patterns it spotlighted, provoked
 us to directly incorporate EDI concerns into our recruitment strategy and hiring practices. These
 measures were introduced in 2017 and include:

    •   Foregoing ‘named’ searches, which disproportionately exclude women and BAME
        scholars.
    •   Ensuring searches are open to critical and other non-orthodox theoretical and
        methodological approaches, thereby expanding the potential pool of women, BAME, and
        non-Western scholars.
    •   Crafting job advertisements to highlight our flexible working hours, generous parental
        leave, and mentoring.
    •   Encouraging staff to share job advertisements broadly, but particularly targeting women-
        and BAME-centred networks.
    •   Ensuring that all School hiring panels are gender-balanced and receive training on implicit
        bias.
    •   Incorporating the EDI Chair into the hiring process to monitor the diversity of candidate
        long and short lists.

 These measures had immediate impact, reversing concerning trends (see Figure 2). They have
 allowed the School to simultaneously attract top talent while making significant strides toward
 achieving greater inclusivity. At present, 42% of the School’s research and teaching academics
 are women, an increase over the REF cycle from 33%, demonstrating a positive move towards a
 more equal balance. Furthermore, we have hired six new BAME staff during since 2014, a
 threefold increase over any previous REF period.


                                       Figure 2
                    Permanent Research Focused Staff Hires, by Gender
    8
    7
    6
    5
    4
    3
    2
    1
    0
                         2014-16                                     2017-20

                                            male   female




 B.3.2 NEW STAFF TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
 The School is keenly aware that ECRs face tremendous challenges in balancing teaching and
 administrative duties with launching their research careers: establishing networks, traveling for
 conferences, landing journal and book publications, and navigating the funding landscape.
 Building on the University’s joining the 2019 Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers, and adhering to its three principles, we have aimed to create and
 Environment/Culture supportive of staff development, through the maintenance of excellent


                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 employment conditions which involve a package of extensive career development policies
 supporting and mentoring new staff:

    •   New Staff Liaison: Established in 2015, the Liaison maintains the New Staff Handbook, ,
        and organises an annual induction where new staff meet key role-holders (including the
        HoS, the EDI Chair, the DoR, DoI, and the Director of Teaching). The Liaison continues
        meeting with new staff, both individually and collectively, throughout their first two years.
    •   Guided Probationary Period: In consultation with the HoS, all new permanent staff set
        objectives for their 15-month probationary period, commensurate with their career stage,
        experience, and needs. The DoR also meets with new staff to discuss their publication and
        funding goals. The School then identifies resources to support these goals.
    •   Reduced Initial Workload: During their first year, new staff receive a reduced teaching
        load and are protected from time consuming service positions. When School needs
        prevent a full release from service, the HoS makes every effort to ensure an appropriate
        administrative role given other time-commitments and career stage. Safeguarding new
        staff time allows them to acclimate while continuing to progress their research agenda and
        publish.
    •   Mentoring: Research has shown that mentoring is critical to professional success,
        particularly for individuals from historically excluded backgrounds who may not know the
        ‘hidden curriculum’ of academia. To help realise their full potential, all new staff are offered
        a more senior mentor within the School. Since its 2017 introduction, 100% of new hires
        have enrolled in this programme.
    •   Transitioning Education Focused Staff to Research Contracts: We recognise that
        many of our Associate Lecturers on teaching-focused contracts are ECRs aspiring to
        research-focused positions. We actively manage their teaching load to allow time for
        research, granting them the equivalent of one semester of research leave in every three
        years.


 B.3.3 ALL STAFF TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
 Our package of support continues as staff transition into mid- and senior- career stages. All staff
 receive:

    •   Annual Review and Guidance: Beginning in 2016, each staff member now meets with
        the HoS every year to reflect on their publications, grant applications, teaching, and
        service. Progress since the last review is discussed as well as goal setting (without setting
        hard targets) for the coming year. The HoS then investigates University and School
        resources to support these goals.
    •   Continued Mentoring: The School believes that all colleagues, regardless of career
        stage, benefit from supportive and collaborative mentoring. The HoS arranges such
        relationships where requested, including outside of formal programmes. Additionally, the
        School actively encourages participation in the University’s mentoring schemes, including
        the Teaching, Research, and Academic Mentoring Scheme as well as the Elizabeth Garrett
        Mentoring Programme for mid-career women.
    •   EDI Training: Staff participate in training to help ensure that all members of our community
        are treated fairly. These measures include: (1) annual staff unconscious bias training,
        including on what we conceive of as valid forms of research and knowledge; (2) further
        University training on unconscious bias, especially for staff participating on admissions and
        hiring panels; and (3) a beginning of year induction for students (which staff are
        encouraged to attend), created in 2018, that explores how issues of inclusivity impact
        teaching and how to transform encountered biases into positive teaching moments.
    •   Recognition and Reward: To foster an encouraging environment, the School has
        institutionalised celebratory book launches. To reward these important achievements, the
        HoS works with the author to invite a high-profile scholar to participate in a panel seminar,
        followed by a reception and dinner.


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 B.3.4 PROMOTION
 The University conducts promotions centrally and provides clear criteria for the achievements in
 research, teaching, impact, and service that are required at each rank. Promotion policy, at both
 the University and School level, was revised in 2017 to better incorporate EDI concerns, improve
 transparency, and ensure rigorous support in developing promotion applications. These measures
 include:

    •   Incorporating Self-reflection into Promotion Applications: University guidance now
        emphasises that promotion applications should explicitly reflect on contributions to EDI in
        research, teaching, and service.
    •   Improving Transparency: When the annual promotions round is advertised, the HoS
        issues guidance to all staff on the process and advancement criteria. An information
        session is also arranged for interested candidates to meet with a member of the promotions
        panel.
    •   Better Mentoring and Guidance: The HoS invites all staff members considering
        promotion to meet individually for guidance. An internal School panel, comprised of two
        Professors and the HoS, then assess draft applications. The provided feedback aims to
        strengthen candidates’ chances, while noting where promotion might be premature. This
        is not determinative and the candidate decides whether to move forward.


 B.3.5 RETENTION AND JOB SATISFACTION
 This comprehensive package of staff training and development combined with our excellent
 research and impact support (see Section A.4), have created a collegial and nurturing
 atmosphere. This environment, in turn, has led to high job satisfaction and low departures to other
 universities. In a recent internal survey, 93% of staff noted strong job satisfaction. Moreover, in
 this REF cycle, only three staff members have left for academic positions at other UK universities.



 B.4 PGR RECRUITMENT, TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
 We maintain a strong commitment to building a diverse and inclusive PGR community. We strive
 to support our PGR students and ensure their success throughout the dissertation process and as
 they transition to their post-PhD career. During this cycle we have seen through to successful
 dissertation completion more PGR students than in any similar period. Between 2014 and 2020
 122 students were awarded PGR degrees (117 PhDs and 5 M.Phils). We also have at present a
 growing, engaged, and diverse PGR community composed of 98 students.


 B.4.1 PGR RECRUITMENT
 To facilitate a diverse pool of applicants, and as part of our Athena-SWAN action plan, we now do
 more to stress our commitment to EDI issues, including during annual university-wide information
 sessions for interested students. To ensure fair access, all staff on admissions panels receive
 implicit bias training and the Equality and Diversity Committee monitors admissions rates. Over
 the last three academic years, we have obtained gender balance across male and female admitted
 PGR students. We also now, gratifyingly, receive equal numbers of BAME and non-BAME student
 applications and admit proportionately (see Figure 3).




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                             Figure 3 - PGR Applications and Offers
                                        2018/19 - 2020/21
  140

  120

  100

   80

   60

   40

   20

    0
               BAME                NON BAME                       MALE           FEMALE

                                          Applications   Offers




 B.4.2 PGR TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
 The School maintains a multi-layered support system to help our PGR students succeed which
 we believe at least equals equivalent systems available in the very best doctoral programs in the
 country.

 Financial and logistical support is available from more than two dozen sources including:

    •   Scholarships: The School offers two competitive scholarships, the ‘Handsel’ and ‘School
        of IR’ Scholarships (5-6 recipients per year), that cover fees for three years of PhD study.
        Our PGRs can also win University granted scholarships (eleven different programmes) that
        completely cover fees or make significant contributions toward them.
    •   Travel and Conference Funds: The School sets aside a generous portion of our annual
        operating budget, £17,000, for PGRs to network and promote their research at
        conferences. We also encourage PhD students to envision their own workshops and
        conferences, with School funding available. Since 2014, PGRs have hosted at least one
        large conference annually here at St. Andrews, bringing further vitality to our research
        community.
    •   Support for Emergent Needs: The School further supports PGR student needs with
        annual funding of £5,000 for childcare and £7,500 for unexpected hardships.
    •   Office Space: Beginning in their second year, PGRs can apply for secure, shared office
        space. At present we provide 27 desks in seven different offices.

 As well as extensive mentoring and training:

    •   Supervision: Upon starting the programme, students are assigned both a primary and
        secondary supervisor to guide their research and provide pastoral support. PGRs have
        monthly contact with their supervisory team. At any time during their studies, PGR students
        can also request a separate mentor from amongst the academic staff. Wherever possible,
        we try to ensure that supervisorial teams reflect the diversity of our staff.
    •   Annual Review: At the end of the year, each PGR student submits a progress package,
        reviewed by two staff members outside the supervisory team. The student and reviewers
        then meet to discuss their progress, with any notable concerns forwarded to the Director
        of Post-Graduate Research for further support.



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Research Training: All PGR students are required to take an IR research methods module
        in their first semester of study. They also always have the option of enrolling in the four
        additional research-focused training modules run for all PGR social science students.
    •   Further Research Development: The School runs a catered weekly research seminar
        where both academic staff and PGR students share and receive feedback on research in
        progress. PGR students gain valuable experience in presenting their work, serving as
        discussants, seeing how faculty navigate the publication process, and generally engaging
        in a workshop environment. More recently, the School established an annual Research
        Methods Café, to familiarise students with diverse methodologies while creating deeper
        ties with a broader network of staff. PGR students are also invited to meet with journal and
        book editors when they visit (see A.4). Professional Development: The School also
        organises a variety of professional development seminars each year, including on
        publication strategies, career advice, job market skills, and achieving work-life balance.
        Additionally, PGR students complete a professional training needs analysis at the
        beginning of each year, which helps supervisors guide them to appropriate short courses
        run by the University’s Centre for Educational Enhancement and Development. Finally,
        PGR tutors undergo mandatory EDI training. Network Development: We actively help our
        PGRs to build their research networks through participation in our significant national and
        international partnerships, including with the Scottish Graduate School of Social Science
        (SGSSS); the St Andrews, Glasgow, and Edinburgh Security Studies collaboration
        (StAGES); Georgetown University (USA); William and Mary College (USA); and Renmin
        University (China).



 B.5 CONCLUSION
 At the end of this REF cycle, we are a more diverse and equitable community than at the start.
 We have developed comprehensive mentoring and training programs for both staff and our PGRs,
 supporting all members of the School to achieve their full potential. We are now producing more
 and better research and have laid the foundations for continued excellence.


 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 C. OVERVIEW
 Members of the School of IR have generated funding from a wide range of sources, reaching
 beyond traditional research grants to also embrace consultancy opportunities, impact and
 knowledge exchange grants, and donor support. We see this range of income generation as a
 sign of our commitment to creating an Entrepreneurial culture that is a key goal of the University’s
 strategy (ILES, 3). Such funding is bolstered by the excellent range of facilities and support
 infrastructure provided by both the School and University, enabling world class research. Our
 event and exhibition spaces allow us to share our research within the community and host leading
 researchers, artists, and practitioners from across the globe. We also dedicate considerable
 resources toward journal editing, including the full production of our own open-access journal.

 Together our income, infrastructure, and facilities enable us to make significant contributions to
 the academic profession and society. Indeed, many of our externally funded research projects
 have contributed to important social debates on equality, inclusivity, and diversity. They have
 examined migration and refugees in Scotland; humanitarian aid in East Asia; the social
 reintegration of young ex-combatants in West Africa; the everyday geopolitics of Muslim youth in
 the UK; and anti-Semitic and anti-Roma violence in Hungary. Further awards supported the
 creation of the TGP, a think-tank dedicated to raising awareness of climate security, indigenous
 rights, and justice.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 C.1 INCOME
 The School is supported by a generous operating budget supplied by the University. The HoS, in
 consultation with the Management Committee, then allocates and disburses these funds.
 Research support has historically encompassed two-thirds of the budget, including funding for
 CITs, individual research and travel accounts, workshops and conferences, and research and
 impact seed money. Additionally, we have built an internal infrastructure to assist staff members
 in attracting substantial research income from external sources, including research grants (with
 impact and knowledge exchange components), fellowships, consultancy, and donations.

 C.1.1 INCOME GENERATING INFRASTRUCTURE
 The School encourages all staff members, regardless of contract or career stage (from education-
 focused Associate Lecturers to Professors), to seek external funding to pursue their research
 projects. Rather than compelling grant applications as a condition of employment or promotion,
 we embrace the philosophy that funding should follow intellectual curiosity and staff should always
 research what they are passionate about. Achieving both these goals at once—generating income
 while preserving staff freedom—requires a robust infrastructure of encouragement, support, and
 material incentives. These include:

    •   Workload Relief: Staff members preparing large grant bids (at least £250k directed to the
        university as a whole) can apply for significant credits in the workload model and a
        compensatory reduction in other duties (100% of such applications have been granted).
    •   Administrative Support: Our new Research and Impact administrator helps with grant
        preparation and, if successful, tracking finances and preparing reports for funding bodies.
    •   Feedback: We enlarged our Research Committee and expanded its duties to include
        reading and providing feedback (often multiple rounds) on draft grant applications.
    •   Returned Indirect Costs: Staff members awarded a FEC grant receive a small
        percentage of the indirect costs directly into their personal research fund. They can also
        allocate a matching percentage to a nominated CIT within the School.
    •   Teaching Replacement: The School also encourages staff members to devote a portion
        of the salary costs of FEC grants to teaching replacement, freeing up time to work on the
        project.


 C.1.2 FUNDING APPLICATIONS AND CAPTURE
 During this REF-cycle, we have applied for around £23 million in external funding and received
 awards equal to approximately 10% of this figure. We have also witnessed an important jump in
 the level of funding received: this REF cycle has produced seven of the ten largest grants the
 School has ever been awarded.

 As detailed below, our external funding ranges from major international and EU grants to smaller
 local bodies supportive of travel and fieldwork. This funding capture demonstrates how our support
 for equality and diversity across career stages has paid literal dividends. At the time of census,
 five of the six largest income generators for the School were women—with two having secured
 the bulk of those funds as ECRs. Our income capture includes:
 Research Grants: The School has won awards from a diverse group of funding bodies, including
 the Arts and Humanities Research Council, the Carnegie Trust, the Danish Council for
 Independent Research, Erasmus+, the European Commission (Action Grant), the European
 Union (Horizon 2020), Humanities in the European Research Area network (HERA Cultural
 Encounters), the Independent Social Research Foundation, Marie Curie, and the Scottish Funding
 Council, including its Overseas Development Assistance/Global Challenges Research Fund.

 Many of these awards include funding for engagement with international organisations, non-
 governmental organisations, national and local governments, and community groups. Our
 research has thereby made its way into the hands of such bodies as the Joint Terrorism Analysis

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Centre, NATO, the World Bank, the UK Government Communication Planning Directive, the UN
 Department of Peacekeeping Operations, and the UN Economic and Social Commission for West
 Asia, among others. Three of our five largest grants in this REF cycle directly funded impact
 activities:

     •   EU Horizon 2020 grant: Examined tensions in the post-Soviet Caspian area with extensive
         policy dissemination, including directly to the European Union.
     •   UK Conflict, Stability, and Security Fund grant: Developed conflict assessment tools,
         including drafting questionnaires and arranging focus groups, and applied these to develop
         policy recommendations that were actioned in the conflict zone in Abkhazia.
     •   HERA grant: Focused on defining and identifying Middle Eastern Christian migrant and
         refugee communities in Europe. Findings were given not only to government bodies,
         including the European Commission and departments in the UK, Denmark, and Sweden—
         but were also broadly disseminated to dozens of civil-society groups across Europe,
         including Catholic Bishops’ conferences, Anglican and Orthodox church associations, and
         local community churches of various Christian denominations.
 Fellowships: School members have received a variety of prestigious and funded fellowships,
 giving them time to complete significant research publications, including four books and a ream of
 articles. These include fellowships from the British Academy, the Leverhulme Trust, the National
 Endowment for the Humanities (USA), the Royal Society of Edinburgh, and the Netherlands
 Institute for Advanced Studies.

 Consultancy: We have generated an additional £300,000 of income in this REF cycle by
 leveraging our expertise (often housed in our CITs) to fulfil consulting contracts with governments,
 international organisations, and non-governmental organisations. These include:

     •   More than £100,000 by CSTPV on counter-terrorism, justice for terror victims, and related
         topics.
     •   More than £50,000 by the CSS on the origins, complexity, and international dimensions
         of the conflict in Syria.
     •   Projects worth approximately £100,000 with the Ministry of Defence (MOD) focusing on
         the creation of norms governing modern war.

 As an indication of how our income generation works symbiotically with our research and impact
 excellence, the lead academic on these final projects with the MOD was in 2020 awarded the ISA
 Ethics Section Distinguished Scholar Award for his extensive contributions to scholarship and
 mentorship in the field of international ethics.
 Donations: The range and depth of our research and impact creation excellence have led to a
 gratifyingly large number of donations. Since 2014, 21 major donations totalling approximately
 £1.34 million have been made by various foundations and benefactors to support our projects. For
 example, four donations totalling £250,000 were gifted to enhance research on Syria while CSTPV
 has received over £600,000 to support its work on understanding terrorism.




 C.2 INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES
 The excellence of our infrastructure and facilities contributes directly to our ability to attract income
 and produce world leading research and impact. They allow us to work effectively in a tranquil
 environment, collaborate on international projects, and edit major international journals. Our
 spaces also allow us to share our research with the broader community and host prominent
 speakers, both through large public lectures and intimate seminars and workshops.

 C.2.1 PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE
 The School is housed almost entirely in the Arts Building, located centrally within the University
 campus. Additional office space is located close by in a small Georgian cottage, ‘113 North Street.’
 The Arts Building was completed in 2006, constructed to high modern standards, with

                                                                                                  Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 approximately 3200 square metres of floor space. The building includes a wealth of excellent
 teaching spaces, large individual offices, wide foyers and hallways, showers for active commuting,
 a great deal of natural light, sea views, and the latest technology. Facility-wise it contains:

    •   Nine fully AV equipped teaching/seminar rooms which can hold between 20-40 people.
        Three of these are specially designed to facilitate interactive teaching, with rolling tables
        and chairs as well as special white boards.
    •   One specialised lecture theatre which can accommodate 100 people.
    •   Individual offices for practically all faculty (five staff members have individual offices in 113
        North Street). Our offices are sufficiently large to host tutorials for up to ten students as
        well as house the standard bookcases, desk, and comfortable reading chair. This allows
        staff to schedule tutorials, office hours, and other meetings at their discretion—providing
        flexibility, minimising commute times, and improving work-life balance.
    •   Five additional offices for the nine members of our administrative team, including a
        dedicated IT support officer and our Research and Impact administrator.
    •   High quality computer equipment for each staff member, upgraded every 3-5 years.

 Exhibitions and Infrastructure: Our wide hallways and foyers were built to socialise and facilitate
 conversations. The School has capitalised on these spaces to also exhibit research and art. For
 instance, members of staff routinely mentor high-achieving undergraduates in conducting
 research under the University’s Laidlaw Leadership and Research Programme. The students
 produce posters at the end of their project, which we hang in well-travelled parts of the building.
 In another example, the CAP hosted a talk and exhibition by Tomas Ayuso, a World Press
 Association emerging photographer and recipient of the 2019 James Folley Prize. Entitled, ‘The
 Right to Grow Old,’ the photography exhibit was displayed along the entire first floor hallway for a
 number of months, allowing students and staff to contemplate the powerful images as they walked
 to and from classes (see Image 1).




 Image 1: Tomas Ayuso’s ‘The Right to Grow Old’ exhibition - Arts Building

 With Conflict Textiles curator Roberta Bacic, an ECR team delivered ‘Threads, War and Conflict’
 for which they won the 2020 PSA Innovations in Teaching Politics (Group) Award. Launched by
 the Principal, this exhibition and events programme displayed conflict textiles from around the
 world which embodied key School research themes: war, conflict, resistance, drones,
 displacement. Students, academics, the public, and cultural institution representatives attended,
 with events including a conference, creative evening, seminars, and textile workshops. Supported
 by the University’s Enhancement Theme Fund, these workshops with a local textile artist
 generated a collective textile with Scottish University postgraduates. Following its exhibition within
 the School (Image 2), it joined the Conflict Textiles collection.

                                                                                                 Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Image 2: ‘Letters to Arpilleristas’. Collective Textile Exhibit – Arts Building


 C.2.2 LIBRARY INFRASTRUCTURE
 The Arts Building is located next door to the University Library, allowing for seamless interactions.
 A senior librarian liaises with the School to swiftly acquire needed research materials as well as
 develop the general collection of resources germane to our discipline. In addition to the existing
 library holdings and subscriptions, the School currently benefits from an annual book fund of
 £37,265 for new purchases. During this REF cycle, a total of £431,989 has been invested to
 directly support the School’s research and impact efforts, including more than £250,000 in new
 book purchases and £175,000 in journal, database, and other online resource acquisition.

 The library also maintains a central fund for subscriptions to a wide range of relevant journals and
 databases. Since 2014, the School has successfully secured over £51,000 of this money for
 disciplinary resources. Additionally, we have partnered with other Schools and CITs to purchase
 materials meeting interdisciplinary research needs. Collectively, these investments have provided
 our staff and PGRs with access to important archival and primary source materials. As just one
 example, to support the School’s strong research theme of understanding the evolving character
 of global and supra-national institutions, we have gained access to the Chatham House Online
 Archive, the Digital National Security Archive (DNSA), Westlaw UK, and the UN iLibrary. These
 new collections were used extensively by one staff member to publish two books on Franco-
 British-US relations in this REF cycle.



 C.3 INFRASTRUCTURE AND INCOME IN ACTION: OUR
 COMMITMENT TO JOURNAL EDITING
 Our excellent facilities and infrastructure, combined with income investments by the University and
 School, have enabled us to develop new initiatives that contribute to the profession as a whole.
 One of the most exciting of these was the creation of a new open-access journal, Contemporary
 Voices in International Relations (CVIR). Launched in April 2018, CVIR publishes pieces that
 surprise, inspire, and challenge readers to rethink their own positionalities, subjectivities, and
 insecurities. Its content is made freely available to the public, supporting greater access and the
 global exchange of knowledge. Our in-house editorial team oversee the entire production process:
 from the initial screening of submissions, through the peer-review stage, and onto final publication.
 Between the period April 2018 and 31st December 2020, CVIR has published 15 articles, 3 book
 reviews, two editorials and one special issue with a collective 8774 views and 1394 downloads.

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 C.4 CONCLUSION
 Our excellent infrastructure, facilities, and income lay the groundwork for broad and important
 contributions to the profession. Beyond providing a tranquil and nurturing environment for creative
 thought, they furnish venues for sharing research and facilitate exchanges with other universities
 and visiting researchers, artists, and practitioners from around the world. As conveyed in Section
 D, we have leveraged this infrastructure to make ourselves an internationally recognised, vital
 contributor to our field and beyond.


 Section D. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy, and society


 D. OVERVIEW
 Supported by the University’s ‘Global St Andrews’ strategic vision for nurturing partnership (ILES,
 2.7) we have developed close CNPs, connecting us to academics, policymakers and societal
 actors around the world. To demonstrate the breadth and depth of these, we have divided this
 section into how our activities both bring the School’s research to the wider world and bring the
 world into the School (see Figure 4). To emphasise our overall school commitment, all the links
 discussed below exist independently of our REF 2021 impact narratives.

 we strive not only to shape the research agenda of our field and contribute to the broader
 profession (D.1) but also to influence governance and society (D.2). In bringing the world to our
 doorstep, we design our events to be inclusive of both other scholars as well as practitioners,
 policymakers, and activists (D3).




 D.1. CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE PROFESSION
 Beyond creating our own high quality research outputs and impact projects, we contribute to
 journal and book editing across well respected publishers, assess grants for major international
 funding bodies, assist other universities with their promotion processes and PhD examinations,
 play significant roles in professional societies, and are regularly invited to give research talks,
 including major keynote addresses. Our achievements in research leadership have been

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 internationally recognised: one professor was awarded the 2019 International Studies Association
 (ISA) J. Ann Tickner Award to acknowledge both the bravery of her scholarship and her
 commitment to the profession. One of our mid-career members has recently been named as a
 member of the Arts and Humanities Research Council’s (AHRC) peer review college and its
 COVID-19 expert panel.


 D.1.1 JOURNAL EDITING AND REVIEW
 We are particularly proud of the editorial vision our academic staff have brought to a wide range
 of internationally renowned journals. Since 2014, members of the School have served as lead
 editors for 16 different journals, covering different corners of the IR discipline from African politics
 to political theory to war, conflict, and terrorism (see Table III).

                                                Table III
                                    Lead Editors of IR Journals
          African Security
          Contemporary Voices in IR
          Global Constitutionalism
          Hobbes Studies
          India Review
          International History Review
          International Feminist Journal of Politics
          Journal of International Political Theory
          Journal of Modern African Studies
          Mediterranean Politics
          Mediterranean Studies
          Psychoanalysis, Culture and Society
          Studies in Conflict and Terrorism
          Terrorism and Political Violence
          Syria Studies
          War in History


 Members of School have served on over 33 editorial boards and have brought their expertise to
 many more journals through peer review. Since 2014, our staff have reviewed over 500 article
 manuscripts for more than 100 different journals.



 D.1.2 BOOK EDITING AND REVIEW
 Members of the School have also edited important book series for major academic presses,
 demonstrating the range of our collaborations and research interests (see Table IV).


                                                Table IV
                                       Editors of Book Series
       Cambridge University Press, Military History Series
       Oxford University Press, Great Battles Series
       Bristol University Press, International Theory Series
       Brill, Series on Critical Emotion Studies


                                                                                                 Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Lynn Reiner, Studies in Terrorism and Political Violence
       Palgrave, Critical Security Studies in the Global South
       Palgrave, Critical Security Studies Series
       Routledge, St Andrews Syrian Studies Series
       Routledge, Studies in Gender and Security

 Staff have also reviewed book manuscripts for practically every major academic publisher in the
 UK as well other excellent presses around the world. These include Cambridge UP, Oxford UP,
 Bristol UP, Chatham House/Brookings Press, Columbia UP, Edinburgh UP, Manchester UP,
 Palgrave Macmillan, Routledge, Springer, University of Michigan Press, University of Ohio Press,
 and the University Press of Kentucky, among others.


 D.1.3 RESEARCH FUNDING ASSESSMENT
 Beyond our extensive editorial involvement, we have also worked assiduously with major funding
 bodies to assess grant applications and support promising research. During this REF cycle, we
 have served on grant committees, panels, and assessment boards for 33 different funders across
 15 countries—from the UK to Europe to North America—demonstrating the reach of our influence
 (see Table V). Within the UK, we have representatives every year evaluating grants, often across
 multiple calls, for the AHRC, British Academy, Carnegie Trust, ESRC, and Leverhulme Trust.


                                             Table V
                     Grant Committees, Panels, and Assessment Boards
      UK
      AHRC
      Airey Neave Trust
      British Academy
      Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland
      ESRC
      Independent Social Research Foundation
      Leverhulme Trust
      Europe
      Austrian Science Fund
      COST—European Cooperation in Science and Technology (Belgium)
      Croatian Science Foundation
      Czech Science Foundation
      Dutch Science Foundation
      Einstein Foundation (Germany)
      Estonian Research Council
      European Research Council
      European Science Foundation
      Flanders Research Foundation


                                                                                         Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Flemish Social Science Research Council
       Finnish Academy of Sciences
       Horizon 2020
       Irish Research Council
       National Science Centre of Poland
       Netherlands Institute for the Advanced Study in the Humanities and Social Sciences
       Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research
       Nordic Research Council
       Open Society Foundations
       Research Council of Norway
       Swiss National Science Foundation
       Other International
       Israel Science Foundation
       National Endowment for the Humanities (USA)
       National Science Foundation (USA)
       Princeton Institute for Advanced Studies (USA)
       Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council (Canada)


 D.1.4 EXTERNAL EXAMINATIONS AND PROMOTION PANELS
 Our disciplinary excellence has been recognised through our contributions to the wider IR
 community as external PhD or full course taught examiners and members of professorial
 appointments/promotions boards (see Table VI).


                                             Table VI
                                   Degree and Promotion Boards
                                                                          Professorial
                             External Examining - PhD
                                                                      Promotion/Appointment

                  Birmingham, Bournemouth, Cambridge, City;          Birmingham, East London,
                  University of London, Dundee, Durham,              Glasgow
  UK              Edinburgh, Glasgow, King’s College, LSE,
                  Nottingham, Oxford, Queen Mary, Reading,
                  Royal Holloway, Salford, Sheffield, Sussex


                  Aalborg University, Bern University, Central       Tallinn University
                  European University, Charles University,
                  Dublin City University, EHESS Paris, Goethe
                  University Frankfurt, Norwegian University of
  Europe
                  Science and Technology, Royal Irish
                  Academy, University College Dublin, University
                  of Barcelona, University of Lorraine, University
                  of Pisa




                                                                                          Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                   Koc University, Macquarie University, Massey          Boston University,
                   University, Tbilisi State University, University of   University of Memphis,
  Other
                   Addis Ababa, University of Karachi, University        University of San Francisco,
  International
                   of Malaya, University of Sydney, University of        University of Toronto
                   Texas at Austin



 D.1.5 PROFESSIONAL SOCIETIES AND GLOBAL NETWORKS
 Members of the School have shaped our discipline through dedicated service to both national and
 international professional societies, including: the American Political Science Association (APSA),
 the British International Studies Association (BISA), the European International Studies
 Association (EISA), the International Studies Association (ISA), and the Political Science
 Association (PSA). We have assumed important leadership roles in these and other organizations,
 including;

    •   Chair of the English School Section for both ISA and BISA
    •   Chair of the Feminist Theory and Gender Studies Section for ISA.
    •   Founder of the European Scholars of South Asian IR (ESSAIR) network and annual
        conference

 We have also helped organise workshops and important elements of annual conferences for these
 associations. A staff member organised a full day Dissertation Workshop (2018) and a multi-day
 Working Group (2019) for APSA annual conferences, both on ‘security force loyalty.’ Another staff
 member organised a BISA International Law workshop (2019). We have even set up some of our
 own international networks: one staff member helped establish and is a lead organizer for the
 Security Force Loyalty Networking Group, comprising over 80 scholars from around the world,
 which is currently pursuing formal ties to both APSA and ISA.

 Our academic staff share their research widely within the discipline. During this REF cycle,
 members of the School have been invited to give over 500 research talks around the world. More
 than 100 of these were distinguished lectures or keynote addresses, delivered in more than 20
 countries across four continents. A small sample includes:

    •   Zhejiang University, Trust-building and Globalisation Conference (2014): Keynote Address
    •   University of Leeds, Conference for Interdisciplinary Approaches to Politics (2015):
        Keynote Address
    •   Critical Terrorism Studies Annual Conference (2018): Keynote Address
    •   Belmont University (2019): Women’s History Month Keynote Address
    •   University of Edinburgh, Graduate Research Conference in Political Theory (2019):
        Keynote Address
    •   King’s College London (2020): Michael Howard Annual Lecture


 D.2 CONTRIBUTIONS TO GOVERNANCE AND SOCIETY
 We believe that contributing to governance and society is one of our most important missions.
 Many of our closest relationships are outside of academia—with governments, international
 organisations (IOs), non-governmental organisations (NGOs), and other civil society groups.
 These relationships help us leverage our research to create social, economic, and policy benefits.

 D.2.1 WORKING WITH GOVERNMENTS AND INTERNATIONAL
 ORGANISATIONS
 Members of the School have advised governments and worked with the largest IOs, with strong
 policy ramifications. Areas of particular importance are defence policy, foreign relations with Africa


                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and the Middle East, counter-terrorism, police training, and mental health policy. Outside of our
 impact case studies, we have extensively engaged with the following:

 UK Government: We have abiding connections with the Prime Minister’s Office, the Foreign and
 Commonwealth Office (FCO), MI5, and the Ministry of Defence (MOD). Our activities have
 included staff:

    •   Serving on the Chief of the Defence Staff’s Strategy Panel.
    •   Serving on the Cabinet Office’s Armed Forces Covenant Reference Group.
    •   Serving as Special Adviser to the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy.
    •   Serving on the MOD’s Force Exploration Committee.
    •   Closely engaging with MI5’s Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre.
    •   Advising the FCOs Diplomatic Academy on Africa
    •   Advising the FCO on Disputes in the Caucasus
    •   Serving on UK Parliament’s Knowledge Exchange Unit (KEU)'s COVID-19 Outbreak
        Expert Database

 Scottish Government and Police Scotland: We take seriously our position as one of
 Scotland’s leading academic centres and have established extensive partnerships with the
 Scottish Government. These include:

    •   CSTPV has worked extensively with the Equalities and Human Rights Committee.
    •   CSTPV has also provided lectures to NHS psychiatric training conferences.
    •   TGP has worked on curriculum development and educational initiatives concerning the
        environment and human rights.
    •   A Staff member has worked with Police Scotland to improve their community policing by
        better understanding group identities and practices.

 Other National Governments: Beyond the UK, we have developed collaborative relationships
 with:
      • Finland: prepared reports for the Finnish Parliament on hybrid warfare and for the
        Foreign Ministry on reconciliation and de-escalation of conflict.
      • France: served on the Comité scientifique, Laboratoire militaire
      • Germany: Participated in talks on Georgia-Abkhaz disputes.
      • Liberia: worked with the Armed Forces of Liberia, as well as the Federation of
        Motorcyclist and Tricyclist Unions and veterans’ groups, on reintegrating survivors of
        military operations into society.
      • New Zealand: consulted with the government ‘s Royal Commission of Inquiry into the
        Christchurch Shootings.
      • United States: provided training on African civil-military relations for Foreign Area
        Officers across the four branches of the U.S. Military and served on the Africa Board of
        Experts for the US intelligence community.

 International Organisations: We also have deep links with both the United Nations (UN) and
 European Union. These are mainly developed in our impact case studies but further include:

    •   Consulting with the UN Economic and Social Commission for West Africa.
    •   Helping to develop policy with the UN Counter-Terrorism Centre and the UN Office on
        Drugs and Crime.
    •   Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe, with policy proposals for economic
        and environmental initiatives in conflict zones
    •   Consulting with the UN Department of Peace Operations
    •   Provided research and policy support to the work of the UN High-Level Independent
        Panel on Peace Operations



                                                                                          Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 D.2.2 WORKING WITH NGOS AND CIVIL SOCIETY
 We believe that social impact stems from working directly with NGOs and civil society. We have
 thus developed collaborative relationships with local organisations, from here in Scotland to much
 further afield. For example, TGP, with support from the National Geographic Society, has
 developed a methodology of ‘community collaborative’ research to understand the impact of
 climate change on marginalised communities, such as in Ethiopia and Somaliland, and bring that
 knowledge into western educational curricula, including in Scottish schools. Another member has
 worked extensively with motorcycling groups in Liberia to understand how ex-combatants and
 conflict-affected youth establish themselves as active peacebuilding subjects. The project has
 resulted in a series of widely distributed short films as well as the formation of police-cyclist
 dialogue groups within Liberian communities to redress social stigma and tackle the lingering
 legacies of violence. Outputs from this project have been shared widely including at the British
 Permanent Mission to the UN, Folke Bernadotte Academy/Sweden’s government agency for
 peace, security and development, UNICEF, War Child, the UN University, the US Institute for
 Peace.


 D.2.3 MEDIA ENGAGEMENT
 Our global reach is furthered by our extensive international, national and local media involvement.
 Staff have been interviewed for television, radio, newspapers, and magazines in more than 20
 countries across four continents—not to mention our growing social media presence. In the UK
 alone, school members regularly appear in outlets such as:

     •   Television: BBC 1 and 2, ITV, and Channel 4.
     •   Radio: multiple BBC channels and LBC.
     •   Print journalism: Daily Star, Economist, Fife Courier, Financial Times, Guardian, Herald,
         Mail, Mirror, New Statesman, Observer, Scotsman, Spectator, Sun, Sunday Post,
         Telegraph, and Times.

 School members have also created various podcast series for Chrome Radio, including about:
 Iran: The First World War centenary: The Present and Future of Airpower: The War in Afghanistan,
 and the Northern Irish Troubles. One staff member was cast in the Netflix series, Great Events of
 World War II in Colour, and another translated his research into short films that have been shown
 at the UN.


 D.3 BRINGING THE PROFESSION AND THE WORLD TO
 THE SCHOOL
 We have gone to great lengths to make St. Andrews a centre for IR research and impact. Beyond
 contributing outwardly, we seek to bring the world to us. During this REF cycle, we have invested
 in hosting visiting fellows, expanding our range of external speakers, designing collaborative
 research events, organising in-house workshops and conferences, and bestowed awards upon
 distinguished scholars.

 D.3.1 VISITING FELLOWSHIPS AND ACADEMIC EXCHANGE
 Since 2014, we have hosted 39 visiting fellows for anywhere between a few weeks to a few years.
 They have overwhelmingly come from universities and institutes outside of the UK, including the
 European Institute for Peace, North Carolina State University, Renmin University, University of
 Bonn, University L’Orientale Naples, University of New South Wales, and Vrije Universiteit
 Amsterdam. Visiting fellows embed themselves in the research culture of the School, attending
 seminars and presenting their own work—enriching our general environment while building and
 cementing research partnerships and collaborations. We also maintain robust research and
 teaching exchange with the College of William and Mary, Georgetown University, the U.S. Army
 War College, and the Barcelona Centre for International Affairs


                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 D.3.2 HOSTING RESEARCH EVENTS
 Every year the School hosts dozens of research events, from our CITs’ weekly seminar series to
 small group workshops to major international conferences. Between 2014 to the outbreak of the
 COVID pandemic, we had run more than 450 such events, involving thousands of speakers,
 delegates, and participants. Table VII lists some of the major conferences we have held during
 just the last two years and the connections they have fostered:

                                           Table VII
                             Major Conferences Hosted 2018-2020
     Date            Title         Speakers   Delegates                 Keynotes
                                                           •   Professor Catriona Pennell
                                                               (Exeter)
               The British Home                            •   Professor Martin Daunton
                Front 1914-18:        38          120          (Cambridge)
  June 2018     WWI Centenary                              •   Professor Susan Grayzel (Utah
                                                               State University)

                                                           •   Professor Sir Lawrence
                                                               Freedman (King’s College)
                 The Future of
  May 2018
                   Airpower
                                      21          100      •   Lt-Gen David Deptula (Mitchell
                                                               Institute of Aerospace Power
                                                               Studies)
               The Syrian War:
   August      Later Evolution
                                      20          90       •   Dr. Leila Vignal (Oxford)
    2018         and Future
                 Prospects

               International Law                           •   Professor Stephen Toope
  November        in Times of                                  (Vice-Chancellor, University of
                Transformation        20          50           Cambridge)
     2018


                                                           •   David Petraeus (Retired US
               Lessons Learned                                 General and former Director of
  February                            13          55           the CIA)
               from Afghanistan
    2019

                 CSTPV 25th
                 Anniversary                               •   The Rt Hon Lord Jonathan
                 Symposium:                                    Evans of Weardale KCB DL
  November                            25          120
                Terrorism, its
    2019                                                   •   Sir David Veness CBE, QPM
                Past, Present,
                 and Future

 Our research events, moreover, extend beyond academia and actively seek to involve
 practitioners, policymakers, and community activists. In this REF cycle, our CITs have invited
 numerous distinguished guests to speak and participate in events, including:
     • Chief of the General Staff General Nick Carter
     • Defence Secretary Michael Fallon
     • Chief Secretary of the Cabinet Sir Mark Sedwill
     • Director General of Strategy at the Ministry of Defence Peter Watkins
     • Former U.S. National Security Adviser and Retired Lt-Gen. H.R. McMaster

                                                                                           Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 D.3.3 DISTINGUISHED AWARDS
 The School grants three named awards each year to distinguished scholars that have made
 significant contributions to understanding IR. These scholars are hosted for two days, during which
 they give a lecture as well as master classes and seminars. The Rengger Award, formerly the
 Distinguished Scholar Award, memorialises the late former HoS and honours well-established
 scholars who have especially impacted school research. The other two awards were established
 in this REF cycle: the Imber Award recognises achievements in scholarship on International
 Organisations and the environment while the Distinguished Teaching Award lauds innovate
 teaching practices developed by renowned researchers. See Table VIII for recipients:

                                              Table VIII
                                      Distinguished Awards
    Year          Rengger Award                   Imber Award             Distinguished Teacher
  2014-15    Stephen Krasner              -                           -
             (Stanford University)

  2015-16    James Der Derian             Ian Hurd                    -
             (University of Sydney)       (Northwestern University)

  2016-17    Cynthia Enloe                Nancy Fraser                -
             (Clark University)           (The New School)

  2017-18    Amitav Acharya               Jennifer Welsh              -
             (American University)        (European University
                                          Institute)
  2018-19    IPT workshop held in         Siba Grovogui               Robbie Shilliam
             memory of Prof. Rengger      (Cornell University)        (Johns Hopkins
                                                                      University)
  2019-20    Cynthia Weber                Farah Faizal                Cai Wilkinson
             (Sussex University) *        (Ambassador of the          (Deakin University) *
                                          Republic of Maldives to
                                          the UK)
  *Postponed due to Covid-19.



 D.5 CONCLUSION
 Combined our CNPs have made a significant contribution to the academic profession, the world
 of policymakers in government and NGOs and society at large. We have taken our research out
 into the world while at the same time making the School a hub for people from all walks of life to
 interact, learn, and benefit from our discoveries.




                                                                                              Page 25
