Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Birmingham

 Unit of Assessment: UoA27, English Language and Literature

 1. Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact Strategy

 a. Overview

 English Language and Literature (UoA27) at the University of Birmingham makes a virtue of our
 size and breadth by supporting field-defining and emerging research areas that speak to
 changing civic, national, and global contexts. Our UoA comprises 76 research-active academic
 staff (compared with 38 in 2014 and 42 in 2008) based in the School of English, Drama and
 Creative Studies (EDACS), one of five Schools in the College of Arts and Law (CAL). Academic
 staff are drawn from four of the five constituent units of EDACS: English Literature (ELit), English
 Language & Linguistics (ELAL), Film & Creative Writing (FCW) and the Shakespeare Institute
 (SI). Colleagues in the fifth unit, Drama & Theatrical Arts (DTA), along with staff working in Film
 Studies in FCW, are returned to UoA 33.

 In this assessment period, we have invested in and expanded our historically internationally-
 recognized strengths in Shakespeare studies and corpus linguistics; diversified our range and
 increased our depth in English literature across medieval, nineteenth-century, modern, and
 contemporary literature; and invested in new fields, including cognitive linguistics, digital cultures
 and literature, and popular fiction. Our ambition now is to harness our research to focus on the
 real-world relevance of scholarship in English. This begins with taking seriously the University’s
 foundation as a civic institution, actively diversifying and developing our research and research
 culture to address pressing social and global issues, as well as contributing to local, national,
 and international cultural partnerships.

 b. Achievement of Strategic Aims 2014-2020

 Thanks to our growth and significant strategic investment, the Unit has successfully met the
 aims we outlined in REF 2014, having 1) increased capacity across the Unit’s research
 concentrations; 2) developed leading research centres; and 3) supported and promoted
 individuals’ outputs and grant capture.

 1) The first aim was to develop our existing strengths and cultivate further research
 capacity through strategic appointments in English language and linguistics,
 Shakespeare studies, medieval and early modern literature, literature and culture after
 1850, and critical practice in creative writing. This development has occurred through the
 hiring of new staff—including new research-protected roles such as Birmingham Fellows,
 Birmingham Professorial Fellows, and Interdisciplinary Professors (REF5a, 3.4.1)—and
 enhancing the support structures for impactful research.

  i. English Language and Linguistics

  Since 2014, ELAL has further established itself as a leading world centre for empirical linguistic
  research, conducting advanced research on corpus linguistics, discourse analysis, and
  cognitive linguistics. Birmingham has always been a leader in corpus linguistics, beginning
  with the pioneering research of Professor John Sinclair in the 1970s. This tradition continues
  today, with one of the largest concentrations of corpus linguists in the world. ELAL is home to
  the Centre for Corpus Research, one of the University’s priority research centres, which has
  held the last two editorships of the leading journal in the field, the International Journal of
  Corpus Linguistics (Mahlberg, Teubert). Since 2014, the unit’s range of expertise has
  expanded to include not just the analysis of lexis, grammar, and style – traditional areas of
  excellence in Birmingham corpus linguistics – but the analysis of language change,
  sociolinguistics, and sign language. Perhaps most significantly, over this period, the group has
  oriented itself towards quantitative and computational methods, leading in the use of advanced

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  methods from statistics, data science, and machine learning within linguistics, ensuring it will
  continue to lead this field. UoB’s work in corpus linguistics also forms the basis for research in
  applied linguistics, transforming scientific research into societal impact, including applications
  for language teaching, advertising, customer service, natural language processing, and
  forensic science – endeavours underlying multiple impact case studies (ICS) that are part of
  this submission (‘Changing Grammar’, ‘Birmingham Stories’).

  A second, long-standing area of strength in linguistics is in discourse analysis and stylistics.
  The so-called ‘Birmingham School of Discourse Analysis’ has been recognised as one the
  leading innovators in this area since the 1970s, when the UoA pioneered the analysis of
  natural-language discourse, especially with a focus on language in the classroom, as well as
  literature, political discourse, and forensic texts. Since REF 2014, ELAL has also added
  researchers in discourse analysis and stylistics to the Unit with expertise in literature
  (Mahlberg), social media (Page, Grieve), business communication (Fuoli), and forensic
  linguistics (Grieve). These new additions have consolidated ELAL’s efforts to expand expertise
  into new forms of language, especially to better understand the new digital communication
  landscape, while prioritising hires that link up to other areas of research in ELAL to encourage
  a collaborative and interdisciplinary working environment.

  A final addition to these two long-standing areas of research excellence in linguistics is a
  dramatic expansion of expertise in the field of cognitive linguistics, which has quickly
  become a third world-leading area of expertise in the Unit. This evolution of the Department
  has been driven by hiring at both the professorial (Dabrowska, Divjak) and junior (Carroll,
  Ortega, Patten, Perek, Perlman, Schembri, Winter) levels, facilitating cognate growth in PGRs
  and collaborative projects. Broadly speaking, these researchers focus on understanding the
  cognitive processes involved in language production and processing across modalities, while
  exploring the interface between cognitive linguistics and corpus linguistics and discourse
  analysis. More specifically, ELAL has developed expertise in sign languages, gesture, iconicity,
  sensory language, and embodied cognition and metaphor, placing the Unit at the forefront of
  research in cognitive linguistics, expanding the limits of what is traditionally considered
  linguistic research. Colleagues have also been especially interested in exploring the real-world
  impact of research in cognitive linguistics, which directly underlies two impact case studies
  ('Figurative language' and 'Improving care’).

  ii. Shakespeare Studies

  At the Shakespeare Institute, the strategic development of early modern theatre history builds
  on existing strengths in cultural history (Sullivan, Laoutaris), theatre and performance history
  (M. Dobson, Rokison-Woodall, Wiggins), contemporary interpretation of Shakespeare (Fernie),
  and digital technology and performance in the 21st century (Sullivan). Above all, the SI has
  maintained its pre-eminence in producing definitive scholarly editions (Jowett, Wiggins),
  supplemented by an innovation in supplying texts tailored to the requirements of actors and
  directors (Arden Performance Editions, general-edited by M. Dobson and Rokison-Woodall).
  The recruitment of Stern in 2017 bolstered the SI’s strengths in theatre and book history, and
  in scholarly editing in particular. Alongside its research and publication agenda, the SI’s most
  successful interventions are in the cultivation of new generations of Shakespeare scholars via
  its postgraduate research programme and, in particular, its pioneering work on collaborative
  theatrical practice internationally. All SI students, 140 in 2019/20, are postgraduates studying
  for research degrees or Masters qualifications. The Institute is proud of its role in the unique
  partnership between UoB and the Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC), focused on the work
  of The Other Place (TOP), the RSC’s studio theatre and hub for radical experiment, that was
  reopened in 2016. Now in its fifth year, the collaboration is producing new and creative
  definitions of the relationship between academic work and artistic practice. Crucially, this
  means that actors, directors and other theatre practitioners all make significant contributions to
  teaching at the SI, while the critical discourse between academics, students and theatre
  professionals has created a laboratory for dramatic experiments.


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  iii. English Literature

  ELit has achieved its goal of extending its reach into contemporary forms of literary
  transmission while maintaining its transhistorical breadth, which is one of its chief assets. In
  medieval studies, the Unit has developed existing strengths in multilingualism & cross-
  linguistic transmission of literature and book culture. Wingfield’s work on exchanges between
  Scotland and the Continent is complemented by new hires Flood and Robinson, whose
  scholarship addresses Insular/French, Welsh and English/French/Continental translation and
  exchanges, respectively. Their interest is both linguistic and material. Burge’s work expands
  this cross-cultural reach to Orientalist and popular medievalisms, and Birmingham Fellow
  Cavell’s interests in ecocritical and comparative approaches highlights inter-departmental links,
  connecting her work to that of colleagues in nineteenth-century and contemporary studies.
  Wingfield’s emphasis on book history and textual editing (e.g. Six Scottish Pieces, 2018)
  similarly situates her within the Unit’s longstanding strengths and current research strategy.
  Digital methodologies have been developed in Flood’s Crossing Borders in the Insular Middle
  Ages project, supported by the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, which includes an online
  open-access repository and academic network that brings together scholars from across
  Europe to trace the transmission and translation of literary texts across Britain, Ireland, and
  Iceland (1250-1550). The focus of the network is a pilot for an open-access digital database of
  transmitted and translated medieval texts, in association with Culture Lab, Newcastle
  University. Two interdisciplinary research centres run jointly by EDACS and the School of
  History— CESMA (Centre for the Study of the Middle Ages) and CREMS (Centre for
  Reformation and Early Modern Studies)—bring scholars and PGRs from both periods together
  for seminars, guest speakers, and symposia.

  A focus on augmenting transnational and transhistorical approaches extends to the Unit’s
  expansion of early-modern studies. Auger explores relationships between continental
  Europe, Scotland, and England in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries; he established the
  ‘Early Modern Boundaries’ project with a BA Rising Star Engagement Award (2015-2017); this
  network promotes internationalism and research excellence in the field by strengthening ties
  across the global research community through symposia and an online, multi-lingual platform
  for generating collaborative responses to research queries. Brammall’s transhistorical
  approach is fundamentally comparative, considering the European inheritance of Virgil and
  other classical literatures. Birmingham Fellow Hardy also addresses the reception of classical
  antiquity in early modern texts, with an emphasis on religious texts. His work on previously
  undiscovered sources of the King James Version of the Bible has drawn national and
  international attention (including articles in the Guardian, Telegraph, Conversation).

  Nineteenth-century studies—expanded from post-1850 to include Romantic as well as
  Victorian studies—has grown exceptionally in this assessment period. University investment
  allowed the Unit to build a nineteenth-century faculty from the ground up with the addition of
  ten new staff, resulting in one of the largest concentrations of nineteenth-century staff in the
  country, over half of whom are ECRs. While these hires represent specialists addressing the
  early Romantic period through to the fin de siècle, the Unit has focussed on developing
  thematic areas which represent transhistorical links between the nineteenth century and other
  periods: these include sound studies (Dickson, Ward), medical humanities and literature and
  science (Dickson, Holmes, Tattersdill), sea and emigrant literatures in both transatlantic and
  Commonwealth contexts (Packham, Shaikh), and visual and material culture (E. Dobson,
  Holmes, Mitchell).

  Drawing on UoB’s Victorian roots and civic mission, a Nineteenth-Century Centre (19CC) was
  inaugurated in 2017 to support the research of this cluster and reach the local community.
  19CC already has established itself as a leading centre in the UK, supporting partnerships
  (with Exeter, Birkbeck, and Purdue), enrichment events, PGR development, and grants, and
  modelling the possibilities for engagement across the research centres in the Unit.
  Postgraduate provision in the period has developed from the investment in new staff, with the
  development of a nineteenth-century MA pathway and invigorated supervision provision for

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  PGRs. In summer 2019, just two years after the Centre’s founding, it was selected to host the
  international British Association of Victorian Studies (BAVS) conference; following Covid-19,
  this now will happen in 2022. 19CC has supported international visiting scholars from the US
  and China, multiple funding bids (including the ‘Pre-Raphaelites Online’ AHRC Network), and
  two Leverhulme postdocs (Fallon, Taylor-Pirie).

  Modern and contemporary literature and culture was not an area identified in the 2014
  strategy, but in light of intense student interest and the need to replace retiring senior staff, the
  Unit seized the opportunity to develop this area. In doing so, it sustained the Unit’s long-
  standing leadership in Modernist studies—the British Association of Modernist Studies and the
  Modernist Cultures journal were founded at UoB—while at the same time extending its reach
  well into the twenty-first century. A critical mass (Butchard, Graham, Hayler, Roach) forms the
  nexus of digital studies in English Literature, driving a research cluster and research centre in
  digital humanities. Among the major monographs produced by the Modern and Contemporary
  Literature and Culture group, Stonebridge’s and Morey’s demonstrate a commitment to human
  rights and applied literary ethics, themes that also drive Stonebridge’s two interdisciplinary
  Global Challenges Research Fund projects. Saunders’s interdisciplinary work with the Medical
  School and other Schools underscores his research programme on imagining the future.
  Supporting these staff and their research students are the Centre for Modernist Cultures and
  the Centre for Contemporary Literature and Culture.

  iv. Creative Writing

  Perhaps the greatest change in the Unit took place in Creative Writing: in 2014, CW staff
  joined with Film and Screen Studies to become a new Department within the School, that of
  Film and Creative Writing. Since 2014, CW has nearly doubled in size, and has since 2017
  been ranked in the top 3 CW programmes in league tables (finishing first in 2017). The
  renaming of the School—from ‘English, Drama, and American and Canadian Studies’ to
  ‘English, Drama, and Creative Studies’—reflects the growing importance of creative practice in
  the Unit and, indeed, the discipline. A signal aim in CW is to work across both creative practice
  and contemporary literary studies. Investment in new hires allowed us to develop greater
  diversity, with new colleagues bringing expertise across multiple genres, including short story
  (Metcalfe), poetry (Galleymore), and the novel (Gilligan). Like the Unit as a whole, the variety
  of creative and scholarly focus among CW colleagues is one of its virtues; what unites the
  group is a commitment to formal experimentation (e.g. House’s stories, released
  simultaneously via podcast and Twitter) and to social engagement, a focus that informs
  Gilligan’s ‘Birmingham Stories’ ICS, based in CW. Creative writers excelled in critical work as
  well, including Kennard on Kelvin Corcoran; Gilligan on Eimear McBride and Modernism and
  Colum McCann; and Galleymore on Mark Doty. Gilligan’s work on narrative’s capacity to
  encourage the development of empathy is the basis for her work with non-profit ‘Narrative 4’,
  and a constituent part of the ‘Birmingham Stories’ ICS.

 2) A second aim, supporting collaborative and interdisciplinary research by means of
 research centres located in the UoA and the Shakespeare Institute, was achieved through
 the strategic expansion of research centres from four to eight across the unit, representing
 period-based or methodological concentrations. This infrastructure has proved invaluable in
 facilitating deft responses to calls for funding, as demonstrated by the number of research
 centres that have supported major grant bids with administrative infrastructure and event hosting
 (e.g. CLEMT for Wilkinson’s AHRC Early Career Leadership Fellowship bid, or 19CC for ‘Pre-
 Raphaelites Online’). These efforts are further described in §3, below. Just as Unit-based
 research centres facilitate collaborative work across UoB, UoA27 staff actively participate in
 interdisciplinary initiatives based outside the unit, including the Institute for Mental Health
 (James, Dickson, Saunders, Sullivan), Institute for Research into Superdiversity (Stonebridge),
 and Institute for Science, Technology, Engineering, Maths and Medicine in Culture and Society
 (Holmes, Tattersdill).




                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3) The expansion of academic staff, although planned, proved greater than anticipated. This
 meant that getting our third strategic aim right—supporting individuals to meet the
 expectations of outputs, funding, and PGR supervision defined in job descriptions and
 promotion criteria by UoB and CAL—was even more important. We hired in strategic areas
 not simply to grow our numbers, but to develop new ways of doing research, which required new
 ways of developing and supporting the individuals doing the research. Bespoke grant support
 offered at induction, in Departments, and across the entire Unit, led to consistent gains in
 research application numbers and grants received across the REF period, with record
 submissions numbers in 2019/20 (57 applications worth £13.1M) and awards (£4.6M). Research
 income increased from a 4-year annual average of £384K (2013/14-2016/17) to £642K
 (2016/17-2019/20). The Unit viewed this expansion as an ideal time to align staff support
 strategies with the aims of its Athena SWAN Bronze certification, which was awarded to the Unit
 in Autumn 2018. With such a high number of early-career staff (presently, approximately 50% of
 all academic staff are lecturers), the provisions for staff support at early-career stages are
 particularly crucial, as detailed more fully in §2 and §3 below, with highlights including a
 revamped induction and a bespoke programme of training in mentoring, mitigating unconscious
 bias in REF reading, preparing applications for promotion and study leave, and grant writing.

 c. Research Strategy 2021-2028

 Our research strategy ensures UoA27’s ability to address twenty-first-century national, global,
 and creative challenges by:

 1) encouraging work that addresses thematic approaches to the study of literature and
 language, including human rights and the essential roles of texts in the public world,
 starting from our local, civic context;

 2) to that end, expanding Open Access across all periods and disciplines;

 3) working toward robust funding targets that allow us to weather any storm and grow our
 research ethically, while supporting other researchers as well as non-academic partners;
 and

 4) developing creative and innovative PhDs as equally equipped for roles in universities,
 public and private creative and policy sectors, and NGOs in the UK and internationally.

 The ethical aims that underscore our research agenda reflect UoB’s commitment to research
 integrity, from the project design phase to open-access dissemination.

 Human Rights / Writing in the World

 Cutting across period- or discipline-specific divisions, the Unit makes ethical relationships—as
 represented in and shaped by language and literature—a central focus of our research.
 Interdisciplinary Professor Stonebridge’s Placeless People unites literary analysis with political
 philosophy to consider the role of the nation-state on human and civil rights. Of pressing interest
 in a time of increasing refugee crises, Stonebridge’s work has been featured widely in the media
 (The New Statesman, LARB, THE, Prospect, BBC Radio, NPR), including the Guardian’s Best
 Books of 2018 list. Morey’s Islamophobia and the Novel similarly engages literary analysis to
 explore evolving notions of cultural difference as evidenced in depictions of Muslims and anti-
 Muslim bigotry. This work has given Morey a platform to address policy-makers developing the
 Government’s PREVENT programme, intended to mitigate the nascent ideology and
 environments that might give rise to terrorism. Harris leads postdocs who are deeply invested in
 using creative and scholarly writing to address social inequities, the institutions that give rise to
 it, and the way they are felt by individuals. Metcalfe’s short- and long-form fiction addresses
 intercultural exchange, human rights, and post-coloniality. Ferguson’s, Roger’s, and West’s
 scholarship explores the governmental and civic institutions that shape individuals’ experience of
 freedom and the law, while Cavell and Galleymore adopt an ecocritical theoretical stance to


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 explore the non-human. Saunders’s Imagined Futures, and his and Gee’s associated book
 series FUTURES, argue for the urgent need to recover forms of creative and constructive
 thinking about possible future social and technological developments.

 Alongside the research focus on human rights and ethics, the Unit aims to grow its existing
 strong relationships with cultural institutions to implement social change. Fernie’s
 ‘Everything to Everybody’ project, for example, draws on the nineteenth-century foundations of
 UoB and the idea of the ‘civic gospel’ forwarded by George Dawson, the Victorian founder of the
 City of Birmingham’s famed Shakespeare Library, which sought to make Shakespeare’s works
 accessible to working people. Working with the Birmingham City Council and the region-wide
 events of the 2022 Commonwealth Games, Fernie’s project revives the dedication to public
 education, drawing on local archival and primary resources. Current ICSs point the way to future
 development, including the National Literacy Hub (Gilligan, Mahlberg, K. Rumbold), affiliated
 with ‘Birmingham Stories’, which aims to develop the links between literacy and socio-economic
 development. Other projects that have the potential to impact the world beyond academia are
 the Shakespeare Institute’s ‘Shakespeare Beyond Borders’ network, which is being developed
 with the intention of influencing policy, and Grieve’s language analysis work with the National
 Crime Agency to catch child sex offenders.

 d. Impact Strategy

  The research strategy elucidated above depends on using scholarship to drive change; our
 impact strategy naturally flows from those research aims. Our current ICS demonstrate this
 strategy in action, with ‘Birmingham Stories’ increasing literacy and empathy via narrative-based
 outreach, and ‘Improving care’ supporting bereaved parents by effecting changes in policy,
 healthcare guidelines, and public understanding. UoA27 strives to identify ways to impact
 creativity, culture, and society within the early stages of research projects pursued across the
 Unit; these efforts are supported through dedicated professional services staff as well as
 academic peers. On the professional services side, a team of three manages current projects
 and pipeline development from new research. Identifying impact potential in the earliest stages
 of project development ensures that impact is organically central to the project, which
 strengthens grant applications and contributes to a culture of vibrant, impactful research.
 Moreover, our real-world focus means that we increasingly define our research in dialogue and
 partnership with partners and constituents outside of academia. A dedicated Impact
 Development Officer and Research Development Officer look after this process, providing vision
 and logistical support for ICS leads. They, along with the Public Engagement with Research
 (PER) team, identify potential stakeholders within the community to connect researchers with the
 practitioners and policy makers whom they might influence.

 e. Open Research / Open Access

 EDACS views open research as an opportunity: not merely an institutional requirement to be
 fulfilled, but as the basis for ethical scholarship, making the data and analysis it is based upon
 widely accessible to other researchers and the public. We aim to benefit from the UoB
 infrastructure—noted below—to increase access for broad audiences, including students
 (especially school and mature students), those without access to university libraries and their
 expensive subscription services and the public.

 Open-source and open-access digital media, and user-friendly platforms to use those media, are
 central to a number of the Unit’s research and impact projects, cutting across Departments and
 periods; e.g. Crossing Borders in the Insular Middle Ages (Flood), Fleuron (Wilkinson), Dickens
 CLiC (Mahlberg), and COVE/Pre-Raphaelites Online (Mitchell). Further, Unit staff are committed
 to developing capacity and mechanisms to facilitate open research more broadly: Mahlberg and
 Thompson represent UoB at CLARIN-UK, the UK-component of the CLARIN (Common
 Language Resources and Technology Infrastructure) European Research Infrastructure, which
 also supports open research in language and linguistic studies in the humanities and social



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sciences. Many of these projects (e.g. CLARIN, COVE, Crossing Borders) involve international
 partners, evidencing deep investment in collaborative OA.

 ELAL takes pride in leading open science in linguistics – not only engaging with open access
 publishing, but regularly making the data, code, and research results available through open
 access repositories, including large datasets generated through corpus analysis and
 experimental research. This has led to over 100 international and interdisciplinary collaborations
 with researchers from around the world, in areas as diverse as psychology, education, literature,
 modern languages, geography, computer science, economics, physics and the cognitive
 sciences. ELAL is also a major centre for quantitative research in linguistics, in large part
 because a number of staff members (Grafmiller, Grieve, Mahlberg, Murakami, Perek, Winter)
 make scripts for quantitative analysis free to other researchers, on a variety of techniques
 including regression analysis, multivariate statistical analysis, and spatial analysis for linguistics.
 This is further supported by a number of training sessions for external linguists in statistics and
 corpus linguistics, most notably the corpus linguistics and statistics summer schools, which have
 run annually since 2016 and 2018, respectively, and have trained over 350 students from over
 20 countries from around the world.

 Traditional paper-based areas of research are also developing new methodologies to meet and
 enhance the opportunities offered by open access. The Unit’s long-standing commitment to
 textual editing across all periods (Adlington, Curran, Gasiorek, Hardy, Herford, Jowett,
 Lockwood, Longworth, R. Mitchell, Radcliffe, V. Rumbold, M. Saunders, Stern, Waddell,
 Wilkinson, Wright) is, for example, increasingly manifest in digital projects, many of them open
 access. Wilkinson’s ‘Fleuron’, an online database of eighteenth-century printers’ ornaments,
 draws from Gale-Cengage data to provide an open-access resource available to all scholars.
 Supported by an AHRC Early Career Leadership Fellowship, awarded in February 2020,
 Wilkinson will expand the database’s functionality, drawing on her editorial work on Alexander
 Pope’s corpus. Wright’s AHRC-funded ‘Editing Aphra Behn in the Digital Age’ includes a digital
 edition with both original and standardised spellings that augments the printed edition (which has
 only standardised spellings), and the workflow is facilitated with a bespoke editorial interface.
 The project’s website features an open-access function to search the entire edition. At the
 Shakespeare Institute, Jowett was General Editor of the online and print New Oxford
 Shakespeare Critical Reference and Modern Critical Editions of Shakespeare’s works, and sits
 on the Advisory Board of the open-access Shakespeare Internet Editions project. The Unit
 houses a number of projects that engage digital humanities and textual editing (e.g. CLiC,
 COVE), and which emphasise the production of open-source and open-access data and tools,
 as well as the curation of these resources. In the next REF cycle, the Unit plans further
 development of digital editing through UoB’s formal partnership with Trinity College, Dublin.
 Launched in 2019, DEEP (Digital Engagement and Editing Partnership) brings together Unit-
 based centres (19CC, CLEMT), University Strategic Centres (CCR, ITSEE) and other
 international affiliations (COVE), as well as individual editing projects from across CAL.

 Platforms and publications are not the only mode of research we use to reach broad audiences.
 At School level, EDACS encourages staff to present content in OA-friendly formats, including
 non-traditional venues such as blogposts and podcasts. UoB’s Wordpress platform allows
 research centres and individual projects to create user-friendly blogs; 9 EDACS-affiliated blogs
 exist (B-Film, CCLC, CLiC Fiction, GLARE, Language in the News, 19CC, Popular Literature,
 Symbiosis), including one for post-graduate research. Tattersdill and Waddell host a podcast on
 ELit research of interest to students and the public. Research centres, the School, and
 Departments run active Twitter, Instagram, and Facebook accounts that disseminate research or
 call attention to the hundreds of sponsored events per year hosted by EDACS. Staff in the Unit
 also share their research via CAL’s Open Research webpages, and via its ‘Two-minute Read’
 feature, in particular, which offers short, accessible summaries of OA research with links to the
 articles themselves.

 These efforts complement UoB’s rigorous Open Research policy (REF5a, 2.2). An institutional
 repository (PURE) ensures our compliance with REF Open Access policy for archiving pre-print

                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 versions of outputs. Disciplinary distinctions are taken into account in the UoB policy:
 monographs and creative works (novels, poetry collections), which are among the most
 significant outputs in ELit and CW, pose challenges for OA. The University has an active plan to
 work with publishers to make more content from monographs and scholarly collections available
 online, wherever cost is not prohibitive. Staff are further supported by UoB’s Research Data
 Management Policy—aligned with the Concordat on Open Research Data—and its internal
 repository and affiliated services, including BEAR (Birmingham Environment for Academic
 Research) (REF5a, 4.5).

 2. People

 Recruitment & Staffing Strategy

 The Unit’s staffing strategy has two primary aims: 1) to encourage new appointments to increase
 our diversity, broadly conceived to include research methodology, educational background and
 other characteristics. Based in one of the most diverse cities in England, the Unit is acutely
 aware of its responsibility to reflect the city itself. 2) To develop staff careers in the fullest sense,
 supporting their professional development at all stages and supporting individual directions, as
 well as developing a new ethos of collaboration and interdisciplinary approaches.

 Recent appointments have improved the student-staff ratio, leading to better-balanced work
 models that facilitate high-quality research. We benefitted especially from the University’s
 significant investment in Birmingham Fellows (BF), Birmingham Professorial Fellows (BPF), and
 Interdisciplinary Chairs (REF5a, 3.4.1), staff with protected research time and start-up funds to
 facilitate research from the moment of hiring, to increase interdisciplinarity and balance
 Departments where the bulk of staff are ECRs. Professorial Fellows and Interdisciplinary Chairs
 lead with research vision, especially in engagement (Grieve, Harris, Saunders, Stonebridge).
 The next phase will ensure that such unprecedented commitment bears fruit not only for the Unit
 and its place within the academic community, but for all the civic and cultural communities with
 which we are actively engaged. In terms of research, we aim to expand our coverage of eco-
 literary studies and in queer, critical race, and disability theory.

 English Language and Applied Linguistics (ELAL) has strengthened existing expertise
 through strategic hiring in Corpus Linguistics (Divjak, Fuoli, Grafmiller, Grieve, Mahlberg,
 Murakami, Patten, Perek, Schembri) and Discourse Analysis and Stylistics (Fuoli, Grieve,
 Mahlberg, Page), while also expanding its expertise in cognitive linguistics and sign languages,
 with hires at the Professorial level (Dabrowska, Divjak) and junior ranks (Carrol, Fuoli, Ortega,
 Patten, Perek, Perlman, Schembri, Winter). The University invested heavily into this discipline
 since REF 2014, with three professorial hires (Divjak, Grieve, Mahlberg) and seven junior hires
 (Fuoli, Grafmiller, Murakami, Patten, Perek, Schembri, Winter), who have joined a large existing
 staff of some of the most well-known researchers in the field. Notably, these hires have included
 two Birmingham Professorial Fellows (Divjak, Grieve) and one Birmingham Fellow (Murakami),
 representing one of the largest investments in any area of research at the University of
 Birmingham.

 With a goal of building transhistorical depth, English Literature hired 8 FTE in medieval & early
 modern literature (Auger, Brammall, Burge, Cavell, Flood, Hardy, Johnson, Robinson), 10 FTE
 in the long nineteenth century (Dickson, E. Dobson, Herford, Hodgson, Holmes, R. Mitchell,
 Packham, Shaikh, Tattersdill, Ward), and two in Shakespeare (Smith, Stern). In Modern,
 contemporary, digital, and popular literatures, directed appointments of Interdisciplinary
 Professors (Stonebridge, Saunders), Professorial Fellows (Harris, James), and a Professor
 (Morey) were joined by junior appointments (Butchard, Cran, Graham, Hayler, Roach, Rogers,
 Sykes, Waddell). In CW, three new staff (Gilligan, Galleymore, Metcalfe) significantly expanded
 the generic range of the Department.

 Indeed, in addition to strengthening strategic areas while ensuring broad curricular
 coverage (see §1), the Unit viewed its increased hiring as an opportunity to implement best

                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 practices to increase the diversity of staff (resulting in 4 BAME staff, compared to 1 in the
 previous round—an improvement, though much work remains to be done). EDACS ensures
 gender balance on hiring committees and, in response to staff feedback during our Athena
 SWAN self-assessment process, began in 2017 to include an ECR on interview panels to
 acknowledge diversity in experience as well as gender. These efforts were designed to coincide
 with the AS Action Plan, which emphasises intersectional diversity; that is, not simply a focus on
 the gender balance or inclusion of BAME or protected categories, but attending to the broader
 picture of experiences that impact academic careers. Feedback on our successful AS
 application from the Equality Charter ’commended the School’s attention to non-binary gender
 identification and BAME under-representation’.

 We are committed to nurturing other colleagues on short-term or contingent contracts by
 supporting their research and encouraging professionalisation that will serve them in future
 positions at Birmingham or elsewhere. Over the cycle, eight teaching fellows, postdocs or
 lecturers on short-term contracts have earned (competitive) permanent, research-active posts at
 UoB (Butchard, Cran, Hayler, Herford, Murakami, Sharp, Tattersdill, and Ward). Others have
 been supported in their successful applications for long-term and permanent posts elsewhere
 through mock interviews and mentorship (Burke, Donaldson, Hatchard, Salmi, Sangster,
 Mackenzie, Oakley). Colleagues on short-term contracts are integrated into the research culture
 through research centres and timetabling that give ECR teaching fellows a protected research
 day to develop their research profiles. All staff are invited to participate in REF reading exercises
 and to have a research mentor if they wish. UoB’s Early Career and Research Staff Committee
 (ECARS) facilitates personal and career development for ECRs (REF5a, 3.3).

 Hiring decisions also contribute to disciplinary sustainability: Wilkinson and Curran represent
 a second generation of editors on the Oxford Edition of the Writings of Alexander Pope, for
 which the recently-retired Valerie Rumbold serves as one of the general editors. R. Mitchell’s
 Wilde editing follows in the footsteps of the retired Ian Small, the general editor of the Oxford
 English Texts edition of the Complete Works of Oscar Wilde. In ELAL, Patten and Perek extend
 Hunston’s research on pattern grammar by building links with research in construction grammar,
 and foundational work in corpus linguistics and discourse analysis continues to underlie
 research being conducted by recent hires in these areas, as well as inspiring new extensions
 into cognitive linguistics.

 The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers endorses a research
 environment that is underpinned by a culture of integrity and based on good governance, best
 practice and support for the development of researchers; this supportive research development
 occurs across all career stages in UoA27, from hiring to retirement. In recruitment, bespoke
 training, developed in concert with the University’s People and Organisational Development
 (POD) unit, provides enhanced unconscious bias awareness for staff serving on hiring
 committees. This is in addition to the unconscious bias training required by University HR. As
 noted above, the AS Action Plan changed the make-up of hiring committees to include gender
 balance and an ECR.

 Staff Support & Career Development

 Developing our research profile through hiring presented us with a great opportunity to rethink
 induction, mentoring and support. In 2017, we introduced a more formalised, comprehensive
 induction to facilitate new colleagues’ transition into UoB. The following year, we included a
 research-funding networking session in these induction events. These changes were reflected in
 an informal March 2018 survey: 91% of the autumn 2017 starters agreed that the EDACS
 induction was ‘very helpful’ or ‘somewhat helpful,’ compared to only 40% of staff starting in
 autumn 2016.

 As a Unit, we seek to support staff at crucial key points of their research—the move to second
 book, for example, or building a mid-career public profile—and work hard to ensure that the
 needs of colleagues on maternity and parental leave and those with caring responsibilities are

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 accommodated. All probationary EDACS staff are assigned mentors, and non-probationary staff
 can elect to have one. To ensure consistent experience and quality mentoring experience, a
 mentoring training workshop was developed with POD, and is now required for all staff serving
 as mentors. Once outside of the probationary period, staff are given the opportunity to have a
 research mentor. REF Leads also contribute to staff mentorship through discussion about long-
 term project development and planning. Staff are further supported by the University’s
 Workplace Wellbeing team, which provides employee advice and listening services (REF5a,
 3.4.5).

 Annual review processes include the formal Probationary Personal Development Plan (PPDP)
 for probationers and Performance Development Review (PDR) for permanent staff once through
 probation. PPDPs involve a three-year plan that is developed in concert with the lecturer’s
 mentor, reviewed by the Head of School, and agreed to by HoS and Head of College. PDRs are
 reviewed with staff line managers, usually Heads of Department, and monitor evolving yearly
 plans for research and grant capture (REF5a, 3.4.3).

 Regular research training workshops include yearly sessions for those planning to apply for
 promotion, inaugurated in 2018 in response to Athena SWAN survey data, and, since 2019, for
 those applying for study leave. Held at the start of the summer term, these hands-on workshops
 offer advice and insight for preparing the strongest applications possible. Workshops emphasise
 the Unit’s commitment to valuing and rewarding impact in promotion processes, in line with
 University priorities (REF5a, 3.4.6). Annual Away Days for Teaching and Research cover
 important topics and team building and set the tone and agenda for the academic year.

 A variable Workload Allocation Model (WAM) enshrines 1/3 of staff time for research (for those
 on research contracts) and further allows Heads of Departments and Head of School to
 accommodate major research or impact activities by adjusting an individual’s WAM year-on-
 year. An overhaul of the CAL WAM in 2018/2019 was developed with consultation from staff,
 retaining its emphasis on local variability as a cornerstone of effective research management.
 ICSs have been supported at the School level through workload reduction and PA support for
 Leads, and by the College through enrichment funds for ICS activities.

 CAL supports one term of study leave for every 3 years of service. Over this REF cycle, second
 terms have been awarded to staff pursuing major research output or impact projects. From
 2018, the applicant pool and outcomes have been monitored for gender balance.

 In addition to the required training for PGR supervisors and staff mentors, staff take advantage
 of a range of University-sponsored development programmes (REF5a, 3.4.4). Participation is
 encouraged by Head of School and Heads of Departments as way of rewarding potential and
 cultivating the next generation of University leaders. UoA27 staff have been particularly active in
 UoB leadership development programmes, including the Research Leaders Programme (Grieve,
 Littlemore, R. Mitchell, Morey), Emerging Leaders Programme (Ferguson, John, Longworth,
 Pattie, Wright), and Senior Leaders Programme (Littlemore, Lockwood, Mahlberg). Many
 participants have gone on to College- and School-level leaderships positions (e.g. Mahlberg to
 College Director of Research, Littlemore to College Head of Internationalisation, Wright to
 Deputy Director of the CAL Graduate School, Lockwood to Head of School, R. Mitchell to School
 Head of Research and Longworth and Pattie to Head of Department).

 Further research leadership capacity was built through a concerted effort to hire women at
 senior levels, including Professors (Dabrowska, Mahlberg), Birmingham Professorial Fellows
 (Divjak, Harris, Stern), and an Interdisciplinary Professor (Stonebridge). Three cohorts of women
 have participated in the Aurora Leadership Programme, some later serving as mentors for future
 cohorts (John, Longworth, R. Mitchell, Page, Sullivan, Wright).

 Our research communications include weekly bulletins that advertise research-related events
 and development activities for outputs, funding and impact activities. They also highlight funding
 opportunities and celebrate research and impact achievements. Additionally, all staff have

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 access to the ‘Staff Hub’, an online resource housed within Canvas, the University’s virtual
 learning environment, with extensive content on research and E&D. The Hub also compiles
 resources—examples of successful applications and contract information for colleagues with
 experience as grant writers or reviewers for various programmes.

 Efforts have been made to enhance research communication within the Unit, between the
 School and the College, and with the broader public. A Staff Communication Lead (Hodgson)
 was appointed in 2017 to coordinate messaging across a growing Unit. CAL research
 communication professional services staff facilitate outward-facing communication (see §3), for
 example regular staff contributions to The Conversation (e.g. Dickson, 2016x2; Hardy, 2018;
 Hunston, 2017; Mahlberg, 2018x2, 2019, 2020; Saunders, 2014, 2019; Schembri, 2019).

 PGR Support and Development

 As a core part of our holistic research environment, UoA27 emphasises recruiting excellent PG
 students and supports their progress by offering administrative infrastructure to ensure their
 timely progression and meet their pastoral needs. The Unit also provides PGRs with
 opportunities for rich interaction with their peers, their supervisory team, and the broader
 research culture of the Unit; and by nurturing their professional development in both
 academic and non-academic fields.

 Recruitment: Over the REF cycle, UoA27 saw 195.8 research degrees awarded (more than
 doubling the total of 93.4 research degrees in the previous cycle). The number of research
 degrees awarded per year rose from 23 in 2013/14 to an average of 32 (2016-2020).
 International students were well represented, with PGRs coming from 39 different countries
 between 2016 and 2019. Our innovative distance-learning PGR programmes allowed 25 of
 those international students to pursue UoB degrees from their home countries.

 EDACS is a full partner in the AHRC Midlands4Cities DTP (formerly M3C), which facilitates
 cross-institution supervisions in the arts and humanities and provides funded students with an
 extensive programme of enrichment activities. EDACS is also an integral part of the ESRC-
 Midlands Graduate School DTP, which supports doctoral research in the social sciences.
 Students applying for consortium funding work closely with prospective supervisors on their
 applications. Beginning in 2015, all doctoral projects are required to be overseen by a team of at
 least two supervisors. UoA27 has taken especial interest in nurturing M4C applications, with
 bespoke feedback delivered to applicants and their supervisors at key stages. The 2020 results
 clearly reflected these efforts: UoB applicants garnered 30% of M4C fellowships, more than any
 of the other 7 consortium members.

 Active recruitment requires staff to be responsive to students’ intellectual curiosity as well as
 their development needs. We increasingly encourage the development of collaborative doctoral
 programs, which present opportunities for prospective PGRs who might not otherwise have
 considered UoB. Growth in senior-level staff has strengthened these efforts, as a number of
 professors have sought funded PhDships that complement and contribute to their current
 research and help to strengthen academic and extra-academic partnerships. For example, in
 ELAL, Grieve was awarded an Alan Turing Institute PhDship, based in UoB and co-supervised
 with colleagues in geography; Holmes in ELit has an AHRC-funded PhDship co-supervised with
 the Oxford Natural History Museum and staff in the History of Art Department; Holmes and
 Tattersdill supervise a Leverhulme-funded PhD with the Birmingham Institute for Forest
 Research; and Stonebridge oversees 2 Global Challenges PhD Studentships.

 Once admitted, students benefit from robust inductions at the College and Unit levels to support
 their academic progress and pastoral needs. In line with College practice, the Unit expects a
 minimum 10 supervisions/year for full-time students (6 for part time). An online platform for
 recording each supervision ensures adequate student preparation and follow-up with
 supervisors and aids in monitoring progression. A first-year progress review also helps
 troubleshoot potential issues early enough to intervene, decreasing the likelihood of serious

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 issues that could impair a student’s progress or wellbeing in their programme. Yearly
 Development Needs Analysis (DNA) reports further help identify areas in a PGR’s academic,
 personal, and professional skillsets that could require attention or support, giving the PGR and
 their supervisory team a clear direction for development.

 PGRs studying on an M3C/M4C funded programme have a separate but parallel structure,
 including monthly supervision records submitted through an online platform. First-year students
 undergo a substantive mid-year review, with their thesis précis and a 6,000-word writing sample
 reviewed by a panel of specialists outside of the supervisory team. M3C/M4C PGRs in their
 second and third years also have more light-touch mid-year reviews to ensure that they remain
 on track.

 In recent years, the Unit has undertaken steps to integrate PGRs with the broader research
 and academic culture. In addition to a PGR staff/student committee, PGR representatives have
 been added as standing members to the School’s Equality and Diversity Committee, Athena
 SWAN committee, and Research Committee. Research centres provide a forum for PGR/Staff
 interaction, giving students the opportunity to engage with local and invited staff in seminars and
 symposia. Research centres also provide a route to funding for PGR-led events and reading
 groups. The success of this endeavour is evident in the PGR & PGT Research Cluster,
 comprising student-organised reading groups affiliated with research centres, including EMREM
 Medieval and Early Modern Reading Group (affiliated with CESMA); D. H. Lawrence Reading
 Group (affiliated with CMC); Theory Reading Group (affiliated with CDC and CCL); Pause/Play
 Group for digital cultures and practices (affiliated with CDC); Study States (ACS); and Mental
 Health in Literature Reading Group (affiliated with MAC, the Modern and Contemporary Forum
 housed in EDACS and History). PGRs participate outside of the research centre structure, too:
 in ELAL, a student-led group (PG Tips) runs weekly research meetings for PGRs and an annual
 PGR conference, which attracts participants from across the country.

 To build research community, the research centres offer jointly-sponsored ‘Meet-and-Greet’
 events at the start and end of each academic year. These provide informal opportunities for PGT
 and PGR students to mingle with each other and meet the staff affiliated with the research
 centres. In addition to participating in centre activities, PGRs are also deeply involved with the
 administration and programming of research centres. Budgets include an assistantship at 2
 hours per week for a PG Assistant for each centre. Duties of Centre Assistants vary, but most
 contribute to the centres’ social media campaigns, and provide administrative support for centre-
 sponsored events. Centres collectively have committed to balancing opportunities for students
 with an awareness of not exploiting their labour through unpaid positions, and they compensate
 all PGR work.

 Weekly PGR research bulletins advertise research and professionalization events, deadlines,
 funding opportunities, and other enrichment content. The School-wide online events calendar
 has a tab for post-graduates to identify events with an explicit post-graduate focus (though they
 are of course invited to attend all events). Among the opportunities are the Birmingham Journal
 of Language and Literature, a peer-reviewed journal run entirely by postgraduates, offering them
 valuable experience in editorial and copyediting work. In light of the REF requirement that all
 outputs be archived in an open-access database within 90-days of their acceptance for
 publications, EDACS encourages PGRs, who otherwise are not required to conform to this rule,
 to upload their outputs within the University-wide PURE database, embedding the culture
 change early in the academic career to ensure strong knowledge and understanding of the
 benefits of OA in future generations of researchers.

 A full complement of events supports the Unit’s PGRs’ professional development. A
 centralised CAL Careers Events programme for PGRs includes a conference in the summer
 addressing career options in both academic and alt-ac. M4C hosts consortium-wide events for
 funded students that focus on academic skills (e.g. conference presentations, writing abstracts)
 and career development (e.g. networking, internships). A College-wide Postgraduate Research



                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fund supports conference attendance, or events, and a Postgraduate Researcher Development
 Fund offers financial support for collaborative activities.

 Equality & Diversity

 With our focus on language, representation, and the humanities, UoA27’s commitment to
 Equality and Diversity (E&D) is woven throughout our research and staffing strategies.

 Many of our plans are codified in our Athena SWAN (AS) Bronze certification, the culmination of
 over 2 years of concerted efforts across the School. The Self-Assessment Team, empanelled in
 2015, includes academic staff of all career stages, representing all Departments of the School,
 professional services staff, post-graduates, and undergraduates. Our AS Action Plan requires a
 bi-annual survey of staff; we use this opportunity to gather input from colleagues on a wide
 range of intersectional issues (e.g., race, caring responsibilities), with questions about the
 research culture and support for promotion. Survey results then shape research and promotion
 policy.

 Good E&D policy begets a healthy research culture. The AS Action Plan outlines policies and
 practises that cultivate E&D across the career spectrum. A comprehensive approach to
 supporting family leave, for example, ensures smooth transitions both before and after periods of
 family leave. We emphasise that no one-size-fits-all approach should be adopted; to ensure
 consistency and to ensure that all staff are aware of their options, line managers schedule
 meetings at key points (before leave and several weeks before returning from leave) with staff
 members and provide them with up-to-date policy information. We aim to exceed the University-
 mandated accommodations for those returning from leave. For example, staff on research
 contracts who have taken 6 months of family leave are granted workload remission of one of the
 three legs upon return. This remission extends through the Workload Allocation Model to staff on
 two-legged contracts and those who take less than 6 months’ leave. Upon return, staff are
 invited to join the Parents and Carers Group, which hosts termly lunches.

 The AS Lead (Sykes) works hand-in-hand with the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Lead
 (Morey). Both have permanent seats on the School Executive committee, which oversees the
 direction of the School, helping to ensure that EDI issues remain central in all School-level
 discussions. Morey also leads the Equality and Inclusivity Student group, which includes both
 undergraduate and postgraduate students.

 We insisted on gender balance in our REF reading panels, and we developed bespoke training
 in mitigating conscious and unconscious bias in academic review—training which was required
 for all staff evaluating internal REF outputs. We made this a requirement before it became
 University policy (UoB REF CoP 4.3.2). In concert with these efforts, the REF Reading Panel
 monitored internal scoring for any emerging signs of gender or racial bias. Further, given the
 diversity of the Unit and the risk of privileging certain output genres over others, the UoA locally
 monitors for bias amongst various subdisciplines and genres, ensuring the submission reflects
 the composition of the Unit. Regular communication about these processes and the self-
 monitoring data is made available through weekly research bulletins and periodic Away Days.

 Research Centres monitor the diversity of their invited speakers to address balance across
 protected categories (e.g. gender, ethnicity) as well as other qualities that shape academic
 profiles (e.g. institutional affiliation and career status). Research centres also have committed to
 a series of actions to mitigate the environmental impact of their events. These actions include
 vegetarian and locally-sourced catering, the elimination of disposable plastic in catered events,
 use of carbon offsets, and limiting air travel.

 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities

 Research Funding



                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoA27 adopts a whole-scholar view of funding, which sees grant capture activity as one part of
 a well-rounded scholarly career. Colleagues are encouraged to define the research projects they
 wish to undertake, and research facilitators work with individuals on a grant strategy that most
 closely matches the needs of each project. The grant is the means to the desired end, not the
 end itself. The resulting success almost quintuples our REF 2014 figure for research income
 (£3.4M vs. £706K). Further, a far greater percentage of Unit staff are funding-active, with 57
 applications submitted in 2019/20 versus 32 in 2015/16. It is not surprising that grant capture
 reflects the research foci of the unit, including—for example—support for major editing projects
 on Aphra Behn (Wright, Co-I, AHRC, £118K), Dorothy Richardson (Longworth, Co-I, AHRC,
 £120K) and medieval scribal practice (Scase, £124K). Successful awards to Birmingham
 Fellows and Professorial Fellows, who were recruited with research-intensive contracts to
 facilitate large-scale projects, include Wilkinson’s AHRC Early Career Leadership Fellowship for
 ‘Fleuron’ (£197K), Cavell’s research grant on medieval riddles (£202K) and James’s Leverhulme
 Fellowship (£199K).

 Collaborative and impact-led research projects are encouraged, and generated significant
 research awards. Schembri’s ‘SignMorph’ project (ERC, €1.9M) and Stonebridge’s ‘Refugee
 Hosts’ (AHRC/ESRC), build on networks of international partners. Littlemore’s ‘Death Before
 Birth’ ESRC grant (Co-I, £112K) contributes to the ‘Improving care’ ICS and her European
 Commission-funded Marie Skłodowska-Curie Individual Fellowship, ‘Exploring Multimodal
 Metaphor in Advertising (£183K), supports the supports the 'Using figurative language' ICS.
 Mahlberg’s grants for CLiC (AHRC, £63K) and GLARE (Marie Skłodowska-Curie Individual
 Fellowship, £152K) facilitate research outputs and impact work on ‘Birmingham Stories.’
 Holmes’s ‘Building the Book of Nature: The Poetics of the Natural History Museum’ grant from
 the Canadian Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council (Co-I, £12K) grew out of his
 major monograph Pre-Raphaelites and Science (2018) and formed the basis for his impact-
 related activities, as did Tattersdill’s AHRC-funded ‘Narrativising Dinosaurs’ (£173K).

 UoA27 actively seeks funding that falls outside of the remit of HESA to support creative
 endeavours. Staff in Creative Writing have received significant Arts Council England funding for
 impact-driven projects (Gilligan, £10K), as have colleagues in Drama (Ledger, Radcliffe), one of
 the constituent departments of EDACS which is submitted to UoA33. While they are submitted in
 a different UoA, they nevertheless contribute to a critical mass of colleagues with experience,
 support peer-review of applications, and serve as examples in a bank of successful bids.

 Grant opportunities are detailed in weekly bulletins, and the Canvas Staff Hub lists colleagues
 who have had successful bids and are willing to review draft applications. Other sources of peer
 support include pop-up Department-level grant development workshops and sessions at the
 yearly Research Away Day. Works-in-progress sessions and other programmes overseen by
 research centres provide opportunities for writing and peer-review. Research centres provide
 another route to funding, both through their sponsorship of external grants (e.g. BARS and
 BAVS event bursaries) and by utilising their School-funded budgets.

 These academic efforts are augmented by the full-time professional services staff of the CAL
 Research Hub. Staff dedicated to EDACS support grant development (Peters/Tebay) and
 costings (Hill). They offer insightful, individualised attention in the early process; facilitate peer
 review; and oversee an extensive programme of workshops to cultivate pipeline funding
 development.

 Other College-based resources are deployed by UoA27. 9 Unit staff received funding in 17/18, 2
 in 18/19 and 4 in 19/20 to support impact development across 6 ICSs. For events that fall
 outside the College-funding remit, EDACS offers supplemental impact-focussed funding. The
 Undergraduate Research Scholars scheme provides talented students valuable experience
 while delivering direct research support to staff. Across the REF period, some 61 projects were
 supported by EDACS staff, equating to 11,285 hours of support for undergraduates. In addition
 to providing support for staff research, the scheme has proven to be an effective pipeline for



                                                                                                  Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 post-graduate work, with numerous Undergraduate Research Scholars going on to pursue
 higher degrees.

 Research Infrastructure and Facilities

 Physical facilities are spread across multiple sites; maintaining individual, private office space for
 each member of staff has been of paramount importance when assigning or developing spaces
 to ensure that staff across the career range have a room of their own in which to write and think.
 The Shakespeare Institute is housed in central Stratford, in a building once owned by the
 popular nineteenth-century writer Marie Corelli; it houses classroom, meeting, and performance
 spaces, many of which feature digital infrastructure. The Institute also houses a specialist
 research library containing c. 60,000 volumes, archives, manuscripts, and audio-visual
 collections. Significant research collections include the Renaissance Theatre Company archive
 (Kenneth Branagh’s touring company from 1987-1992); Renaissance Films PLC archive;
 Unpublished Shakespeare Film Script collection; E.K. Chambers Papers; and Actors’ Script
 Collection.

 ELAL, Creative Writing, and ELit are based on the Edgbaston campus. In 2019, ELAL moved to
 the newly-renovated Frankland Building in central campus, with bespoke facilities providing
 communal spaces for teaching and presenting research (investment of £16.2 million). Labs for
 eye tracking, gesture, and speech are shared with Psychology. Creative Writing is housed with
 Film and Screen Studies (with whom they share a Department), in a building renovated for their
 use in 2017. ELit staff have offices across two floors of the central Arts Building.

 The UoB Main Library is one of the largest university libraries in the UK, with 1.8 million print and
 500,000 online books, and over 85,000 print and online journals (REF5a, 4.3). The Library holds
 several important collections of primary sources for research in English literature and language.
 Significant manuscript collections include the Harriet Martineau Papers (1816-1885), the Noël
 Coward Collection (c. 1901-2018), the Boulton D.H. Lawrence collection, and the working
 papers of novelists and scholars David Lodge, Ernest De Selincourt, Allardyce Nicoll, and I. A.
 Shapiro. The Cadbury Research Library’s extensive holdings of rare books (over 200,000),
 includes several major collections of fine printing by private presses such as Baskerville, Bodoni,
 Foulis and Kelmscott.

 Research Centres: In addition to the Shakespeare Institute, centres continuing from the
 previous cycle include B-Film, the Centre for Corpus Research (CCR), the American and
 Canadian Studies Centre (ACSC), and the Centre for Literary Editing and Materiality of the Text
 (CLEMT). New Centres include the Centre for Digital Culture (CDC), Centre for Modernist
 Cultures (CMC), Centre for Contemporary Literature and Culture (CCLC), and the Nineteenth-
 Century Centre (19CC). Some of these centres incorporate staff from other Schools in the
 College (e.g. ACSC, shared with History, and the 19CC, which includes Modern Languages and
 Art History staff). Similarly, a number of centres housed in other CAL departments have
 significant Unit involvement, including the Centre for Reformation and Early Modern Studies
 (CREMS), which rotates between Schools, and the Birmingham Eighteenth-Century Centre
 (BECS), housed in History. Local support for the success of the research centres includes
 increased investment through enhanced funding (from £500 p.a. to £2000 p.a.), and the
 introduction of a PG Research Assistant scheme for research centres, embedding PGR
 development in the centres’ culture.

 Beyond physical spaces, the Unit offers community to visiting scholars through its virtual centre,
 the Centre for Advanced Research in English (CARE). This administrative structure hosts
 visiting researchers in the Unit. CARE visitors have access to all the University resources, an
 office in the Arts Building, and are welcome to attend the many seminar programmes that run
 across the Unit. Averaging over 70 visitors a year, CARE has hosted PGRs, ECRs, and senior
 scholars from twenty countries since 2014.

 4. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

 The UoB campus reflects the University’s foundational civic principles, boasting three museums
 in addition to its libraries and archives (REF5a, 4.3). UoA27 engages these University-
 sponsored partnerships and campus resources, hosting events and producing content and
 exhibitions for the Barber Institute of Fine Arts, Winterbourne Museum and Garden, and the
 Lapworth Geology Museum. The Unit’s collaborative research also extends well beyond
 campus. We host many funded networks, including the ARHC-supported ‘Ambient Literature’
 (Hayler, 2016-2018) that linked staff at UWE Bristol, Bath Spa University, and UoB. ‘The Art of
 Identification’ AHRC Network (Ferguson, 2015-2017) was the hub for a group of over 20
 academics from the UK participating in four workshops. The AHRC-funded ‘Pre-Raphaelites
 Online’ (2019-2021), the result of a US/UK Cultural Institutions Highlight Notice award, is based
 in ELit and includes staff from Exeter, Birkbeck, Purdue, York, and Yale along with museum
 partners at the Yale Centre for British Art, the Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery, the Watts
 Gallery, and the Delaware Art Museum. The ‘Crossing Borders in the Insular Middle Ages’
 network is supported by an Alexander von Humboldt alumni network award.

 The Shakespeare Institute is one of the most visible avenues of the Unit’s role in shaping the
 cultural heritage of the region, nationally and internationally. UoA27 staff feature regularly in the
 media, engage in policy discussions, host international networks, and oversee outreach efforts.
 The Institute is recognised as a key contributor to the success of the Royal Shakespeare
 Company by providing the vital connection between research and practice that underpins RSC
 performances of Shakespeare and his contemporaries. The close engagement with the RSC as
 a leading theatre company with national and global reach ensures that the work of the Institute is
 distinct in scale and impact. Greg Doran (Artistic Director, RSC) affirms: ’We rely on the
 academic expertise of the Shakespeare Institute to realise the Royal Shakespeare Company’s
 vision of combining integrity and creativity in reinterpreting Shakespeare for our times’. That
 influence flows in both directions, as the RSC collaboration has a powerful impact on education
 and research at the Institute. The formal collaboration between UoB and the RSC, established in
 2015, aims to redefine the relationship between academic work and artistic practice. Focussed
 on the RSC’s experimental studio theatre, The Other Place (TOP), the partnership seeks to
 enable creative and robust dialogue between scholars, students and theatre artists. 2018 saw a
 major conference, Radical Mischief: Inviting Experiment in Thought, Theatre and Politics, co-
 hosted by the Shakespeare Institute and TOP. M. Dobson’s contributions to the Phoenix Press
 and Shakespeare Centre, China, a partnership with Nanjing University and the Phoenix
 Publishing Group, extend the Institute’s international position, supporting transnational projects
 and a translation of Shakespeare into Mandarin.

 The interface between academic research and public engagement with drama of Shakespeare’s
 day has been strengthened through Wiggins’s involvement with the Globe Theatre’s play-
 reading series ‘Read Not Dead’. Issues of free speech and censorship were publicly debated by
 Jowett and other academics and theatre practitioners at the Globe’s event ‘The Rest is Silence’
 (2018). The Signing Shakespeare research project, headed by Abigail Rokison-Woodall, makes
 Shakespeare accessible for D/deaf children and adult learners. Fernie’s ‘Everything to
 Everybody’ project, supported by a £1.3M grant from the National Lottery Heritage Fund, takes
 the links between Shakespeare and social improvements as a focus for research and public
 engagement projects that will extend into the 2022 Commonwealth Games, to be hosted in
 Birmingham, and of which UoB is an Official Partner.

 The Unit’s commitment to civic engagement is also expressed through its role as the founding
 partner of ‘Birmingham Stories’, a ten-year campaign to change the lives and aspirations of
 young people and adults across the city. Launched in partnership with the National Literacy
 Trust in October 2019, ‘Birmingham Stories’ is the tenth NLT ‘hub’ in the UK, but the first to be
 founded in partnership with a University. With research at the core of its work, the founding of
 the hub marks ‘an absolute step-change’ in the charity’s way of working to date. The Hub links
 three of the Unit’s key research projects (on the power of storytelling to boost empathy (Gilligan);

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the potential of digital technology to enhance the way we work with texts (Mahlberg); and the
 benefits of engaging the emotions and imagination in functional skills English courses (K.
 Rumbold) with city-wide educational programmes. Programmes include story exchanges
 between young people from different Birmingham communities; training to help teachers use
 technology to unlock literary texts for their teenage students; and workshops that foster reading
 for pleasure among adult learners. The Hub also offers opportunities for staff and students
 across UoB, from volunteering in schools and adult education classes, to developing new
 research projects in partnership with the NLT research team that will inform policy and practice
 across the UK.

 Close to home, staff are deeply engaged with campus-based museums. Tattersdill’s ‘Drawing
 out the Dinosaurs’ exhibition (July-October 2018) at the Lapworth Museum of Geology was co-
 curated with Professor Richard Butler (Geography, Earth, & Environmental Sciences) and is
 linked to his AHRC Leadership Fellowship (£173K) and to his and Holmes’s ICS. Fagg curated
 the ‘Bellows and the Body: The Real, The Ideal, and the Nude’ exhibition (Oct 2016-Jan 2017) at
 the Barber Institute of Fine Arts, supported by the ACS Centre and founded on a major
 monograph project. Winterbourne Museum and Garden hosted ‘Women Illustrators of the
 Birmingham School’ (Feb-Nov 2018); a research-led teaching project, the exhibition was co-
 curated with 3rd-year and PGT students. The ACS Centre and the 19CC partner with the
 Birmingham and Midland Institute, one of the oldest civic organisations for the enrichment of the
 public, founded in the mid-nineteenth century, to provide content for BMI events that support the
 Institute.

 Looking outward, collaborations with museums promise to be an area for future development
 across the Unit. Page’s work on museum culture—starting with an AHRC network grant in the
 previous REF cycle—culminated in the edited collection Museum Thresholds: The Design and
 Media of Arrival (2018). With a team from the Departments of History and History of Art, Shaikh
 is contributing to programming and training for the National Trust theme 2021 on Empire.
 Mitchell’s ‘Pre-Raphaelites Online’ AHRC network links UoB academics with the Birmingham
 Museum and Art Gallery, the Delaware Art Museum, Yale Center for British Art, and the Watts
 Gallery. Holmes’s Symbiosis network is a collaboration with Oxford University Museum of
 Natural History, the Naturhistorisches Museum in Vienna, the Museum für Naturkunde in Berlin
 and the Royal Ontario Museum in Toronto, among others.

 Sustaining the Discipline

 These museum-based projects are one way that staff engage with public institutions and their
 audiences. They reach academic audiences outside the University through their outputs, but
 also through their extensive service as editors of journals. Such efforts are too numerous to
 enumerate in full, but examples of major editorships include: in Language and Linguistics:
 Journal of Cognitive Linguistics (Divjak, editor), Language and Cognition (Littlemore and Winter,
 co-editors), International Journal of Corpus Linguistics (Mahlberg, editor), Journal of Literary
 Semantics (Toolan, editor), Discourse, Context, and Media (Page, former co-editor), and Journal
 of English for Academic Purposes (Thompson, co-editor); in English Literature, Modernist
 Cultures (Gasiorek, editor and Moore, reviews editors), Contemporary Literature (David James,
 Associate Editor), The Journal of Wyndham Lewis Studies (Waddell, co-editor), Studies in
 Walter Pater and Aestheticism (R. Mitchell, co-editor); and in creative studies, Poetry Book
 society (Kennard, pamphlet selector). To recognise the significance of these activities, the WAM
 includes allowances for journal editing. Galleymore is the first ever poet-in-residence at
 Tambopata Research Centre in the Amazon Rainforest.

 An equally broad range of staff serve as editors of book series: Holmes, Explorations in
 Science and Literature (Bloomsbury); James, Literature Now (Columbia UP); Mahlberg Corpus
 and Discourse (Bloomsbury); Saunders, Studies in Life Writing (Palgrave); Stonebridge, Mid-
 Century (OUP); serve on editorial and advisory boards, with prominent examples including
 Grieve, Frontiers in Digital Humanities, Frontiers in Artificial Intelligence, and Language Variation
 (Language Science Press); Holmes, Journal of Literate and Science, Interdisciplinary Science

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Reviews, and Journal of Science and Popular Culture; James, Post45; Mahlberg, Corpora,
 Studies in Corpus Linguistics; R. Mitchell, Routledge Material Cultures Series, COVE; Morey:
 Journal of Commonwealth Literature; Stonebridge: Migration and Society, Humanity; History:
 The Journal of the Historical Association; and serve on review panels: Adlington, Mahlberg,
 Mitchell, Morey, and Stonebridge: AHRC; Harris: RSL and Ondaatje Prize (2017); Morey: ESRC.
 Tiffany Stern was elected as a Fellow of the British Academy in 2019; other staff in prominent
 positions in learned societies include Harris, Fellow of Royal Society of Literature; Herford,
 President of Henry James Society (2018); Holmes, Secretary of the Commission on Science and
 Literature; Moore, (BAMS Exec Comm); Stonebridge, Elected Fellow of English Association and
 Academia Europaea; and Waddell, Chairperson of the Wyndham Lewis Society (2018).

 ELAL also sustains the discipline through its provision of training for external linguistics in
 statistics and corpus linguistics (see §1.e: Open Research / Open Access).

 Wider Influence, Contributions to and Recognition by the Research Base

 The Unit views pedagogy as a means of engaging audiences well outside of campus with its
 research. Broad participation in Shakespeare has been developed further through the
 Shakespeare Institute’s Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs). ‘Shakespeare’s Hamlet’ has
 run twice, attracting over 16,000 ‘starters’ of whom approximately 9,500 became active learners;
 the MOOC ‘Much Ado about Nothing in Performance’ had 3,725 active learners. The
 Department of English Language and Linguistics also runs a popular MOOC on introduction to
 linguistics, featuring a number of our most well-known academics discussing their research.

 The Unit benefits from UoB’s international partnerships with TCD, University of Illinois Urbana-
 Champaign (UIUC), University of Melbourne, and Waseda University (REF5a, 2.1.8). While still
 in the early stages, the TCD partnership within the humanities is grounded in the Digital Editing
 and Engagement Partnership (DEEP), with seed funding from the UoB International Office.
 EDACS, via COVE and the 19CC, plans to contribute to an AHRC/IRC joint bid as a part of this
 partnership. UIUC links are supplemented with BRIDGE funding that supports staff exchange or
 pedagogical projects involving staff and students from both campuses. Thompson received
 BRIDGE support for his 2016/2017 ‘Writing Development in Global Higher Education’ project
 with Randall Sadler at UIUC. The ACS research centre applied in spring 2019 for ‘Unpublished
 America’.

 The Shakespeare Institute is a catalyst for the growing interest in Shakespeare in China: in
 September 2015, Dobson undertook at lecture tour of China, linked to the RSC’s Mandarin
 translation project. It collaborates closely with the Shakespeare Library in Munich and Chicago’s
 Shakespeare Theatre. Elsewhere, Dobson and Fernie, along with Sir Kenneth Branagh, were
 featured speakers at the 150th anniversary of the Deutsche Shakespeare Gesellschaft in 2014.
 The Institute also has strategic links with Shakespeare scholars in France, Spain, Brazil, Japan,
 India and elsewhere.

 The international impact of the Institute’s research has also been demonstrated in its work in
 Singapore, where the digital animator Hans-Martin Rall, in collaboration with both Institute and
 RSC personnel, has made a prize-winning digital animation of the ‘All the world’s a stage
 speech’ from As You Like It (featuring a partly-animated documentary about Shakespeare in
 Stratford and in Singapore, and an interactive 3-D virtual reality environment in which players
 move around a digital mash-up of Macbeth, The Tempest and A Midsummer Night’s Dream).
 These innovative projects take Shakespeare to new publics by realizing the transformative
 potential of the new media. Other intercultural performance initiatives in which the Institute has
 played a prominent role include the celebration of the great Japanese Shakespearian theatre
 director Yukio Ninagawa at the Japanese Embassy in London.

 UoA27 also takes pride in the international composition of its staff, which has expanded over the
 cycle to include 15 who hail from outside the UK, representing twelve nationalities (Australia,
 Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, South Africa, Singapore, and

                                                                                                   Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the US). This increasingly international orientation of the Unit is also reflected in the number of
 staff who co-author projects with international collaborators, projects often involving international
 funders. Major funded projects include Zimbler’s ‘Literary Communities and Literary Worlds’ with
 the University of Illinois, Chicago (Marie-Sklodowska Curie Global Fellowship); Robinson’s
 ‘Medieval Convent Drama Project’ (Swiss National Science Foundation); Flood’s ‘Crossing
 Borders in the Insular Middle Ages’ (Alexander von Humboldt Foundation); and European
 Commission-funded projects by Littlemore, Mahlberg, and Toolan. These efforts are reflected in
 the rising position of the School within international league tables. Research centres routinely
 host international scholars, through CARE, IAS, or their own seminar series. The Unit welcomes
 national and international conferences regularly, including the International Conference of
 Corpus Linguistics (2017), British Association of Modernist Studies (2017), the Poetics &
 Linguistics Association (2018), and the UK Cognitive Linguistics Conference (2020).

 In recent years, Unit staff have increasingly sought to influence decision makers. The
 Shakespeare Institute, following its leadership of the pan-European advocacy for Shakespeare
 to be declared the first European Laureate by the EU Parliament (2014-16), was called upon by
 the MP James Morris and the British Council to stage an international symposium in April 2019
 on ‘Shakespeare and British Soft Power.’ Within the UK, the Institute is increasingly involved
 with ‘applied Shakespeare’ activities (in prisons and among other disadvantaged groups), and
 the resulting ‘Shakespeare Beyond Borders’ network aims to maximize its contributions to policy
 discussions. Morey (ELit) has contributed to the policy discussion around the Government’s
 PREVENT counterterrorism programme. A May 2016 discussion convened by Professor Lord
 Bhikhu Parekh between invited stakeholders in PREVENT programme, focussed on the duty on
 public bodies to ‘have due regard to the need to prevent people being drawn into terrorism’. This
 conversation brought together professionals, trade unionists, academics, journalists, teachers,
 civil servants, activists and others to discuss the statutory duty element. Following on this event,
 Morey and Professor Yasmin Alibhai-Brown co-authored a policy briefing and full eport. The
 authors suggest in their recommendations that PREVENT Duty requires re-branding to
 encourage community engagement and trust.

 Research in linguistics has also profoundly influenced decision makers both at the local and
 national level in many different ways. For example, Littlemore’s research in cognitive linguistics
 has led to changes both in national UK healthcare guidelines for supporting bereaved parents
 and for public health communication, while Patten’s corpus-based research on pattern grammar
 has changed strategies used for teaching academic language across a network of Birmingham
 schools. Notably, these projects, which represent the culmination of long-standing research
 programmes, form the basis of three of the Unit’s impact case studies. In addition, we are
 currently building new pathways to affecting change at the governmental level. Notably, Grieve
 is currently working with a range of national security organisations (GCHQ, NCA, MOD) to
 develop methods for analysing the language use on the Dark Web, to help fight serious crime
 online, especially combating child sexual offenders. For his work in this area, Grieve has been
 awarded a National Crime Agency commendation – one of the few academics to ever receive
 this award. Further, Winter was recently awarded a prestigious UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship
 to study public numeracy.

 Finally, numerous works published by the unit have garnered major awards and have been
 reviewed worldwide. In Creative Writing, Kennard was selected as one of the Poetry Book
 Society’s Next Generation Poets for their once-per-decade list; his most recent volume of poetry,
 Cain, was featured on the Guardian’s Best Books of 2016, the Observer’s Best Holiday Reads
 2016, and Poetry School’s Books of the Year 2016. Galleymore’s debut volume of poetry,
 Significant Other was selected as the Telegraph’s Poetry Book of the Month (March 2019),
 shortlisted for the 2019 Forward Prize, and won the 2020 John Pollard Foundation International
 Poetry Prize. Vyleta’s Smoke was reviewed in the New York Times, NPR, Observer, Guardian,
 Globe and Mail, among other venues.

 Holmes’s Pre-Raphaelites and Science won the 2018 British Society for Literature and Science
 Book Prize; Stonebridge’s Placeless People garnered the 2019 Modernist Studies Association

                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Book Prize; Page’s Narratives Online won the 2019 International Society for the Study of
 Narrative Book Prize; Simon Smith’s Musical Response in the Early Modern Playhouse, 1603-
 1625 took the 2018 Shakespeare’s Globe Book Award and the 2018 University English Book
 Prize; Hardy’s Criticism and Confession received an Honourable Mention for the 2019 Phyllis
 Goodhart Gordon Book Prize; Harris’s Weatherland was shortlisted for the Ondaatje Prize, was
 ten times Book of the Year, and was adapted for BBC Radio 4.




                                                                                       Page 20
