Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Manchester

 Unit of assessment: 31 (Theology and Religious Studies)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and Structure
 The strengths of Manchester’s Department of Religions and Theology (R&T) lie in its
 particular configuration of (a) text-based religious studies, with a distinctive combination of
 Jewish Studies and Biblical Studies, and (b) the study of religion and science in society.

 This UoA comprises 11.3 FTE researchers located within the School of Arts, Languages
 and Cultures (SALC), one of the largest concentrations of humanities researchers in the UK,
 in the Faculty of Humanities (FoH). While maintaining strong interdisciplinary links within the
 Unit and with SALC colleagues in Classics, History and German, our researchers’
 disciplinary affiliations are
          Biblical Studies: Oakes, Klutz, Morse, Boakye
          Jewish Studies: Langton, Samely
          Christian Studies: Scott, Law, Hoelzl, Midson
          Islamic Studies: Williams, Karimullah
 Since the last REF, we have concentrated on enhancing our core strengths at the same
 time as developing new directions that complement these in a fresh holistic approach to
 research culture, finance, outputs, and research-based teaching (NSS2020 100%
 satisfaction). Some achievements include:

       Publishing more than 20 books and five dozen articles in prestigious academic
        presses and journals
       Increasing our external research income per FTE researcher by 135%, reaching a
        total of £1.3 million formally reported income (which is an 83.4% increase)
       Increasing our average PhD completions per staff FTE to nearly four (from three),
        while maintaining the total at 44 completions, with 54% finding post-doc academic
        employment
       Visiting appointments at Pennsylvania, Baylor and Münster Universities
       Pioneering externally funded art as a new public engagement strategy for Library
        manuscript holdings
       Rejuvenating our staff base with four new UoA-nurtured ECR appointments; ECRs
        now make up 35% of the Unit
       Increasing the combined proportion of BAME and women staff to 26% (from 10.3%)
       Strengthening Islamic Studies, after retrenchment of South Asian Studies
       Instituting systematic impact planning by creating a stakeholder Impact Advisory
        Group

 Much of our research engages with an intellectual agenda of hermeneutics. We investigate
 religious texts and their historical reception (Impact Case Study [ICS] relating to early
 Church history), alongside the manner in which contemporary societies apply religious texts
 to new topics in culture, gender, the environment, law and artificial intelligence. We also
 address the role of texts in competing faith traditions, secular contexts and everyday
 experience. These strengths are partly rooted in the UoA’s combination of strong Biblical
 Studies with equally prominent text-oriented Jewish Studies, areas of expertise for which
 the Unit also functions as a PGR and ECR training hub.

 Aligned with the hermeneutic perspective, and constituting a second research
 concentration, is our interest in the interface between religion and science, seen against
 wider questions regarding the relationship between religious attitudes, modern life-worlds

                                                                                     Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 and rapidly changing societies. This includes Christian theologies of ecology (Scott),
 Jewish, Christian and Biblical attitudes to gender equality (ICS on Jewish divorce; Morse),
 critiques of knowledge-based Church power (Hoelzl), Jewish attitudes to evolution and
 atheism (Langton), and spiritual resources for living with artificial intelligence (Midson).

 While supporting the publication of eight research monographs, more than a dozen further
 book publications, and over five dozen journal articles, 44 PhD completions (matching the
 REF2014 total) and the capture of external grant income of £1,326,202 (an 83% increase
 over REF2014), the UoA has also strategically realised impact potential inherent in these
 society-related research topics. The ICSs we have selected represent two of our areas of
 strength in the study of texts which religious groups continue to receive as authoritative
 today.

 1.1.1. Biblical and reception studies, Centre for Biblical Studies (CBS)
 Research at the Centres for Biblical Studies and Jewish Studies (CJS) examines the textual
 foundations of Christianity and Judaism. Providing continuity in the prestigious Rylands
 Chair of Biblical Criticism and Exegesis, Oakes’s widely received research into archaeology
 as evidence of the social and economic life of early Christians has influenced Church training
 (see ICS), while other research strands address gendered biblical reception (Morse),
 discourse analysis of post-biblical, NT and Gnostic texts (Klutz), Paul (Oakes, Boakye,
 Langton), rabbinic and modern hermeneutic practices (Samely and Keim [NB: now Lund;
 her name in bold as an author of a submitted output]), and modern Jewish theology in the
 light of Jewish-Christian relations and of science (Langton).

 The UoA’s emeriti, Brooke (presenter of the 2019 British Academy Schweich lectures and
 president-elect of the European Association for Biblical Studies 2021–24), Alexander, FBA,
 and Jackson (whose research underpins one ICS), remain closely involved as advisors in
 our research and impact planning.

 CBS connects the UoA with SALC researchers in Classics, in particular Roberta Mazza and
 Stuart Campbell, organises annual research training events with the biblical studies hubs at
 Lausanne and Durham Universities, and receives PGR visits from the Nordic Network for
 Qumran studies. CBS maintains the Ehrhardt Seminar as a regionally important discussion
 forum (weekly attendance 15–40), convenes the Northwest of England Research Project
 Committee (see 1.2.2.2), and hosts the Manson Memorial Lecture annually, whose
 speakers have included Adela Collins, Yale (2014), Francis Watson, Durham (2018) and
 Andreas Dettwiler, Geneva (2019).

 1.1.2. Jewish Studies, Centre for Jewish Studies (CJS)
 As one of the regional centres of excellence in Europe [text removed for publication] the
 Centre for Jewish Studies provides Northern UK and Dublin researchers with networking
 opportunities and themed workshops, e.g. on material culture and digital humanities. It
 organises UK-wide PGR and ECR research training events and runs the ‘50 Jewish Objects’
 project (2018–22), which combines fresh research into Hebrew manuscript holdings with
 creative art commissions and innovative public engagement. CJS members have led
 several manuscript research and digitisation projects, including currently the production of
 a catalogue of the University Library’s Hebraica holdings (3.1.2.c).

 CJS brings UoA staff together with SALC colleagues in Arabic and Middle Eastern Studies
 (Behar), History (Dreyfus, also CJS co-director) and German/Drama (Gelbin). Collaborating
 with CBS and the John Rylands Research Institute, CJS has attracted seven externally
 funded post-doctoral researchers in the reporting period (2.1.1).

 CJS regularly hosts prominent visiting speakers (4.1.2), such as Browning (Chapel Hill),
 Levine (Vanderbilt) and Grabowski (Ottawa).


                                                                                    Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Key CJS research topics included the encounter of Jewish Reform thinkers with evolutionary
 theory and secular modernity (Langton’s Reform Judaism and Darwin: How Engaging with
 Evolutionary Theory Shaped American Jewish Religion, 2019) and Jewish hermeneutics in
 the light of theories of reading (Samely, ‘How Coherence Works’, 2020).

 1.1.3. Christian Studies, Lincoln Theological Institute (LTI)
 Christian Studies in the UoA has three interlinked strands, each of which also relates to the
 reception of authoritative scriptures:

 1.1.3.1. Theological Studies research has focused on the historical genesis of contemporary
 concerns, such as the use of masterful knowledge in Church power (Hoelzl’s Theorie vom
 guten Hirten, 2017), Christology in its biblical context, in 19th-century theology and in the
 writings of Kierkegaard, including the latter’s use of Scripture (Law, PhD Storer, 2019), and
 theological inter-faith dialogue (Law edited a volume on Said Nursi of the Australian Journal
 of Islamic Studies, 2017). Leading theologians are invited to present the Samuel Ferguson
 lecture in March of each year, including Fergusson, Edinburgh (2014); Grosshans, Münster
 (2015); Soskice, Cambridge (2016); Ford, Cambridge (2017); Milbank, Nottingham (2018);
 Tanner, Yale (2019); also Keller, Drew (2020, postponed to 2022 due to Covid-19
 pandemic), preceded by Rowan Williams, Cambridge (2021).

 1.1.3.2. Social Ethics research is undertaken by the Lincoln Theological Institute (LTI), a
 key UK contributor to the discourse on religion and science. Themes have included societal
 changes wrought by technology and climate change, with four funded PDRFs since 2014
 (details 2.1.1). LTI director Scott (A Theology of Postnatural Right, 2019) is Fellow of the
 Princeton Center of Theological Inquiry (1996–) and a member of its international project in
 Religion and Astrobiology (2018–). Midson serves (2019–) on the interdisciplinary working
 group on ethics at the Centre for Robotics in The University of Manchester (UoM) Faculty
 of Science and Engineering.

 1.1.3.3. History of Christianity studies, resulting in publications by Hoelzl, Law, Crome and
 Gregory, have benefited from research networking since 2018 through the Manchester
 Wesley Research Centre (MWRC) and from support in kind by JRRI. This has seen the UoA
 supporting a visiting research fellowship in Wesleyan Studies (Stéphanie Prévost, Université
 Paris Diderot, 2019), and cooperation with Wesley researchers at two of three UoA-
 validated partner institutions, Nazarene Theological College and Cliff College (Luther King
 House Manchester being the third; 4.1.1).

 1.1.4. Islamic Studies
 Religion and science in the Islamic world is researched by Karimullah, appointed after his
 PDRA in the UoM AHRC project ‘Genealogies of Knowledge’. He uses digital methods to
 study medieval cross-cultural Islamic discourses on science and medicine, as well as
 studying Qur’an reception and contemporary Islamic discourses on gender. Williams has
 continued his research on Rumi’s Masnavi funded by the British Academy (2013–16) and
 Leverhulme Trust (2016–19), producing an annotated new translation from the Persian
 (3.1.2.a), as well as his investigations of Iranian religions. Strengthening Islamic studies with
 the appointment of Karimullah followed a strategic repositioning away from South Asian
 Studies after retirements (Suthren Hirst, Zavos).

 1.2. Research and Impact Strategy

 1.2.1 Implementation of 2014 Research and Impact Objectives
 We have advanced the four strategic objectives identified at REF2014 as follows:

 1.2.1.1. To enhance and promote excellence in published research with major external
 awards and international collaboration.


                                                                                       Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The UoA’s strategic aim to support internationally linked research excellence has led to eight
 research monographs, more than a dozen further book publications, and over five dozen
 journal articles. Significant institutional links have been developed. These include
 Langton’s election as Pennsylvania University Katz Center Fellow for Advanced Judaic
 Studies (2017–18), CBS’s collaboration with Institut Romand des Sciences Bibliques
 Lausanne (leading to a volume co-edited by Klutz, 2018), CBS’s partnership in John
 Rylands Library’s Dead Sea Scroll fragments research with Yeshiva University, NY and
 Copenhagen University (see Discoveries in the Judaean Desert, V, 2015), and Scott’s
 Religion and Astrobiology role at Princeton (1.1.3.2).

 Larger awards from the Leverhulme Trust, the British Academy and the AHRC (Williams,
 Langton) were augmented by research funding from discipline-specific bodies [text
 removed for publication]. Individual research accomplishment was recognized in the
 award to Law of the Oxford Doctor of Divinity.

 Our research impact is exemplified by one ICS on Jewish divorce law and one on socio-
 economic realities in the early Church, as well as other instances, such as Church of
 England policy impact (4.2.1).

 1.2.1.2. To contribute to and benefit from the interdisciplinary potential of SALC
 Interdisciplinary dialogue within and beyond SALC was maintained in particular with
 researchers in Arabic and Middle Eastern Studies (AMES), Classics, Archaeology,
 German/Drama, the John Rylands Research Institute (JRRI), and Manchester’s Methodist
 Archives and Research Centre (MARC) located at the University Library. The UoA
 contributes with AMES to the Manchester-owned Journal of Semitic Studies (Morse has
 financial responsibility). Law is on the editorial board of UoM Library’s Bulletin of the John
 Rylands Library. Keim, Law and Oakes contribute to the Manchester Centre for
 Correspondence Studies and Midson to a working group in UoM’s Faculty of Science and
 Engineering (1.1.3.2).

 These interdisciplinary links, strengthened through Honorary Research Fellows (HRFs) at
 CBS, CJS and LTI (1.2.2.3), have extended the breadth of our PGR/ECR training, enhanced
 our international visitor appointments and expanded opportunities for hosting PDRFs.

 1.2.1.3. To encourage and improve applications for research grants
 Robust support and guidance structures include formal peer review of grant applications
 (2.1.2), complemented by informal advice from the UoA’s own experienced grant winners,
 including emeriti. The strategic aim of these measures has been to nurture individual
 research plans, including research with strong impact potential, and to encourage the use
 of CJS, SALC, JRRI and FoH seedcorn funding (3.1.1). They have led to a number of
 successes, resulting in formally reported income of £1,326,202 and a research awards total
 of £1,695,730 (compared with £722,929 formally reported income and £1,179,185 research
 awards in REF2014, increases of 83.4% and 43.8%, respectively). Funding sources
 included Leverhulme Trust, British Academy and AHRC (Williams, Langton), alongside
 ESRC (Co-I Scott) and charitable foundation funding (Samely, Langton). CJS’s national
 ECR research training includes a practical exercise in drafting a research funding
 application.


 1.2.1.4. To maintain a strong, well-integrated PhD community
 The UoA has sustained a sizable PhD community with high-calibre entrants and a strong
 international profile, nurtured by supportive and innovative research training (2.2.3). In the
 reporting period international PhD students came from the US, Turkey, the Czech Republic,
 Hungary, Romania, South Korea, India and Indonesia. Of the 44 PhDs who completed in
 the REF period, 13 have doctoral monographs published, or have them in press, two of them


                                                                                    Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 winning prizes (2.2.1). Of the 2013–2019 cohort, 54% obtained academic appointments,
 while a significant number held competitive doctoral awards (2.2.1).

 Through strategically planned conference presentations and on the basis of the international
 reception of staff publications, the UoA has promoted Manchester as an attractive PGR
 destination. Following the succession of Scott to the Ferguson Chair of Applied Theology
 (vice Ward), and that of Oakes to the Rylands Chair of Biblical Criticism and Exegesis (vice
 Brooke), the UoA has matched with fewer staff its high REF2014 PGR completion rate of
 44. CBS in particular has maintained an average of 2.0 FTE international PGRs per lecturer
 for the past 10 years, one of the highest international PGR recruitment rates in FoH. This is
 a by-product of our strong engagement at US Meetings of AAR/SBL, where UoA-affiliated
 researchers, including recent appointees Morse and Midson, have typically presented
 more than ten papers p.a., as well as holding joint receptions with MWRC for prospective
 students since 2017. Signal publications on environmental theology (Scott) and the
 economic background of the New Testament (Oakes) have contributed to our visibility, as
 well as Law’s international standing as a Kierkegaard scholar and the growing reputation of
 early career colleagues. Scott was awarded UK Council for Graduate Education
 Recognised Supervisor Status in 2019.

 1.2.2. Future Research Strategy
 The UoA’s overall strategic aim is to continue to be among the top five UK TRS research
 concentrations by virtue of: (1) its text-based religious studies, which allies biblical with
 equally strong Jewish studies; (2) its focus on religion and science; and (3) its regionally and
 nationally important PGR and ECR research training.
 The Unit’s objectives are therefore:

 1.2.2.1 To pursue high-quality research that carries, where appropriate, impact benefits
 The UoA will facilitate the production of high-quality research outputs whose impact potential
 is maximised. We will reinforce the UoA’s existing research strengths by encouraging the
 prioritising of (a) internationally leading outputs, and (b) research with strong potential for
 societal impact.

 This will be achieved through advice and guidance, applications for University-internal
 seedcorn funding and research leave plans (2.1.2.2–3). Projects in the planning stage reflect
 these priorities. They include a collaborative funding application on ‘Love, Boundaries and
 Sacred Texts’ (Oakes), a bid on the comparative reception of evolutionary theory in the
 Abrahamic religions (Langton), as well as planned monographs on the phenomenology of
 reading (Samely), Rumi (Williams), kenotic Christology (Law) and Islamic environmental
 ethics (Karimullah).

 The Unit will accelerate implementation of the University’s Open Access (OA) Publications
 Policy (2015) by
         (a) continuing to produce OA Jewish Studies journal Melilah without processing
             charges as before
         (b) OA-publishing a catalogue of the Hebrew manuscript holdings of The University
             Library/John Rylands currently in preparation, and
         (c) bidding for UoM’s institutional OA fund (£300,000 p.a.) and maximising the OA
             potential of UoM’s public online research repository PURE.

 For context, see 3.2.2.




                                                                                      Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The UoA will enhance its online public research presence with fresh resources (e.g. relating
 to BBC archives, 4.2.1), following the creation of CJS’s ‘50 Jewish Objects’ art resources,
 CBS’s Pompeii website, CJS’s podcasts of public lectures, and its ‘Darwin’s Jews’ resource
 pack (4.2.2).

 1.2.2.2. To consolidate the UoA’s position as a major research hub for Theology and
 Religious Studies in Northwest England
 The UoA expects to maintain and develop its regional leadership role in institutional
 networks. Following the 2014 restructuring of Biblical Studies at the University of Sheffield,
 a 2018 CBS initiative led to the creation of the Northwest Research Project Committee,
 which includes representatives from Liverpool Hope University, University of Chester,
 Nazarene Theological College and Cliff College, with the aim of preparing collaborative
 funding applications in biblical hermeneutics (currently ‘Love, Boundaries and Sacred
 Texts’).

 [text removed for publication] CJS will continue to connect Jewish Studies researchers
 in the Northern UK and Dublin Jewish Studies Partnership (4.1.1). Building on the success
 of the CJS’s innovative ‘50 Jewish Objects’ project [text removed for publication] and
 following recent CJS-hosted research workshops on material culture and identity, we are
 preparing a collaborative CJS-led funding bid relating to Jewish material culture holdings at
 HE and non-HE institutions in the UK.

 The UoA will maintain its impact and events links with Chester Cathedral, Manchester
 Cathedral and the Manchester Jewish Museum, as well as with its validated partners in
 research (e.g., joint conference on Ageing, January 2021) and PGR support (4.1.1).

 1.2.2.3. To embed societal stakeholders in research processes in order to maximise
 positive societal impacts from our research

 The UoA will strengthen its longstanding institutional connections to societal stakeholders
 in faith groups and organisations devoted to social cohesion and civic support. Strategic
 use of the HRFs of CBS, CJS and LTI, LTI governance structures, and links through
 vocational training have long informed impact horizons for specific research projects. We
 now go beyond that by virtue of the inter-institutional Bible, Gender and Church Research
 Centre (4.1.1), as well as the creation in 2020 of a 17-member external Research Impact
 Advisory Group (RIAG).

 RIAG will help us to integrate into our impact planning national and regional perspectives
 of potential societal research beneficiaries. RIAG members will make themselves available
 for up to two project-specific consultations on impact per year, as well as for an annual
 planning meeting. The following organisations and societal concerns are represented on
 RIAG: We Stand Together England (social cohesion), Press Red and Women’s Liberation
 Collective (gendered violence), the Muslim-Jewish Forum of Greater Manchester, the
 Bishop of Manchester, Greater Manchester Jewish Representative Council, Greater
 Manchester Citizens/Citizens UK, Tzelem (rabbinic campaign for UK social and economic
 justice), Manchester Jewish Museum, Manchester Cathedral, Jackson’s Row Reform
 Synagogue, All Saints Centre for Mission & Ministry, Manchester University’s Chaplaincy,
 the Manchester Council of Christians and Jews, as well as the UoA-validated partner
 institutions (1.1.3.3/4.1.1).




                                                                                    Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Section 2. People

 2.1 Staff

 2.1.1 Recruitment
 In a time of national challenges to TRS, described by the British Academy’s 2019 report
 ‘Theology and Religious Studies Provision in UK Higher Education’, and following
 University-wide restructuring, the UoA staffing stands at 11.3 FTE (14.5 at REF2014).
 Notwithstanding this reduced staffing the UoA has benefited from investment in four
 replacement appointments after retirements (Brooke, emeritus; Suthren Hirst, Zavos) or
 moves to other institutions (Smithuis, Mair, Crome, Gregory).

 New appointments have (a) consolidated our expertise in hermeneutics (Boakye,
 Karimullah and Samely, the latter redeployed in 2016 from AMES); (b) enhanced our
 strength in religion and science (Midson and Karimullah), and (c) added a focus in
 hermeneutics and gender through Morse. They have also energised the inter-disciplinary
 dialogue across the Unit as a whole that has long been a feature of our research culture.

 By rejuvenating its staff base with the ECR appointments of Morse, Boakye, Midson and
 Karimullah, the UoA has bucked the trend of generational concentration in UK TRS
 departments noted by the British Academy. Since these colleagues were on teaching-
 focused contracts or externally-funded PDRA/PDRFs before their current roles, their
 appointments can also be taken as confirmation of the effectiveness of the UoA’s strategic
 emphasis on an all-inclusive and comprehensive nurturing of ECR research activity,
 regardless of contract.

 In total we appointed eleven PDRFs or PDRAs during the census period, ten of them
 externally funded. They pursued projects in Biblical Studies (Cioată 2014–2018, British
 Academy); Jewish Studies (Lorenz 2014–15, [text removed for publication]; Ben Williams
 2014–2015, Leverhulme; Keim 2015–2018, British Academy; Popa 2017–2018, Saul Kagan
 Claims Conference Advanced Shoah Studies; Silvestri 2018–22, [text removed for
 publication]; Taylor-Guthartz 2020–22, [text removed for publication]); and in Christian
 Theology and Social Ethics at LTI (Wood 2013–2015, Keogh 2014–15 [funded by the UoM-
 internal Ferguson endowment], Midson 2016–2019, now FT Lecturer, and Radford 2020–
 22). The latter were, apart from Keogh, funded by the Lincoln Theological Institute Charitable
 Trust (3.1.2.d).


 2.1.2. Staff Development and Support

 2.1.2.1. All staff receive mentoring and developmental support at every career stage and
 type of contract. Our support for ECRs is informed by the UoM Implementation Plan for its
 2019 ‘Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers', which received the
 HR Excellence in Research Award from the European Commission (held continuously since
 2011, see UoM REF5a §3.3.2). New staff are allocated an experienced colleague as mentor
 throughout a 3/4-year probation period. They complete the Faculty’s ‘New Academics
 Programme’ (HEA-accredited) and benefit from a reduced teaching/administration load
 (75% in year 1, 80% year 2, 85% year 3), as well as from seedcorn funding initiatives to
 support their research trajectory and first major grant application.

 All staff undertake compulsory research integrity training, while projects involving human
 subjects undergo ethics review before permission is granted (cp. REF5a §2(v)). The FoH’s
 Researcher Development Framework offers an annual programme of researcher-led
 training for sharing best practice and all aspects of professional development for arts and
 humanities researchers.


                                                                                    Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2.1.2.2. Support for career development and promotion applications for all staff is embedded
 in the voluntary Performance and Development Review (P&DR) and the mandatory annual
 review of the Personal Research Expectations Plan (PREP), designed to highlight UoA
 funding and impact priorities and to contribute towards the UoA’s and SALC’s research
 planning. Staff who are planning grant bids of £100K+ receive enhanced support from
 SALC’s Grant Writing and Impact Support Officers. In formal one-to-one PREP discussions
 conducted by the line manager or research coordinator, the UoA encourages individual
 research agendas, while offering opportunities for interdisciplinary dialogue and guidance
 on national funding trends. The guidance emphasizes the integration of funding applications
 into research planning, including funding that helps maximise impact. Additionally to PREP,
 the UoA research coordinator creates regular opportunities for staff to receive informal
 feedback on early-stage research, funding and publication ideas. The UoA’s 26 HRFs, some
 of whom are also RIAG members (1.2.2.3), alongside the Unit’s research-active retired staff
 and emeriti, are available to respond to grant applications, impact activities and publication
 drafts.

 2.1.2.3. All SALC staff with teaching and research responsibilities are covered by SALC’s
 work allocation model that includes a target for research time of 30%, and foresees one day
 officially scheduled for research in each teaching week. They may apply to SALC’s
 Research Committee for one semester’s Institutional Research Leave (IRL) to develop
 research outputs, funding applications and impact activities after six semesters of regular
 service, subject to a satisfactory project proposal and a report on their last IRL. By request,
 IRL may be anticipated or held up by one semester. Additionally, SALC offered
 supplementary research leave for the completion of specific high-quality research outputs,
 and FoH ran a corresponding senior competition (Professorial Enhanced Research Leave,
 PERL, five granted p.a.). During 2014–20 all eligible UoA staff were successful in their IRL
 applications, and Samely was awarded PERL. The UoA supported applications for
 externally funded leave as part of larger projects, such as those won by Langton (2013–
 2015, 2016–2017) and Williams (2013–2016, 2016–2019).

 The SALC Personal Research Allowance was £1,000 p.a. (except in 2019–20 due to Covid-
 19 uncertainties); SALC’s Research Support and Development Fund offered further targeted
 support of up to £6K p.a. as well as additional funds specifically for supporting Impactful
 Research.


 2.1.3. Staff Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 The UoA is committed to EDI and implements the University’s equality of opportunity policies
 for all staff and students. EDI training is embedded in the Faculty induction programme for
 new staff and there are refreshers for all staff, including obligatory Unconscious Bias training
 for service on appointment panels. The Humanities Equality and Diversity Working Group is
 responsible for implementing Faculty and School Equality and Diversity Action Plans, and
 for monitoring staff gender and ethnicity profiles in recruitment and promotion. SALC offers
 targeted support to under-represented groups for training for leadership roles and for
 promotion applications. Other measures progressing EDI include Carers’ Leave; enhanced
 Carers’ Research Support; Parental Leave and Academic Returners Leave; Flexible
 Working Arrangements; Flexible Retirement Arrangements; and support for return to work
 after Sickness Leave, as well as specialist office furniture, equipment and software. UoA
 meetings are scheduled with inclusivity in mind, in particular in relation to childcare
 responsibilities and disability requirements, and our UoA’s Decolonisation Working Group
 addresses further aspects of inclusion in academic practice.

 Against the background of these measures we have made some progress in addressing
 existing imbalances. Our recruitment in the context of contraction has more than doubled
 the BAME proportion of submitted staff, to 17.7% (6.89% at REF2014), while maintaining a

                                                                                      Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 REF2014-comparable if slightly lower proportion of women staff 8.85% (for REF2014 that
 figure stood at 10.34% and since one staff member belonged to both the BAME and woman
 categories, the combined proportion of these two categories together was 10.34% as well,
 now 26.5%). We have also raised on UoA level the topic of the low progression rate of BAME
 and women students to PhD-level study with the UG and PGT student body and their
 representatives since 2019, as well as promoted student awareness of graduate research
 opportunities in TRS academia.


 2.2 Research students

 2.2.1. PGR Recruitment
 The annual number of PGR students in the Department since REF2014 has remained
 steady at about 30. Recruitment is on average 10 per annum and since 2014 there have
 been 44 doctoral completions. Between them these PGRs held a total of 22 competitively
 funded studentships: 9 held AHRC doctoral studentships, 6 had funding from other external
 sources (including [text removed for publication], Gerda Henkel Stiftung, and project-
 linked AHRC), and 7 held internally funded awards (which include a collaborative doctoral
 complement of £57,900 funded from the FoH Strategic Investment Fund). LTI’s trustees
 have continued their strategic investment in the Lincoln International Doctoral Studentships.
 Thirteen of our PGR graduates have published or forthcoming monographs: Seo (Wipf and
 Stock 2015), Tappenden (SBL 2016, winner, Manfred Lautenschlaeger Award for
 Theological Promise), Popa (Indiana University Press 2017, winner, Yad Vashem
 International Book Prize for Holocaust Research 2018), Keim (Brill 2017), Jacobs (Oxford
 2018), Ozturk (Routledge 2018), Boakye (Wipf and Stock 2017), Keady (Bloomsbury 2017),
 Karaman (Mohr Siebeck 2018), Midson (Tauris 2018), Britton (SBL forthcoming), Kim
 (Bloomsbury forthcoming), Baesick Choi (Wipf and Stock forthcoming). Scott and Law
 supervised doctorates in the Collaborative Doctoral Award Studentship in the Theology of
 Public Engagement with Manchester Cathedral (2019-2022) and Langton collaborative
 doctorates with the Manchester Jewish Museum (Livshin 2010–2015 and Ward 2014–17,
 AHRC £51,000 and [text removed for publication] £42,000).

 2.2.2 Supervisory Arrangements
 Students have a main and a co-supervisor, frequently an interdisciplinary team. Students
 meet a supervisor on average fortnightly during the teaching Semester. An independent
 reviewer responds to work submitted at twice-yearly panels, one of them a progression
 panel, with all development and progression data, as well as training courses and ethics
 approvals, recorded in the UoM online system eProg. Students are encouraged to articulate
 and discuss their teaching, conference and publication plans, career plans and training
 needs, as well as to document through eProg their familiarity with the available support
 structures and development opportunities.


 2.2.3. Student Development, Diversity and Equality, and Support

 2.2.3.1. General Support for Postgraduate Research

 The UoA’s PGR students are eligible for Graduate School grants of up to £400 p.a. for
 conference participation and other research costs. Home/EU and overseas students are
 eligible to apply, in accordance with the University’s equal opportunities policy, for
 competitive SALC PhD studentships (£800K annually), and a high proportion of the UoA’s
 PGRs received funding (2.2.1). The Graduate School offers all UoA PGR students
 dedicated workspaces in their final year and hot-desking in earlier ones, as well as
 specialised research equipment and facilities. It pays up to £3K for fieldwork expenses,
 including extra costs incurred by students with carer responsibilities.

                                                                                    Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2.2.3.2. Equality, Diversity and Wellbeing
 The University’s equality of opportunity commitments apply to students, including the PGR
 recruitment and supervision processes. The UoA selection of candidates includes an
 interview with the prospective supervisor and the UoA’s PGR officer, matching the needs
 of the candidate to the programme’s opportunities in line with UoM’s equality, diversity and
 support policies. Formal responsibility for the personal and pastoral support of PGRs in
 addition to supervision lies with the departmental PGR officer and the SALC PGR director,
 and students can access and are inducted to a range of SALC and FoH support offerings,
 including sessions on wellbeing skills and workshops run by the Graduate School
 Wellbeing Hub and the PGR Well Bee-ing Project, as well as UoM’s Disability Advisory
 and Support Service.

 2.2.3.3. Skills Development, Careers Training and non-HE links
 The UoA organizes research training for their own PGRs as well as those from validated
 partner institutions and, in the case of Jewish Studies ECR training, events are open also to
 national and international advanced PGRs. Annual events include a CBS-led Manchester-
 Durham postgraduate research collaboration, a CBS joint event with Lausanne, as well as
 CJS’s UK-wide research training workshops, supported by [text removed for publication]
 travel bursaries. Run over 3 days, the CJS training offers an innovative mix of sessions on
 current disciplinary trends and on HE and non-HE career options, confidential one-to-one
 meetings for advice from experienced staff on career, publication and research plans, a
 practical exercise in designing a funding application, and opportunities for networking. Post-
 event questionnaires by the annually 20-25 PGR/ECR participants from the UK and abroad
 show a very high degree of satisfaction, with one participant crediting the advice she
 received as decisive for her subsequently applying for and gaining a UK lectureship.

 All new PGR students complete a skills audit to identify training needs. Subject specific
 needs are met by UoA-run courses (e.g. biblical languages), Greek and Hebrew sources
 reading groups, the bespoke UoA training opportunities described above, and two UoA
 reading groups: Women and Bible and the Manchester Phenomenology Reading Group.
 General FoH/UoM-wide training covers research skills, academic and CV writing, career
 planning as well as more than 20 annual theory-exploring research seminars and skills-
 oriented workshops run by artsmethods@manchester. Artsmethods@manchester also
 funds interdisciplinary, collaborative student-led initiatives and conferences for which all FoH
 students can bid.

 PGRs can also access the Faculty’s Researcher Development programme of activities
 (2.1.2.1) and are encouraged to gain appropriate teaching experience, where opportunity is
 available, through Graduate Teaching Assistant employment. For this they receive a
 comprehensive programme of training, mentoring and peer review, a UoA practice which
 has contributed to 54% of doctoral completers (2013–2019) obtaining academic
 appointments, including Midson, Boakye and Keim.




                                                                                     Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Research Income Generation and Guidance
 The UoA’s research strategy is delivered at UoA level, but embedded into SALC/FoH-wide
 support structures, such as the institutional safeguarding of research time and other
 measures (2.1.2) as well as internal investment (below). The Unit achieved a total external
 grant income of £1,326,202 in the REF2021 period, an 83.4% increase over REF2014
 income (£722,929). This amounts to an increase per capita of 135% (£117,363 p.c., versus
 £49,857; for awards figures, see 1.2.1.3). This success has been enabled by a suite of
 measures.

 3.1.1. Internal Investment and Support for Research Funding Applications
 The UoA has successfully secured substantial internal investment, including Faculty
 strategic investment of £57,900 in collaborative doctoral funding to the LTI, the FoH award
 of Samely’s PERL (£45,000 income to the UoA), SALC Impact Support Fund money
 (£5,239), JRRI ECR seedcorn funding (£5,000) and ESRC Festival of Social Science
 funding (£1,000). Where appropriate, ECRs and experienced researchers alike were
 encouraged to move from applications for pilot projects to larger funding bids (3.2.1).

 The SALC Research Office and the Research Committee, chaired five times a year by the
 School Research Director, provide guidance on all aspects of research planning, and
 administer a range of research support funds, from an annual research expense allowance
 (2.1-2.3), to internal competitions for awards from the Research Development and Impact
 Support Funds (£45-60K p.a.) for pilot projects (up to £3K per annum) and impactful
 research; the UoA was awarded £3,000 for a pilot project. These internal pilot funds were
 additional to external BA/Leverhulme Small Grants/Network and similar grants, such as
 [text removed for publication] resource enhancement and research networking funding.

 UoA Research Strategy Development and Application Support. The directors of CBS, CJS
 and LTI, the head of department and the research coordinator meet twice a semester as the
 departmental research committee, to discuss all matters relating to research, including
 impact planning, in the light of institutional and national trends and information shared at
 SALC Research Committee. The research coordinator communicates digests of this
 information to UoA members, and puts colleagues in touch with an experienced peer
 reviewer, as well as with a suitable RIAG member (2020–) for additional input on impact
 planning. The Ehrhardt Seminar has played the role of a demanding, high-powered testing
 ground for research ideas and impact plans in biblical studies, and benefited impact planning
 for one ICS (Oakes). The UoA’s peer reviewing, as well as that in SALC, benefits from being
 interdisciplinary, and encourages effective originality and contextualisations that transcend
 subject boundaries where appropriate. The SALC Research Office support all staff with
 costings and checking of applications, as well as selectively with Grant Writer feedback
 (2.1.2.2); successful earlier bid documents from the UoA and SALC are shared.

 3.1.2. Priority Investment Areas and Successful Outcomes
 The UoA has strategically encouraged collaborative, cross-disciplinary and cross-
 institutional research and funding applications, in particular in the areas of:

     (a) the role of texts in religion, whose success is exemplified by British Academy
     Wolfson Research Professorship (2013–16) and Leverhulme Major Research
     Fellowship funding (2016–19) for Williams’s work on Rumi (£150,000 and £145,841)

     (b) the religion/science interface, on which LTI leads (see below) alongside Langton’s
     Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship on ‘Darwin’s Jews’ (2013–2015) and his AHRC
     Leadership Fellowship on ‘The Doubting Jew’ (2016–2017; £95,122 and £139,964).



                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     (c) unlocking the research potential of holdings of artefacts, archives and manuscripts
     at UoM and Northern UK Jewish Studies Partner institutions, allied to innovative forms
     of public engagement and research training, for which the CJS’s ‘50 Jewish Objects’
     and the Rylands Hebraica cataloguing and digitization projects are examples (Samely
     and Langton, [text removed for publication] 2016–22, £26,000 and [text removed
     for publication] 2018–22, £135,501; Smithuis and Alexander, [text removed for
     publication], 2015–18, 2018-22, £120,000 and £90,000).

     (d) Other successes include the ESRC-funded project ‘Life on the Breadline:
     Christianity, Poverty and Politics in the 21st century’ (2018–2021; Co-I Scott; £29,000),
     and seven externally funded PDRF/PDRAs attached to CJS and CBS (2.1.1).
     Additionally LTI, funded since 2003 by the Lincoln Theological Institute Charitable Trust
     (1.1.3.2), supports projects in the study of Christian social ethics through PDRFs
     (£124,933 in 2016–19 and £93,657 in 2020–22), as well as salary costs (LTI director
     Scott), one international PhD studentship and finance for research activities.

 3.2. Infrastructure and Facilities

 3.2.1. Library Resources and Facilities
 The University provides an internationally excellent environment for research in TRS. With
 more than ten million items The University Library is the largest non-legal deposit library in
 the UK, the only National Research Library in the north of England and holds the largest
 collection of electronic resources in any university library in Europe, currently over 43,500
 e-journals, 500,000 e-books and a large number of research databases (Section 4.2
 REF5a). Direct CJS investment (£14K since 2014) has augmented the UoM Library’s
 holdings of primary sources and scholarship in the area of medieval Jewry, and
 complements print sources through a specialist departmental library on Anglo-Jewish
 history.

 The University Library’s special collections division, the John Rylands Library, has played a
 central role in the UoA’s externally funded research, and provided the basis for the research
 and public engagement focus of the ‘50 Jewish Objects’ project. Our research has drawn
 on a number of key holdings: the Reed Dead Sea Scroll Fragments, approximately 15,000
 Genizah Fragments, several hundred Sussex and Gaster Hebrew manuscripts (alongside
 notable collections of Persian, Arabic and Ottoman manuscripts), Moses Gaster’s personal
 papers and correspondence, the Marmorstein and Haskalah Eastern European Jewish
 printed book collections and the Anglo-Jewish/Guardian Archives. CJS has commissioned
 or facilitated the creation of online open access (OA) research guides relating to the four
 last-mentioned holdings in the REF2021 period. International scholars attracted by MARC,
 which provides the world’s largest collection of manuscripts relating to John and Charles
 Wesley at The University Library, often supported by JRRI, regularly present their research
 to the Unit or take part in UoA research training events while visiting.

 We have made strategic use of JRRI seedcorn grants relating to a number of holdings to
 facilitate subsequent grant successes for researching them. These include Hebraica [text
 removed for publication] grants (Smithuis and Alexander, until 2022) as well as Keim’s
 BA PDRF.


 3.2.2. Open Access (OA) and Digital Humanities
 The UoA has been an early adopter of Open Access research publishing through the OA
 periodical Melilah (2013–) and other publications (1.2.2.1). The Unit now benefits from
 UoM’s measures for driving OA publishing and related activities (cp. REF5a §2(v)). Our
 research is accessible through UoM repository PURE (respecting embargos), and the
 Library OA service for pre-publication manuscripts. Advice to researchers, and OA and
 research data management services, are delivered by a dedicated team. UoA members are

                                                                                   Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 eligible to bid for the institutional OA fund (£300,000 p.a.) supporting OA for monographs
 and ECR attendance at OpenCon (https://www.opencon.community/).

 UoA research that employs and addresses Digital Humanities methods, often creating OA
 publications, includes Karimullah’s corpus-based Islamic Studies, Midson’s exploration of
 the human-machine interface, digitising and cataloguing Hebrew manuscripts by means of
 Text Encoding Initiative (Alexander, Silvestri, Samely), and innovative dissemination (4.2.2).
 This too continues a longstanding UoA strength as exemplified in the UoA-led digitisation of
 John Rylands Hebrew manuscripts (Genizah fragments 2003–9, Hebraica 2015–22) and
 humanities research databases on ancient Jewish literature (2003 Midrash in the Mishnah;
 2013 Anonymous and Pseudepigraphic Jewish Texts), all of which remain functional and
 publicly available.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and
 society

 The UoA’s strategy for building relationships with outside academic bodies and wider society
 consists in:
     (a) promoting the collegial exchange of advice and information and the use of UoM and
     other funding sources to achieve effective academic networking (4.1.2)
     (b) prioritising the judicious use of new digital or other technologies for engaging with
     public audiences (4.2.2), and
     (c) facilitating communication with selected regional societal stakeholders as potential
     first-line beneficiaries of our research, in particular with regard to non-HE training (ICS)
     and beneficiary policy principles (illustrated in 4.2.1. by the UoA’s contribution to the
     Church of England’s recalibration of its relationship with Jewish communities).

 4.1. Collaborations in Research

 4.1.1. Collaborations in Research and PGR Training
 The UoA supports researchers in regional, national and international research leadership
 roles, such as the CJS’s [text removed for publication]-funded Northern UK and Dublin
 Jewish Studies Partnership (1.1.2), which since 2016 has linked the UoA as the network’s
 hub to the Universities of Leeds, Sheffield, Glasgow, Edinburgh, St Andrews, Trinity College
 Dublin, Edge Hill, Chester, Wales Trinity Saint David and Bangor; the CBS-led foundation
 of the Northwest Research Project Committee (1.2.2.2); and the UoA’s collaboration with
 Cliff College in the Bible, Gender and Church Research Centre (Morse).

 Some 70 PGR students registered at any given time at the UoA and at its validated partner
 colleges Nazarene Theological College, Cliff College and Luther King House Manchester
 benefit from the training opportunities created by CBS, CJS ECR/PGR activities (1.2.2.2,
 2.2.3.3) and the MWRC (1.1.3.3), thereby constituting a Northwest research training
 concentration in Christian, Biblical and Jewish studies. All PGRs at validated partners are
 overseen by a research committee consisting of UoA members and a UoA collaborative
 academic advisor monitors their progress at two annual reviews and approves PhD
 admissions.

 4.1.2 International Links and Appointments

 We have consistently supported staff in seeking national and international research
 collaborations, including with the Universities of Lausanne, Copenhagen and New York
 (1.2.1.1), and in shaping international research agendas. Examples of the latter include
 Langton’s design of a year-long seminar programme at the US Katz Center (1.2.1.1), a
 2015 international conference of the UoA in collaboration with the Groningen Institute for
 Globalisation Studies initiated by Hoelzl, the agendas of the annual meetings of the British

                                                                                     Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 New Testament Society 2014 and British Association for Jewish Studies (BAJS) 2015, as
 well as LTI’s international theological colloquium on ‘Love in Technocultural Lifeworlds’
 (2018).
 International visiting appointments were held also by Oakes at Baylor University 2015 and
 Law at Universität Münster, 2015–16. In addition to Manson and Ferguson Lecture
 Speakers (1.1.1, 1.1.3.1), the UoA hosted Brad Sabin Hill (Washington, DC) as University
 Simon Visiting Professor (2018/CJS), as well as international speakers for the CJS
 Sherman and Bogdanow lecture series, attracting sizable public audiences to presentations
 by Levine, Vanderbilt (daily attendance 125) and Olszowy-Schlanger, Oxford/Paris (45);
 Browning, Chapel Hill (125); Marrus, Toronto (125); Barnett, US Holocaust Memorial
 Museum (70); Grabowski, Ottawa (100); and Porat, Yad Vashem Holocaust Museum (80).

 4.1.3. Service to the Profession and Editorial Roles
 The UoA encourages acceptance of prominent roles in academic organizations, of editorial
 appointments and of peer review duties, appreciating the importance of such roles for
 connecting the Unit’s research nationally and internationally. In the REF2021 period this
 included the presidency of the British Association for Jewish Studies (BAJS; Langton,
 2015), chairing the European Forum for the Study of Religion and the Environment (Scott)
 and co-chairing the Paul Seminar of British New Testament Society conferences (Oakes
 2014–19), as well as a number of prominent international roles held by UoA emeriti (1.1.1).

 National professional roles performed by UoA-nurtured ECRs include Ribary (UoA PhD;
 2016–2019) and Keim (2019–present) as successive Postgraduate and Early Career
 Research Representatives on the BAJS committee, and Alder (UoA PhD 2011–15;
 teaching-focused R&T South Asian Studies lecturer) as Early Career Representative of the
 British Association for South Asian Studies (2017–). Senior colleagues Langton and
 Williams served as Peer Review College members for AHRC, and Law for the Australian
 Research Council. Keim served on a British Academy expert working group on the
 Teaching-Research Nexus (2017–19), which advises UK Government Higher Education
 Policy.

 UoA members have shouldered editorial and editorial board responsibilities in the fields of
 biblical and related studies (New Testament Studies; Journal for the Study of the New
 Testament, both Oakes; Gnosis: Journal of Gnostic Studies, Klutz), of Christianity
 (International Journal for the Study of the Christian Church, Law), of Judaism (Jewish
 Historical Studies; OA Melilah – Manchester Journal of Jewish Studies, both Langton), of
 Islam (Mawlana Rumi Review, Williams) and of religion and politics (Fuge. Journal für
 Religion und Moderne; Jahrbuch Politische Theologie, both Hoelzl).

 Editorial roles in monograph series include International Studies in Christian Origins (Oakes
 2013–), Continuum Studies in Religion and Political Culture (Hoelzl 2006–2017), Religion,
 Geschichte und Gesellschaft (Hoelzl 2020–) and Studia Judaica (Samely 2012–).


 4.2. Collaborations with Societal Stakeholders
 The UoA supports engagement with partners beyond Higher Education to disseminate
 research-generated expertise. We thereby seek opportunities to educate, and to help others
 train and educate, but also to learn of stakeholder perspectives and to maximise strategic
 research impact.




                                                                                  Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.2.1. Addressing Societal Needs with Research Expertise
 We have systematically developed our relations with faith, interfaith, civic, policy, media and
 wider educational bodies, among them bodies such as WeStandTogether and Church of
 England (CoE), culminating in the 2020 establishment of RIAG, which allows us to seek
 impact planning input from 17 stakeholder organisations (1.2.2.3).

 A significant example of impact arising from longstanding partnerships, beyond the ICSs
 submitted here, is the incorporation of Alexander’s research into the Faith and Order
 Commission’s document God’s Unfailing Word (2019), the most significant CoE statement
 on Christian-Jewish relations in a generation, with Alexander having been one of the
 drafters. Other examples include Law’s membership of the steering committee of the
 Archbishop of Canterbury’s Examination in Theology and Langton’s service on the
 committee of the Archbishop’s Jewish Forum.

 UoA research results have enriched ongoing collaborations with interfaith, non-HE
 educational and media organisations, including Langton’s consultancy to the Council of
 Christians and Jews, Netherlands (2015) and to the Washington Holocaust Memorial
 Museum (2014), as well as his service on the AQA Higher Education Expert Panel (Religious
 Studies A-Level curriculum, 2013–). As part of collaborative doctorates (2.2.1, 3.1), CJS
 facilitated the digitization and tagging of oral testimony audio archives at the Manchester
 Jewish Museum, and CBS was involved in the 2016 launch of the Chester ‘diocesan year
 of biblical literacy’.

 Adding new dimensions to such links, the recently founded inter-institutional Bible, Gender
 and Church Research Centre (co-founder Morse) will allow church practitioners to orient
 impact planning of research into the role which biblical texts can play in encounters with the
 survivors of abuse. Midson’s investigations into the interface of religion and new
 technologies used church focus groups to explore the reception of robots in social and care
 settings, funded by the CoE’s ‘Scientists in Congregations’ scheme.

 In collaboration with the BBC, the UoA led by Morse holds annual workshops for A-level
 teachers. As part of the events, participants become involved in the ongoing creation of an
 online resource that exploits the BBC’s Beyond Belief archive to document key interviews
 and debates, as annotated by UoA staff on the basis of their research. The launch of the
 resource is planned for 2021. This opportunity to collaborate with the BBC arose from
 regular UoA media contributions (4.2.2).

 4.2.2. Public and Social Engagement, Media Work and Online Tools
 UoA members are engaged on a number of fronts in meeting the knowledge needs of the
 general public. We aim to make available research results by way of public engagement
 activities and open access online information resources that can be used in non-HE and HE
 teaching.

 UoA members have made active use of new media for the dissemination of research which
 speaks to topical issues or can be used in vocational training. Oakes’s website ‘Entering
 Early Christianity via Pompeii’ and Langton’s ‘Darwin’s Jews Online Reader’ are examples
 of this. Videos and blogs of CJS-commissioned artists document their engagement with the
 ‘50 Jewish Objects’ on the CJS website in addition to artists’ workshops for individuals and
 families which took place until the 2020 Covid-19 lockdowns. These art commissions serve
 to highlight UoM and other Northern UK Jewish manuscript treasures. The UoA’s research
 is widely seen by internet users, with OA Manchester Jewish Studies journal Melilah
 recording 130,000 page views (February 2020), and 53,000 views of the YouTube podcast
 of Browning’s CJS Bogdanow lectures (September 2020).

 Our engagement with conventional media platforms includes BBC Radio 4’s ‘In our Time’
 (in the reporting period, Williams, Suthren Hirst) and ‘Beyond Belief’ (Williams, Law, Scott,

                                                                                    Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Midson, Boakye, Morse). Boakye contributed to a Channel 5 Select and Smithsonian
 Channel documentary on Crucifixion in the Roman Empire.

 In pursuing UoM’s social responsibility goals (see REF5a, §2(iv)), LTI has taken the lead
 through active dialogue with stakeholders, e.g. through co-organising the ‘Climate change
 among the Religions’ events (2020). For Scott’s ‘Life on the Breadline’ project, see 3.1.2.d.

 The UoA has experimented with new forms of public engagement. One avenue we have
 explored are film screenings, e.g. CJS’s Screen & Talk events in partnership with UK Jewish
 Film since 2016 (also 2021 Bogdanow Holocaust event presented by Academy-Award
 winning director of Son of Saul, László Nemes). We have also modified the format of
 traditional public lecture events, e.g. the LTI’s Ferguson Lecture with Manchester Cathedral
 (attendances c.100 p.a.) and panel discussions on cyborgs (Manchester Science Festival
 2016) and on ‘Robots and Loneliness’ (2018, with ESRC support). For Midson’s focus
 group meetings, see 4.2.1.

 These activities illustrate the UoA’s approach to creating and sustaining dialogue with
 international academic peers, general audiences and potential research beneficiaries. We
 support collegially promoted international networking, further the adoption of digital
 alongside other technologies, and encourage ways to stay attuned to societal stakeholder
 concerns in order to realize the impact potential of our research.




                                                                                  Page 16
