Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Winchester

 Unit of Assessment: UoA18 Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Structure of the Unit
 The Unit of Assessment is located in the Department of Law, a vibrant grouping of staff drawn
 from a mixture of academic and practice-oriented backgrounds. The Department is making its
 inaugural REF submission as part of its long-term commitment to developing high-quality research
 and wide-reaching impact, as articulated in the University Strategic Plan 2015-20 and continued
 in the new Strategic Vision 2030 (see REF5a 1.1. and 2.1). As a relatively new and small Unit, it
 comprises three staff employed on the census date (Nottingham, Prescott and Rinik) and the
 work of two former staff members (Fletcher and Oswald).

 The Centre for Information Rights (CIR) and the Centre for Parliament and Public Law (CPPL) are
 key to the structure of the Unit. They are active and dynamic research hubs which drive the Faculty
 and UoA strategies and foster cross-disciplinary research collaborations, providing a supportive
 and inclusive environment for research opportunity and development, as detailed further below.

 1.2 Research and impact strategy
 The Department, based in the Faculty of Business, Law and Digital Technologies (formerly the
 Faculty of Business, Law and Sport), is a small, dynamic research hub with big ambition.
 Established in 2008, the Department aimed to expand the provision of legal education, with
 broader aims to engage in academic research and knowledge exchange. From 2015-2020, the
 Department experienced a period of transformational change, diversifying its initial focus on
 teaching excellence to cultivate and sustain research vitality. As demonstrated below, the
 Department provides a supportive and inclusive environment in which researchers and the Unit
 can flourish.

 Institutional and departmental growth has led to increased support for research and impact activity
 through investment and strategic vision. Research and knowledge exchange have been firmly
 rooted in the University, faculty and departmental agendas. ‘Advance knowledge' was a priority in
 the University of Winchester Strategic Plan 2015-2020. In addition, the University RKE Strategy
 2015-2020 identified three overarching priorities for research: quality, impact and environment
 (REF 5a, 1.1 and 2.1.). The Unit, via its own strategic plan implemented the wider University and
 Faculty strategies. The UoA Strategy 2015-2020 prioritised the following aims:

 1. To support the research of individuals and research centres within the Department. The two
 research centres (CIR and CPPL) were successfully developed and with them, considerable
 individual development was encouraged, evidenced by staff promotion (see section 2.1);

 2. Plan for REF 2021 and identify current and emerging areas of research excellence. By a
 collaborative process involving all staff of the Department two areas of activity - use of algorithms
 in policing and children in the digital age - became the focus for impact case studies (ICS) and for
 a concentration of resource;

 3. Support academic staff in the development of research profiles and the production of
 measurable outputs. All staff in the wider department were included in all UoA-led activities
 including writing workshops. The sharing of published work and work in progress, especially

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 examples from the early work of established researchers, provided a supportive environment for
 individual development including the production of first publications;

 4. Build staff capacity to supervise postgraduate research. Three members of staff have been
 involved in postgraduate research supervision and all staff have the opportunity to participate in
 postgraduate research supervision workshops;

 5. Develop within the Unit’s research centres opportunities for cross-disciplinary research within
 the university. The Centres’ events including the CIR’s annual conference Trust Risk Information
 and the Law conference (TRILcon) has provided a forum for research networking amongst
 different disciplines, leading to opportunities for collaboration, detailed further below (1.3.1, 2.1,
 2.3 and 4).

 6. Support staff in locating and applying for external funding that supports international research.
 Bespoke funding workshops were provided by the RKE Centre’s Research Funding Manager
 which resulted in successful bids to the Learning Education Research Foundation (LERN) and the
 British and Irish Law Education and Technology Association (BILETA) as well as financial support
 from the Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) and law firm Womble Bond Dickinson.

 The UoA strategy has encouraged research activity that is in line with the University’s core values.
 The University prides itself on its values: compassion, individuals matter, and spirituality, and
 operates under its guiding principles: in the main part of the REF cycle these were: educate,
 advance knowledge and serve the common good. Moving forwards these were: educational
 excellence, sustainability and social justice. The diverse nature of the research activity in the Unit
 reflects these values and guiding principles. For example, the research underpinning the ICS
 addresses contemporary challenges raised by digital technology including the sharing of
 information about children via broadcast and digital media and the legal, ethical and societal
 implications of the use of algorithms by the police. This research has impacted legal regulations,
 policies and public attitudes.

 1.3 Achievement of Strategic Aims
 The Unit has seen an upward trajectory in research culture, which is also reflected in the wider
 Department of Law, which has benefited from: (1) the appointment of early career researchers
 (ECR) who aspire to enhance and strengthen the existing community of researchers and
 contribute to the stimulating and supportive environment; (2) the aforementioned creation of two
 interdisciplinary research centres (CIR and CPPR), both directed by members of the Department
 and detailed further below; (3) the recruitment of three PhD students in the Department and staff
 involvement with supervising three interdisciplinary PhD projects based in other departments; (4)
 individual research mentoring and formal research mentoring networks; (5) opportunities to attend
 and participate in a Faculty-wide seminar series; (6) a collaborative research approach and
 networking across departments leading to increased opportunity for interdisciplinary research; (7)
 hosting events, such as the annual CIR conference, TRILcon, to create networks, stimulate
 research ideas and establish pathways for impact; (8) success with internal funding schemes and
 external funding bids; and (9) improved online visibility of researchers and research activity.

 1.3.1 Research Centres
 The two research centres have been central to achieving the strategic aims.

 Centre for Information Rights


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The CIR, founded in 2012 by Oswald, has strong links with the Department of Digital
 Technologies. Currently co-convened by Nottingham and Rinik, this interdisciplinary centre
 examines issues which span the wide-reaching nature of ‘information rights'. This has included
 research exploring the overlap between information and privacy law, and new technologies and
 methods of data analysis. The CIR aims to: provide a focus for research in information rights;
 contribute to developing policy and practice; explore ways of exchanging knowledge with subject
 matter experts, practitioners, students and other academics; contribute to training and educational
 activities; engage with the local and wider community to provide opportunities for information-
 related issues to be debated. Researchers within the CIR formed different interdisciplinary
 research clusters in which members, research students and visiting fellows working on related
 topics could share their research. The establishment of research clusters enabled researchers to
 identify opportunities for collaboration, including developing high-quality outputs, funding
 applications and creating external impact. Two key research clusters enabled the formulation of
 two ICS for the REF 2021 submission. Oswald and Rinik embarked on a collaborative research
 project with external partner Royal United Services Institute (RUSI), addressing the use of
 machine-learning algorithms by the police. Oswald, Ryan (née James) and Nottingham
 combined their expertise on child rights and privacy to pursue a project on ‘generation tagged’,
 which concerned the depiction of children on broadcast and digital media. These researchers have
 engaged with high-profile media outlets at regional, national and international levels, by providing
 expert commentary on pressing contemporary legal issues of global importance (see section 4).

 The TRILcon Conference, organised by the Centre has run for six years. Open to academics,
 postgraduate students, policymakers and practitioners, the conference has featured high-profile
 keynote speakers such as John McNamara, Senior Inventor and Innovation Centre Technologist
 Lead at IBM, Renate Samson, Chief Executive of Big Brother Watch, Professor Sir David Omand
 GCB, former Director of GCHQ and Katie Gollop QC, now deputy High Court judge. The
 conference has been an important tool for enhancing both the internal and external profile of the
 CIR, providing invaluable opportunities for networking, presenting research and developing
 expertise in organising successful conferences for CIR members. New researchers and PhD
 students have benefited considerably from research development opportunities and networking
 as a result of the conference. For example, Prescott and Nottingham, as ECRs, benefitted from
 organising the TRILcon in 2018 and 2019 respectively. As a result of that experience, Nottingham
 is now co-authoring a paper with one of the speakers.

 The Centre makes a significant contribution to the University’s Open Access and interdisciplinary
 strategies (see REF 5a, 2.2) through the publication of Journal of Information Rights, Policy and
 Practice (JIRPP). Published by Winchester University Press, the journal encourages
 interdisciplinary debate of current information rights issues faced by those in policy and practice.
 Members of the CIR edit the journal, including Ryan (née James) (Editor-in-Chief) and Oswald
 (Editor), as well as a number of external editors. Delegates of TRILcon are invited to contribute to
 the journal. The fourth edition of the journal was a conference special edition.

 Centre for Parliament and Public Law
 The Centre for Parliament and Public Law (CPPL) was founded in 2018 by Prescott. CPPL is an
 interdisciplinary centre that explores legal and political issues surrounding public law, with a
 particular focus on the role of Parliament and human rights. The Centre regularly engages in
 knowledge exchange activity by contributing to public debates in legal and political issues in the
 area of public law, through public talks and expert media commentary, including a wide array of
 high-profile media appearances (INSERT examples) by Prescott. The work of CPPL is broad and
 enables staff and students to participate in RKE activities. CPPL has built strong synergies with

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 other research centres based in different Faculties, including the CIR and the Centre for English
 Identity and Politics (CEIP), based in the Department of Applied Social Sciences, Forensics and
 Politics. In a short space of time, CPPL has hosted two major collaborative events with these other
 centres: Prescott organised the ‘Routes to an English Parliament’ (January 2019), co-convened
 with the (CEIP) and; ‘Public Law, Politics and the Constitution: A new battleground between the
 Law and Technology’ 5th Winchester Conference on Trust, Risk, Information and the Law
 (TRILcon18), co-organised with the CIR.

 1.4 Future Strategic Aims and Goals for Research and Impact Development
 The University of Winchester is committed to providing a supportive environment in which
 researchers can flourish. In August 2020, the Department of Law become part of the Department
 of Law, Economics, Accounting and Finance. This has strengthened opportunities for
 collaboration, interdisciplinary research and shared networks with colleagues. The new
 department structure will continue to cultivate a vibrant and inclusive research environment. For
 example, there is increased expertise in IP Law, which will contribute to the Centre for Information
 Rights going forwards. High quality, cross-disciplinary and collaborative research with international
 reach continues to be a central underpinning of the departmental approach (see 2.3). The
 Department strategically aims to continue to cultivate an inclusive, supportive environment where
 researchers are encouraged to maximise their potential (see section 2.1).

 The University’s new Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy 2020-2030, ‘Re-imagining the
 world: creating the future’ emphasises a commitment to helping researchers grow and prosper.
 The University’s Strategic Vision 2030, ‘A Beacon for Educational Excellence, Sustainability &
 Social Justice’ also sets out a commitment to delivering transformative research and innovation
 (see REF 5a, 1.1; 2.1). The Faculty is currently developing its next ten-year strategy. This will
 strengthen policies and management systems to ensure that the upward research trajectory is
 maintained for the next REF cycle to build on its established supportive and collaborative research
 environment which will continue to foster and advance research talent. A new Faculty RKE
 Strategy will be developed in 2021-22, aligning with the new Faculty Strategy, a key element of
 which will be income generation. The UoA has already adopted a proactive approach to increasing
 its external income during the next REF cycle, with successes already secured. For example, the
 University has recently been advised that Shooter and Nottingham have been awarded £360 by
 the Association of Law Teachers’ Innovation in Teaching Practice Scheme for a project entitled
 The Online Courtroom: Preparing Students for the Digital Legal Environment. Nottingham has
 been notified of award of £6024, alongside colleagues from the Faculty of Education and the
 Department of Responsible Management, for a project entitled ‘Creating Learner Awareness of
 the Right to Opt Out,’ funded by Human Data Interaction, Learning Skills and Social Justice
 Theme. In addition, Nottingham, a PhD student from the CIR and a staff member from the
 Department of Marketing have also recently been notified of an award of £2456 for a project ‘Who,
 then, in law is my neighbour? - Judgment, responsibility, and expectations of the onlife reality’
 funded by Human Data Interaction, Agency and Privacy in the development of IoT systems
 Theme. These funded projects form the basis of direction for the UoA towards the next REF.

 In addition, Nottingham, with a colleague from the Faculty of Education, have submitted a bid
 (March 2021) to the Information Commissioner's Office for £40,164 exploring ways to support
 schools and empowering children to exercise their right to opt out in the digital schooling
 environment. These activities, early in the REF cycle, indicate the positive trajectory for the UoA.




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 The University recruitment strategy reflects its wider-agenda to nurture and expand its thriving,
 values-driven research culture. The recruitment and retention of research-active staff, including
 staff with research potential, has therefore been integral to the staffing strategy. In 2015, the
 University invested heavily to support and sustain the Department’s research activity and boost
 its reputation. In 2015-2016, three new appointments were made, of staff who possessed excellent
 research skills and potential. A proven track record of high-quality publications (or, in the case of
 ECRs, evidence of strong research potential) is regarded as an essential requirement in the
 recruitment of all new members of academic staff in the Department. In 2020, an additional three
 appointments were made. This will sustain and further develop the thriving research culture and
 will support the growth of the UoA for future REF assessment periods.

 There is a range of support mechanisms and activities aimed at ensuring the development of the
 research profile of members of staff supported by the Research and Knowledge Exchange Centre.
 Members of the Centre work closely with colleagues across the University and provide
 opportunities for staff to learn from external partners, through workshops and networking activities.

 In addition to the University-wide foci on mentoring (see REF 5a, 3.4), the Department has
 facilitated research mentoring by hosting writing workshops including a focus on 3* and 4*
 publications and allocating members of the department a ‘writing buddy’ to support the
 development of research for publication. Roundtable research discussions, where staff share
 works in progress, have also been an invaluable support, particularly for ECRs.

 All staff are allocated to one of three role profiles: Teaching with Enhanced Responsibility for
 Research (TERR), Teaching and Research (T&R), or Teaching and Scholarship (T&S). As well
 as promotion opportunities to Professor and Reader, there are also opportunities for staff to move
 between role profiles where, for example, they gain more experience of research and seek to
 develop their research career (see REF5a, 1.2).

 To support all staff, the Unit takes an inclusive approach and T&S profile staff have been fully
 involved in the research environment and those who wish to develop research career paths are
 being supported to do so, for example through mentoring in writing outputs. The strategy for staff
 recruitment ensures that research active staff who leave are replaced by staff with research
 experience, and that all new staff either possess a doctorate or demonstrate potential to earn
 one/become research active as they gain experience.

 Staff wishing to transition from one role profile to another are supported through a scheme of
 realistic targets to develop and realise research potential. Staff in the Department regularly attend
 a ‘Friendly Research Roundtable’ in which researchers can share ideas and experiences. Staff
 are encouraged to present their works in progress at the Faculty RKE seminar series: Oswald’s
 paper, ‘Algorithmic risk assessment policing models - research in collaboration with Durham
 Constabulary’ (2017) and Prescott’s ‘Brexit: A Constitutional Melting Point?’ (2019) were each
 first presented as part of the series before being presented externally.

 In the first part of the REF cycle, the University ran a ‘Research and Engagement Week’ which
 featured an extensive programme of RKE activities including a research symposium and an
 ‘images of research’ exhibition. Nottingham and Ryan (née James) presented their work at the
 research symposium, ‘Eavesdropping on a child’s ‘secret world’: The rights of children featured in

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 fly-on-the-wall reality documentaries on broadcast media’, and also presented their work at the
 University’s ‘Images of Research’ exhibition alongside Oswald.

 Staff development has also been supported through the ‘Grants Academy Seminar Series’ run by
 the RKE Centre’s Research Funding Manager. Staff in the UoA attended sessions on topics
 including: ‘Open Access: What you need to do and when’; ‘Applying for your first research grant’;
 ‘Applying for Funding to the AHRC and the ESRC’; ‘Internal grants and external funding - all you
 need to know’; and ‘Costing and pricing your research projects’. The UoA has also made effective
 use of the internal RKE funding pathways (see REF5a, 4.1.).

 Despite being a relatively new and small Department, there has been positive career development
 for the majority of members during this REF cycle. Nottingham, Prescott and Ryan (née James)
 were promoted to Senior Lecturer and Oswald was promoted from Senior Lecturer to Senior
 Fellow (Knowledge Exchange).

 2.2 Equality and Diversity
 The University is committed to ensuring equality and equal opportunity. As a small university,
 strategy in relation to supporting and promoting equality and diversity is centralised and covers all
 aspects of the institution’s operations. It is led by the HR Department and the Director of Equalities
 and Staff Development. The Department adheres to University’s values in supporting and
 promoting equality and diversity in research careers and strives to ensure an inclusive and
 supportive environment. Those involved in decision-making for REF 2021 were fully briefed as to
 the equality and diversity requirements and undertook relevant training programmes institutionally
 and externally to ensure that all staff were equally and fairly represented and provided with
 relevant opportunities for entry into REF. UoA leads attended bespoke conscious and
 unconscious bias training, led by the Director of Equalities and Staff Development, in addition to
 online training in Equality and Diversity which all staff are required to undertake. All staff were
 made aware of the equality and diversity requirements of REF and have been encouraged to raise
 any issues of concern. As a very small Department, data which potentially identifies colleagues
 with Protected Characteristics cannot be included in this statement. However, moving forwards,
 the Department will be working closely with HR and the RKE Centre to address equality and
 diversity issues arising from the REF Equality Impact Assessments.

 2.3 Research students
 Strategic development has enabled the Department to begin recruiting PGR students. Currently,
 there are three PGR students. One student recently passed their viva and is currently working on
 corrections. The other two are due to submit in 2021. Staff also make up the supervisory teams
 for three interdisciplinary PhD projects, based in another Faculty, with teams in History,
 Criminology and Forensic Science. All matters relating to Postgraduate Research (PGR) are dealt
 with initially by the Faculty PGR lead, overseen by the Faculty RKE Committee at Faculty level
 and the Research Degrees Quality Committee (RDQC) at University level. It is mandatory for all
 PhD supervisors to undertake annual supervisor training sessions. Board members for PhD
 applications, upgrades and vivas have undergone equality and diversity training in accordance
 with University policies (see REF5a, 3.3).

 The UoA adopts an interdisciplinary, collaborative approach to research supervision. Supervisory
 teams are made up of researchers from different departments to ensure that students benefit from
 a broad range of research knowledge and experience. PGR students from other departments are
 welcome to join research centres in the Department. The CIR has a PGR member from outside
 the department and it is anticipated that this cross-departmental network will continue to grow.

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This increases opportunities for PGR students engage in the work of the centre including research
 events and conferences and supports PGR students establishing a cohesive interdisciplinary
 network.

 Students in the UoA and wider Faculty are encouraged to attend the successful Doctoral
 Roundtable events run by the Faculty. Established in September 2015, the Doctoral Roundtable
 builds students’ resilience, creates a distinct intellectual community and enhances research
 imagination (see REF5a, 3.3). It provides a regular intellectual forum for students to discuss their
 work (via written output) to receive feedback and support from their peers. It also enhances
 scholastic engagement and intellectual curiosity through the discussion of texts of relevance (peer-
 review journal articles/book chapters) where students propose and share readings throughout the
 year that they have found useful in developing their own work.

 Evidence obtained from student evaluations (72% response rate) and stakeholders in the Faculty
 and the wider institution, have confirmed that these sessions are highly valued and have fostered
 excellence in research learning in a cross-disciplinary context. The doctoral roundtable has a
 consistently growing membership. The Roundtables (1.5-2 hours) take place on the last Thursday
 of each month from September to July inclusive and continues for the duration of a given student’s
 time on their doctoral programme.

 Since their establishment, they have had cross-institutional influence and impact. The Faculty
 doctoral roundtable innovation has influenced colleagues in two other faculties (Humanities and
 Social Science and Health and Wellbeing) to adopt this approach.

 This community-based approach has led to opportunities for PhD students to collaborate with
 researchers on externally funded projects. For example, Rinik and Oswald have collaborated with
 a PhD student to host a consultation workshop and published a subsequent report, ‘Shaping the
 State of Machine Learning Algorithms within Policing: Workshop Report’ (2019). PhD students
 have also had the opportunity to present their research at the CIR’s annual conference, TRILcon,
 and to publish in the CIR’s journal, the Journal of Information Rights Policy and Practice (JIRPP).

 This collaborative approach has also extended to undergraduate students, via the University’s
 Winchester Research Apprenticeship Programme (WRAP) in which undergraduate students are
 given the opportunity to work with a staff member and on a research project. Students supported
 the work of a project run by the CIR (Oswald, Ryan (née James) and Nottingham) on ‘Generation
 Tagged’, which has shaped one of the Impact Case Studies for the REF 2021 submission. This
 involved helping with the running of an externally funded workshop (BILETA) ‘Have Generation
 Tagged Lost their Privacy’ and culminated in a published report ‘Have Generation tagged Lost
 their Privacy?’ on which the students are listed as co-authors. WRAP students conducted semi-
 structured interviews and were fully involved in the LERN funded project (see section 3.2).
 Students on the WRAP programme have also supported the running of the CIR’s annual
 conference, TRILcon, thereby providing them with opportunities for networking and to enhance
 their employability skills.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Infrastructure
 The Department established a UoA group to include all members of staff irrespective of role profile
 status. Under this structure, all UoA related processes and decisions were transparent to all staff.
 External assessors were used both for outputs and Impact Case Studies and the feedback

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 informed subsequent decision making both at Departmental and University level in line with the
 University’s REF2021 Code of Practice. The collegiate approach fostered by including all staff in
 this group was particularly successful in encouraging early researchers with some first publication
 work being included in the external assessment. The inclusion of all staff was integral to ensuring
 equality of opportunity.

 There is a well-developed infrastructure at University level. The Senate Research and Knowledge
 Exchange Committee has overall responsibility for overseeing the University’s research strategy
 and is chaired by the Director of RKE. Members of committee have included staff from the
 Department of Law: Chalk (2012-2018) and Nottingham (2020 onwards). The Departments are
 represented at the Faculty Research and Knowledge Exchange (FRKE) Committee. The
 Postgraduate Research Student Lead, UoA Leads and Knowledge Exchange Leads are members
 of the committee. The Research Centres and the Department report into the committee. The
 committee receives guidance on the University’s strategies for managing research and within
 these guidelines approves the allocation of internal research funds based on the recommendation
 of the Unit.

 The Department is able through the devolution of internal funding to achieve the three research-
 related aims of the University’s RKE Strategy 2015-20, which are to increase the quality of
 research outputs, impact and environment. As detailed in REF 5a (4.1) there have been two main
 routes to securing internal funding. The UoA was successful in securing internal funding for a
 range of activities. These included supporting the hosting of TRILcon; buyout of teaching to
 provide additional time for Nottingham to generate impact for the Generation Tagged ICS; and a
 research assistant to work with the authors of both ICS. Fast Track funds have supported
 conference attendance for members of the UoA.

 Clear lines of responsibility exist in order to ensure maximum support for the Unit of Assessment.
 The UoA Lead and the Head of Department provide overall support and ensure that there are
 clear lines of communication as to the research needs of the Department and UoA. Effective
 administrative support mechanisms ensure that research and impact activity is recorded and
 monitored. The research centres, including the CIR and CPPL, receive generous support for
 publicising and promoting their activities. There is also administrative support to raise the profiles
 of individual researchers and all staff are made aware of how to engage with this.

 All staff are encouraged to record their research outputs using the University’s Research
 Information System, Pure. This makes their work available to the international research community
 and other stakeholders. Staff in the UoA attend training sessions provided by the Open Access
 Officer to help them use the system and be kept up to date on open access developments in
 relation to REF. All new staff receive similar briefings in their induction programme.

 3.2 Income
 The UoA secured £4,940 in research grant income over the REF cycle, comprising £3500 secured
 by the Centre for Information Rights. Oswald, Ryan (née James) and Nottingham secured £1500
 from the British and Irish Law Education and Technology Association Seminar Series: ‘Have
 Generation Tagged lost their privacy?’ In addition, Legal Education Research Network (LERN)
 awarded £1440 for a ‘LawTrove in Action’ project.

 Other types of income from varied sources have also been secured, reflecting the diversity of
 activities. For example, the law firm Womble Bond Dickinson sponsored TRILcon in 2018 (£1000)
 and 2019 (£1500), secured by Nottingham and Oswald, and law firm Blake Morgan donated a

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 further £1500. In addition, the Department has utilised its expertise to attract £55,333 in
 consultancy income advising on legal issues.

 In addition to the RKE funding mentioned above, there are numerous other opportunities for staff
 to attain internal funding to enhance and develop research projects. Such incentives include: Early
 Career Research Fellowship; Strategic Priorities Funding, KE funding, Winchester Research
 Apprenticeship Programme (WRAP) and Learning and Teaching Awards which can involve
 research projects. These are university-wide opportunities that staff can bid for in a constructive
 and developmental process with a view to expanding success with external funding applications.
 Access to this funding is given through University level mechanisms fully compliant with the
 University Equality and Diversity Policy. Staff from the Department are widely engaged in these
 initiatives and benefiting from the support leading onto more expansive projects. For example,
 staff have received funding for WRAP projects and Student Fellow projects: Oswald, Nottingham
 and Ryan (née James) ‘Have ‘Generation Tagged’ lost their privacy? A consultation workshop to
 discuss the legislative, regulatory and ethical framework surrounding the depiction of young
 children on digital, online and broadcast media’; Prescott, ‘A Drama in Many Stages: The
 Parliamentary Passage of the European Union (Withdrawal) Bill 2017’; Oswald and Harkness
 (Visiting Fellow), ‘Do an accused person’s online and digital activities count against them at trial?’.

 3.3 Facilities
 Fifty million pounds has recently been invested in a state-of-the-art new construction on campus,
 creating the largest building complex at the University. The aim of the new facility is to advance
 multiple aspects of the Faculty, including to introduce new research possibilities going forward.
 There are rooms designed for online meetings and conferencing as well as the addition of a moot
 court for the Department. The complex houses a significant portion of the University library which
 will also increase research resources and better support active and upcoming researchers. The
 Department of Law will be moving from its current location in the King Alfred campus to the West
 Downs campus in order to benefit from the new facility as well as co-locating with the Department
 of Digital Technologies and the Business School This geographical proximity will increase
 opportunities for the CIR to work more closely with researchers in these complementary fields.
 The intersection of law and digital technologies is an evolving research area, blending areas like
 Computer Science, Cyber Security, Data Analytics, Artificial Intelligence, Digital Media Design and
 Development, Computer Aided Design, 3D Printing, Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality The
 new facilities include specialist labs for Cyber Security and Digital Forensics, Software
 Engineering and Enterprise Networking, as well as Digital Innovation, VR/AR and 3D Motion
 Capture. These new labs will facilitate inter-disciplinary research.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The UoA has sustained research contributions to the legal research base, economy and society,
 including contributions to the work of professional bodies, to the international academic community
 and to a range of bodies beyond academia. The research and impact activity undertaken by the
 CIR and CPPL has significantly contributed to the wider academic community and research base.
 As noted in section 1.3.1, both research centres have organised and hosted successful research
 conferences and workshops.

 4.1 Impact on society
 Impact has been achieved as a result of the innovative interdisciplinary research that has taken
 place. Research by Oswald, Ryan (née James) and Nottingham exploring the depiction of

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 children on broadcast and digital media, which has formed one formed one of the Impact Case
 Studies, has had a strong impact on law and policy as the Government are now working to
 implement some recommendations originally outlined in this research including the introduction of
 a duty of care on internet service providers and incorporating the concept of the ‘best interests of
 the child’ into this field. Mediation Now directly amended their mediation agreement policy as result
 of learning about the research. Research by Oswald and Rinik focusing upon the use and
 generation of personal data, the development of algorithmic machine learning tools and the
 deployment of these within law enforcement public bodies and has influenced UK policing bodies,
 campaigning groups and think-tanks, and informed policy and political debates. This research has
 been cited in: Government use of Artificial Intelligence in New Zealand: Final Report on Phase 1
 of the New Zealand Law Foundation’s Artificial Intelligence and Law in New Zealand Project (2019)
 https://www.cs.otago.ac.nz/research/ai/AI-Law/NZLF%20report.pdf see pp 24, 25, the Council of
 Europe study: “Discrimination, Artificial Intelligence and Algorithmic Decision-Making”.
 https://www.coe.int/en/web/european-commission-against-racism-and-intolerance/-/-
 discrimination-artificial-intelligence-and-algorithmic-decision-making-.

 CPPL members have engaged in extensive research and knowledge exchange activity. Prescott
 has provided evidence to Parliamentary Committees including which has been cited in subsequent
 reports. This includes 2019 Written Evidence on the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011 submitted
 to the House of Lords Constitution Committee as part of their inquiry into the Fixed-term
 Parliaments Act 2011; Written Evidence on Select Committees Submitted to the House of
 Commons Liaison Committee as part of their inquiry into the effectiveness of select committees.
 This evidence was quoted and cited in their report and formed the basis of a recommendation
 made by the Committee to change the Standing Orders of the House of Commons; 2018 Written
 Evidence on Status of Resolutions of the House of Commons Submitted to the House of Commons
 Public Administration Committee; 2016 Written Evidence on Referendums Submitted to the House
 of Commons Public Administration Committee for their inquiry, Lessons Learned from the EU
 Referendum. This evidence was cited in the Committee’s report 2014 ‘Engaging the Public’
 Research Paper for The House of Commons Political and Constitutional Reform Committee. This
 fed into the report, a New Magna Carta which was published in 2014. Prescott has published a
 research-informed textbook on Public Law, which is now a leading undergraduate textbook
 adopted by several institutions, and also publishes regular blog posts for the UK Constitutional
 Law Association Blog and Democratic Audit.

 Wider members of the Department, although not being entered into UoA18, make contributions to
 the wider work. Scolnicov (entered into UoA19) was Visiting Professor at the Department of
 Constitutional Law, Complutense University, Madrid, in March 2019. Scolnicov also acts as a
 Fellowship reviewer for the Israeli Institute of Advanced studies. The new convenors of CPPL are
 also making important contributions, Szopa carried out an internship at European Court of Human
 Rights in Strasbourg. Webber presented a paper on his research relating to Brexit at the Society
 of Legal Scholars Annual Conference 2020.

 Staff are involved in a range academic and non-academic committees. Ryan (née James) sits on
 the Health Authority’s Research Ethics Committee in Hampshire. Nottingham is a member of the
 Clinical Ethics Advisory Committee at University Hospitals Southampton and at the outbreak of
 the Covid-19 pandemic became a member of their Urgent Ethics Council, set up in response to
 ethical issues relating to Covid-19. Nottingham is a Research Committee member of the Institute
 of Medical Ethics (IME) and is co-founder and alumni member of the Institute of Medical Ethics
 Postgraduate Student Committee, which she co-founded in 2015. Myers is Mental Health Act
 Review Manager (MHARM) for Southern NHS Trust. Prescott is member of United Kingdom

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Constitutional Law Association, The Hansard Society, United Kingdom European Law
 Association, Study of Parliament Group. Scolnicov is a member of the (International Society of
 Constitutional Law (ICON society) as well as a member of the Israeli Bar. Oswald is a member of
 the executive committee of the British and Irish Law Education and Technology Association
 (BILETA).

 4.2 Contributions to the medico-legal field
 The Department has made significant contributions to the medico-legal field. Ryan (née James)
 and Nottingham have delivered talks at clinical ethics meetings and study days for clinicians
 including: 1st Fertility Perseveration Annual Symposium, Wessex Training Day for the Anaesthetic
 Trainees (July 2019); the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health, Ethics Meeting (July
 2019); SAS Medics Study Day on Clinical Ethics and Law, Salisbury NHS Foundation Trust,
 (January 2020); Together for Short Lives Conference (December 2020). Nottingham has
 published in BioNews and has co-authored a piece for the Journal of Medical Ethics which offers
 guidelines for confirmation of appointment, promotion and recognition of UK bioethics and medical
 ethics researchers. Nottingham organised the IME Lewis Hadley Lecture ‘Complex Decisions in
 Paediatrics and End of Life Care’ (September 2019) and co-organised the virtual IME conference
 ‘Ethics lessons from a pandemic’ (January 2021). Nottingham also reviews funding applications
 for the IME Research Committee. Chalk has published on civil litigation matters and engaged in
 the field of access to justice in clinical negligence cases.

 4.3 Contributions to child and family law
 Nottingham also engages in knowledge and exchange activity in the field of child and family law
 through work as a committee member of the Transparency Project, for whom she also produces
 regular blog posts consisting of legal updates and dissemination of research. Engaged in the legal
 bloggers pilot, attending the daily hearing of the Tafida Raqeeb case and publishing a daily write
 up. Nottingham has published book reviews and case commentaries in journals including: Journal
 of Professional Negligence; Family Law; Journal of Social Welfare and Family Law; Child and
 Family Law Quarterly. Nottingham has published chapters in edited collections including the
 International Handbook of Young Children’s Rights (Routledge 2019); Women's Legal Landmarks
 Celebrating the history of women and law in the UK and Ireland (Hart 2018); in Rewriting Children’s
 Rights Judgments From Academic Vision to New Practice (Hart 2017).

 The Department has an official affiliation with Amicus, a charity providing representation for those
 facing the death penalty in the USA. Myers regularly speaks at Amicus CPD events (October 2018;
 March 2019 October 2019) and the Department has also hosted a number events, with guest
 speakers from Amicus. Myers is also a Magistrate for West Hampshire (Southampton).

 4.4 Community engagement through the media
 Staff are also regularly approached to provide expert comment for various media channels.
 Prescott frequently appears on LBC Radio and TalkRadio to discuss constitutional and political
 issues and has taken part in general election special programmes. Appearances include Nick
 Ferrari, Shelagh Fogarty, Andrew Castle, Julia Hartley-Brewer, Matthew Wright, and Paul Ross.
 Prescott has also appeared on the BBC News Channel, Euronews, and advised BBC researchers
 for Politics Live on aspects of parliamentary procedure. On matters related to the monarchy,
 Prescott has been quoted by CBC in Canada, Yahoo! and MSN. Nottingham has appeared on
 television and radio discussions relating to high-profile cases involving terminally ill children and
 other ethical issues such as organ donation, assisted dying and the posthumous use of sperm.
 Theis includes television appearances, notably BBC Breakfast, the BBC News Channel, BBC 2
 Victoria Derbyshire Show, BBC Radio London, BBC North West, BBC News at 10. In addition,

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Nottingham has made numerous contributions to national and local BBC Radio stations, including
 Radio 2 Jeremy Vine Show and BBC Radio Scotland and BBC Radio Ulster. Ryan (née James)
 and Nottingham have also provided media comment in relation to their research on ‘generation
 tagged’ on platforms including ‘That’s Hampshire TV’ and Voice FM, the Australian Sunday Times,
 Mid-West Times and Glamour magazine. Rinik was interviewed for an article in Wired regarding
 research on police algorithms.

 4.5 Editorial contributions
 As noted above in section 1.3.1, the CIR runs its own journal, the Journal of Information Rights,
 Policy and Practice. Ryan (née James) was editor-in-chief until 2020. Oswald and other members
 of the department including Nottingham, Prescott and Rinik have contributed as members of the
 editorial board or as reviewers. There is an extensive range of peer-reviewing that is conducted
 for a number of international/leading journals including Nottingham has reviewed submissions for
 Medical Law Review, Medical Law International, Computer Law and Security Review, Journal of
 Medical Ethics, BMC Medical Ethics, Behaviour and Information Technology. Nottingham reviews
 for book publishers including Pearson and Oxford University Press. Prescott is a reviewer for
 Parliamentary Affairs. Scolnicov is a manuscript reviewer for Routledge and a submissions
 reviewer for Ecclesiastical Law Review and European International Law Review.

 4.6 Dissemination through conferences
 Staff regularly disseminate their research at prestigious national and international conferences:
 Nottingham, Oswald, Rinik, Prescott and Ryan (née James) have presented their research at
 a number of leading national and international conferences including events, the Socio-Legal
 Studies Association, Society of Legal Scholars, the Freedom of Information Conference 2014, the
 European Society of Criminology Conference, Information Law and Policy Centre Annual
 Conference, the Postgraduate Bioethics Conference, the Institute of Medical Ethics Annual
 Conference, the Political Studies Association International Conference. Staff also receive regular
 invites to present their research at other universities. Nottingham was invited to present at staff
 seminars at Northumbria Law School, Cardiff Law School, Newcastle Law School as well as
 invitations from other departments and international invitations including the Centre for Discretion
 and Paternalism at the University of Bergen in Norway, the Web Science Department at the
 University of Southampton and the Centre for Innovation and Research in Childhood and Youth
 Justice and the Sussex Centre for Human Rights Research at the University of Sussex. Oswald
 delivered the Keynote address at CyGen EU project conference in 2018 and has given invited
 talks at Southwell Minster (the Cathedral for Nottinghamshire) and the Royal Society. Prescott
 delivered a guest lecture at UCFB Wembley stadium and Rinik presented to the Law Society
 Junior Lawyers’ Division at Southampton Solent University; Shooter presented at the Science and
 Justice RIG Northumbria University. Nottingham has presented research at the Centre for the
 History of Women's education seminar series. Prescott has been involved with events at the
 Centre for English Identity, hosted by the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences.




                                                                                             Page 12
