Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Hull

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 4 – Psychology, Psychiatry & Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Background
 This submission comprises the Department of Psychology at the University of Hull. Over the last
 6 years the University has invested heavily in the health sciences and in January 2018, as part of
 this strategic investment, Psychology moved from the Faculty of Science & Engineering to the
 Faculty of Health Sciences (joining the Hull-York Medical School, Biomedical Science, Nursing,
 Midwifery, Medicine, Sports Health & Exercise Science and Psychological Health, Wellbeing &
 Social Work). This move reflects our position of growing prominence in the wider University and
 has strengthened existing collaborations while facilitating new ones.

 The Department has long-standing research strengths in laboratory based psychological science
 (cognition and cognitive neuroscience) and over the REF period this research expertise has been
 increasingly directed towards more applied health-related questions. Our research success is not
 founded only on the work of individuals, but also on the University strategy of fostering
 interdisciplinary collaboration both within the Faculty of Health Sciences (FHS), and among
 different faculties and University research institutes on campus. We have also developed wider
 links with industry and local stakeholders, as well as academic institutions in the UK and
 internationally. This transition to a more interdisciplinary culture has helped the Department
 increase its grant capture in a challenging funding environment – one that favours larger-scale
 interdisciplinary research with impact.

 Our submission comprises 16 members of staff. The University is committed to developing the
 next generation of research leaders and 25% of staff submitted within Psychology qualify as early
 career researchers (ECRs). Research in Psychology is grouped around 3 clusters. Each cluster
 is led by senior members of staff with established funding track records, and these provide a
 vibrant research ethos in which ECRs develop and postgraduate students are trained.

 Strategy during the REF period
 A first aim was to consolidate strengths in experimental psychological science in two of our
 research clusters (Cognition & Development and Cognitive & Clinical Neuroscience) exploiting the
 move to FHS, with a renewed focus on collaborative research linkages to health. To this end,
 Psychology appointed new staff with cognate research interests (e.g. Lindsay, Morton, O’Connor,
 Tidoni & Weil), invested in infrastructure and equipment (see below) and expanded our research
 funding applications beyond UKRI. Success is evident in a wide range of externally funded projects
 since joining FHS, ranging from interventions to aid thinking in depression (Anderson, Dewhurst
 & Riggs – ESRC) and theory of mind processing in neuro-typical adults and those with ASD
 (O’Connor, Riggs - ESRC) to work harnessing insights from experimental psychology to modulate
 itch (Holle, George - British Skin Foundation) and reduce the psychosocial burden of psoriasis
 (Holle, George - Psoriasis Association). We were also successful in a bid for a Yorkshire wide
 ESRC White Rose Doctoral Training Partnership (with York, Sheffield and Leeds). This has so far
 funded 8 PhD projects within the themes of Health & Wellbeing and Education and Childhood &
 Youth.

 A second aim was to align our activity with the University strategy of establishing itself as an
 engine of regional innovation and economic growth. Specifically, to bring psychological research
 expertise to two key University initiatives (i) to address psychological and health inequalities
 brought about by long standing economic deprivation in the local population, and (ii) the Humber
 region’s transition to a low carbon economy and the development of off shore wind, and (ii). This
 aim was supported by a number of changes during the REF period.

 (i) The Psychology Department move to the Faculty of Health Sciences (FHS) with the newly
 built Allam Medical Building, opened by Her Majesty The Queen in November 2017. This is at the

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 heart of the University’s £28-million investment in its Health campus. The Allam building has state-
 of-the-art teaching and research facilities, with more than 50 networked computers, bookable
 research rooms, and breakout spaces available to psychology staff, PhD students and UGs. It is
 also home to the multi-million pound Institute for Clinical & Applied Health research ICAHR. ICAHR
 was established to make a difference to the health of the local population and to establish the
 University as a centre of excellence in clinical and applied health research. A key focus is primary
 care, palliative care, and long-term conditions. Linked to this is the Faculty interdisciplinary
 research group SPARC (Social & Psychological Research into long term Conditions) where
 psychologists from the Department as well as the wider University (e.g., clinical psychologists in
 the Department of Psychological Health, Wellbeing and Social Work) collaborate together on
 research topics such as dementia, obesity, eating disorders, depression and alcoholism.

 (ii) To address the challenge of local health inequality the Psychology Department created a
 new bespoke research cluster (Psychology of Health, Mental Health and Wellbeing) with a
 specific remit to focus on interdisciplinary research with impact. Policy makers and research
 funders have increasingly focused on large, interdisciplinary projects in priority areas likely to have
 impact and the cluster is a response by the Faculty and Department to this change. The cluster
 responds to local challenges and opportunities making use of the facilities and networking
 opportunities afforded by ICHAR and SPARC, and is led by a senior Professor whose
 responsibility is to generate the necessary critical mass of expertise and to co-ordinate major
 collaborative grant applications. Researchers aim to understand the psychological causes and
 consequences of physical and mental wellbeing of the population of Hull and the local region and
 to inform and develop psychological interventions targeted at individuals, but also organisations.
 Several staff are active in applied research and consultancy locally and nationally, particularly in
 the fields of eating disorders, human factors, and health and wellbeing.

 (iii) The creation of a new Centre for Human Factors to align with the University Energy &
 Environment Institute (EEI) that is the cornerstone of key University investment researching
 regional green energy / technology. The EEI brings together leading interdisciplinary academics
 and industry partners to tackle global issues relating to climate change and its consequences on
 livelihoods and behaviour. The Centre for Human Factors works alongside the EEI to support local
 energy companies explore issues such as occupational stress and fatigue in high-risk work
 environment employees (especially the Off-shore wind industry) as well as the development of
 new tools to improve stress-risk decision making. This Centre has generated one of our REF2021
 impact cases.

 (iv) The development of a new Knowledge Exchange career domain allowing career
 progression for both junior and senior staff members with research interests geared toward impact
 and outreach.

 These changes have been significant:
    • The new research cluster has already generated significant research activity and increased
       levels of funding. For example, collaborative links have already been successful in
       attracting external funding to investigate suicide prevention in NHS workers (Burbidge,
       funded by NAViGO Health & Social Care CIC) and the assessment of mental health
       services in Hull’s young people (Reid, funded by Hull Clinical Commissioning Group, in
       collaboration with Dr Jo Bell from SPARC).

    •   The Centre for Human Factors has developed strong links with the Environment & Energy
        Institute giving rise to a large funded research project, Project SPOWTT, (Safety and
        Productivity in Offshore Wind Technician Transit). This work formed the basis of a current
        collaborative research project with the Health & Safety Executive exploring occupational
        stress risks in the offshore wind sector (Earle), and to a further project with the energy
        company Orsted exploring fatigue risk for offshore wind technicians in the context of the
        Hornsea 1 Wind Farm (McMaster, post-doc). Away from the energy sector, the Centre has
        also attracted funds to develop stress risk assessments for Humberside Police and
        Humberside Fire & Rescue (Earle); gap analyses of mental health provisions for

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Humberside Police and British Transport Police (Cunnah & Why); a study of the impact on
        staff of Remote Working within four Local Authorities in the Humber region (Earle, funded
        by the Ministry for Housing, Communities and Local Government); and service evaluations
        of Digital Health Hubs and a local suicide bereavement service (Cunnah, both funded by
        local Clinical Commissioning Groups).

    •   Researchers in this cluster have also contributed to another significant University level
        multi-disciplinary funded project on the recycling of plastics and recycling behaviour (Why
        – funded by the EPSRC, with the Department of Geography).

    •   Research activity has also been bolstered by Psychology’s involvement in a successful
        application to the EPSRC for a £5.7 million Project Aura Centre for Doctoral Training
        (https://auracdt.hull.ac.uk/). The Aura CDT is headed by Hull and brings together three
        other partner universities (Durham, Sheffield, Newcastle) representing a broad range of
        interdisciplinary research expertise relating to offshore wind energy and the environment.

    •   Two members off Staff in this cluster (Earle & Why) have moved to the Knowledge
        Exchange career domain, ensuring research with impact will have an even higher priority
        for Psychology and the University into the next REF period
 Our strategic aims over the next six years: We will continue to build on our accrued success
 during the REF period. Specifically, we will:

 (i) continue to build our strength in experimental psychological science and further invest in
 staff and infrastructure that supports research in cognitive neuroscience. We will also continue to
 support both new and existing staff to adopt neuroscientific techniques, thus encouraging a
 convergent, multi-disciplinary approach to answering research questions. Finally, to further
 capitalise on our move to FHS we will further strengthen existing links with cognate disciplines
 (e.g., Sport, Health & Exercise Science; and other research clusters in the FHS) where
 psychological research expertise can be harnessed to answer more collaborative research
 questions.

 (ii) continue to engage in research with impact that is driven by Hull’s relatively weak socio-
 economic status and geographical location. That is, to further capitalize on the Humber region’s
 green energy initiative and to address physical and mental health inequalities in the local
 population. To achieve these aims we will invest in additional staff for the Centre for Human
 Factors to consolidate existing links with the Energy & Environment Institute (and Project Aura)
 enabling further partnerships with the large number of green energy companies moving to the
 Humber region, as well as other local organisations that require human factors input into stress-
 risk assessment. With regard to research into the physical and mental health of the local
 population we will continue to develop existing, as well as foster new, collaborative links within the
 Faculty and associated staff from ICHAR, SPARC and the health and social care sectors.

 Across all our research areas we will continue to pursue the highest standards of research
 integrity. We are committed to open science principles throughout the whole research cycle. To
 address the reproducibility issue in psychology we will continue to pre-register studies, share
 materials, code and data and make publications freely available.

 Research Structure and organisation
 In addition to the newly-formed cluster of Psychology of Health, Mental Health and Wellbeing
 discussed above there are two other clusters linked to our established strength in experimental
 psychological science. These clusters are:

 Cognition & Development: Research in this cluster addresses core areas of cognition, from
 fundamental processes involved in attention, perception, and learning, to high-level processes
 such as imagination, reasoning, and social cognition. A distinctive feature of the cluster is the
 focus on higher cognitive processing, across the lifespan, in both neurotypical and neurodiverse
 populations. Rather than viewing development in isolation, we explore how development relates

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to the mature adult cognitive state. For example, Riggs, Lindsay and Mather study word learning
 in both children and adults and use insights from one field to inform the other. O’Connor, a
 developmental psychologist, has been awarded a New Investigator award from the ESRC to study
 theory of mind processing in adults. Our longer-term goal is to integrate this expertise with our
 strengths in neuroscience methods thus achieving a distinctive approach to lifespan cognitive
 development. The cluster has been bolstered by a number of ESRC grants. Dewhurst and
 Anderson have investigated the role of false memories in supporting the planning of future events.
 Ongoing research by Anderson, Dewhurst, and Riggs investigates how mental simulation can
 improve the impoverished positive future thinking that is evident in depression. Current PhD
 Studentships funded by the ESRC White Rose DTP include hypothetical thinking as a way of
 encouraging exercise in the local population (Anderson, supervisor), word learning in adults
 (Riggs, supervisor) and the use of virtual environments in the classroom (Skarratt, supervisor).

 Cognitive & Clinical Neuroscience: Researchers in this group share a common passion to
 understand the biological processes that underlie human cognition and behaviour. A major theme
 within the group is the theory that many features of human cognition are shaped by aspects of the
 entire body of the organism. This common theme of embodied cognition drives research in the
 cluster on the relationship between manual actions and language (Holle, Schindler, O’Connor,
 Riggs) as well as research on the role of motor simulation processes when inferring other’s mental
 states in adults with and without autism (Jellema, Tidoni). The common focus on the motor system
 facilitates interdisciplinary approaches and has attracted external funding from the ESRC, the
 Chinese Science Council, the Psoriasis Association, the British Skin Foundation and the EPS. The
 group successfully engages both in classic brain mapping (i.e., identifying brain areas causally
 involved in cognitive processes; Holle & Schindler) as well as the reverse approach of using
 neurophysiological data to constrain psychological theory (Jellema, Tidoni). A range of state-of-
 the art research equipment, situated in dedicated labs within the department, is accessible to all
 staff and students, including electrophysiological (EEG), neuroimaging (fNIRS) as well as
 neurostimulation methods (TMS & tDCS). A unique aspect of the group is the strength in
 neurostimulation approaches, which has been further strengthened by a recent appointment
 (Tidoni). This enables not only high-impact basic research and outputs (Holle, Schindler, Tidoni),
 but also produces work that has significant clinical potential for mitigating disease-related
 symptoms and enhancing cognition.

 Research and Impact strategy implementation is supported by weekly Psychology Planning
 Team meetings where research is a standing item on the agenda and is attended by the
 Departmental Director of Research and REF lead. Cluster leads meet regularly with the
 Departmental Director of Research who feeds into the Faculty Research Committee, where the
 Faculty Associate Dean for Research chairs discussion around research planning, individual
 research cluster plans, publication and dissemination, funding and resource allocation,
 postgraduate integration and research support. All research clusters produce a 3-year research
 strategy document that is reviewed annually at Faculty Research Committee (Chaired by the
 Associate Dean for Research). These include a SWOT analysis as well as discussion around
 equality and diversity and the mentoring of early career staff (ECRs)

 The Faculty has a formal process of peer review to support grant applications, under the
 oversight of the Faculty Associate Dean for Research. All proposals are reviewed by a senior
 academic, or two if the amount is over £500K, as well as a senior member of the University
 Research Office familiar with the varying requirements of different research councils. Staff
 members who are experienced grant reviewers provide one-to-one mentoring for staff applying to
 these funders. The University maintains a library of previous successful grant proposals from
 different research councils and funding schemes, which are made available as exemplars to new
 applicants.

 In response to the growing importance of impact, the University Research Office runs seminars,
 and workshops on impact and how to achieve it. The Faculty and the University both organise
 regular workshops on grant writing for both ECRs and experienced researchers. Over the REF
 period Psychology identified charities (e.g., the Psoriasis Foundation) and local stakeholders (e.g.,

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 NAViGO, Greenport Growth Fund) as underdeveloped potential funders, and we have held
 sessions where members of staff who have been successful with these funders share their
 experience and advice with others. Monthly updates on relevant funding opportunities and
 deadlines are prepared by the University Research office who direct members of staff to specific
 schemes.

 Departmental seminars are held regularly each semester and alternate between internal and
 invited external speakers. Speakers make their talks accessible to a wide audience and
 attendance is high. During the REF period speakers have included: Professor John Mollon (FRS)
 Cambridge University; Professor Mike Burton (then University of Glasgow); Professor Steve
 Tipper (University of York); Professor Suzanne Higgs (University of Birmingham); Professor Beth
 Jeffries (University of York); Professor Martin Conway (City)

 2. People

 Staff recruitment strategy
 The Faculty of Health Sciences research strategy underpins investment in new appointments and
 facilities, with the explicit aim that staff are empowered to produce outputs of the highest quality.
 All new appointments are placed in an existing research cluster and all early career staff are
 extensively supported. Measures include the allocation of both research and teaching mentors,
 together with start-up funds to pump-prime research. ECRs also have a light teaching and
 administration load for the first three years of their tenure during which it is expected they submit
 to the most relevant new investigator grant-funding scheme in the second year of appointment
 (within Psychology, Dr O’Connor was successful in winning a New Investigator award in 2020
 from the ESRC). The Research Funding Office supports these staff in applying to other sources
 of start-up funding. Plans for study leave of varying lengths (up to a semester every 3 years) are
 encouraged from all members of staff to ensure they remain abreast of advances in their field.

 Psychology made a number of strategic appointments during the REF period. Eight staff
 members were appointed, while 7 departed. These appointments were made in response to the
 strategic developments mentioned above and in order to strengthen our research clusters and
 foster interdisciplinary links. Our strength in cognitive neuroscience provided a focus for attracting
 staff with expertise in this area (Tidoni) as well as researchers from other areas such as language
 processing (Lindsay), developmental cognition (O’Connor), social psychology (Weil), all keen to
 develop, use and benefit from expertise in neuroscience techniques. Thus, these researchers
 extend our range of research activity, but also link to our core strengths allowing us to support
 them in their career development. We also appointed in areas relevant to the wider University
 strategic focus – namely, those with interdisciplinary expertise and experience of working with
 non-academic partners (Why & Wright). We intend to make two future appointments with the goal
 of developing critical mass in the newly formed Centre for Human Factors, and, via project AURA
 and the Energy & Environment Institute, additional links with industrial partners.

 Sustainable staffing: New appointments have enabled us to keep our staff-student ratio stable
 over the REF period. To enable research-focussed staff to spend time on research in the face of
 demands for increased contact time with students, we have also appointed 5 lecturers on teaching-
 focussed contracts, but with the option, under the guidelines of the University Academic Careers
 Framework, to move to a research career should they wish to and can demonstrate aptitude for
 research. All our staff are encouraged and supported to apply for promotion and during the REF
 period 5 lecturers gained promotion to senior lecturer, and 5 from SL to Reader or Chair.

 Staff development
 During the 2018/2019 academic year the University initiated a Transformation programme, a key
 component of which was a new Academic Careers Framework where all staff were aligned to one
 of 3 domains that best reflected their job role: Research, Education or Knowledge Exchange. All
 staff on the Research domain have at least 40% time for research in their workload, and all are
 returned under the relevant REF Unit of Assessment. Allocation to the most appropriate domain
 was undertaken in consultation with the line manager and allowed all staff the opportunity to reflect

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on their current role and future career plans. Staff development is actively monitored by the
 Psychology HoD as part of the annual appraisal and development review where teaching and
 research are discussed, including plans for publications and funding as well as discussion around
 the Academic Careers Framework.

 Just as Athena Swan seeks to advance gender equality across all aspects of academia, the
 University recognises the need to value and enhance the career development of post-doctoral
 research scientists. A steering group, comprising representatives from all faculties, oversees the
 adoption of the Concordat supporting the career development of researchers - importantly this
 group has representation from the post-doctoral researcher community itself. Within Psychology,
 RAs and post-docs have an appraisal and development review with a senior member of staff
 whose task is to provide independent advice on career choice and training opportunities. They are
 also encouraged to take on minor teaching responsibilities – such as organising and delivering a
 workshop or supervising a project student – in order to gain experience that will be useful when
 applying subsequently for tenured posts.

 The University Staff Development Unit provides a series of comprehensive training packages
 for all new staff commencing with an induction course and training in research integrity and
 supervision plus the compulsory Higher Education Teaching Certificate for all staff without the
 necessary teaching experience. Furthermore, the University encourages all staff to gain an
 appropriate teaching qualification, via the University Teaching Excellence Academy, to enhance
 the student experience. The Staff Development Unit produce and commission an extensive range
 of on-line courses to complement the practical training delivered in person. Each member of staff
 has an on-line training account that shows which courses have been undertaken and when
 refresher training is required – and many of these courses are specifically for the post-doctoral
 community.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 The University is fully committed to the principles of Athena SWAN and a steering committee,
 chaired by the Pro-Vice Chancellor (Research & Enterprise), oversees this and all staff
 development activities. The University has a Bronze Athena Swan award and the Medical School
 in the Faculty has a silver award. Plans are in place for the entire Faculty of Health Sciences to
 submit an Athena Swan Bronze application in April 2022, with Dr Weil in Psychology a member
 of the Athena Swan Committee.

 The University is committed to promoting equality of opportunity for all, giving every individual the
 chance to achieve their potential, free from prejudice and discrimination. The University’s Equality
 Scheme was published in 2017, and in the same year the University became a ‘Disability
 Confident’ employer. There is an active LGBT Staff Network, which advises, and responds to, the
 University’s position in this context. It has also joined the Equality Challenge Unit’s Race Equality
 Charter. The University is an organisation that embraces equality, diversity and inclusion as we
 believe this will deliver better results and greater innovation, more motivated staff, and increased
 recognition from our partner organisations. We are committed to:
     • Treating all staff and students fairly
     • Creating an inclusive culture for all staff and students
     • Ensuring equal access to opportunities to enable students to fully participate in the learning
        process
     • Enabling all staff and students to develop to their full potential
     • Equipping staff and students with the skills to challenge inequality and discrimination in
        their work and study environment
     • Making certain that any learning materials do not discriminate against any individuals or
        groups
     • Ensuring policies, procedures and processes do not discriminate
 In addition to the above ethos that is supported by relevant codes of practice and statutes to
 support our commitment to equality of opportunity, the University has a network of Dignity and
 Respect Advisors (DARAs) who are University of Hull staff from a wide range of roles and


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 departments. DARAs are approachable, independent, fully trained and ready to help all staff and
 visitors who may be experiencing problems with harassment and bullying if it does occur.

 Within Psychology, there is a workload model visible to all staff enabling them to see how
 workloads are allocated across gender. We are committed to the principle that the gender balance
 on committees should reflect the gender balance in the Department, as should the gender balance
 among committee chairs. The Head of Department is responsible for most committee
 appointments, and to ensure transparency and oversight, figures on committee composition is
 monitored by the Faculty Athena Swan committee. Psychology staff meetings, and seminars are
 scheduled to avoid potential clashes with caring responsibilities and flexible working
 arrangements.

 We have procedures in place to ensure ethical research practice: All research in the
 Department is subject to mandatory external ethical review by the Faculty Research Ethics
 committee. All research active members of the Department act as reviewers and two members of
 the Department (George, Jellema) sit on this committee which meets once a semester. Research
 involving clinical populations is subject to NHS ethical review. All research staff are required to
 complete an online Research Integrity course that covers all aspects of good practice and this
 must be completed on a 3-yearly basis.

 Post-graduate Research students (PGRs)
 The University’s Doctoral College is both the administrative centre for PGRs and a purpose-built
 resource with its own 24-hour IT facilities and common rooms. It oversees the monitoring of all
 research student progress. PhD students produce annual reports at the end of years 1 and 2, and
 academics outside of the supervisory team hold an oral examination. Furthermore, the Faculty
 records the formal monthly supervisory meetings held between all postgraduate students and their
 supervisors (these are held at appropriate times for part-time students, e.g., every 2 months if the
 student is studying 50% of the time). If progress issues are raised by supervisors or students the
 Psychology Postgraduate Research Director will attempt resolution in the first instance. If
 additional action or support is needed this will be done in discussion with the Doctoral College and
 the Faculty Associate Dean for Research as necessary.

 There is a strong research student culture in Psychology. A vibrant and diverse research
 student body, with 10 different nationalities is represented among the 28 PhD and 96 ClinPsyD
 students who completed during the REF period. Psychology at Hull is a member of the White Rose
 ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership along with several other Yorkshire Universities. It is also a
 member of the EPSRC, AURA Doctoral Training Centre. These affiliations ensure high quality
 PhD applicants who are also able to compete for University competitive funded PhD places.
 Research Support and facilities for PhD students include access to the laboratory facilities in
 the Psychology Department as well as their own desk and computer in a shared office. They also
 have full access to facilities offered by the Faculty in the new Allam Medical Building. The Faculty
 has funds for PhD students to attend international conferences. Members of Psychology staff
 organise workshops and seminars on techniques that people in the Department may wish to learn
 about (e.g. eye tracking, EEG, transcranial stimulation) and PGRs students are encouraged to
 attend.

 All PGRs engage in training and attend the Doctoral College’s taught Doctoral Programme,
 including compulsory courses in advanced research methods and research integrity as well as
 optional courses such as MATLAB programming, thesis writing and viva preparation. They also
 have the opportunity to gain valuable teaching experience through paid teaching assistance work,
 leading small group discussions, demonstrating in practical sessions and marking 1st year
 research reports. PGRs are encouraged to participate in the academic life of the Department.
 They attend Departmental seminars, and many give talks during their second year. They feature
 prominently in the annual Faculty research event, with 1st year PhD and MRes students presenting
 posters, and 2nd year PhD students giving talks. These events prepare them for conference
 presentations and provide opportunities to network with other researchers in the Faculty. Many



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PhD students go on to prestigious post-doctoral positions in the UK (e.g., Oxford, Durham,
 Sheffield, Bath & York) and abroad (e.g., Sydney, Paris, Boston & Beijing).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The University receives approximately £7.5million in QR of which approximately £3.3million is
 allocated to the Faculty of Health Sciences. The Institution has taken the strategic decision to
 invest almost half its QR funding to support PhD/PDRA research clusters, with the remaining funds
 to be used by Faculties to support new positions and infrastructure. In addition to investments in
 the Allam Medical Building, the University has invested in a significant refurbishment and redesign
 of the library (£27 million). This has provided dedicated PhD work space as well as increased
 access to fully networked computers and extensive journal collections, the majority of these being
 available online.

 The University plays a vital role as an anchor institution in the region and thus any Faculty
 investments must align with this function. Accordingly, the Institute for Clinical and Applied Health
 research (ICAHR) was established to make a difference to the health and wellbeing of the local
 population and to establish the University as a centre of excellence in clinical and applied health
 research with impact. ICAHR’s aim is to improve and apply expert knowledge in a way that
 improves patient care for those with conditions which disproportionately affect the local population.
 For psychologists on campus these are dementia, diabetes and alcoholism. ICAHR encompasses
 the expertise of the Hull Health Trials Unit (HHTU) and the Methods Hub which together have the
 expertise to lead and support high quality clinical research studies, many of which are sponsored
 by the local NHS Trusts. HHTU provides a data capture framework and offers the provision of safe
 and secure storage for datasets requiring compliance with NHS information governance toolkit
 standards. Researchers, at all levels, access the expertise of ICAHR through the Institute manager
 who, working with the administration team, provide the necessary support on appropriate funding
 sources, generating costing models, advanced statistical advice, and facilitating networking
 opportunities. The Psychology Department taps into the infrastructure and networking
 opportunities afforded by ICAHR predominantly thorough collaborations with SPARC (Social &
 Psychological Research into long term Conditions).

 Income
 Research income spend during the REF period compares favourably to that in REF2014. Strategic
 staff appointments, and institutional measures to maximise the quality of grant applications, have
 enabled this success despite the challenging funding environment. Since joining FHS, however,
 the number of grants applied for and won has increased significantly compared to the prior period.
 Staff in the Psychology department are currently PIs and Co-Is on grants worth several millions of
 pounds to the University. The following exemplify the breadth and nature of these awards:
     • 2020 - 2022 ESRC £210K. The pull of reality: Egocentric bias in adult theory of mind.
          O’Connor (PI) & Riggs
     • 2019 - 2021 ESRC £630K. Using Positive Simulation Training to improve expectations
          about the future in depression. Anderson (PI) Riggs & Dewhurst
     • 2019 - 2021 EPSRC £939K. Evolving a circular plastic economy. Why (CI)
     • 2018 - 2021 Psoriasis Association £85K. An attentional bias approach to understanding
          and reducing the psychosocial burden of psoriasis. Holle (PI) & George
     • 2018 - 2021 NAViGO CIC £75K. An evaluation of the CAMS - Collaborative Assessment
          and Management of Suicidality. Dent-Brown (PI)
     • 2019 - 2027 EPSRC £5.7M. The EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training on Offshore Wind
          Energy and the Environment. Earle (CI)
     • 2016 - 2020 BEIS £192K. Improving Safety and Productivity of Offshore Wind Technician
          Transit SPOWTT. Earle (PI)
 Faculty Research Support Fund: With the formation of the new Faculty a strategic decision was
 made to consolidate Departmental research funds at Faculty level and operate a system whereby
 2 or 3 calls / year are made for applications. The total budget varies each year but on average
 exceeds £75k. The committee is chaired by the Faculty Associate Director for Research and

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 attended by HoDs and Departmental Directors of Research. The aim of the funding is to pump-
 prime new initiatives by allowing research visits, conference attendance, purchase of small items
 of equipment and publication charges. Postgraduate students, postdoctoral researchers and
 ECRs are explicitly encouraged to apply for support and approximately half of the funding is
 awarded to these applications. Three examples of this funding to support ECRs in Psychology
 are: £3000 to Morton to collect data at the Language Research Center, Georgia State University;
 £1200 to O’Connor to pump-prime a New Investigator application to the ESRC on adult theory of
 mind (successfully awarded in 2020) and another for £800 to Tidoni to support an ESRC
 application on the perception of robotic action (pending).

 Infrastructure & Facilities in the Psychology Department
 Two technical staff support research activity in the Department. They occupy a combined office
 and workshop and provide IT support for research as well as constructing and repairing
 experimental equipment. They also monitor the Psychology Test Library which consists of
 psychometric and neurological test batteries.

 The Department has a wide range of infrastructure and facilities and is home to both general and
 specialist laboratories. General laboratories contain between 1 and 6 workstations (64 in total)
 running state-of-the art experimental software. Most of these labs (N=21) are used for computer-
 based cognitive experiments but may also be used for other research protocols. These rooms are
 freely bookable by any member of staff. Specialist laboratories house either dedicated
 equipment or have specific requirements with respect to access or other facilities. It is important
 to note that these labs do not belong to individual staff members – they can be used by anyone
 and the sharing of specialist facilities is encouraged by our strong collaborative culture. Specialist
 laboratory space extends over 24 rooms and can be broadly divided into two categories, (i)
 Cognition & Cognitive Neuroscience Laboratories and (ii) Health Related Laboratories.

 Cognition and Cognitive Neuroscience Laboratories: Two transcranial magnetic stimulation
 (TMS) systems, a functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) system, as well as a neuro-
 navigation system and a bio-amplifier to measure evoked motor potentials are housed in
 Neuroscience labs. We have two EEG labs occupying three rooms, including one which is used
 to measure EEG in participants interacting in a ‘real-life’ setting with two actors. Further rooms
 house two transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) systems and a third, high definition tDCS
 system with specialist software (along with a CHEPS pain and sensory evaluation system).
 Psychophysics labs include a noise isolating audiometric booth and a visual psychophysics lab
 with sensitive lighting control house specialist hardware and CRT monitors. A vision and joint
 action lab, houses a large touchscreen mounted in the horizontal plane in a specially built
 apparatus used to study social cognitive interactions between pairs of participants. Finally, we
 have two laboratories for measuring eye movement and gaze. An Eye-tracking lab housing an
 Eyelink 1000 eye-tracking system, and a specially constructed Infancy lab for observing gaze
 behaviour using wall embedded cameras linked to a video-recording and control booth.

 Health related Laboratories include facilities for Neuropsychological and clinical testing. A
 suite of four rooms on the ground floor of the Psychology Department houses a reception area,
 two testing/consulting rooms, and an observation room with a two-way mirror and video recording
 facilities. The ground floor location means that the centre is accessible for participants with limited
 mobility and is close to an accessible toilet and car parking. The reception area can be used as a
 waiting area when a carer, family-member, or assistant accompanies participants. Elsewhere,
 there is a Cardiovascular and health lab housing equipment associated with physiological
 measurements including stadiometers, clinical weighing scales, breath analyzers, and clinical
 blood pressure monitors. Finally, there is a Nutrition lab with food storage and preparation
 facilities.

 Collaborative facilities: The Department also encourages collaborative working to secure access
 to equipment, facilities (including patients/participants) and stimuli that may not otherwise be
 available in the Department or on campus. This greatly enhances the reach of the Department’s
 research and enables staff to focus on issues of joint interest between the Department and other

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 academic units, as well as non-academic partners. Examples on campus include: Hull Interactive
 Virtual Environment (HIVE) and the Robotics Lab in Computer Science (Tidoni) Off campus
 facilities include: a 3 Tesla MRI scanner at Hull Royal Infirmary (Holle, Schindler); local schools
 (Riggs, Mather, O’Connor); Matthew’s Autism Hub (Riggs, Jellema, O’Connor) the Humberside
 Fire and Rescue flood training facilities (Earle) and access to TBI patients at Headway BIRT
 (Riggs, Schindler).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research Base
 Staff are widely engaged in the peer review process for both publication and funding. Such work
 is not only a critical contribution to the discipline, but also brings valuable expertise to the
 Department. Staff have been invited to join journal editorial boards, review international grant
 applications, deliver keynote, and conference presentations and organise international
 conferences. We also contribute to the development of the discipline in a number of ways
 including post-graduate degree program validation, PhD examining and the training of clinical
 psychologists for the local NHS.

 Editorial board membership during the REF period were with the following journals: Applied
 Cognitive Psychology, Frontiers in Developmental Psychology, British Journal of Developmental
 Psychology, PLOS One; Frontiers in Psychology, Memory, QJEP, Addiction, Addiction Theory &
 Research, Child Development Research, L’Annee Psychologique, Nutrition Bulletin, Psychology
 of Consciousness. This equates to an average of just over 1 editorial position per member of non
 ECR staff. Of course, all staff are also involved in ad hoc peer review across all our research
 areas. In addition to reviewing for UK funding bodies (ESRC, MRC, NIHR, Welcome, BBSRC,
 British Skin Foundation, Psoriasis Association) members of the Department have also been invited
 to contribute to international grant reviewing: Israeli Science Foundation (Riggs, Weil);
 European Science Foundation (Jellema); European Research Council (Holle); Dutch Research
 Council (Holle); Swiss National Science Foundation (Schindler), Natural Sciences Research
 Council of Canada (Smith); Humanities Research Council of Canada (Mazzoni) and Horizon 2020,
 Grant Review Panel: Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions (MSCA-IF) (Tidoni). They have also
 provided service to learned societies including: Trustee & EPS committee member (George);
 Cognitive Science Society Conference Committee (Skarratt); BPS Developmental Section
 Committee (Mather); ESRC Peer review college (Dewhurst); Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions
 (MSCA-IF) Grant Review Panel (Tidoni); British Science Association – Psychology Section
 (Lindsay)

 We actively are engaged in presenting research to our peers: Keynote presentations include:
 Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 2019 (Holle); CINEICC International Conference, Coimbra
 (Portugal, 2015 (Guerrini); Safety-On Annual Stakeholder Conference, 2020 (Earle); EFCAP,
 2018 (Mazzoni). There have also been invitations to deliver research talks overseas:
 LAPSCO, Blaise Pascal University, 2019 (Riggs); Centre for Research on Autobiographical
 Memory, University of Aarhus, 2014 (Dewhurst / Anderson); Laboratory of Contemporary Art,
 Sapienza University of Rome, 2016 (Tidoni); Psychology, University of New England, 2016
 (Morton); Psychology, University of New South Wales, 2015 (George).

 International collaborations are important to our activity: We have a diverse staff body
 represented from 7 countries, and this diversity is evident in our collaborations, funding
 applications and publications. Members in all 3 research clusters have national and international
 collaborations and 13/16 staff have the following international collaborations which can be seen in
 our selection of returned outputs: University of Leuven (Dewhurst); UNSW; Sydney University
 (George); ICREA, Barcelona; Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing (Holle); Northwestern
 University (Lindsay); Clermont Auvergne University, (Riggs); University of Verona; University La
 Sapienza, Rome; Free University of Berlin; University of Bologna; (Tidoni); The Hebrew University
 of Jerusalem (Weil); University La Sapienza, Rome (Guerrini); University of Toronto (Skarratt);
 McGill University; Saarland University; John Hopkins University (Schindler); Georgia State
 University; Yale University (Morton); Aix-Provence University (O’Connor); Boston University;

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Utrecht University (Jellema); George visiting research fellow at UNSW Sydney (2014-2017).
 Examples of International collaborative projects: Holle collaborates with Dr van Laarhoven
 (Leiden) on contagious itch and its modulation by expectancy factors. In Beijing he collaborates
 with Dr Zhao (Chinese Academy of Sciences) and Prof Qun Guan (University of Science and
 Technology) on the cortical network underpinning co-speech gesture comprehension (Zhao) as
 well as the role of gesture in second language learning (Guan). Jellema collaborates with Prof
 Inmaculada Leon and Prof Manuel de Vega (University of La laguna) on a White Rose PhD funded
 project investigating anomalies in the neural underpinnings of action anticipation in individuals with
 ASD using EEG. Morton was from 2014-2018 a member of the internationally recognised Scottish
 Primate Research Group. In 2018 he was granted permission by the United States Forest Service
 of the United States Department of Agriculture, to set up his own field site in North America for
 studies of wild animal cognition - the "Croatan Wildlife Research Project" - with collaborators from
 North Carolina State University and the North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences. During the
 REF period the Department has also hosted a number of international visiting academics:
 Dr Van As (Radboud, Holland); Dr Kendra Arachchige (Mons, Belgium); Dr Anna Pecchinenda
 (La Sapienza Rome, Italy); Prof. Michal Lavidor (Bar Ilan, Israel); Prof. Vinod Goel (York, Toronto,
 Canada); Prof. Guolai Wu (Tianjin Normal, China); Dr Luis Pires (La Coimbra, Portugal).

 Finally, staff have contributed to the discipline through external examining: Phd examining
 includes: Belfast, Birmingham (Riggs); Universitat de les Illes Balears (Guerrini); Cardiff
 (George); Manchester (Holle); Edinburgh, Royal Holloway (Anderson); Durham, (Skarratt); Leeds,
 LMU Munich (Schindler); Barcelona (Tidoni); CUNY, Aarhus, Lincoln (Dewhurst); Plymouth
 (Mather). Taught Programs include: BSc & MSc in Psychology, London Metropolitan University
 (Riggs); BSc Psychology, University of South Wales; University of Wales, Newport (George); BSc
 Psychology at Goldsmiths, University of London (Anderson) BSc Psychology, Brunel (Smith)

 Economy & Society

 Our research has reach far beyond academia and we make significant contributions to society
 and the economy locally, nationally and internationally.

    •   Mental health related research in Psychology has been supported by the move to the
        Faculty of Health Sciences, where Psychology makes use of the facilities and networks
        offered by ICAHR, the clinical trials unit and Methods Hub. ICAHR has close working
        relationship with the NHS and the Hull University Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust, as well
        as CICs such as NAViGO. Psychologists with interests in dementia (e.g., Guerrini,
        Mazzoni, Markova) also collaborate with members from the SPARC research group
        including Prof Esme Cook-Moniz, founder of the European dementia network
        INTERDEM.

    •   Hull Psychology is a major regional contributor to professional training in clinical
        psychology in the East Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire regions. There have been 96
        graduates from the Doctorate in Clinical Psychology during the REF period. Following our
        move to FHS, we also set up an MSc in Clinical Applications in Psychology for those
        students wishing to gain experience relevant to becoming a clinical psychologist and in
        2020 we successfully tendered to be part of the HEE Framework for Clinical Associate in
        Psychology Apprenticeship (CAP). Being part of this framework allows our programme to
        be commissioned by any healthcare provider in England. The CAP programme in Hull will
        offer two strands: Child and Young Adult Mental Health, and Adult Neuropsychology.

    •   The Centre for Human Factors has made a significant impact on the working
        practices of international energy companies such as Siemens and Orsted who both now
        incorporate fatigue management into their company Health & Safety plans, as does the
        international energy trade associations G+ (the Global offshore wind energy health and
        safety body). The UK Health & Safety Executive (HSE) became aware of Hull’s Remote
        Working Stress Risk Assessment Tool and in recognition of the value of this tool for
        supporting organisations (particularly in the current COVID-19 crisis) it was adopted in

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        2020 by the HSE’s Science Division to be incorporated into their digital platform. Via the
        University Energy & Environment Institute, the Centre taps into Project Aura, a
        collaborative network of energy companies, other academic institutions and the EPSRC
        Centre for Doctoral Training. Away from the energy sector, the Centre has also attracted
        funds for a number of collaborative projects: developing stress risk assessments for
        Humberside Police and Humberside Fire & Rescue; gap analyses of mental health
        provisions for Humberside Police and British Transport Police; a study of the impact on
        staff of Remote Working within four Local Authorities in the Humber region and service
        evaluations of Digital Health Hubs and a local suicide bereavement service.

    •   Professor Johnston’s research on synthetic phonics teaching has had significant
        impact on reading standards in England and Australia. Her evidence to the UK
        Education & Skills Select Committee led first to the introduction of synthetic phonics
        teaching in England and later to the introduction of the Phonics Screening Check (PSC).
        During the REF period synthetic phonics teaching was mandated in the National
        Curriculum in England (2014) and England has moved up the international league table of
        reading ability from 10th in 2011 to 8th in 2016. According to the Government’s own figures
        this intervention has significantly improved reading standards and the increase in literacy
        rates will boost the UK economy to the tune of several billion pounds. The state of South
        Australia mandated the PSC in 2018. Tasmania and New South Wales began piloting in
        2020 and there has been considerable Governmental debate about the need to roll it out
        nationally.
 Science education and outreach is something that many staff engage in and have been
 involved in conference organisation aimed at a general audience: Lindsay (British Science
 Festival, 2018); George (British Science Festival, 2018); (Hull Science Fair, 2018). They have also
 presented their research in local science outreach events, in conjunction with the University
 Professor of Public Understanding of Science, Mark Lorch. These events have included: Pint of
 Science (Groeger, 2016); the British Science Festival (George, Skarratt, Morton, 2018); Hull
 Science Fair (Lindsay, O’Connor, 2016); Freedom Festival (Lindsay, 2017); Café Scientifique
 (Mazzoni, Groeger, 2016). Others have shared knowledge and expertise with local and
 international stakeholders and have included: Hull Older People’s Partnership (2014), Joseph
 Rowntree Trust (2015) (Guerrini); Institute of Marine Engineering, Science and Technology
 (2019), RenewableUK Energy Trade Association (2019) (Earle); Department of Forestry and
 Environmental Resources and the U.S. Forest Service Ranger District Office of the Croatan
 National Forest, North Carolina, USA (Morton, 2020). Staff have also been called upon by the
 media to discuss their work: Skarratt: BBC Radio Humberside (2018); Morton: BBC Radio
 Humberside (2018); Tidoni: Research featured in New Scientist (2016); O’Connor: BBC
 Cambridgeshire (2014). Mazzoni: The Conversation (2015), Stuff.co.nz (2015), Huff Post (2017),
 Daily Mail (2018), Newsweek (2018); Langcaster-James: The Guardian (2015), The Independent
 (2016), BBC news (2017); Earle: Offshorewind.biz (2018), Hull Daily Mail (2018).




                                                                                            Page 12
