Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Hull

 Unit of Assessment: 17 Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

     The distinctive contribution of Hull University Business School (HUBS), where our UoA17
 researchers are principally based, has long been shaped by our commitment to ‘responsible
 leadership for a complex world’. This statement captures three fundamental beliefs that underpin
 our approach to all our activities: the world is increasingly interconnected, and this gives rise to
 complexity which can be understood and effectively addressed through interdisciplinary and
 systems approaches; connectivity gives rise to feedback – our actions have consequences for
 others and ourselves – which compels us to promote responsible behaviours; and a critical and
 situated understanding of leadership commits us to nurturing and developing leadership potential.
 In combination with the University’s vision of being a research-led anchor institution for the region,
 our commitment to ‘responsible leadership for a complex world’ frames our approach to research
 in business and management studies, and provides continuity through our past, present and future
 research efforts and achievements.


 Reflections on strategy in REF2014
     Our current strategy builds on strengths from the earlier strategy (reported in REF2014),
 particularly in terms of publications of high international standard (GPA≥3), external funding,
 interdisciplinary collaboration and establishment of networks.
     Nevertheless:
 •   We recognise that the previous strategy, involving ‘36 strategic initiatives’, provided breadth
     but did not afford sufficient depth. Consequently, we have simplified and refocused that
     agenda.
 •   Success in enabling our research staff to advance their careers has meant a high turnover in
     researchers, building on their successes at the University of Hull (UoH), moving (for example)
     to Russell Group Universities.
 •   Having a GPA≥3 target “without allowing the proportion of teaching-only staff to rise above
     25%” (REF2014 submission) was addressed through the UoH’s new Academic Careers
     Framework (see p.9).
 •   Links between HUBS and the Logistics Institute have strengthened under the latter’s Director
     (Ramudhin), who is included in UoA17. These strengthened links have increased research
     capacity in logistics and supply chain management (e.g., LHOFT project, p.18), and have
     allowed the UoA17 to embrace wider issues in regional business development (e.g., Greenport
     Hull project, p.14).
 •   We recognized that our plan to diversify our doctoral community by introducing a Doctor of
     Business Administration degree (DBA), as envisaged in REF2014, would dilute both our focus

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    and resources. While the University has validated the DBA programme, we have suspended
    its introduction to concentrate on developing our PhD community.


 Research context and Faculty and School structure:
     Following a 2016 University-wide organisational review, HUBS is now one of three schools
 within the Faculty of Business, Law and Politics (FBLP). Whilst FBLP’s Dean has overall strategic
 responsibility for research, the Associate Dean (Research) (ADR) is responsible for its
 development across FBLP.
     HUBS comprises five subject groups, whose purpose includes facilitating line and workload
 management, with subject Heads being responsible for developing and sustaining the research
 performance of staff and Postgraduate Research (PGR) students in their group. Subject groups
 are long-standing, having been established specifically to promote collaborative teaching,
 research and engagement activities in HUBS, both within and beyond the respective
 disciplines/subjects. Hence, research activity in HUBS does not align blindly with subject groups.
 Rather, it is organised into research groups, centres and University-wide institutes.
    There are eight research groups: Accounting; Economics; Finance; Logistics; Marketing;
 Organisational Behaviour and Human Resource Management (OBHRM); Regional and
 International Business (RIB); and Systems Thinking. Each group has an appointed Research
 Lead who is an accomplished and respected researcher (e.g., Bovis, Scullion, Zaman).
 FBLP/HUBS supports two cognate inter/transdisciplinary research centres: the internationally-
 respected Centre for Systems Studies (CSS; Co-Directors: Gregory/Midgley), established in
 1992; and the newly-established Centre for Sustainable Production and Consumption (CSPC;
 Director: Mishra). Leads/Directors are members of Faculty Research Committee, research
 champions for their group/centre, and instrumental in the design and implementation of mission,
 vision and research strategies in their respective areas. Our lean structure gives Leads/Directors
 direct access to the ADR without encumbering decision-making with unnecessarily-hierarchical
 levels, such as a HUBS-level Research Director. This structure allows transparency and timeliness
 in decision-making, e.g., about resource allocation. Should significant growth in HUBS occur, then
 such structures may be reappraised, but at present they are serving us well.
    Many colleagues’ work is aligned with UoH’s research Institutes: ‘Logistics’; ‘Risk’ (Director:
 Williams); ‘Applied Ethics’; ‘Environment and Energy’; ‘Marine and Maritime’; ‘Clinical and
 Applied Health Research’; ‘Slavery and Emancipation’; and ‘Aura’ (Low carbon technologies)
 Innovation Centre. There is also engagement with the University’s external research partners;
 e.g., the ‘G8 Universities’, an international alliance. Beyond these formal organisational structures,
 researchers often collaborate with colleagues across the University and foster their own national
 and international links.
    FBLP’s Business Advisory Group (BAG), comprising senior representatives from business,
 public and third-sector organisations (e.g.: Company Secretariat Director, ABF; CEO, Humber


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 LEP), also promotes knowledge exchange and wider engagement. BAG provides scrutiny of direct
 engagement activities and service development, emphasising the importance of end-user
 involvement in research when relevant. FBLP’s Director of Business Engagement and Enterprise
 (DBEE) liaises with BAG and its members.
     Overall, this structure is designed to enable our researchers to collaborate, as necessary,
 within their own disciplines and with researchers in other disciplines and, thereby, to respond more
 effectively to complex challenge-led research priorities and initiatives.


 Research strategy alignment and execution
     The University’s research strategy cascades into FBLP, then into research group strategies,
 and into individual research plans, ensuring vertical alignment between levels. FBLP’s research
 mission is:
        “to undertake innovative research of the highest quality that generates new insights into
        the functioning of business and economies, political and legal systems. As part of a civic
        university, we use our knowledge, creativity and expertise to educate and inform in a way
        that makes a meaningful difference to the lives of people and society, from the local to the
        global”.
 The FBLP Research Strategy was refreshed in 2017 by the Faculty Research Committee, a formal
 University committee chaired by the ADR with representatives from all FBLP research
 groups/centres, which manages FBLP research activity. The strategy was developed through a
 consultation process involving a range of stakeholders, including the FBLP community, external
 partners engaged through the DBEE/BAG, and the University leadership group. The strategy is
 reviewed annually to ensure it remains appropriate.
     Developing FBLP strategy in this way has resulted in an approach that ensures contextual fit.
 Discipline-specific agendas reflect the interests of staff and address contemporary issues
 associated with particular disciplines, while horizontal co-ordination mechanisms ensure
 connections across research areas (e.g., inter/transdisciplinary collaborations outlined in Section
 4). The research strategy is supportive of new areas of focus that address emerging priorities
 (e.g., ESRC Covid-19 research), promoting new initiatives where the business case indicates
 strong alignment with the strategy (e.g., CSPC), and allows us to reach out to cognate areas;
 hence, researchers based in FBLP’s Law School contribute to UoA17 (Hicks; Whitehouse).
     Common commitments can be discerned from the different research group strategies,
 including to:
 •   Conduct impactful research.
 •   Create opportunities for researchers and associated partners (businesses, public agencies,
     NGOs, communities, etc.) to collaborate in the creation of practical knowledge.
 •   Nurture and support a community of researchers.
 •   Develop a values-driven research environment.

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Sustain and develop local, national and international networks that serve to enhance our
     research capacities.
 •   Strategically engage with selected research where we can further our international reputation.
 •   Maintain and enhance our research environment through generating significant levels of
     research income and PGR student recruitment.
 •   Publish high-quality outputs that add value to the above.
     These common commitments align research groups while enabling groups to respond to
 endogenous disciplinary developments. For example, this approach has led to the Systems
 Thinking Group responding to real world complex problems by strengthening its work in
 applied systems thinking and community operational research. Similarly, these commitments
 have led the Accounting and Finance Groups to focus on the role of accounting and finance in
 affecting people, business and society, with a particular emphasis on such contemporary areas
 of concern as the accountability and governance of business and financial institutions
 (respectively) and the appropriateness of their products. HRM has focused on the challenges
 of leadership, global talent management and managing aging workforces. These examples
 are evidenced by REF2021 outputs; e.g., Gregory and Midgley, Hudson and Zaman, and Flynn
 and Scullion. The Centres pursue complementary strategies, acting as platforms for promoting
 inter/transdisciplinary research in specific areas; e.g., CSPC helps to deliver sustainable and
 socially-acceptable production and consumption solutions through transformational
 research, inter/transdisciplinary exchange of research views, and new business innovation (e.g.,
 Mishra and Dwivedi’s outputs). Such examples testify to our commitment to ‘responsible
 leadership for a complex world’.


 Achievement of strategic priorities for research and impact
     Our research strategy rests on three priorities, with progress towards their achievement
 supported through the definition of SMART objectives, monitoring and annual review, which is part
 of the formal annual strategic planning process involving the Dean, ADR and Leads/Directors.
 These strategic priorities are foci for evidencing achievement.


 Strategic priority 1 – To nurture excellent researchers
     As should be expected in an institution where research, collaboration and impact are deeply
 rooted within the culture, there is a strong focus on using resources to enable and support our
 academics to engage in quality research by:
 •   appointing early career researchers (ECRs), those aspiring to conduct research and research
     leads to strategically important areas;
 •   allocating 40% of a researcher’s workload to research, with additional workload for impact
     development, PGR supervision and research management activities;



                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   operating a workload buyout formula, associated with external funding, giving additional
     research time;
 •   offering a research and impact-based Sabbatical Leave programme;
 •   providing annual appraisal and 6-monthly review meetings for all academic staff;
 •   maintaining a long-standing mentoring programme, including for new appointees, involving
     experienced researchers as mentors;
 •   running visiting speaker seminar programmes organised by Research Groups/Centres,
     often inviting leading international speakers;
 •   hosting named externally-funded annual/biennial lecture series;
 •   providing research training modules and pastoral support to our PGR community,
     engaging with external PGR communities and centres;
 •   funding research groups to facilitate subject/disciplinary and other research training, internal
     seminar programmes and workshops, and other cohesion-building activities;
 •   offering access to physical research infrastructure;
 •   providing access to research funds for early initiatives, impact development, networking,
     engagement and conference attendance;
 •   providing goal-oriented support to underperforming areas to aid their recovery so that they
     can provide appropriate contributions to the achievement of our strategy.
 Whilst not being exhaustive, this list is indicative of our approaches to nurturing researchers in the
 production of quality research. Evidence of high-quality research achievements by staff is included
 under Strategic Priority 3.
     Nurturing excellent researchers extends to PGR students, who form a central part of our
 research community. PGR Regulations and Codes of Practice are prescribed by the Doctoral
 College, and their implementation is delegated to the HUBS Graduate Research Director (Flynn;
 0.2 FTE) and the ADR, supported by the Faculty Research, Enterprise and Innovation Office (4.04
 FTE in 2020). Such measures are designed to maintain sector-level standards through training
 and monitoring. Supervisions are capped at six student FTEs per academic, to ensure quality of
 support (see Section 2).
     As an indicative measure of quality, supervisors publish with their PhD students: e.g.: Ahmed
 (PhD-Finance) with Azevedo/Guney (Journal of Corporate Finance); Alhendi (PhD-Accounting)
 with Rodgers (Journal of World Business); Ross (PhD-Marketing) with Saxena (Annals of
 Tourism Research); Trzeciakiewicz (PhD-Economics) with Bhattarai (Economic Modelling); and
 Ufua (PhD-Management) with Midgley (European Journal of Operational Research). Also, our
 students receive awards e.g.: Al-Shammakhi (PhD-Accounting) 'Best Paper', American
 Accounting Association, 24th Symposium on Ethics Research (2019); Bungkilo (PhD-Accounting)
 ‘best dissertation’, National Research Council of Thailand (2018).




                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     We are committed to ensuring that research is conducted according to appropriate ethical,
 legal and professional frameworks, obligations and standards stipulated in University and sector
 policies. Training for researchers is provided through compulsory e-learning courses, e.g.,
 ‘Research Integrity’ and ‘Data Protection and Information Security’. Before GDPR’s introduction,
 UoH’s Informational Compliance Officer held workshops to raise awareness and promote
 compliance. There is a requirement, applicable to all research communities, that ethics approval
 (and Health and Safety) be obtained before undertaking a research project. For this purpose, the
 Faculty Ethics Committee, chaired by a senior academic with representation from across FBLP,
 has delegated responsibility. Grant applications are peer reviewed internally to ensure compliance
 with University policies. This process also promotes critical thinking about research.


 Strategic priority 2 – To contribute to areas of social and intellectual importance
     Our approach to strategy alignment and execution ensures staff are empowered to address
 contemporary issues associated with their disciplines and to respond to emerging opportunities,
 while connecting to research in other areas. Formally, this takes place through the annual strategic
 planning process and informally through shared meetings and school networking events.
 Alongside HUBS’s impact strategy, this has produced a body of research of social and intellectual
 importance to UKRI and other key external stakeholders. Our REF2021 case study submissions:
 •   Changing the management of major public projects (Williams)
 •   Using behavioural finance research to improve financial outcomes for consumers (Hudson)
 •   Shaping the policy and practice of employee volunteering and social action (Cook/Walkley)
 •   Public procurement as a strategic tool for environmental protection and sustainable economic
     growth across the EU (Bovis)
 are products of this strategy, emerging from combinations of funded and pro bono activities.
 Further examples include ‘Enhancing work opportunities for older workers’ (Flynn); ‘Plastic waste
 and food supply chain management’ (Ramudhin/Mishra); ‘Informing innovative, multi-stakeholder
 water governance in New Zealand’ (Midgley); ‘Socio-economic benefits of a coherent network of
 marine protected areas in Northern Ireland’ (Atkins); ‘Talent management in SMEs’ (Scullion);
 ‘Leadership training and development’ (Higgs); and ‘Big data analytics applied to UK food-banks’
 (Hindle/Vidgen). Funding has also leveraged examples: a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP)
 with Operation Wallacea and ecologists ‘Developing an impact evaluation methodology and tool
 for conservation research expeditions’ (Atkins); HEIF-funded projects, including ‘Developing
 online eco-space and measurement tools for enabling social action’ (Cook/Walkley) and ‘Unlikely
 entrepreneurs’ (Reedy); and internal Quality-related Research Strategic Priorities Fund (QR-SPF)
 policy-relevant activity: ‘Understanding social value’ (Gregory/Atkins/Bovis), ‘Debt and home
 loss’ (Whitehouse) and ‘Systems thinking to tackle cross-cutting policy issues with the Cabinet
 Office’ (Midgley).



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     While the research undertaken within the different disciplinary research groups often has social
 and intellectual value, it is recognised that many large problems require inter/transdisciplinary
 responses, which our organisational structure is designed to promote. This submission includes
 many examples of inter/transdisciplinary research undertaken during the REF2021 period. For
 example, Atkins, Gregory and Midgley (CIs) participated in a transdisciplinary project, ‘Resource
 recovery and remediation for alkaline wastes’ (NERC/ESRC; £637,777; 2014-19), with
 Environmental Science (PI) and Geography at UoH, as well as scientists at Leeds, Cardiff,
 Newcastle, the Open University and industrial partners. The project involved HUBS researchers
 designing and facilitating a stakeholder workshop, employing scenario planning and systems
 methodologies. It formed the principal case study for a European Journal of Operational Research
 article.
     Given the achievement of impact of social and intellectual importance, it is imperative to
 leverage research to maximum effect. Hence, FBLP’s impact strategy is embedded within its
 research strategy, and vital resources are channelled to ensure impact. Two senior FBLP
 appointments were made in 2016, the academic Impact Lead (Cook; 0.2 FTE) and the non-
 academic DBEE. The latter post-holder also promotes FBLP’s wider KEF activities. Both roles are
 complemented by University-level investments, e.g. Research and Innovation Development team.
 The Impact Lead drives development of impactful research within FBLP by raising awareness,
 offering training around fostering impact from academic research (e.g., through facilitated
 workshops, see p.12) and supporting colleagues with impact development. Along with maintaining
 this Champion role, since 2018, FBLP has provided a ring-fenced budget to which researchers
 can apply for specific impact activities; workload has been allocated to impact case authors; and
 impact has been made a core activity during sabbatical leave. HEIF, QR-SPF and KTP funding
 has also leveraged impactful research. Consequently, FBLP has a broad range of impact case
 studies to draw upon for REF2021. Post-REF2021, impactful research will continue to be strongly
 supported within FBLP and the necessary investment to realise it in practice will continue, as it
 forms a core part of the University’s aim of being a research-led anchor institution.


 Strategic priority 3 – To enhance the quality of outputs/outcomes
     Actions taken in pursuit of Strategic Priority 1 have significantly enhanced the quality and
 dissemination of outputs/outcomes. Indeed, significant resource has been dedicated to this end.
 The University pays for Gold Open Access for publications resulting from UKRI-funded projects
 (e.g., Gregory et al, 2020). Copies of other publications are placed in a University repository,
 permitting Green Open Access.
     During the REF2021 period, eligible researchers published 750+ academic journal papers,
 100+ book chapters, 30+ authored/edited books and numerous reports. Our 92 submitted
 publications include articles in 20+ ‘world-leading’ journals; the remainder principally in
 ‘internationally excellent-rated’ journals. A key feature of these world-leading journals is their


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 variety. All HUBS research groups published in these journals reflecting the spread of strength of
 expertise and the ongoing success of the levelling-up strategy highlighted in REF2014. These
 publications and others receive significant attention, helping to shape the intellectual agenda
 across the field. Current researchers with 2,000+ Google Scholar citations (31/12/2020) include:
 Williams (10,291); Higgs (9,636); Scullion (9,479); Midgley (6,767); Rodgers (3,010); Atkins
 (2,737); Hudson (2,578); Zaman (2,483).
    Alongside numerous regional and national media engagements, and social media postings
 (e.g., Shaw’s logistics-focussed ‘tweets’), our researchers publish in ‘The Conversation’ (e.g.,
 Andrikopoulos on ‘weaker sterling and UK PLC’; Bovis on ‘2015 Budget’; Demetis on
 ‘cybercrime’; Hindle/Vidgen on ‘food banks’), which disseminates ideas to a broad audience
 having a Creative Commons License, highlighting our expertise.
    Research income capture is recognised as a crucial indicator of research achievement.
 Recorded external research income for REF2014 was £1,538,467 with a £590,000 target stated
 for 2015/16. We can report a near-tripling of reported income to £4,299,395 over 2013/14-
 2019/20, and an average annual performance of £614,199. This funding improvement partly
 reflects the effective cascading into FBLP strategy of the increasingly strong institutional strategic-
 steer towards external income generation, motivating team and individual initiatives, and
 complementary investment in support infrastructure and facilities (see Section 3). With a (simple
 linear) trend of +£80,507 pa (2013/14-2019/20), sustained future improvement is a realistic
 expectation.


 Going forward
    Recent crises and management of responses (e.g. Covid-19) justifies our enduring
 commitment to 'responsible leadership for a complex world' and is consistent with a research
 agenda informed by UN Sustainable Development Goals and the priorities of UKRI, Department
 for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, and other key external stakeholders. The ‘net zero’,
 ‘levelling up’ and ‘place-based’ agenda in the UK R&D Roadmap are cases in point.
    We recognise two major, interlinked drivers to achieving further step-changes in research
 performance: ‘stakeholder relationships’ enable research to be co-produced to make a difference,
 and ‘funding’ allows more research-and-impact hours to be invested. A deep investment in forging
 a stakeholder- and community-engaged culture is intended, which will involve training and a
 commitment to ensuring that high-quality engagement and knowledge exchange are key criteria
 in the recruitment of leaders, ECRs and others. Increased funding will create time to generate
 publications and impact; here the workload-buyout formula for external income is key. By
 supporting PGR students and PDRAs, the next generation of ECRs will emerge. This dovetails
 with the University’s mission to be a research-led anchor institution in the region, and supports our
 knowledge exchange strategy.



                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    We will continue to develop through focused research groups/centres. The intensification of
 inter/transdisciplinary research will enhance our capacity to explore emergent issues. Hence,
 relationships will deepen between groups/centres and UoH institutes: e.g., we will align research
 more closely with the Logistics Institute, strengthening our research capacity still further. This will
 help our researchers to revitalize networks to grow synergistic critical mass.
    We will raise the quality of our PGR community, and strengthen their progression routes to
 academic and other competitive careers, by increasing publication rates during and in the three
 years after their doctorate, including co-authorships with supervisors. We will also create a FBLP
 Associate Fellow HEA module to complement their research skill acquisition. Both initiatives will
 help facilitate ECR recruitment.
    Our aging researcher profile and gender imbalance (see Section 2) must be addressed, with
 commitments to target recruitment of ECRs and exceed, for example, our Athena SWANN and
 AACSB/AMBA accreditations obligations.


 2. People

    Prioritising our commitment to nurturing excellent researchers ensures that staff and students
 are at the heart of our strategy. Accordingly, our strategy is designed to attract, motivate and retain
 excellent researchers, to promote talent, to create opportunities for researchers at all stages of
 their careers, and to maintain conditions for the growth of world-class research.


 Staffing strategy and support
    As part of ongoing reviews, and informed by REF2014 and sector-wide institutional changes,
 we renewed our staffing strategy to provide clearer expectations and support structures.


 Academic Career Framework (ACF) and research career development
    In 2016, Haynes (then-Dean) was the University-lead for ACF development, and FBLP/HUBS
 established complementary Research Expectations guidance for academic staff. These policies
 and procedures play a key role in driving research performance, and for targeting support and
 development measures.
    The ACF provides clear guidance for staff about building cases for promotion, preparing for
 appraisals, identifying skills and developmental needs, and discussing career trajectories with line
 managers. For managers, it has strategic importance, being used to assess cases for promotion
 and other aspects of reward and recognition; to inform the identification of skill gaps and
 developmental needs; for succession planning; and to assist in designing new roles and job
 descriptions.
    The ACF has created parity, clarity and transparency between different academic
 contributions, by identifying core work ‘Domains’ and role and performance standards. ‘Research



                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Domain' staff are expected to conduct ‘significant research activity leading to internationally
 excellent outputs’. Line managers evaluate performance on a rolling 5-year basis.
     A ‘Transition and Development’ process is also applied. ‘Transition’ involves tailored
 Continuing Professional Development, with time, resources and support to meet goals agreed with
 line managers. Typically, this process lasts 12 months for those seeking to move into a new
 domain and 24 months for those within the first two years of their first university appointment.


 Researcher numbers
     On REF2021 census date there were 41 UoA17 academics (36.6 FTE) in Research Domain,
 compared to 45 researchers returned to REF2014. Of our 41 researchers, 63% were academics
 at UoH on the REF2014 census date, including 44% submitted to both REFs. The successful
 transition to Research Domain of eight academics not submitted to REF2014 is evidence of our
 nurturing environment. One researcher is an ECR. We offer flexibility in contractual arrangements
 with seven part-time researchers: e.g. senior researchers also have contracts with University of
 Alicante and University of Texas, El Paso.
     On equality and diversity of our researchers:
 •   10% are aged under 40 years, and 24% aged 40-49 years (26% and 38% for REF2014); this
     age distribution is being addressed e.g.: through the Transition-to-Research process, which
     includes some appointees in their first posts.
 •   37% self-declare BME and 51% white.
 •   61% are British with another 12 nationalities represented, reflecting our on-going commitment
     to global recruitment of excellent researchers.
 •   24% are female including an ECR (32% in REF2014). We are addressing gender inequalities:
     e.g., UoH will improve on our Athena SWAN Bronze award.
 A strong commitment to equality and diversity is supported by a requirement that staff take University
 ‘Equality, Diversity and Inclusion’ training every three years. UoH requires mixed-gender
 recruitment panels, and panellists undertake mandatory University training in ‘Recruitment and
 Selection’ and ‘Unconscious Bias’. Staff on extended absence (e.g., maternity/paternity; sickness)
 receive a phased return-to-work, including reduced workload, and it is factored into promotions,
 sabbaticals, Transition-to-Research Domain arrangements,             and other      decision-making.
 Supporting equality where staff have disabilities is managed with the staff-member in conjunction
 with UoH’s Disability Officer: e.g., an ECR required office adaptation, specialist equipment and
 non-research workload relief, and the subject Head monitored the support’s effectiveness until the
 researcher’s promotion to a Readership at another university.




                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Researcher mobility
    We aim to provide a stable research environment through the retention of talent, while allowing
 the degree of staff movement associated with career development and the creation of
 opportunities for new research initiatives and changing priorities. However, like other Business
 Schools (UCEA, 2019), we find academic recruitment and turnover an ongoing challenge.
    The Dean and subject Heads identify staffing needs. Strengthening key strategic research
 areas is a major consideration when making appointments (e.g., Menezes, OBHRM; capacity
 building in business psychology), including appointments of ECRs (e.g., Kumari, Logistics; a
 target area for capacity-building), strengthening research leadership (e.g., Flynn, OBHRM/GRD;
 Zaman, Accounting), and succession planning (e.g. Merali recruited as Director, CSS, releasing
 Midgley as ADR; Mishra succeeded Grant in leading Logistics).
    The University holds annual promotion rounds with research performance strongly influencing
 outcomes. Based on research performance, there have been 15 (2014/15-2019/20) internal
 promotions e.g.: to Reader (e.g., Guney, Finance; Silles, Economics); and to Professor (e.g.,
 Atkins, Economics; Cook, OBHRM). Our post-REF2014 recruits include researchers receiving
 their first academic appointment, who have subsequently gained promotion e.g.: Demetis
 (Management Systems), PhD awarded in 2008, joined UoH in 2014 after 4 years with a Greek-
 based IT company, promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2020; and, following 15 years ‘supply chain’
 industry experience, and with Hull MBA and PhD-Management qualifications, Shaw (Logistics)
 was appointed a Lecturer in 2014 and Senior Lecturer in 2019. Shaw, Silles and Cook are female.
    On departures, along with retirement (e.g., Espinosa), accelerated career progression has
 been an important factor, including promotional moves to Russell Group universities (e.g.,
 Akamavi to Birmingham; Allen to Sheffield; Einarsdottir to York) and to chairs (e.g.,
 Papadopoulos and Akhtar to Kent). Departures have included staff who joined UoH as ECRs, who
 left following promotion offers (e.g., Ullah to Nottingham; Wang to De Montfort) and senior
 researchers seeking specific opportunities elsewhere (e.g., Abbott to Lancaster; Jayawardhena
 to Surrey; Mollah to Sheffield). Such upward trajectories are indicative of our vibrant research
 culture ‘opening doors’. Successful research collaborations with ‘leavers’ are often maintained
 (e.g., jointly-authored outputs: Hindle with Vidgen; Khalil with Ozkan; Midgley with Nicholson).


 Development support and training
    Coordinated development activities and support for all staff pursuing a career in research are
 available at all career stages, including mentoring, appraisal and training, and consistent with the
 ‘Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers’.
    Annual Appraisal and Development Reviews with line managers (usually subject Heads or the
 ADR) allow academic staff to reflect on contributions, career plans, opportunities, and support
 needed to progress. This is complemented by an independent mentoring scheme, coupling
 researchers with more senior researchers from their group.


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Research development and training is facilitated by the University (e.g.: Research and
 Innovation Development team and Funding Office; Doctoral College; e-learning), FBLP (e.g.:
 workshops; writing retreats) and research groups/centres (e.g.: away-days; seminars).
 Researchers work with their Leads to identify and respond to research-related development
 needs. For example, with ‘Impact’, through its Impact Champion, FBLP has facilitated workshops
 and other training opportunities, e.g.:
     -   “What is research impact and how can we build it?” (2017; 2018).
     -   “Identifying colleagues who engage in impact or wish to” (2017; 2018).
     -   “Enhancing research impact: examples of how colleagues have developed their impact
         cases” (FBLP Research Forum, 2018).
     -   “Developing and crafting an impact case, identifying the pathway to impact and evidence”
         (three linked workshops, 2018/19).
 These sessions, in conjunction with internal funding for current and future research impact
 development and other support activities, underpinned the development of impact cases for
 REF2021 and ensure a pipeline of ‘early-stage’ cases post-REF2021. This approach has delivered
 active training to 30+ researchers and helped generate 15+ impact-related research projects.
     Individuals/groups can bid for Faculty research funding to support conference attendance,
 pump-priming for projects, and impact development. There is a staff development budget to which
 all can apply and research groups/centres have budgets for development activities.
     The University offers QR-GCRF Global Challenges Pump Priming funds: e.g., Midgley
 secured £19,999 for research on using systems thinking in post-conflict nations; Scullion received
 £4,400 for research on employment participation of marginalised groups in India.
     FBLP supports research seminar series, involving invited speakers from leading institutions,
 enabling our research communities to engage with leading-edge thinking. In the REF2021 period,
 we have held 200+ seminars involving notable UK and international speakers (e.g.: Neary, Oxford;
 Stark, Manchester; Richardson, Albany; Snowden, ex-IBM). Our researchers deliver
 presentations, and the series addresses generic skills, e.g.: ‘How to publish 4* articles’ (Buckley,
 Leeds); ‘Publications from the editorial point of view’ (Hudson); ‘Tips and tricks of writing a
 successful grant application’ (Mollah, now Sheffield); ‘How to get published and ensure your paper
 achieves the impact it deserves’ (Scullion). Seminars are associated with Athena SWAN, e.g.:
 celebrating International Women’s Day. Eminent graduates give seminars: e.g., Sambo, WHO ex-
 Regional Director for Africa and CSS PhD alumnus, presented ‘Leading the fight against Ebola’
 for UoH’s ‘Inspired in Hull’ series.
     HUBS hosts high-profile public lectures supported by private endowments:
 •   Biennial ‘JSG Wilson Lecture’ (funded by a family legacy, Bank of Japan and other
     endowments): e.g., Weale (former member, Monetary Policy Committee, Bank of England).




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Annual ‘Mike Jackson Lecture in Systems Thinking’ (funded by Honorary Graduate, Dr Andrew
     Chen): e.g., Senge (MIT Sloan School of Management; founding chair, Society for
     Organizational Learning) will present 2021’s Lecture.
     A staff sabbatical leave programme is long-standing, competitive, and achievements are
 evaluated by FBLP’s Leadership Team. During 2013/14-2020/21, 31 sabbatical leaves (normally
 one trimester) were awarded to UoA17 researchers, 45% to female researchers: e.g.,
 Whitehouse used the opportunity to explore ‘debt and home loss’, conducting ground-breaking
 empirical research on occupiers in Hull and East Yorkshire; following-on, a funded online survey
 will be distributed nationally (QR-SPF; £10,000; 2020-21).
     ECRs receive 40% research workload allowances, prioritised access to research support, and
 opportunities for exemption from teaching leadership roles. As a vital means of support, and to
 integrate them into the research culture, they are assigned a senior mentor from their research
 group. New teaching receives extra workload allowances, positively impacting the initial year(s)
 in-post.
     Post-Doctoral Research Assistants (PDRAs), typically project-funded, receive University
 employment contracts, and their supervisors integrate them into their research group. As
 signatories to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, we support staff on temporary
 contracts equally with other academics, and offer routes into longer-term appointments when
 feasible (e.g. Getor, recruited to a Greenport Hull project PDRA, progressed to a permanent
 Logistics Institute PDRA role).


 Staff rewards for research
     While research performance has greatly influenced promotion decisions, we recognise and
 reward staff for carrying out research and for achieving impact in other ways too. Alongside
 automatic research-related workload allowances, a workload buyout policy applies for staff
 securing external project funding and fellowships. FBLP funding supports research and impact
 development, and conference attendance (e.g., 112 research conference attendees fully-funded
 for 2016/17-2019/20, including 70 international). Research achievements are celebrated through
 UoH/FBLP newsletters/bulletins/emails, and FBLP has introduced a ‘Research Achievement
 Seminar Series’ to highlight successes. UoH has annual celebratory prize-givings, with awards for
 research-based achievements: e.g., in 2019, Cook was ‘Excellence in Research’ prize finalist in
 recognition of her impact successes, and Andrews was ‘Excellence in Scholarship’ prize winner
 for use in teaching of real-world marketing projects involving commercial partners.


 Stimulating and facilitating exchanges with business, public and third-sector bodies
     The FBLP Director of Business Engagement and Enterprise has established an infrastructure
 to support external stakeholder engagement with knowledge exchange activities. Support since
 REF2014 has been refocussed to strengthen service. FBLP’s Enterprise and Knowledge


                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Exchange Committee has representation from across FBLP to facilitate implementation of its
 strategies and foster, e.g., peer-to-peer mentoring and staff development. FBLP’s BAG provides
 insight into direct engagement activities and service development, and a Corporate Partner
 Scheme enables academics to build relationships with 40+ organisations. Programmes of events
 and workshops bring the business community to FBLP for knowledge exchange and networking
 (e.g., bi-monthly Business Breakfast Briefings) and continuing professional development.
     Such activity maintains our profile and establishes networks, which facilitates consultancy and
 contract research, e.g.:

 •   Midgley, presented his systemic intervention methodology to Shell’s Board members and
     Scenarios Group.
 •   Pocklington School Foundation approached Gregory to support their ‘vision, mission and
     values’ review through facilitated stakeholder workshops; a Journal of the Operational
     Research Society article was co-authored with the Headmaster (2015). Following a request to
     HUBS, Gregory worked with Piper Crisps using balanced scorecard.
 •   Birdseye approached Shaw (with Ramudhin/Whicker) to undertake mixed-method research
     to improve the efficiency of its ‘field-to-fork’ transport operations (£17,500; 2020).

     As an anchor-institution, HUBS plays an active role in the region, working with key institutions
 such as local authorities, healthcare providers, Humber LEP, Chamber of Commerce, Marketing
 Humber, and the Institute of Directors. We offer advice, contribute to events and provide training.
 Such active roles create new opportunities, e.g.:

 •   Scullion founded/chairs the UoH HR Directors Group, a senior stakeholders body contributing
     to high-level networking and knowledge exchange, with HR directors from 23 leading regional
     organizations.
 •   HUBS representation on the ‘Holderness Coast Fisheries Local Action Group Committee’ led
     to Harness (PI), Andrews and Malfense-Fierro working on its ‘Strategies for lobster fishery
     development and diversifying marketing opportunities’ (European Maritime and Fisheries
     Fund; £91,000; 2017-20) and follow-on project ‘Food tourism, lobster storage and SMART
     science’ (£52,000; 2019-21). Through its 5-year regional strategy, East Riding of Yorkshire
     Council (ERYC) adopted the recommendations making Bridlington ‘Lobster Capital of Europe’,
     with approximately £100,000 private-sector storage investments following to facilitate market
     diversification.
 •   Close relationships were instrumental in Ramudhin (£450,000; 2016-2020) leading an
     ERYC/Hull City Council (HullCC)-funded (RGF) ‘Greenport Hull Impact Assessment’ working
     with the local authorities, Siemens-Gamesa and ABP. PDRAs and a PhD-Economics
     scholarship supported the project.




                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Seed-corn financial support has leveraged engagement, e.g.:

 •   Pump-priming and HEIF funds supported Cook’s work with the Office for Civil Society (DCMS)
     on employee volunteering, leading to engagement with and impacts on 600+ businesses and
     third-sector organisations (see Impact Case) and a funding award to Cook/Walkley (Office for
     Civil Society; £250,000; 2018-20; Sheffield-PI) to run their Enabling Social Action Programme,
     working with 100+ local authorities and 700 third-sector organisations.

 Our workload buy-out policy is also instrumental, e.g.:

 •   Midgley used Swedish Knowledge Foundation funds (£87,350; 2015-16) to buy-out time to
     participate in ‘systemic innovation’ research with Ericsson, ABB and Mälardalen University.
     Members of Ericsson’s Innovation Department engaged in a HUBS-based participative
     workshop. The Foundation currently supports Midgley (£60,000: 2020-22) working with
     Linnaeus University and Electrolux on ‘systems thinking for sustainability’.

     Our taught Masters’ and AMBA/AACSB-accredited MBA programmes, on which researchers
 deliver specialist modules, provide access to business and other organisations. For example,
 Gregory/Atkins/Bovis’s project (QR-SPF; £10,000, 2020) on ‘Understanding social value’
 benefited from a case study of ‘Enviromail’, a social enterprise whose creator/owner/CEO is
 pursuing the MBA. Researchers who teach on the MBA commonly enliven teaching with research-
 based case studies, which can create new links or opportunities with students and their employers
 (e.g., Espinosa worked with a Romanian school on organisational design). Also, taught
 programmes introduce students to opportunities for pursuing PhD studies (e.g., Joshi with
 Gregory; MacNamara and Ufua with Midgley).


 Research student strategy and support
 Training and supervision
     In partnership with UoH’s Doctoral College, and with a view to securing future researchers
 within HUBS and more widely, we have enhanced PGR provision within FBLP/HUBS; for example,
 by reviewing the approaches to, and quality of, student research support.
     HUBS’s Graduate Research Director, an active member of UoH’s Doctoral College Committee,
 has responsibility for implementing University policy within HUBS and oversees our doctoral
 programmes. A dedicated Faculty office provides support.
     Academic supervision comprises, at minimum, a lead and second supervisor or joint
 supervisors, with annual workload allowances of 60/10 or 35/35 hours per full-time student
 (reduced for part-time students). The lead supervisor must be in the Research Domain. Each year,
 students receive a minimum of 12 documented supervisory meetings, a 6-monthly review meeting,
 and an annual progress meeting.
     The mandatory 60-credit Postgraduate Training Scheme (PGTS) provides over-arching and
 specialist training modules. The Doctoral College delivers over-arching modules, with HUBS

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support, and HUBS researchers deliver specialist modules (e.g., Bhattarai, Advanced
 Econometrics). HUBS influences content, e.g.: Dwivedi was PGTS’s 2014 Periodic Review
 academic lead, and specialist offerings are managed to meet changing needs. Easter and
 Summer Schools facilitate part-time student participation, and Postgraduate Certificates and
 Diplomas in research training are awarded. We facilitate students’ participation in the Northern
 Universities Doctoral Training Programme for specific needs.
    HUBS doctoral students attend specialist and over-arching seminar programmes, delivered by
 experts in their field. Examples of over-arching seminars include ‘Writing your PhD thesis and
 preparation for the viva’ (Cuncliffe, Bradford); ‘Publishing with your supervisor’ (Arroyo-Gomez,
 Mexico); and ‘Research and publication processes in academic journals’ (Stark, Manchester).
    To promote a sense of community, FBLP hosts monthly social gatherings, attended by
 students and supervisors. Student-staff Forums are conducted regularly. We hold annual PGR
 conferences with guest speakers and opportunities for student presentations. A dedicated seminar
 series allows students to present to the research community.
    Our PhD students can apply for HUBS funding for conference attendance: e.g., in 2018/19, 14
 students received conference funding, including five for international conference attendance, up
 to a maximum of £1,500 each, with others receiving funding for data collection software (£1,284)
 and specialist training (£1,415).
    Evidence of research skill attainment by PGR students and/or commitment to further skill
 attainment is evidenced by publications and awards (see p.5) and employment as funded-project
 PDRAs: e.g., Bloomfield on Williams’s ESRC-funded ‘Project X’; Joshi on Merali/Johnson’s
 Health Foundation-funded project for NHS Wales; Hobbs on Midgley’s QR-SPF-funded project
 with the Cabinet Office; Stead (PhD-Economics) appointed to an Institute for Transport Studies,
 Leeds, PDRA.


 Recruitment and community
    Alongside nurturing potential within the PGR community, to raise achievements our
 recruitment strategy focuses on improving student entry quality. Along with adherence to our
 stipulated minimum entry qualifications (ADR reviews marginal cases), we require prospective
 supervisors to undertake rigorous online/in-person interviews to evaluate proposals and
 candidate’s preparedness. Completion of a semi-structured questionnaire ensures a robust
 process. Research groups have an academic leading the process locally.
    Our PGR community is large and vibrant, with 225.4 FTE PhD completions over the period
 2013/14-2019/20. This corresponds to an average 32.2/year for REF2021, signalling a step-
 change from 17/year for REF2014. This has been achieved with full-time submissions within 4
 years at 58% (14/24) in 2019/20 (a Covid-19-impacted year) compared to 70% in 2012 and 38%
 in 2008. A PGR population of 115 (49% female) was recorded on 1/12/19, including 28 part-time
 (54% female).


                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     A 2020 survey of 208 HUBS PGR students awarded their thesis during the REF2021 period
 found the sample ethnically diverse, including 40 Arab students, 66 Asian/other-Asian, 24 black,
 16 Chinese and 24 white.
     While strategic reliance on UoH/FBLP/HUBS PhD scholarships for general recruitment
 purposes has reduced since REF2014 (when 56 awarded), at least two full scholarships have
 been competitively awarded annually to support HUBS doctoral students over 2013/14-2019/20,
 including as part of University clusters, e.g.: funding for a PhD transdisciplinary cluster (four PhD
 scholarships and one PDRA) was awarded to CSS (Merali) on ‘Resilience of socio-economic
 systems’ with Law, Politics, Ethics and Health; Criminology-led cluster on ‘Public safety’ includes
 CSS PhD scholarship (Demetis/Merali); single scholarships on ‘Complex systems and
 information sharing in innovation’ and ‘Sustainable supply chains in developing countries: Is it
 possible? A case study of India’ (Dwivedi/Merali).
     Other PhD scholarships have been secured, e.g.: Defence Science and Technology
 Laboratory (Dstl) on ‘Risk and complex project management’ (Williams/Merali/Bovis);
 International Futures Forum on ‘Systems and futures thinking’ (Midgley); and HullCC (RGF) on
 ‘Economic impact assessment’ (Atkins/Nolan).


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income
     Research income generation is a key element of our research strategy. It aligns our research
 to the priorities of key stakeholders (e.g. UKRI), provides vital resource to nurture and grow our
 research community, and enables the UoA to contribute significantly to UoH’s income targets.
 UoH’s strategic-steer cascades into FBLP policy and informs the design of our organisational and
 incentive structures (e.g., workload buyout).
     Research income has been sustained at a high level over the REF2021 period relative to
 REF2014, reflecting a step-change in performance (see p.8). During 2013/14-2019/20, 21 current
 researchers and 15 recently-exited researchers have been PIs on externally-funded projects, with
 others being CIs, researching independently or collaboratively across UoH and/or with
 national/international partners. There is strength across the UoA, with all groups/centres reporting
 multiple awards. Funding has been received from more than 50 different sponsors, including:
 •   EU/International: e.g., Framework 7 (Li); Horizon 2020 (Bovis); Erasmus+ (Correia);
     European Social Fund (Flynn); Daiwa Anglo Japanese Foundation (Abbott); Institute of
     Environmental Science and Research, NZ (Midgley); Swedish Knowledge Foundation
     (Rodgers); Swiss National Science Foundation (Pearson).
 •   UK   Research      Councils:    e.g.,   BBSRC     (Mishra);    EPSRC     (Ramudhin);      ESRC
     (Cook/Walkley); NERC (Atkins).
 •   National: e.g., British Academy (Reedy); British Council (Dwivedi).



                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Government: e.g., Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (Johnson); Department of
     Digital, Cultural, Media and Sport (Cook); Dstl (Williams/Merali/Bovis); Ministry of Defence
     (Ramudhin); Welsh Audit Office (Merali); HullCC (Atkins); ERYC (Midgley).
 •   Public/third-sector: e.g., National Consumer Council (Bovis); Yorkshire Wildlife Trust
     (Atkins).
 •   private sector: e.g., British Telecom (Merali); Siemens-Gamesa (Ramudhin).


     Particular areas of achievement have involved research allied to Institutes, especially Logistics
 and Risk, and research centres. Logistics Institute examples include:
 •   Innovate UK (£419,717; 2016-2018), Collaborative and Adaptive Integrated Transport Across
     Land and Sea (CAPITAL).

 •   Innovate UK (£646,515; 2017-2020), Liverpool-Humber Optimisation of Freight Transport
     (LHOFT).

 A feature of Logistics projects is close business collaboration, promoting impact, e.g.:

 •   Emanating from a transdisciplinary chemistry-led project, ‘Evolving a Circular Plastics
     Economy’ (EPSRC-PRIF; £939,631; 2019-20), Ramudhin, Mishra, Kumari and Saxena
     collaborate with Morrisons PLC on ‘A decision support system (DSS) for tracking, reporting
     and visualising plastic waste’; Morrisons co-designed the project to ensure their priorities
     steered research. Morrisons intends adopting the DSS.
 •   Ramudhin’s Innovate UK SBRI FOAK-funded (£347,000; 2019-20) development of the NR+
     platform, the first digital platform for rail freight planning, received the Rail Industry Association
     2020 Innovation award with the RSSB-funded (£172,326 with Frazer-Nash consultants; 2020-
     21) REPAIR module for predicting rail delays using machine learning.
 Such successes enabled Ramudhin to build research capacity and develop collaborations with
 Logistics and other research groups. Risk Institute examples include:

 •   ESRC (£1,001,783; 2019-2021), ‘Improving project delivery (Project X)’.

 •   Project Management Institute (£38,609; 2017-2019), ‘Project governance: From data to
     recommendations’.

 Williams’s involvement with UK government officials, the joint UK Treasury/Cabinet Office (IPA)
 and an ESRC grant (with other universities) built research capacity, particularly with new
 researchers with improved diversity, including PDRAs and a Hull PhD opportunity, and generated
 Williams’s impact case study.


     Turning to research centres, CSPC’s successes include:
 •   BBSRC (£7,035,021; 2017-2021; Cambridge-PI), Transforming India's Green Revolution by
     Research and Empowerment for Sustainable food Supplies.

                                                                                                   Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Science and Technology Facilities Council (£978,015; 2020-2024; Sheffield-PI), STFC Food
     Network+ Extension.

 The first is a Global Challenges Research Fund project.


     CSS researchers have secured funding for systems research applied to a range of areas
 reflecting external stakeholder priorities (e.g.: health; agriculture; environment: community
 operational research). Examples include:
 •   Merali and Johnson (now Sheffield Hallam) received Health Foundation funding (£575,459;
     2014-2022) for an ‘Evaluation of the 1000 Lives Patient Flow Programme’; employing a PDRA
     and working with external consultants. Merali will disseminate findings in the context of the
     Welsh Government’s Future Generations Act.
 •   Merali is CI on a cross-faculty programme “Reducing Inequalities in Cancer Outcomes in
     Yorkshire: Realising our potential for innovation in Diagnosis, Patient Management,
     Survivorship and Palliative Care Research” (Yorkshire Cancer Research Fund; £2,579,088;
     2017-2022); a critical research area of local and global import.
 •   Midgley worked with Texas A&M on voluntary stewardship of antimicrobials used in
     agriculture in a USDA-funded project (£67,140; 2017-2021); antimicrobial resistance is a
     global research priority.


     Individual researchers also leverage external income to promote their research:
 •   Bhattarai collaborated with Beacon Hill Institute, Suffolk University researchers on a National
     Center for Policy Analysis-funded project (£75,000 sub-contract; 2014-17). Having an
     international reputation in the methodology, Bhattarai led modelling/analysis of tax plan
     debates in the US presidential election; policy-oriented outputs followed (e.g., Economic
     Modelling, 2018).
 •   Correia holds an Erasmus+ Key Action 2 grant (€43,107; 2018-2021) on ‘Sustainable tourism:
     Training for tomorrow’, aiming to build Protected Area stakeholders’ capacity and develop
     European standards for sustainable tourism training. Correia collaborates with Hasselt
     University and agencies representing European Protected Areas, and to-date has published a
     training needs report and open access learning platform, and launches a ‘Recommendations
     report’ for policy-makers in 2021.


     Reflecting responsiveness to urgent calls, our researchers secured Covid-19-related ESRC
 awards:
 •   Cook/Walkley (£382,000; May-2020-21; Sheffield-PI) ‘Mobilising volunteers during Covid-19’,
     building on collaborative research (see Impact case study).




                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Perez-Sebastian (£39,461; November-2020-21) ‘Economic linkages of Covid-19 across UK
     regions and sectors’.


 Research infrastructure and facilities
     The development of research infrastructure, working spaces and research resources is
 designed with a researcher-centric perspective.
     HUBS, along with the Logistics and Risk Institutes, is located in three linked buildings. The
 buildings offer individual academic staff offices, meeting, seminar and teaching rooms, and
 Faculty-level offices. HUBS houses the Management Learning Laboratory, with advanced ICT
 and breakout rooms, used for technical meetings/workshops (e.g., stakeholder workshop involving
 breakout-group modelling exercises for Atkins/Gregory’s EU-FP7 ‘Devotes’ project). HUBS
 houses a Bloomberg suite (12 terminals) offering business/finance data to support our research
 communities: e.g., Andrikopoulos, 2019, Finance Research Letters article used Bloomberg data.
 Logistics Institute has state-of-the-art facilities, including conference provision. Faculty offices
 are dedicated to research and PGR student support; experienced professional services teams
 address enquiries and provide support for research degrees, events, grant applications and ethics
 approvals, and generate performance data. These services complement University services in
 Research and Innovation (named individuals support HUBS), Finance (e.g., pre/post-award), HR
 (e.g., PDRA recruitment) and Marketing and Communications (e.g., website development) and
 the Doctoral College.
     University investments have targeted research infrastructure and core support staff.
 Investment in Institutes has significantly enhanced activity (Logistics, established 2008, and Risk,
 established 2016, are directly cognate with HUBS). Investment e.g., in expanding specialist teams
 in the University’s Research and Innovation Office and in the ‘GRANTfinder’ (online information)
 subscription, facilitates sustained growth in research income.
     The University Library offers state-of-the-art provision, on-campus and remotely. Specific
 research support includes print/digital library and archival collections, access to secondary data
 and interlibrary loans; search tools; PGR study spaces; management of the ‘Worktribe’ digital
 repository and research information system; and advice/training for our research communities on
 literature search and information management.
     UoH’s IT provision has been enhanced by the ‘Digital Campus’ programme and investment in
 high performance computing (‘Viper’). HUBS’s representation on the working party established to
 agree Viper’s specification ensured that it met UoA17’s requirements. Viper is available to our
 research   communities:     e.g.,   Ramudhin’s    CAPITAL     and   LHOFT     projects’   big   data
 modelling/analytics undertaken by PDRAs; and Bagazi’s (PhD-Economics) Saudi labour market
 research (with Nolan).
     Researchers’ IT equipment is replaced every 5 years, while our PGR students are loaned
 laptops and have access to dedicated desktop computer suites, normally open 24/7. Software


                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 products required by researchers are available to our research communities (e.g., NVivo, SPSS,
 Stata, Eviews, Endnote, RefWorks, Compustat, DataStream-Advanced), with other specialist
 software purchases subject to approval. Photocopying, telephone and recording/transcription
 facilities are available to staff and PGR students; the latter subject to reasonable use restrictions.
     Given specific needs of some researchers and our commitment to responsible resource use,
 where possible we look to collaborate with partners to maximise use of facilities and expertise:
 e.g., engagement with the Northern Advanced Research Training Initiative advances research
 capacity and impact among PGR students and ECRs.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our published output profile may be taken as a simple indicator of collaborative relationships: 50%
 of outputs submitted to REF2021 are co-authored with UK researchers outside UoH, and 47%
 with international collaborators (43% and 46%, REF2014). Collaborative activity goes beyond
 publishing, as evidenced below.


 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 Key mechanisms have been established through which collaborations, networks and partnerships
 are organised. University Institutes are instrumental, and FBLP/HUBS’s centres, which exist to
 advance inter/transdisciplinary research, play a distinctive role. Individual researchers also
 engage in their own project-oriented collaborations.


 Research collaborations through University Institutes
     There are strong collaborative links between the University’s research institutes and UoA17
 researchers. A prime example of this is the Logistics Institute and, mainly though not exclusively,
 HUBS logistics/supply chain researchers. For example:
 •   Mishra collaborates with Ramudhin on LHOFT and CAPITAL projects with Nestle, Zipabout,
     Unipart Logistics, Unilever, Oxford Rail Strategies, ABP, DB Cargo, and Heinz to develop
     sustainable transport systems.
 •   The multidisciplinary EU MCSA-RISE project (€1,100,000; 2018-2022), ‘Integration of global
     and local agri-food supply chains towards sustainable food security’ involves Ramudhin,
     Atkins, Gregory, Mishra and Saxena with national and international partners.
 Atkins collaborates with the Energy and Environment Institute on an interdisciplinary strategic
 THYME-funded project on climate change flood mitigation measures in UK agriculture. Allen and
 Reedy worked with the Institute of Applied Ethics (e.g., Reedy on the future of work). Pearson
 works with Richardson (‘Slavery and Emancipation’) on slavery. Bovis and Merali collaborated
 with Williams and Bloomfield (Risk Institute) on a Dstl-funded project (£98,000) on ‘Risk and
 complex project management’. Aura, in which Williams had a risk leadership role, facilitates
 collaborations with academics and industry in offshore renewables research; e.g., Shaw is

                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 working on ‘Black Grass’ and ‘Geothermal’ projects, each £50,000, targeting Humber-based SMEs
 seeking to enhance productivity and competitiveness through low carbon research and innovation.


 Research collaborations through Centres
     CSS and CSPC are forums for collaboration between disciplines and between academics and
 practitioners. This is achieved through seminars/workshops, access to research and practitioner
 networks, establishing PGR communities, and promoting externally-funded project activity, which
 typically require inter/transdisciplinary approaches (see Section 3).
     Mishra’s research for CSPC on sustainable supply chains underpins his collaborations with
 IfM’s Centre for International Manufacturing and Cambridge Global Food Security, both
 Cambridge University; Circular Food Forum, Brunel University; Bogor Agricultural University,
 Indonesia; Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi; Chulalongkorn University, Thailand; and Punjab
 Agricultural University, India.
     CSS has a critical mass of specialists in systems thinking. Its diverse expertise in this
 inter/transdisciplinary field underpins its variety of work with local and central government,
 business and third-sector. CSS was chosen for the Chartered Association of Business Schools’
 2018 video on business schools’ contributions to society. It has high visibility in international
 systems thinking, and UK and international community operational research communities e.g.,
 CSS member Emeritus Professor Mike Jackson OBE was awarded the Operational Research
 Society’s Beale Medal in 2017. Since 2014, three CSS members have been Presidents of the
 International Society for the Systems Sciences (ISSS). Giving one research example: Midgley
 with a PDRA (QR-SPF; £20,000) engaged in knowledge exchange with the Cabinet Office on the
 use of systems thinking to tackle cross-cutting policy issues. This, now, informs a large reform
 initiative across Government, raising CSS’s profile and creating further opportunities; e.g., a NERC
 CASE PhD studentship has been advertised, with the potential PGR researcher to be placed in
 Defra, helping to develop a new systems methodology for land-use policy-making; and
 discussions with the Home Office have begun on potential collaboration on cybersecurity. Since
 2014, CSS’s 12 Visiting Professors and Fellows (e.g., Lowe, Dstl) have partnered staff in funding
 bids (e.g. Lewis), co-authored papers (e.g., Rajagopalan), given seminars and enriched the
 research environment through engagements in research discussions.


 National and international research networks and collaborations of individual researchers
     The many examples throughout this submission evidence HUBS’s collaboration at national
 and international levels. To give one additional example:
 •   Andrikopoulos, a mid-career researcher in Finance, collaborates with researchers at seven
     UK universities, Massachusetts-Amherst (US), Vaasa (Finland), Central University of Finance
     and Economics (China), Athens’ University of Economics and Business and University of



                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Athens. These collaborations have generated jointly-authored papers, including seven articles
     in internationally-rated journals during REF2021.


 Engagement with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences
     Engagement with key users, beneficiaries and audiences enriches our research environment
 and ensures our research is relevant and responsive to external priorities and initiatives. This is
 demonstrated in the Impact Case Studies, so here we highlight additional examples of work that
 reflect our status as an anchor-institution and significant contributor in forums, involving
 governmental and other bodies, that shape responses, policies and regulations on emerging
 issues.


 Regional level
 •   Bovis’s research on EU regional development funds has been instrumental to Softmat Ltd, a
     start-up company to which he has been appointed Chairman, in securing Innovate UK SMART
     ‘Proof of Concept’ and ‘Development of Prototype’ funding.
 •   Demetis, an information management security specialist, informs his research and impact by
     engaging with: Humberside Police’s Cybercrime Team, e.g., gaining empirical data on online
     child exploitation to support PhD research and providing wider advice; and Humber Business
     Resilience Forum, as Vice-Chair, through the latter’s Board and public events reaching local
     businesses (e.g., Agenda Screening Services, Barclays Bank, C4DI, Clugston, PWC, Rollits,
     Rix).
 •   Midgley provided systems thinking support for ‘Active Withernsea’ (ERYC; £65,000), a project
     seeking to improve levels of physical activity through volunteer-facilitated community
     development; contributing to the evidence base for an innovative approach to UK public health
     facilitated by Sport England.
 •   Williams was involved in human factors applications (contributing to Psychology impact case)
     including Organisational Stress Risk Analyses for companies such as Centrica and the
     SPOWTT project, investigating human factors effects on offshore wind technician work with
     Siemens-Gamesa and service ship co-ordinators.


 National level
 •   Bovis has been Advisor to the House of Lords Committee on International Trade.
 •   Hudson is a member of the Executive Board, British Accounting and Finance Association
     Financial Markets and Institutions Special Interest Group, supported by Chartered Banker
     Institute and Chartered Institute of Securities and Investment, with connections to the Bank of
     England and other key research users.
 •   Swaray is an Expert Reviewer for UK Research and Innovation Future Leaders Fellowships
     Peer Review College.

                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 International level
 •   Bovis, based on knowledge transfer and industry engagement, has been Lead Advisor to:
     Republic of Cyprus on oil and hydrocarbons sector regulation; EU DG Growth on the regulation
     and structure of waste sector utilities in EU Members; EU DG Market on the regulation and
     structure of water utilities in EU Members States; Lithuanian Government on structuring and
     financing public-private partnerships; Chinese Government and EU Commission on public
     sector and utilities procurement reforms in China. He was OECD’s Lead Assessor for its
     assurance and risk audit function of economic activities.
 •   Hudson was the UK Actuarial Professions’ representative overseeing a major project on aging
     population effects on asset values, based at the University of Waterloo, Canada (2017/18).
 •   Merali is an Expert on Complex Systems for the EU; and Board Member, UNESCO’s ‘UniTwin
     on Complex Systems’ and ‘Complex Systems Digital Campus’.
 •   Perez-Sebastian addressed: IMF’s Institute of Capacity Development in 2018, involving staff
     who deliver courses to government officials worldwide on growth/development promotion
     mechanisms; and a 2019 policy meeting organised by his World Bank-based co-author
     informing Brazil’s Ministry of Economy, Energy Planning Agency, and National Regulator
     about their research.
 •   Swaray is an international external examiner for the African Economic Research Consortium’s
     Collaborative PhD in Economics for Sub-Saharan Africa.
     Our researchers make significant contributions to associations, bodies and societies that
 represent and promote professional disciplines, e.g.: Scullion has contributed to the sustainability
 of HRM by developing the Global Talent Management research network e.g., through founding
 and chairing the European Institute for the Advanced Study of Management Talent Management
 workshop. He has established a formal research collaboration agreement between UoH and the
 Indian Institute of Management Kozidhode (5th ranked in India), developing inter-institutional staff
 mobility, jointly-publishing (on SMEs, and female careers in India) and instigating research on
 ‘Talent in grass-roots and voluntary organisations’.
     As indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research community,
 our current researchers have been highly successful:
 •   Journal Editorships, Editorial Board membership and special issues: Editor-in-Chief
     roles: European Procurement and Public-Private Partnerships Law Review (Bovis); Systems
     Research and Behavioral Science (Gregory).
     Other substantial journal editorial roles: Systemic Practice and Action Research, and
     International Journal of Applied Systemic Studies (Midgley); Journal of Economic
     Assymmetries (Bhattarai); International Review of Financial Analysis, and Finance Research
     Letters (Li); Review of Behavioral Finance, and British Actuarial Journal (Hudson); Journal of
     Information Systems Security (Demetis); International Journal of Social Economics (Swaray).

                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Holding 35+ memberships of journal editorial boards including: Human Resource Management
     Review (Scullion); Organization Studies (Reedy); Psychology and Marketing (Shabbir).
     Guest (co-)editors of special issues, e.g.: Journal of Database Management on ‘Managing
     Information Security Risks in Digital Business’ (Demetis); European Journal of Operational
     Research on ‘Community Operational Research’ (Midgley); Production Planning and Control
     on ‘Knowledge management practice for effective operations in SMEs’ (Mishra).
 •   Hosting international conferences: Academy of Marketing 2017 (Theme - ‘Freedom through
     Marketing, or how Marketing can be used to counter oppression, injustice and inequalities’
     reflecting our distinctiveness; 450 delegates) co-chaired by Shabbir; World Marketing Summit
     2019 chaired by Shabbir (Kotler’s keynote was his first in the UK in over a decade); PROLOG
     2018 (Ramudhin).
     Organising/(co-)chairing conference streams: Gregory co-chaired WOSC 2017 ‘Democracy,
     Transparency and Social Dynamics’ stream, and ‘Problem Structuring’ streams at OR56(2014)
     and OR58(2016); and Midgley/Hindle organised ‘Systems Thinking’ streams at OR60(2018)
     and OR61(2019) (both with Espinosa) and OR62(2020) (with Dstl researchers). The OR60
     stream was the largest in the Operational Research Society’s history.
     Participation in numerous international conference organising committees, e.g., Midgley - on
     18 international systems science conference organising committees since 2014.
 •   Selected major contributions to learned societies and organisations, and awards
     include: Andrikopoulos – Associate Fellow, CRETA, Warwick University; Bovis – Royal
     Society Life Fellow; Higgs – Founding Fellow, Leadership Trust; and Honorary Fellow,
     Institute of Employment Studies; Midgley – Academician, International Academy for Systems
     and Cybernetic Sciences, and ISSS President (2014); Whitehouse – Fellow, Cambridge
     Centre for Property Law; Williams – REF2014 and REF2021 Business and Management
     Studies Panellist.
 •   Visiting/Adjunct professorships: Higgs – Erasmus, Henley; Midgley – Linnaeus,
     Mälardalen, Queensland, Wellington, Canterbury; Scullion – Indian Institute of Management,
     ESCP Berlin, Kent.
 •   Grant committees: e.g.: Atkins - UKRI ‘Sustainable Management of UK Marine Resources’
     programme ‘Strategic Advisory Group’; Higgs - Serra Hunter awards committee, University of
     Barcelona; Midgley - Review Board of the British Council Newton Fund and College of
     Assessors of the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment, NZ; Williams - Project
     Management Institute Academic Members’ Advisory Group.
     Reviewing applications for grant bodies, e.g.: ESRC; British Council; Newton Fund; British
     Academy; Leverhulme; Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales; Medical
     Research Council; National Institute of Health Research; European Research Council;
     European Science Foundation; Spanish Agency of Evaluation; Canadian Social Sciences
     Research Council; Irish Research Council.

                                                                                         Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                          Page 26
