Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Wales Trinity Saint David

 Unit of Assessment: 31

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The submitting unit combines research active staff from the Centre of Humanities and Social
 Sciences located on the Lampeter campus (UWTSD). The Lampeter campus has a long history
 of teaching theology and religion in Wales. Since the granting of the Royal Charter in 1822,
 Theology and Biblical Studies were at the core of St David’s College (latterly University of Wales
 Lampeter), later supplemented by the inclusion of Study of Religions, Islamic Studies,
 Philosophy of Religion, and Ethics. In addition, Lampeter has a rich tradition in Classics and
 other subjects in the Humanities and maintains a national and international profile in these
 areas.

 The current submission reveals the strong synergies between Theology and Religion and
 Classics as well as links to History and Anthropology. In 2014 the research strategy
 underpinning the submission to UoA 33 (TRS) had three main objectives: interfaith studies;
 minority religions; and the biblical and theological legacy of Wales. The research objectives for
 the submission to UoA 31 (Classics) in the last REF cycle centred on four key areas: narrative;
 Rome and the West; Ancient Near East; materiality. During the period under review, the merger
 of these departments into a single Humanities unit has led to various collaborative research
 activities and to the crystallisation of four interdisciplinary research areas: modern theology,
 interfaith, ethics and Islam; text and reception; church history and religious history; and also
 anthropology of religion and land/skyscape, with several colleagues active in more than one of
 these areas. As a result, the research environment of the submitting unit has been developed
 from the ground up instead of top down, and the research themes outlined below are built upon
 shared interests among staff.

 Research in modern theology, interfaith, ethics and Islam (Baylor, Bunt, Humphreys, Scott,
 Slater, with input from Jansen, Schmidt) is carried out around social justice, environmental
 philosophy, and religious activism. Located at the intersection of theology and ethics, it explores,
 for instance, various religious theories about the moral and spiritual significance of the material
 world. Baylor’s work is about rival conceptions of divine justice and the ways in which it shapes
 Christian moral and social teaching (Baylor1). He also investigates theological treatments of
 creation and how they interact with concepts of divine justice (Baylor2). Slater’s research centres
 on the connection between theology and the development of better theological practices in
 pluralistic societies (Slater1). His work on social ethics (Slater2) has led to his current work on
 LGBT and Anglicanism, while the focus on interfaith engagement dovetails with Schmidt’s
 research on interreligious conflicts in Brazil (Schmidt2) and Jansen’s work on religious legacy in
 China (Jansen1). Bunt’s research on Islam and the internet (Bunt1) relates to the debate on
 dialogue among religious communities in pluralist societies, including the use of social media
 (Bunt2). Humphreys’s research in Environmental Philosophy focuses on animal ethics,
 environmental ethics, and bioethics, as well as moral philosophy (Humphreys1/2). Scott’s
 historical research also falls in this area, as he examines the ways in which places are
 constituted through interconnections between humans and non-humans, past and present
 (Scott1).

 Research on text and reception (Bissa, Cobb, Erickson, Keady, Ohrman, Parkes, Williams)
 focuses on the intersection of texts and the contexts from which they emerge – religious, social
 and cultural, such as the development of early Christianity within its historical context. It includes
 research in Biblical Studies and Classics and represents a continuation of the research
 objectives submitted in REF2014 to UoA Classics as well as to UoA TRS.
 Williams’s research centres primarily on John's Gospel, particularly its reception of Jewish
 scripture and tradition (Williams1/3). She explores how various modes of scriptural reference
 can shed light on the ways in which 'Scripture' is appropriated by John as a catalyst for, and
 expression of, its distinctive Christology (Williams2).

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Texts and their reception, especially within the context of late Second Temple Judaism or
 Christianity in late antiquity, are the focus of research by Erickson, Parkes, and Keady.
 Erickson’s work focuses on religious and cultural developments in the East and in Asia Minor
 during the late Hellenistic period (Erickson1). Also focusing on late Second Temple Judaism is
 Keady’s research on the Dead Sea Scrolls which she analyses from a range of perspectives
 including masculinist / feminist and embodiment (Keady1). Parkes’s research focuses on
 Claudian, a late antique Roman and so-called ‘pagan’ poet writing during the rise of Christianity
 (Parkes1/2).

 Ohrman’s work explores the intersection of literary texts and material culture (Ohrman1/3), such
 as the use of textile metaphors in early Christian texts (especially Potamius of Lisbon), and also
 deals with literary description of ancient craft practice in light of archaeological research and
 experimental archaeology (Ohrman2).

 Cultural and economic interconnections between the Mediterranean and wider Afro-Eurasian
 world in antiquity are explored by Cobb, whose work focuses on the exchange of commodities
 (and ideas connected to these) and on how they feed into wider socio-economic, religious and
 cultural practices (Cobb1/2). Bissa’s research investigates the classical Greek world from the
 perspective of economics and, like Cobb, focuses on its fiscal sector (Bissa1). These research
 projects on the ancient world also connect to those produced by other colleagues across the
 submitting unit. Webster, for instance, studies thirteenth-century narrative histories and
 fourteenth-century canonisation dossiers (Webster1).

 Research in Church history and religious history (Austin, Bezant, Burton, Webster) has
 centred on the religious legacy of Wales, which was one of the main research objectives in
 REF2014. It has led to publications such as Theologia Cambrensis by Professor Emeritus Densil
 Morgan.

 In addition to research on the religious and theological legacy of Wales, the research cluster
 focuses on material religious settings, in particular Welsh monastic houses such as the former
 Cistercian Abbey Strata Florida which received funding from the AHRC and other bodies (details
 in REF3 ‘Strata Florida’) (Austin1, Bezant1). The research in Strata Florida is connected to the
 Monastic Wales Project led by Burton, which examines medieval monastic houses as formative
 influences on the political, economic, social, and cultural development and transformation of
 Wales (Burton1/2). Burton also investigates the material and symbolic siting of English
 monasteries on islands and the materiality of medieval relics (Burton3), while Webster’s
 research on the Church in the Middle Ages provides a textual approach (Webster1/2). The cult
 of saints in Wales was the topic of an AHRC project involving Jane Cartwright (submitted to REF
 UoA 26) as well as other researchers at the Centre for Advanced Welsh and Celtic Studies in
 Aberystwyth (CAWCS) which recently became part of UWTSD. Collaboration between Lampeter
 and CAWCS led to the current AHRC-funded project on 'Sacred Landscapes of Medieval
 Monasteries' also involving colleagues from Leeds (with Austin as PI). The project is a
 comparative and cross-disciplinary study of Cistercian Abbey sites in Wales and Lincolnshire,
 investigating how medieval monasteries established themselves in pre-existing landscapes and
 within their symbolic and social meanings.

 The fourth research area is anthropology of religion, land/skyscapes and the intersection
 between people and the material world (Attala, Coard, Campion, Jansen, Ohrman, Schmidt,
 Steel, Zinn, with input from Burton and Webster) with studies on body, alternative spirituality,
 and environment. This research area incorporates two research centres, the Sophia Centre and
 the Religious Experience Research Centre, and the newly founded Harmony Institute that
 facilitates and supports critical inquiry and research into concepts of harmony and their
 application.

 Research within this cluster examines ways in which objects and materials shape human
 experiences. It explores how materials and matter (including humans) interact to create the
 world we live in (Coard1, Burton3, Attala2/3, Webster3). Related to this is Schmidt’s research on

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 embodiment and the agency of embodied entities. Her ethnographic work on spirit possession
 and trance in Brazil offers a new methodological and theoretical approach to the anthropology of
 religious experience (Schmidt1). Campion’s research on skyscape deals with certain ways in
 which we construct notions of time and the universe, and how these are used to provide context,
 meaning and purpose in both collective and individual terms (Campion1/2).

 Materiality and the intersection between people and the material world (including the body and
 foodstuffs) lies at the core of Steel’s research, focusing on the ancient Near Eastern and Aegean
 contexts (Steel1/2). She explores the interaction between people and things, and how objects
 are embedded in daily life and ritualized practices (Steel3). It links to Attala’s research about
 how the properties of physical substances shape people's beliefs and behaviour (Attala1).
 Bodily experience of a different kind is the focus of Zinn’s research (Zinn1). She works on
 Ancient Egypt and the materiality of death and shows that artefacts from tombs represent the
 ancient Egyptian belief system (Zinn2).

 Wellbeing is a new research focus in this cluster, with links to research undertaken in other
 centres of UWTSD. Schmidt’s current research looks at the concept of wellbeing and spirituality
 (Schmidt3) while Jansen studies self-sacrifice and other spiritual practises as ways to increase
 wellbeing in China (Jansen2).

 Research Objectives for the next assessment period
 The main objective for the coming 5 years is to strengthen further the interdisciplinary research
 within Humanities, based on the shared research interests presented above.
 One objective linked to the strand in modern theology is to develop projects on interreligious and
 intercultural studies, past and present. In addition to biblical and theological studies, it will
 include anthropological, historical, and other text-based studies of encounters between people
 from different religious, spiritual, and non-religious communities. We also plan to expand the
 research further into the study of analogical perspectives on ancient and contemporary
 intercultural and interreligious dynamics.

 Another objective is to increase research on materiality in the form of display and heritage. In
 addition to the ongoing Monastic Wales and Strata Florida projects, we aim to strengthen
 cooperation with the Cyfarthfa Castle Museum and Art Gallery in Merthyr Tydfil which has
 recently received funding for a major renovation project. Another strand of activities under
 development is linked to the bicentenary of St David’s College Lampeter (2022), which is
 generating new research about the founding of the university in the context of colonialism and
 slavery.

 The anthropology of religion cluster aims to develop more theoretical work on the intersection of
 the tangible and intangible worlds. The research will be rooted in classical, religious, indigenous
 and scientific models of nature, and it will examine the social worlds linked to wellbeing,
 sustainable environment and education.

 Another objective embedded in all previous objectives is to increase and diversify research
 income by increasing PGR numbers in certain areas, developing new study programmes such
 as MRes and Professional Doctorates, strengthening and diversifying collaborations with other
 universities and non-academic sectors; and seeking new research funding bodies.

 Impact
 The key elements of the unit’s impact strategy are as follows: embedding impact in project
 planning and funding plans; collaboration with external partners; political engagement and policy
 formation; and sustaining community partnerships for environmental sustainability, health and
 wellbeing. The two selected case studies exemplify these elements. REF3 ‘Strata Florida’
 showcases the impact of the research activities on rural communities based on collaboration
 with several partners, and REF3 ‘Wild Animals’ demonstrates impact on policy formation with the
 introduction of Welsh Government legislation in relation to animal ethics.


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Looking to the future, our impact strategy focuses on three areas as well as acknowledging, at
 the same time, that the production of impact can be a long process. Consequently, emphasis will
 be placed on impact development in interfaith and intercultural studies (Slater, Williams, and
 Bunt), further strengthened by ongoing PhD projects in these areas. Sponsored by the KESS
 funding scheme of the EU, these projects work together with the Muslim Council of Wales and
 the Evangelical Alliance Wales, the Harmony project, and the Chin Kung Foundation to support
 local communities in South Wales.

 Another area of impact development is linked to materiality and heritage. As indicated in REF3
 ‘Strata Florida’ we have good links with local communities in Mid Wales which will be
 strengthened through further collaboration with local museums in South West Wales as well as
 other local communities (Attala, Ohrman, Scott, Steel, Zinn, Ohrman, and supported by Austin
 and Burton). In addition, Attala is involved in the Tairona Heritage Trust, invited by UNECSO to
 the BRIDGES workshop to develop an international coalition for action in sustainability science.
 Impact in the area of health and ethics belongs to a wider University strategy linked to the Welsh
 Government’s Wellbeing of Future Generations Act. The aim is to strengthen collaboration with
 colleagues across the University and to develop new impact in the areas of wellbeing and ethics
 (Attala, Jansen, Humphreys, Schmidt).

 Our strategy also includes building on ongoing impact. Several of the case studies previously
 submitted (REF2014) continue to generate impact (e.g., Bunt’s research in i-Islam) and we
 expect this also to be the case with REF3 ‘Strata Florida’.

 Open Research Environment
 Following the University’s guidelines under its Open Access Publications and Data Management
 policies (2016), all researchers in the submitting unit are actively encouraged - with the support
 of the open access team in Learning and Library Services - to seek out opportunities to publish
 in open access journals or those compliant with REF2021 policy in terms of embargo limits.
 Central licensing agreements have accelerated the unit’s transition to open access publishing
 models. Staff also work closely with the University’s Research, Innovation and Enterprise
 Services to develop research data management plans for funded research bids.

 An example of the increasing Open Research Environment in Lampeter is the Religious
 Experience Research Centre, which has made most of its research publications available for
 free download from its website as well as providing researchers worldwide with online access to
 its primary data (narratives of spiritual and religious experiences). The submitting unit oversees
 several open access journals that are hosted on the UWTSD website, such as the Journal for
 the Study of Religious Experience. Another journal, Culture and Cosmos, previously behind a
 paywall, is now fully accessible online. This is in line with our intention to increase online
 resources for our growing number of distance-learning postgraduate and undergraduate
 programmes.

 Research Integrity
 As outlined in REF5a, the UWTSD has a Research Integrity and Ethics Code of Practice, which
 ensures compliance with the UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity. All research students
 and academic staff undertaking research projects must apply for approval. One member of the
 submitting unit (Humphreys) ensures that the code of practice is followed and offers annual
 training events to staff and research students, which are also recorded so that everyone can be
 updated on the process. Schmidt was the lead in developing a new Code of Conduct for the
 British Association for the Study of Religions.

 2. People

 Staff
 Since 2014, the submitting unit has seen significant changes in personnel. The impact of the
 departure of colleagues has been mitigated to some degree by the recruitment of new members


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of staff as well as the strategic development of cross-disciplinary teaching and postgraduate
 research supervision.

 Staff training and the development of research skills, aligned to the Researcher Development
 Concordat, takes place on various levels. The University has a Staff Development Unit that
 coordinates training events for all staff, often via webinars that are recorded and made available
 to all staff. The development of research-related skills is organised centrally by the Research,
 Innovation and Enterprise Services (e.g., about open access publishing, data management,
 supervision of research degree students, ethical approval of research projects), as outlined in
 REF5a and the Research Development Plan. In addition, the Humanities Research Committee
 organises training targeted at Lampeter-based Humanities staff (e.g., workshops for mid-career
 colleagues on bid writing and preparing book proposals). Due to the high number of research
 students in Humanities, Lampeter offers additional training to support young colleagues starting
 out as research supervisors and examiners. Training sessions are conducted, for instance, by
 Schmidt who was the chair of the University’s Research Degrees Committee (2015-2018), by
 Zinn, the current co-Director of Graduate Studies within the Institute, and by Humphreys, the
 Humanities representative on the Ethics Committee. All members of the submitting unit on a
 permanent contract (full- and part-time) are involved in postgraduate research supervision.
 Additionally, the Institute of Education and Humanities holds a series of Research Days
 especially for Early Career Researchers.

 Career Pathways
 As outlined in REF5A, the University operates the HERA job evaluation scheme that is
 embedded into the pay structure, thereby ensuring a transparent pay scale with clear
 parameters regarding progression. It is University policy to recruit staff on short-term contracts
 only in exceptional circumstances or related to projects with external funding. Among Category A
 eligible staff in this submitting unit the majority (16) are on full-time contracts, 6 on fractional
 contracts, and only 2 are on fixed-term contracts (linked to external funding). The University
 expects strong research profiles when recruiting new staff and offers them support to develop
 careers as researchers, including a mentoring system for new staff. During the assessment
 period two new ECR (Slater and Keady) were recruited to strengthen the field of Interfaith
 Studies, one of the strategic foci of the submitting unit. Two other ECRs were hired as
 replacements for colleagues (Scott and Baylor) as well as one (Webster) to strengthen a
 research area regarded as strategically important and in order to put a succession plan in place.
 All new staff members receive training to further their publication record and grant capture and
 have already made good progress in this regard.

 Professional development opportunities are available to all members of staff regardless of their
 contract, and all staff can participate in the Performance and Development Review Scheme to
 identify short- and longer-term career, performance and development goals. Academic staff use
 a planning and workload management tool, which is negotiated and agreed upon with the line
 manager and is aligned to the Performance and Development Review Scheme. It acknowledges
 that the academic role involves a range of activities, including study and development activity. In
 addition, the Humanities Research Committee monitors staff research activities. Staff are asked
 to update the Research Proforma annually by recording activities such as conference papers,
 publications, and grant applications. Depending on budgetary capacity the Research Committee
 can offer financial support for research activities such as conferences, preparing book
 manuscripts for publication, and impact-related activities. Research activities are also discussed
 in Activity Profile meetings and Appraisals with the Academic Director in Humanities. Research
 achievements are part of staff progression and are recognised in the award of academic titles
 such as Associate Professor, Reader, and Professor that are made centrally by the University.

 While the University supports research leave only in case of grant capture (e.g., Ohrman was
 granted one-year leave supported by her MSC grant), Humanities moved to immersive block
 teaching in 2018/19 to allow time for research via time allocation in activity profiles. Staff are
 expected to engage in research activities during blocks free of teaching duties.


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research students

 Programmes and recruitment. The submitting unit has a strong history of recruiting research
 students. Since 2014, 121 research students within the unit have successfully been awarded a
 research degree, and 145 students joined our research degree programmes. In recognition of
 the growing financial pressures on research students and their potential impact on recruitment,
 the University has validated new study programmes supported by a new Welsh Government
 scheme (from 2019) for Postgraduate Doctoral Loans and which have helped to maintain strong
 recruitment of postgraduate students. Among the newly validated Professional Doctorate
 Programmes is one in Interfaith Studies taught on campus in Lampeter, and which had an initial
 intake of 15 students receiving a full fee waiver and stipend. Funding for it was secured through
 our partnership with the Chin Kung Multicultural Educational Foundation (£750k) with additional
 funding for specific activities secured from the King Abdullah bin Abdulaziz International Centre
 for Interreligious and Intercultural Dialogue (KAICIID, Vienna), Libertas (Ukraine), and the
 Russell Berrie Foundation (Rome). In addition, 4 KESS PhD scholarships in interfaith studies
 were awarded in 2019/20, with funding (£215k) from the European Social Fund. These are
 collaborative projects whereby students work with key partners (St Padarn’s Institute, the Muslim
 Council of Wales, and the Evangelical Alliance Wales) in the areas of faith-based approaches to
 sustainability and mental health. Another successful recruitment strategy has been the validation
 of Master by Research (MRes) programmes. These shorter research programmes prepare
 students for research degrees and are proving to be popular for the recruitment of PhD students.
 The MRes Religious Experience, which has been particularly successful, has gained financial
 support from the Alister Hardy Trust in the form of student bursaries (based on needs).

 Supervision and Training. A high percentage of our research students are mature students,
 working (e.g., teaching in a theological seminary or a college) or retired. The majority are
 distance learners, and supervision takes place via online facilities. Students are encouraged to
 attend the annual Summer Graduate School that takes place in Lampeter, as well as
 postgraduate conferences organised by the University, or subject-specific conferences also held
 in Lampeter. In addition to recording research seminar presentations and making them available
 to our distance learning students, we offer them webinars and other related activities. Our
 longstanding experience with online teaching and research engagement has made us well
 prepared for the unprecedented situation caused by the COVID19 lockdown. Campus-based
 workshops/seminars and the weekly research seminars were quickly moved online. We also
 have a strong and successful practice of meeting our students at international conferences, both
 to support and mentor them and to provide further opportunities for inclusion in our research
 environment.

 Doctoral research students are supervised by a team of at least two supervisors (lead supervisor
 and second supervisor), often comprising of a mix of ECRs and experienced supervisors which
 allows an ECR to develop experience in supervision. The Institute has two Directors of Graduate
 Studies to oversee progress mechanisms for research students and to support supervisors.

 Students receive training in generic skills as part of the Research Development Plan. The
 Research, Innovation and Enterprise Services offer a series of training events including
 webinars (e.g., in publishing, presenting at conferences, preparing for the viva) to accommodate
 distance learners. This programme is fully aligned to the Vitae Researcher Development
 Framework and all students and staff are encouraged to establish personal development plans
 using Vitae’s online RDF planning tool. In this respect, the submitting unit has set up additional
 resources such as the recording of research seminars for PGT/PGR students. Students are
 given the opportunity to present their work on PG-dedicated research days and workshops.
 Subject-specific PG conferences, usually held during non-teaching sessions, include annual
 conferences in philosophy and religion (Humphreys) and interfaith studies (Slater), in addition to
 centrally organised events such as the Summer Graduate School (in Lampeter) and the
 Postgraduate conferences (in Carmarthen) organised by the Research, Innovation and
 Enterprise Services.


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research students regularly present at annual conferences of the subject associations such as
 the BASR, BNTS, BRAIS, BRISMES, often supported with bursaries offered by these
 associations. Several former PhD students have successfully published their theses following
 graduation (e.g., Charles Allers, Monsoon Books 2014; Edward Gerber, Brill 2016; Naomi
 Thurston, Brill 2018; Laura J. Hunt, Mohr Siebeck 2019; Nathan Elawa, Springer 2020) and/or
 contributed to edited volumes and journals even before or shortly after competing their studies.

 Some research students are offered teaching experience to develop their teaching skills. The
 University runs a PG Cert in HE Teaching that is offered to research students on teaching
 contracts. While this option is not available to distance learners, several of them are already
 teaching while working on their PhD at a distance.

 The result is an impressive employability rate for our research graduates. For instance, Duo
 Luan, PhD 2017, now works at the University of Edinburgh, and Naomi Thurston, PhD 2014,
 received a job offer from the Chinese University of Hong Kong. Several of our distance learning
 students already held teaching positions when they enrolled on the PhD (e.g., Ibrahim Abusharif,
 PhD award in 2020, at the Northwestern University in Qatar; Margaret Webster, PhD award
 pending, at Edge Hill University). Several have successfully used the PhD award to gain
 promotion to full positions (e.g., Michael Bradley Jr, PhD award in 2017, promoted at Georgia
 State University in 2018).

 Equality and diversity
 REF5A details the profile of staff regarding pay and protected characteristics at Institutional
 level. In preparing its submission, the University has complied with the processes detailed in the
 REF Code of Practice, to ensure that equality and diversity responsibilities are fully considered.
 This has included regular reporting through the University’s governance process, a University-
 wide process in activity profiling, a full staff-briefing programme, ongoing opportunity to declare
 personal circumstances, an appeals process, and data analysis to undertake equality impact
 assessments. The assessments confirm that UoA31 has a higher proportion of female
 academics (61%) and the selection of outputs is consistent with this distribution (63% female;
 37% male). There is no evidence of discrimination between any age group with a near even
 distribution of staff between 26-34 (17%), 35-44 (26%), 45-54 (17%), 55 -64 (16%) and 65+
 (13%). 17% of staff declare that they are from BAME backgrounds, which is a small
 improvement on the University’s entire submitted cohort, in which 89% of all submitting
 academics have declared their ethnicity as White.

 The profile of the cohort of research students is different. Regarding gender, it reflects the
 national trend in the subject. Despite a good recruitment of female students on UG and PGT
 degrees, most research students are male though the ratio is above the national average for
 TRS. The demographic profile of students shows a higher ethnic and racial diversity, further
 supported by the validation of Professional Doctorate programmes. Among the recipients of the
 scholarship for interfaith studies are students from India, Nigeria, Ghana, Ukraine, China, in
 addition to students from the EU and the USA. Their visibility on campus is strengthening its
 ethnic diversity, particularly as some students are involved in undergraduate teaching.
 As detailed in REF5A, the unit’s approach to supporting and managing the well-being of staff is
 focused on prevention and early intervention strategies. The implementation of ‘family friendly’
 and flexible working polices enables people to balance work and caring responsibilities, and the
 principles of equality and diversity are fully embedded across all employment-related polices and
 processes. Due to the demographic profile of the submitting unit, there are several with caring
 responsibilities for young children or elderly parents. Staff with such responsibilities have the
 option to move to a fractional contract. In cases of prolonged medical leave, staff receive support
 upon return with a phased return to full duties. The University offers all staff the same support for
 their research activities.




                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Infrastructure
 Operational and scholarly infrastructure
 The submitting unit is located in the Centre of Humanities and Social Sciences which is part of
 the Institute of Education and Humanities. It was established in 2019 when the Faculty of
 Humanities and Performing Arts was merged with the Faculty of Education. Research activities
 are coordinated by the Institute’s Research Committee, which reports to the University’s
 Research Committee. The Institute’s Research Committee is divided into two units, one for
 Humanities and Social Sciences and the other for Athrofa (Education), that coordinate research
 activities and also support the REF Management Team of the University. The units receive
 reports from Institute representatives that sit on the University’s Research Degrees Committee
 and the Ethics Committee.

 The University Research Strategy is supported by the Research, Innovation and Enterprise
 Services (RIES), which provides organisational infrastructure in relation to income bid
 development, project management and training.

 Research infrastructure within the Centre of Humanities and Social Sciences
 In addition to the centrally organised infrastructure, the Humanities Research Committee - in
 cooperation with the Institute’s Research Committee - organises workshops and training events
 to support research development. In specially arranged Research Days (one per term,
 mandatory for all staff members) staff discuss ideas for developing research applications across
 the Institute. Other workshops are arranged to help staff write new grant applications and to
 provide feedback on applications. The aim is to provide a supportive and interdisciplinary
 research environment so that staff in Humanities learn from staff in Education (e.g., about
 impact) and vice versa (e.g., about publication).

 Scholarly infrastructure
 The Centre of Humanities and Social Sciences includes two special collections, both of which
 are unique in the UK: the Roderic Bowen Collection and the Alister Hardy Archive. Both are
 administered by the Library in Lampeter and looked after by special collection librarians. The
 Roderic Bowen Collection contains unique manuscripts and artefacts that provide an important
 resource for researchers in Church History, Religious History and also Welsh History. In
 particular research by Austin, Burton, Jansen and Webster were inspired by material in the
 collection. It is also a valuable resource for the archival training of postgraduate students who
 are introduced to medieval manuscripts.

 The Alister Hardy Archive in the Religious Experience Research Centre contains personal
 narratives on religious experience that have been made available online during this assessment
 period. The Centre organises conferences, research seminars and publications. Its growing
 visibility has led to an increasing number of research students and international visitors. The
 most recent visitor was Prof Marta de Freitas from the Catholic University of Brasilia, a professor
 of psychology of religion who works around wellbeing and spirituality. During her visit she
 developed plans for a joint research application to the Templeton Foundation and joint
 publications.

 Another specialist research facility located within the submitting unit is the Sophia Centre, which
 is the only academic centre to explore culture in relation to the sky and cosmos. Since its move
 from Bath Spa University in 2007, the centre has organised annual conferences and set up three
 different publication streams: the journal Culture and Cosmos, the postgraduate student journal
 Spica, and the Sophia Centre Press for the publication of monographs and edited volumes.

 Research Income
 The Unit has been successful in securing external research funding from various sponsors. The
 interdisciplinary nature of its research activities has helped to diversify the research income

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 stream. During the assessment period the submitting unit received research grants from the UK
 Research Councils (in particular the AHRC and the British Academy), other UK central bodies
 and charities, EU government bodies, and non-European bodies. While income has varied
 across the submitting unit, all research areas have attracted funding during the assessment
 period.

 A key focus of this activity has been to support and develop the research base to build
 partnerships with academic colleagues in other institutions, locally, nationally and internationally
 through recognised research routes. In summary, secured grants total £2.61m, including the
 AHRC (7 projects, total grant value £606k), FP7 (1 project, £550k), British Academy,
 Leverhulme and Wellcome (£75k) and charitable sources and foundations (£804k) such as the
 Fuller University (£12K), Davenant (£3k), the Wenner-Gren Foundation (£11.6k), and the Chin
 Kung Multicultural Educational Foundation (£750k). Another grant came from the Qatar
 Government (£283k). Other small grants have been secured in the UK from the Pasold
 Research Fund, Independent Social Research Foundation and Donald Atkinson Fund (£8.4k),
 and the Alister Hardy Trust (£19K). Consultancy work has been undertaken for CADW (£36k)
 and also for NHS Wales through the Welsh Government’s Integrated Care Fund. A further £215k
 has been awarded from the Welsh European Funding Office / European Social Fund for doctoral
 training. Joint project proposals have also been submitted in funding initiatives under UKRIs
 Joint Programming Initiative (e.g., Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, US National Endowment
 for the Humanities, and the Irish Research Council).

 Within the £2.61m total, Petersen’s archaeological research projects (listed in REF1b), Qatar
 Islamic Archaeology and Heritage and also Visualising Qatar’s Past, received substantial
 funding (£283k) from the Qatar Government, while his research on Medieval and Ottoman
 Buildings in Palestine (2013/14) was funded by the British Academy (£6k). Equally successful
 was another archaeological project, For Sea Discovery, that received £550k of funding from the
 EUs FP7 programme through the Marie Curie Actions. The AHRC funded research (£73k) on
 cultural identity, religion and food (Food Stories: Fostering Cross-Cultural Dialogue through
 Food; PI was Abbot, listed in REF1b) and research on Hidden Pasts: Developing Narratives for
 Community Archaeology and Local History at Arediou, Cyprus (Steel, £7k). Further AHRC
 funding (£31k) was secured by Mason, Zinn, Abbot and Draycott for four smaller projects within
 the unit. More recently the AHRC awarded Austin a grant for research on sacred landscapes of
 medieval monasteries linked to Strata Florida (see REF3). The total grant value on this project is
 £683k, with the unit receiving £492k, and the collaborating partner, University of Leeds, in
 receipt of £191k.

 Several staff received start-up funding from the University for research initiatives in response to
 the Well-being of Future Generations (Wales) Act (e.g., Schmidt/Leonardi, Keady). Attala
 received funding from the Hywel Dda Health Board (£36k) for conducting fieldwork among NHS
 staff about their experience of new work environments in the newly constructed Aberaeron and
 Cardigan Integrated Care Centres.

 Funding targets over the next 5 years will continue to diversify research income. Within each of
 the four research groups presented in section 1, the target is to apply for at least one network
 application and 4 ECR and mid-career funding grants (e.g., British Academy, Leverhulme). To
 support this, activity profiles for all staff members includes allocated hours for grant applications.
 The Humanities Research Committee organises workshops to support the development of
 research plans and to discuss draft applications. It also allocates a mentor to ECR.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations
 To ensure the continuation of our distinctive and significance contribution to the various research
 areas, the submitting unit has developed and maintained strong national and international
 research networks. The Monastic Wales Project (PI Burton) includes team members from Spain,

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ireland, Germany, Czech Republic and other HEIs in the UK. It was initially set up with start-up
 funding from UWTSD and developed from a collaborative seminar with colleagues in Ireland that
 led to the Monastic Ireland project. Currently it is sustained as part of the AHRC project 'Sacred
 Landscapes of Medieval Monasteries', which is a collaboration between UWTSD (including
 CAWCS) and Leeds University. The Colloquium Ioanneum, to which Williams was elected as
 one of 14 members, includes senior Johannine scholars from the USA, South Africa, Australia
 and various European countries. Williams has also co-led a project on ‘John’s Transformation of
 Mark’ (funded by the University of Aarhus) with colleagues from the universities of Edinburgh
 and Münster, and she is part of a four-year research network (with Danish funding) investigating
 early Christian manuscripts in relation to the reception history of John’s Gospel from the second
 to the sixth century CE. Keady belongs to the Interdisciplinary Biblical Studies Shiloh Project that
 brings together scholars from the UK and beyond and is the recent recipient of a Digital
 Humanities Award. She is also a member of the Second Temple Early Career Academy
 (Birmingham University). Baylor is involved in the ‘TheoPsych: Bringing Theology to Mind’
 project hosted by Fuller Theological Seminary with funding from the John Templeton
 Foundation. Schmidt collaborates with the research centre ‘Religion and Transformation in
 Contemporary Society’ at the University of Vienna and is on the advisory board of the Higher
 Power Project run at Chester University.

 Engagement with research users
 Staff in the submitting unit are actively engaged with research users in various ways, in outreach
 activities as well as impact development. An example of this is the research on interfaith and
 intercultural studies. Though still at an initial stage, it demonstrates the importance of our
 engagement with research users and has great potential to create future impact. Since the
 launch of interfaith studies in Lampeter, staff have focused on interfaith hermeneutics, in line
 with the Professional Doctorate in Interfaith Studies, and this has resulted in a series of focussed
 public engagement and denominationally influential events that have taken place since 2017.
 These include staff applying their research in theology and biblical studies to develop new
 methodological approaches to interfaith engagement, including papers by Williams on reading
 NT texts from an interfaith perspective to the North American and European Regional Meeting of
 the Anglican Interfaith Commission (September 2019) and the Ecclesiology Seminar at
 Westminster Abbey (March 2020) in preparation for the Lambeth Conference 2021. Papers by
 Slater have resulted in direct knowledge transfer and impact within the Anglican Communion,
 particularly its ongoing interfaith and ecumenical agenda. Williams’s research has had a
 significant impact on the current production of guidance documents for the Church in Wales
 Doctrinal Commission for which she serves as ecumenical member. In addition, through the
 sponsorship and involvement of the Welsh Assembly, the unit’s religious policy impact has been
 brought to the attention of political policy makers.

 Knowledge transfer of research in interfaith studies has been extended further as a result of its
 annual conferences (since 2017) and research workshops, drawing on the expertise of a range
 of interfaith practitioners, scholars, students, and national community activists in discussion of
 hermeneutical principles and practices in Interfaith discussions. This activity has reached around
 500 individuals, with additional public outreach on social, cultural, and religious matters being
 undertaken by Williams’s regular appearances on Welsh-language television and radio.

 Research in the field of interfaith education and professional practice has resulted in new
 partnerships with international organisations such as UNESCO where staff presented their
 research at its headquarters in Paris (in Sept 2017 and 2018), the Russell Berrie Interfaith
 Foundation at the Pontifical University of St Thomas Aquinas in Rome (in May 2019), KAICIID in
 Vienna (with fellowships held by Slater and several of our Professional Doctorate students in
 Interfaith Studies), and the Knowledge Exchange Programme of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
 which, in 2017, sponsored an interfaith conference (£50K) about Ethical Approaches to Peaceful
 Coexistence in Cardiff, organised by TRS staff in collaboration with the Muslim Council of Wales.




                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wider contribution to economy and society
 Research in the submitting unit has contributed widely to the local economy and to local and
 national societies as demonstrated by the two submitted impact case studies. The case study
 ‘Strata Florida’ is part of a wider strand of impact activities in the intersection between people
 and the material world focusing on Religion, Materiality, Heritage and Sustainability. Partners
 include museums and local communities, both in Wales and overseas. The Sacred Landscape
 Research Project, included in REF3 ‘Strata Florida’, centres on Cistercian land use and is part of
 the UKRI’s Landscape Decisions Towards a New Framework for Using Land Assets in the UK
 programme. Focusing on Cistercian and other medieval monasteries in Wales and Lincolnshire,
 the research examines the social and perceptual significance of these places.

 On a smaller scale, but with important local impact, is Zinn’s ongoing research at the Cyfarthfa
 Castle Museum and Art Gallery in Merthyr Tydfil. Together with students, artists and members of
 the wider public, Zinn has created object biographies and alternative narratives leading to the
 cultural (re-)discovery of ancient Egyptian artefacts. Ohrman’s research on ‘Textile Reflections’
 is also linked to museums but on a broader scale (e.g., Copenhagen and Hangzhou, China).
 Another thread involves impact activities that focus on sustainability and local communities.
 Attala’s research on water and its relationship with people in rural Kenya, Spain and Wales has
 raised awareness of the challenges facing rural people and created support, for instance, for the
 Giriama, a group of subsistence horticultural-pastoralists in rural Kenya who are suffering from
 the desertification brought on by climate change. Attala secured support for the Giriama from the
 Welsh Government and charities such as The Rotary Club, The Round Table, WCVA, Size of
 Wales and Water Aid. Her work has been awarded commendations including a Gold Star Award
 from the United Nations and the Green Gown Award from the EAUC.

 The impact case study ‘Wild Animals’ belongs to impact activities in the area of Religion, Health
 and Ethics. Humphreys’s research on the dignity of animals goes beyond the concern for animal
 welfare; providing an argument for the protection of animals on ethical grounds, her work
 contributes to the debate on ethics and animals which has a growing place within philosophical
 theology.

 Another strand of activities that led to social impact is around mental health and religion.
 Schmidt’s research on Puerto Rican spiritism was used in the development of staff training
 seminars for social service staff in Philadelphia (2019), which has experienced a vast influx of
 migrants from Puerto Rica following the island’s devastation by a hurricane. A more recent focus
 of activities involves the Muslim Council of Wales and St Padarn’s Institute in Cardiff where two
 KESS PhD students are based in projects on faith and mental health. Working closely together
 with the Muslim Council of Wales, the Evangelical Alliance Wales, the Harmony project, and the
 Chin Kung Foundation, these projects will develop impact for local communities in South Wales.
 Belonging to this strand of impact activities is Bunt’s ongoing research on online discourse in
 Islam, submitted as an impact case study for REF2014. He is involved in furthering the
 understanding of the online discourse about cyberspace and the use of smartphones, which are
 significant elements in shaping several government policies with regard to Islam and Muslim
 issues. Through discussions on security-related issues at consultation events and interactions
 with religious leaders and organisations, Bunt’s research impacts on Muslim responses to online
 hate and ‘Islamophobia’.

 Engagement with diverse communities, international priorities, and initiatives
 Engagement with communities – local and global - is central to research activities across the
 submitting unit. Research in Interfaith and intercultural studies is undertaken through close
 interaction with the Church in Wales, the Muslim Council of Wales, the Chin Kung Foundation,
 the Evangelical Alliance Wales, and other religious denominations and communities listed in the
 impact sections above. Research around Religion, Health and Ethics engages with communities
 on issues linked to wellbeing and health. While Attala’s research on the wellbeing of NHS staff at
 the local Health Board engages with health professionals, Schmidt’s research on religious and
 spiritual experiences in Brazil has led to engagement with spiritualists (e.g., the Spiritualist
 Church in the UK) and other communities with a strong interest in spirituality (e.g., lay members

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the Alister Hardy Trust). These engagements will be broadened in the next five years with
 events already planned with other communities (rescheduled due to the pandemic).

 Indicators of wider influence
 Staff in the submitting unit make significant contributions to their research bases and are widely
 recognised by their peers. These contributions are important ways to ensure ongoing
 engagement with national and international colleagues and to build up research networks. The
 indicators listed below represent just some examples.

 Several members of the submitting unit are on editorial boards of international peer-reviewed
 journals, for instance Journal for the Study of New Testament (Williams, editor-in-chief until
 2018), New Testament Studies (Williams), International Journal of Latin American Religion
 (Schmidt), Journal of Medieval Monastic Studies (Burton), Journal for the Academic Study of
 Religion (Schmidt), American Journal of Archaeology (Steel), Near Eastern Archaeology (Steel),
 Cyber Orient (Bunt), Journal of Islamic Research (Bunt), Culture and Cosmos (Campion), and
 Journal of Skyscapes Archaeology (Campion).

 Members of the submitting unit sit on many editorial boards of book series, published by national
 and international publishers, for instance, Bloomsbury, T&T Clark, Cambridge University Press,
 Oxford University Press, Vandenhoeck & Ruprecht, Kohlhammer, Boydell and Brewer, and
 Anthem.

 Members contribute to the peer reviewing of publications and proposals on behalf of national
 and international journals, for instance, International Journal of Systematic Theology, Journal of
 Reformed Theology, The Journal of Global Ethics, American Historical Review, Journal of
 Medieval Monastic Studies, American Journal of Philology, Current Anthropology, Journal for the
 American Study of Religion, Classical Journal, Journal of Middle East Women’s Studies, Journal
 of the Economic and Social History of the Orient, and for publishers such Brill, CUP, OUP,
 Blackwell, Routledge, Boydell and Brewer, Edinburgh University Press, and Bloomsburg.
 Members are engaged in peer-reviewing for research councils, national and international, for
 instance, RCUK (including members of the AHRC peer-review college and AHRC panels), the
 Irish Research Council for Humanities and Social Science, the Deutsche
 Forschungsgemeinschaft, Humboldt Foundation, the German Council of Science and
 Humanities, Leverhulme, the European Research Council, the Norwegian Research Council, the
 Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada, and the Austrian Science Fund.
 Members are frequently invited to examine research degree theses, for instance, at Bristol,
 Edinburgh, Durham, Cambridge, UCL, Aberdeen, Glasgow, Oxford and Sheffield as well as
 internationally, for instance, Vienna, Sydney, Adelaide and Dublin. Some senior members have
 been also assessors for professorial promotions or appointments, for instance at the universities
 of Durham, Vienna, and Princeton.

 Among the fellowships we want to highlight are the KAICIID International Fellowship (Slater), the
 Royal Historical Society (Burton and Webster), the Learned Society of Wales (Williams and
 Burton), and a research fellowship at the Department of Old and New Testament Studies,
 University of the Free State, Bloemfontein, South Africa (Williams). The majority of staff are
 fellows or senior fellows of the HEA.

 Senior members have also taken on leadership roles in various subject associations such as the
 British Association for the Study of Religions (Schmidt, as current President), the Studiorum Novi
 Testamenti Societas (Williams, co-chair of the ‘Johannine Literature’ seminar), TRS-UK
 (Schmidt as Vice-President until 2017), the British Society of Middle Eastern Studies (Bunt as
 Council member until 2019), the steering committee of the 'Johannine Literature' unit of the
 Society of Biblical Literature (Williams), and REF21 (Schmidt).

 Members contribute to a number of consultancies or act as advisors, e.g., on the Church in
 Wales Doctrinal Advisory Panel for Same-Sex Marriage (Slater), or for the Climate Change,
 Environment and Rural Affairs Committee, Welsh Assembly Government work (Humphreys).

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Williams is Ecumenical member of the Standing Doctrinal Commission of the Church in Wales
 and member of the Education Committee of the Panacea Charitable Trust: Centre for the Critical
 Study of Apocalyptic and Millenarian Movements.

 Members have been active throughout the assessment period in organising national and
 international conferences and colloquia. In several cases colleagues were the primary
 organisers; for example Burton organised the annual Jornades d’Historia del Monastir de les
 Avellanes (Catalunya); Bunt was the conference convener of the 2016 meeting of the British
 Society for Middle Eastern Studies with 200+ international participants held in Lampeter;
 Williams co-organised the pre-SNTS conference on ‘John and Mark: is there a Connection?’ in
 2018 (with funding from the University of Aarhus, Denmark) and convened panels on ‘John,
 Jesus, and History’ (2014, 2015, 2016) and ‘John within Judaism’ (2020) at the Society of
 Biblical Literature.

 In other cases, colleagues were co-organisers or sat on the organising committee of
 international conferences, for instance, Bunt at the Ninth International Conference on Web and
 Social Media, University of Oxford, 2015. Steel was organiser of a workshop on Anthro-
 Materiality panel at the ASA as well as organiser of a meeting of the British Association of Near
 Eastern Archaeologists held in Lampeter (2016). Cobb was co-organiser of a panel at the
 European Association of Archaeologists (2019). Schmidt was convenor of panels at the
 Congress of the International Association for History of Religion (2015) and at the conference of
 the European Association for Study of Religions (2013, 2019).

 Research leadership and esteem has been likewise acknowledged through invited conference
 presentations and keynote lectures at, for instance, the International Peace Conference,
 UNESCO, the Pontifícia Universidade Católica de São Paulo, the University of Tokyo, the
 Université du Québec à Montréal, the Society of Biblical Literature, British New Testament
 Society, the Mercer Conference on John and Judaism, St Andrews Symposium of Ancient
 Jewish and Early Christian Studies, the University of Konstanz, the ‘Monasteries and the Digital
 Humanities’ conference in Czestochowa (Poland), the Beijing Union University, the University of
 Kyoto, the European Association of Archaeologists, the American Schools of Oriental Studies,
 the Deutsche Vereinigung für Religionswissenschaft, Universidade Cátolica de Brasilia, the 19th
 Annual International Conference on Islamic Studies, Jakarta, the European Society for
 Astronomy in Culture (Rome), the University of Amsterdam, University of Leiden, the American
 University in Dubai, and Vanderbilt University, Nashville.




                                                                                           Page 13
