Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Bangor University (10007857)

 Unit of Assessment: 21 Sociology


 Section 1: Context and Structure

 Sociology at Bangor has been continuously developed and fostered since 1966. Today, it forms
 part of a broad scholarly environment that produces leading research relevant to the unfolding
 dynamics of our increasingly changing world. Its focus is on the empirical, critical and
 theoretical study of social structures, power, everyday values and practices, including
 social theory and historical and comparative studies. While in previous research
 assessment exercises sociological research featured in various UoAs such as Law, History and
 Social Policy, the REF 2021 will be the first time that Bangor University has submitted to the
 Sociology unit. This is a development which recognises both the coherence and excellence of
 research being undertaken to comprehensively understand aspects of societies, and social life,
 from the past to the present. A rich diversity of theoretical and empirical approaches are used to
 explore different societies, with specialisms in England and Wales, Germany, North America,
 China and Greece. Sociology at Bangor is strengthened by shared research interests and close
 connections with colleagues in allied disciplines, including Criminology and Criminal Justice,
 Law, Modern and Contemporary History, Archaeology, Philosophy, Environmental Sciences,
 Human Geography and Media Studies.

 A University-wide Social Science Strategy reinforces the aims to embed social sciences within
 research activity across the institution, foster an environment that enables cross-institutional
 social science research, and further enhance interdisciplinary engagement. The strategy, which
 was driven by Sociology researchers at Bangor with Feilzer as lead author, is underpinned by
 four overarching principles: (i) ‘Integration’, encouraging researchers across Bangor University to
 engage with Sociologists to enable the embedding of relevant theories, methods and expertise;
 (ii) ‘Collaboration’, emphasising the need to increase the volume of research that takes an
 interdisciplinary approach; (iii) ‘Capacity and Capability’, addressing social science research
 skills training; and (iv) ‘Visibility’, ensuring the visibility of Bangor’s social science expertise both
 internally and externally.

 Bangor’s submission to UoA21, comprising 31 academics, represents a multi-disciplinary
 research assemblage, which retains the core of the Sociology discipline whilst pushing at its
 boundaries and advocating new approaches to the study of societies. Bangor University’s
 Sociology researchers are located primarily in the School of History, Philosophy and Social
 Sciences, but are also drawn from other Schools including Law, Health, Media, and Natural
 Sciences. Since REF2014, a key strategic priority has been to consolidate the sociological
 connections across the university and lay down a foundation for the future development
 of this research cluster. This has been achieved primarily through the identification and
 formation of five key research themes, through which our aims for research excellence are
 delivered (theme leads underlined):

 Social Movements, Civil Society and the Public Sphere: Bakir; Dallimore; Davies; Feilzer;
 Mann; McStay; Papadogiannis; Shapely; Sedlmaier; Wali; Wynne-Jones.

 Political Power, Legitimacy, and the State: Bakir; Dandy; Davies; Feilzer; Loftus; Machura;
 McStay; Papadogiannis; Roberts; Sedlmaier; Shapely; Smith; Wali; William.

 Nations, Communities and Culture: Bakir; Dandy; Machura; Mann; McStay; Nason; Shapely;
 Stoetzler; Karl; Robinson; Waddington; Wali; Wiliam; Wynne-Jones.

 Identity, the Self and Material Culture: Karl; Dandy; Huskinson; Mawhinney; McStay; Roberts;
 Robinson; Waddington; Wali; Wynne-Jones.


                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Rights, Justice and Regulation: Clear; Eyo; Evans; Feilzer; Hodgetts; Jing; Loftus; Machura;
 Mawhinney; Nason; Parker; Roberts; Smith; Shi.

 Infrastructural developments, including the establishment of new research centres and
 networks, have supported and driven research and impact within each theme. These include
 the Wales Institute for Social and Economic Research and Data (WISERD), a collaborative
 venture between the universities of Aberystwyth, Bangor, Cardiff, South Wales and Swansea
 established in 2010 and designated as a national research centre by the Welsh Government.
 WISERD at Bangor is led by Feilzer and Mann and contributes decisively to the coherence of
 Sociology research at Bangor (explored further below). The Sir William Roberts Centre for
 Sustainable Land Use (SWRC) was established in 2018 as a new collaborative initiative at
 Bangor. Directed by Dandy, SWRC draws on a range of social sciences research methods to
 explore the everyday social, political, ethical, and cultural relationships with land and other
 species that construct our practices and approaches to management. Our researchers also
 engage with contemporary developments in the context of an increasingly interconnected world,
 also reflected in key centres and networks. The Emotional Artificial Intelligence Lab: Ethics,
 Society and Culture, established by McStay, reports social science insights into technologies
 that detect and interact with emotional life, while the highly interdisciplinary Network for the
 Study of Media and Persuasive Communication directed by Bakir and McStay researches and
 advises on the influence of commercial and political communication in society and culture.

 Each theme’s academic lead aids collaboration between researchers with the aim of
 accelerating research excellence, through interdisciplinary networking events around core
 sociological themes. Examples of notable research achievements within each theme, in the REF
 period, include:

 (i) Social Movements, Civil Society and the Public Sphere
 This research theme brings together Bangor scholars who study expressions of social justice
 issues, conflict, political and social activist movements, dialogue and public debate. Sedlmaier’s
 monograph, Consumption and Violence: Radical Protest in Cold-War West Germany (2014),
 offers a new understanding of protest and social movements from the 1960s onwards; he
 subsequently won a Marie Sklodowska-Curie Research Fellowship (EUR120,000) to study the
 political means employed by those who resort to protest during times of war. This was hosted in
 2017-19 at the Institute for Social Movements at Ruhr-University Bochum. Papadogiannis was
 recruited to Bangor in 2017 to enhance this research theme and focusses on protest cultures,
 travel, youth lifestyles, gender, sexuality, migration and European identities. His monograph
 Militant around the Clock? Left-wing youth politics, leisure and sexuality in post-dictatorship
 Greece, 1974-1981, sheds new light on the democratization of culture and politics after the
 collapse of the military dictatorship. McStay addresses the way deceptive and emotive forms of
 information messages, across various media, impinge upon and have implications for
 democratic engagement, civil society and the public sphere. He has recently been awarded
 funding (GBP720,000) from bodies including the AHRC, ESRC and joint UKRI-JST to pursue his
 international and comparative investigations into the role of industrial and civic sectors in the
 design and development of ethically informed Artificial Intelligence (AI) and the regulation of
 empathic media (technologies employed to make inferences about emotions and intentions). His
 monograph Emotional AI: The Rise of Empathic Media (2018) has also influenced the
 governance of these emergent technologies (see REF3_02).

 (ii) Political Power, Legitimacy, and the State
 This research theme addresses the evolving reach and imbalances of state power. As reflected
 by a recent Innovate UK/Technology Strategy Board grant of GBP482,838 to explore the ethical
 impacts of personal data storage apps, Bakir is a leading scholar on the security state, public
 accountability, trust and privacy, with far-reaching engagement and impact (REF3_01). Her
 monograph Intelligence Elites and Public Accountability (2018) identifies the secrecy, silencing
 and propagandistic strategies for manipulating civil society and the subsequent difficulties in
 holding intelligence elites publicly accountable. Feilzer’s research is pioneering in areas of
 legitimacy, trust in criminal justice and penal policy. She contributed to the Lammy Review of

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Black and Minority Ethnic Representation in the Criminal Justice System and, with Loftus and
 Mann, was awarded GBP415,467 UKRI funding in October 2020 for a project examining the
 changing role of police and civil society organisations in the making and unmaking of political
 borders. This is part of the new WISERD large grant, Civil Society II: Civic Stratification and Civil
 Repair. Loftus was recruited to Bangor in 2016 in recognition of her work on policing,
 surveillance and security; she has published her ethnographic research with undercover police
 officers in the British Journal of Sociology and became an Editor for the British Journal of
 Criminology in 2020.

 (iii) Nations, Communities and Culture
 Here the focus is on national identity, nationalism, ethnicity, class, and the politics of devolution,
 communities and local social relations. Mann’s monograph Nation, Class and Resentment: The
 Politics of National Identity in England, Scotland and Wales (2017) examines everyday
 expressions of nationality and experiences of loss caused by evolving class alignments; in
 January 2021, he was awarded an ESRC UK-Ireland networking grant. Stoetzler’s Antisemitism
 and the Constitution of Sociology (2014) provides a fresh perspective on the history of Sociology
 and the role of antisemitism, fascism, and the Holocaust in shaping modern social theory.
 Stoetzler took up a visiting fellowship at the Pears Institute for the Study of Antisemitism at
 Birkbeck College, London, and frequently reports on, and analyses, current social and political
 matters through forums such as Open Democracy. In 2020, Wali published his monograph
 Segregated Britain: Everyday Life in Muslim Enclaves in Modern Britain. Drawing on rich
 ethnographic fieldwork, the book explores why many British Muslims live in separate enclaves.
 He was also commissioned to produce over 100 subject-specific expert legal reports in relation
 to asylum cases and has recently started exploring de-radicalisation pathways for British
 Muslims.

 (iv) Identity, the Self and Material Culture
 This theme focuses on formations of identity and belonging, including how these relate to the
 technologies, architecture and natural world that surround people, from the past to the present.
 Bakir and McStay examine the implications - for the self and societies - of biometric and online
 technologies that sense, learn and interact with emotions, moods, attention and intentions.
 Supported by a recent EPSRC grant of GBP52,648 McStay explores the rise of emotional AI in
 toys. Dandy, an environmental social scientist, was recruited to direct the new SWRC Centre
 detailed above. In 2020, the centre secured two BBSRC projects totalling GBP926,000.
 Huskinson’s monograph Architecture and the Mimetic Self: A Psychoanalytic Study of How
 Buildings Make and Break Our Lives was shortlisted for the ‘book of the year’ award by the
 International Association of Jungian Studies. As a Human Geographer focusing on identity and
 environmental landscapes, Wynne-Jones took up an invitation to sit on the Welsh
 Government’s Brexit Roundtable Land Use Subgroup.

 (v) Rights, Justice and Regulation
 This theme explores the Sociology of law, questions of human rights, social and economic
 justice, with an emphasis on governance and regulation in local, national and international
 contexts. Clear was awarded the National Ernest Walder Scholarship (2020) by the Gladstone
 Library for research on political cultures and the future of the Union. In 2020, Machura received
 the International Prize Honorary Mention of the Law and Society Association in recognition of his
 work on the perceived fairness of authorities and procedures in the administration of justice.
 Mawhinney is a leading scholar on the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, and
 devolution, appearing on Radio 4 and BBC Wales as an expert commentator. Nason’s book
 Reconstructing Judicial Review (2017) draws upon an interpretive analysis of empirical ‘social
 facts’ about judicial review in England and Wales. She was appointed a National Assembly for
 Wales Academic Fellow in 2019. Smith was invited to the University of Oxford to present her
 critical analysis of international frameworks for the regulation of geo-engineering, also sharing
 her findings with the World of International Law Congress. She recently assembled an
 application for Bangor University to be established as an ‘Observer Organisation’ at the United
 Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Roberts also publishes on climate change,
 bringing sociological themes of policy, groups and past to the protection of underwater cultural

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 heritage, and acts as a Commissioner for the Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical
 Monuments in Wales.


 Vision and Strategic Plans

 Bangor University’s strategy to enhance research excellence within the orienting research
 themes in Sociology is proving successful, as evidenced by numerous publications in highly
 visible Sociology outlets, including the British Journal of Sociology, Ethnic and Racial Studies,
 Sociology, Sociologica Ruralis, and the Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies, and by grant
 capture from various funders. Sociology at Bangor is a thriving and aspirational research culture
 featuring research seminars with national and international speakers, a visiting scholar
 programme, study leave periods, access to a diversity of resources such as funding alerts and
 grant capture support and expertise, and conference activities (financially supported by the
 University). The excellence of Sociology is a priority at Bangor, which is promoted through four
 key strategic pathways:

 (i) To unite collaborative Sociology at Bangor University
 Building on the experiences and successes throughout this REF period, opportunities are
 created to identify shared interests within Sociology across the University by organising targeted
 research theme meetings and fostering cross-disciplinary collaborations that address key
 Sociology concerns such as identity, society, and community. Examples for emerging cross-
 disciplinary collaborations include Feilzer (Criminology) and McStay (Media) in the areas of
 surveillance and emotions, and Roberts (Law) and Robinson (Archaeology) on heritage. A
 particular priority is to deepen areas of expertise already present within the research themes,
 such as nationalism, social movements, and communities but, also, to nurture emerging areas of
 excellence, such as emotional AI and environmental sociology. Strategic appointments support
 this priority (Loftus, Papadogiannis, Wynne-Jones).

 (ii) To integrate and expand WISERD at Bangor
 On the strength of the University’s research in community studies, Bangor is a key partner of the
 cross-Wales WISERD collaboration, which is highly successful in attracting research funding
 from bodies including the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC), the European
 Research Council (ERC), European Commission and the Welsh Government. At Bangor,
 WISERD provides a crucial and growing platform that strengthens the key research themes and
 culture of research excellence in Sociology. Co-directors of WISERD at Bangor (Feilzer and
 Mann) enhance the Centre’s visibility by regular updates to various research committees, and by
 organising an annual research development day open to social scientists and interested staff
 across Bangor University, which has generated a high level of engagement. Furthermore,
 seminars, thematic workshops, and capacity building events promote collaboration and
 interdisciplinarity. WISERD also enhances the visiting scholars programme by hosting prominent
 scholars, and the associated research of an Emeritus Professor and an Honorary Senior
 Research Fellow continues to enhance Centre activities.

 (iii) To enhance grant capture across a range of schemes
 A key strategy for Sociology at Bangor is to explore diverse grant schemes and refine
 application procedures, aiming to expand excellence and personnel within the scope of key
 research themes and thereby enhancing overall infrastructure and capacity. Improved
 knowledge and understanding of external funding is fostered through systematically distributing
 relevant funding alerts to colleagues, holding grant writing training events, and closely
 monitoring grant activities through mentoring and appraisal systems. In 2020, Bangor University
 provided competitive Research Acceleration Funding (GBP25,000 in total) to promote grant
 capture, awarded to six Sociology colleagues in support of larger grant proposals to external
 funders. This enabled Shapely to apply to the outline stage of the Leverhulme Trust for a project
 on ‘England’s Failed Devolution: Local Identities and Urban Governance' (GBP300,000). In
 February 2021, he was invited by the Trust to submit a detailed application.


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (iv) To support staff to deliver excellent research that has impact and reach
 Ensuring that Sociology research at Bangor has impact and reach has become explicit in
 strategic thinking within this REF period, as evidenced by the Impact Case Studies. The
 commitment to maximising impact includes (i) ensuring that visions and strategies for impact are
 embedded in all stages of research, from research conceptualisation through to dialogue and
 engagement with end-users, (ii) supporting colleagues to publish policy relevant findings in
 strategically placed outlets to shape public policy and public understandings, and (iii) drawing on
 research centres and networks as key mechanisms through which to collaborate with external
 partners. The broader impact strategy in Sociology is to enhance pathways to impact which are
 specifically relevant to our five orienting research themes, for example through prioritizing study
 leave for cases with particular impact potential. Bangor Sociology staff are highly engaged and
 keen to make a difference in wider society. For instance, Robinson’s collaboration with
 University College Dublin on the project ‘Frongoch: Internment and Rebellion’ contributes
 towards understanding the effects of internment on personal, national and imperial identities.
 Future visions include constructing a virtual heritage centre where the complex histories of the
 Frongoch site can be explored by the public.


 Open access, data management, and ethics

 As outlined in REF5A, research in these areas is supported at University level with mechanisms
 to ensure research integrity through the University Ethics committee, as well as Codes of
 Practice and Policies covering Research Ethics, Academic Integrity in Research and Research
 Data Management. Each School has a dedicated Research Ethics Officer who is the main point
 of contact for queries and referral of proposals to the College Ethics Committee. Publication is
 undertaken in line with the University Open Access Policy. Staff are reminded of the need to
 comply with Open Access rules at staff meetings, with notices at strategic locations providing a
 visual reminder of the need to, with step-by-step guide on how to, ensure compliance.


 Section 2: People

 Staffing strategy

 Staffing strategy seeks to promote and support excellent research and impact of national and
 international significance. Within the REF period, 16 Sociology colleagues have been promoted
 on the strength of their research, including 8 to Senior Lecturer, 1 to Reader and 7 to personal
 Chairs. In recognition of the importance of Sociology at Bangor, to ensure succession planning
 the University has furthermore invested in several key appointments. These were made at early
 and senior career levels to enhance the staff base, and with a particular aim to support growth in
 research capacity across the five research themes. These include the appointment of Loftus in
 2016 (Political Power, Legitimacy, and the State), Papadogiannis in 2017 (Social Movements,
 Civil Society and the Public Sphere), Dandy in 2018 (Identity, the Self and Material Culture, and
 as Director of SWRC), and Wynne-Jones in 2018 (Nations, Communities, and Culture). Further
 recruitment of excellent ECRs into the unit has begun to flow (in October 2020) from the
 WISERD Civil Society II grant. Since 2014, several colleagues in Sociology have retired or taken
 up positions elsewhere, for example as an AdAstra Fellow at University College Dublin or to
 apply their impact skills in a public sector research position such as at Natural Resources Wales.


 Institutional Structures Supporting Research

 Sociology research at Bangor is expertly supported by the University’s Research, Innovation
 and Impact Office which provides comprehensive research support, from discussing early
 research ideas through to post-award support. The academic activities of Bangor University
 were re-grouped during the REF period into three larger Colleges in order to enhance
 collaboration and interdisciplinarity. At each College, responsibility for managing the

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 implementation of the research and impact strategy is shared by the College Director of
 Research (DoR), College Director of Impact and Engagement (DoIE) and a College Director
 of Postgraduate Research (DPGR), who in turn are accountable to the Dean of College. The
 College’s Research and Impact Strategy Committee further includes representatives from all the
 constituent Schools, where the same structure is mirrored by a Research and Impact Group led
 by the School DoR (Loftus), DoIE (Robinson) and DPGR (Mann). Their significant role in
 providing support to Sociology includes: (i) leading the development and implementation of
 strategies for research and impact, innovation and engagement; (ii) overseeing the development
 of the five research themes and enhancing research activities across the unit; (iii) providing
 research support (e.g. peer review) to improve research performance; (iv) leading REF
 preparations; (v) supporting grant capture applications to research councils and other leading
 funders; (vi) supporting the publication of high-quality research outputs; (vii) feeding into the
 broader College and University research agendas.

 All Bangor researchers are supported through the annual Performance Development Review
 (PDR), conducted and overseen by Heads of School and supported by School DoRs and DoIEs,
 which involves careful career planning, setting milestones for publication, impact and grant
 capture, management of workload and identification of development needs, where research and
 impact activities are key performance indicators. Research staff are expected and encouraged to
 protect at least one day per week to focus on research during teaching-intensive periods, in
 addition to the more coherent research periods outside teaching weeks. To enable this, teaching
 is strategically supported by graduate teaching assistants. A formal workload allocation model
 ensures fair allocation of teaching and administrative responsibilities for Bangor’s research staff,
 and this is monitored regularly, and adjustments are made if workloads are found to be
 imbalanced.

 Researchers at all career stages also benefit from an initiative headed by the College
 Academic Lead for Grant Capture (working with the College and School DoRs) to coordinate
 mentoring, robust peer review and enhanced research planning for researchers and research
 teams by marshalling the expertise of senior academics and key support staff to deliver bespoke
 advice and interview training, funder-specific workshops and assistance with costings and other
 administrative requirements. Further, events are arranged to enhance support as a rapid
 response to funding developments.

 Social science strengths are furthermore supported by Bangor University through networking
 events, an annual personal research or conference allowance for each member of staff, and
 institutional structures that support the many interdisciplinary collaborations and grant proposals.
 For instance, staff members spanning different Schools have worked together on the
 Leverhulme Doctoral Scheme on Heritage and Sustainability (Dandy, Roberts, Mann); social
 scientists based in the School of Natural Sciences are contributing to WISERD Civil Society II
 (Wynne-Jones); and social scientists are involved in the new Plastics Research Centre based in
 Natural Sciences (Roberts and Smith). Further activities to foster interdisciplinary research
 activities, wider engagement and impact are led by the College and School DoRs and DoIEs,
 including project-specific advice, workshops and dissemination of good practice and impact-
 generating opportunities.


 Leadership and Support

 In 2018, Bangor University (including Bakir) developed a Research Leadership programme to
 train and develop the next generation of research leaders. Machura and Davies have
 completed the training, while Bakir, Feilzer, McStay contribute to the programme as senior
 research leaders. As one of the prominent leaders influencing the strategic vision and practices
 of University-wide research developments (e.g., the Bangor-wide Social Science Strategy),
 Feilzer was Director of Research for the College of Arts, Humanities and Business between
 2018 and 2020. She has been Chair of the Researcher Concordat and Development Group
 since 2018, and in 2020 was promoted to Dean for the College.

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 A University mentoring scheme is available that matches staff seeking mentoring at all career
 stages with suitable academics across and within institutions. Bangor Sociology researchers are
 involved in this scheme both as mentors (Huskinson, Machura) and as mentees (Davies, Eyo,
 Roberts). Colleagues in the first three years of appointment are additionally mentored locally
 within their school, and female researchers can access a cross-institutional support network
 through the Wales Women’s Mentoring scheme. At School level, Research Leads (senior
 academics with excellent research records) offer informal mentoring to improve colleagues’
 research outputs, grant capture, outreach and impact. Staff can also apply for institutionally
 funded, College administered, study leave. Since REF2014, 9 Bangor Sociology researchers
 have benefitted from this policy, leading to an improved publications, grants and impact profile.
 For example, Wali was prioritised for study leave to develop the research on counter-terrorism
 strategy that led to his ICS (REF3_03).

 Special emphasis is placed on the training and mentoring of postdoctoral research fellows and
 other Early Career Researchers (ECR), and strategic recruitment at this level will be a future
 priority. Through WISERD, Bangor’s Sociology researchers have been able to access specialist
 social sciences research methods training in Bangor and across Wales. WISERD training
 programmes, which run throughout the year, are open to early career researchers and senior
 researchers, as well as researchers in public sector and third sector organisations, thereby
 highlighting links between the different sectors’ research and training needs and connecting
 researchers with similar interests. For example, Bangor Sociology members with specific
 methodological expertise have organised and delivered training on the National Survey of Wales
 (Feilzer), mixed methods research designs (Feilzer), and online qualitative interviewing (Mann).


 Support for Postgraduate Research Students (PGRs)

 Training and developing the next generation of social scientists is a priority at Bangor, as
 evidenced by providing institutional funding for 22 students and additionally securing external
 funding for 38 students in this REF period. Within this REF period 40% of Sociology PGR
 students were female and 75% were registered full-time. An average of 10 PhD students
 graduate per year. Independent of career aspirations in academia, public or private sector, the
 overall aim is to ensure that the experiences and opportunities offered at Bangor University
 prepare our research students for life as social scientists, independent critical thinkers, and
 research leaders. Recent Bangor University Sociology PhD graduates have moved on to gain
 key academic posts or employment in other public sector roles both in the UK and abroad. For
 instance, one Bangor graduate (now at Salford University) has become prominent in the media
 for his work on foodbanks, and another has moved to Bangor University Health Sciences,
 applying her sociological expertise on unemployment to the area of mental health.

 To achieve these training goals, Bangor’s Sociology PGR students are supported on three
 different institutional levels - School, College and University - benefitting, in particular, from the
 rich connections to research organisations and networks, policy makers and organisations, and
 public, private and voluntary sector organisations. These include links to the ESRC Doctoral
 Training Centre (DTC) pathways in Bangor in Psychology and Bilingualism, as well as to the
 DTC programme and wide-ranging and nationally leading research training through WISERD.

 At School level, Bangor’s Sociology PGRs are supervised by two experts in their field. PhD
 projects frequently enhance existing research themes; for example, Davies supervised a thesis
 drawing on theories and concepts by Pierre Bourdieu to explore informal childcare (Political
 Power, Legitimacy and the State), while Mann is currently supervising a PhD on the everyday
 experiences of Palestinian refugees in the UK (Nations, Communities and Culture). Students
 complete an annual progress review that is chaired by a member of staff not involved in the
 supervisory team. The chair receives confidential reports from the student and the first
 supervisor and acts on any issues that arise. The annual review meeting discusses the students’
 progress, training needs, and skills and career development. Training for Sociology PGRs is

                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 provided by Bangor’s experts who offer standard and bespoke social sciences methods, for
 example in ethnography (Loftus, Wali), oral histories (Wali, Wiliam), narrative interviewing and
 mixed methods (Feilzer), documentary and archival analysis (Papadogiannis), and large-scale,
 international surveys (Dandy, Evans, Machura). Additionally, a monthly PGR forum, run by
 PGRs with a budget, is held for research presentations and discussion. PGR Representatives
 also lead a qualitative research methods discussion group which meets on an ad-hoc basis. This
 provides further opportunities for students across the unit to discuss social science
 methodologies, ethical issues and exchange experiences. Sociology PGR students regularly
 attend impact and knowledge exchange sessions and have the opportunity to access a writing
 retreat at Gregynog Hall. They are encouraged to present their research at internal and external
 conferences, and to publish their (ongoing and completed) work in a range of outlets, including
 graduate and peer-reviewed journals and policy briefings. Within this REF period, Bangor’s
 Sociology postgraduate researchers, with the support of their supervisors, have published over
 30 journal papers, book chapters, and books.

 At College level, funding opportunities for Sociology doctoral researchers’ needs and
 development are offered through a College Postgraduate Travel Grant scheme for conferences.
 The College’s Graduate School also offers yearly training and development opportunities
 specific to key subjects within the College, and provides opportunities for social gatherings
 across Schools. PGRs are valued for their potential to contribute to the College’s profile;
 student-led research activities such as reading/writing groups, research seminars and
 postgraduate conferences are proactively supported. At the beginning of each year, the
 Graduate School runs a Postgraduate Induction Day for all new students. There are also distinct
 pathways for recognition of postgraduate research in College events and monthly news items.

 At University level, all Sociology PhD students are members of the University’s Doctoral
 School, which provides a comprehensive programme of induction and training for all PGR
 students and facilitates internal networking, and furthermore ensures supervisory excellence
 through tailored training events for supervisors. Additionally, Bangor University offers its PGR
 students dedicated resources (online and archival materials), high-quality postgraduate research
 methods teaching, and facilities (see section 3 below).


 Promoting Equality and Diversity

 29% of Bangor’s Sociology researchers are international academics from several countries. The
 team is balanced evenly in terms of gender (50:50) and seniority (a third of unit members are
 lecturers/senior lecturers/and professorial staff respectively). Parker is an Athena Swan Lead,
 and the School of History, Philosophy and Social Sciences is pursuing an Athena Swan
 submission in the near future. Our female researchers are well represented in senior positions
 both at School (e.g., Loftus and Smith as DoRs in their respective Schools, Mawhinney as
 Head of School, Huskinson as Deputy Head) and College level (Feilzer as previous College
 DoR and now Dean).

 Each academic School at Bangor University has an Equal Opportunities officer who ensures
 that recruitment does not discriminate against any protected characteristics covered by the
 Equality Act 2010. The Equal Opportunities officer is also tasked with facilitating communication
 between staff and the University’s Equality and Diversity Strategy Group, and actively promoting
 principles of equality and diversity. All Sociology researchers are involved in decolonising the
 curriculum and ensuring that research procedures reflect equality and diversity principles, fully
 consider non-exploitative involvement of those with lived experience in research, and embed the
 UN Sustainability goals.

 Bangor supports its Sociology researchers throughout their careers – from doctoral to
 postdoctoral and early career to senior researchers – through mentoring, transparent and fair
 allocation of workload, representation in panels such as the Research and Impact committees at
 School and College levels, and by offering them opportunities (such as grant writing support) to

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 develop as independent researchers. This is further supported by Bangor University’s ECR
 network and its engagement with the Welsh Crucible scheme (see REF5a). Sociology ECRs are
 encouraged to actively participate in both; for instance, Roberts (an ECR at the time) benefitted
 from the Welsh Crucible scheme in 2018, and credits the experience with changing the way she
 thinks about, and conducts, interdisciplinary projects. Feilzer contributed to an open consultation
 led by The Learned Society of Wales on establishing an Early Careers Academy, by helping to
 identify ECRs’ support needs.

 Roberts sits on the University-wide Researcher Development and Concordat Group (chaired by
 Feilzer), which reflects the University’s clear commitment to Equality; as explored in REF5a, this
 commitment is further indicated by the University’s Strategic Equality Plan, its membership of the
 Athena Swan Gender Equality Charter, the Bronze Athena Swan institutional award, and the
 University’s Women’s Mentoring Scheme alongside an open mentoring scheme for academic
 staff at all levels. Bangor University also piloted a Women in Leadership Group in 2018, in which
 three Sociology researchers participated (Davies, Feilzer, Roberts). Sociology staff are actively
 made aware of flexible working policies to balance caring responsibilities and career
 progression, including parental/adoption leave; maternity pay is available from the first day of
 employment, and pre and post maternity support and advice is offered to improve retention of
 mothers returning from maternity leave. For instance, they receive a reduced teaching load upon
 return to work, and may be prioritised by the School in any future applications for study leave.



 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Enhancing success in competitive grant capture across a range of schemes and career stages is
 a priority for Sociology research at Bangor. Our total research income spent over the period was
 GBP2,675,743, enabling colleagues to conduct projects of Sociological significance related to
 the five orienting research themes. Key examples include:

 (i) Social Movements, Civil Society and the Public Sphere: Dallimore was awarded
 GBP9,543 by The Local Trust for his project ‘Big Local Programme’, which means an important
 foundation for his ongoing, collaborative relationship with The Local Trust, focussing on how the
 boundaries created for civil society organisations have influenced the development of the
 programmes locally on-the-ground. This resulted in a report which explored physical, social and
 economic boundaries, and their relationship to influence and power. Feilzer was PI
 (GBP49,217) and Co-I (GBP319,985) on grants relating to the WISERD Civil Society Research
 Centre, examining the changing nature of civil society at local, national and global levels. Two
 projects within this included: (i) the impact of ageing on participation in civil society through the
 lens of crime; (ii) an ethnographic study exploring continuity and change in associational life in
 two Welsh villages.

 (ii) Political Power, Legitimacy and the State: Bakir was PI for a UKRI funded 2-year seminar
 series (GBP30,134) ‘DATA - PSST! Debating and Assessing Transparency Arrangements’,
 hosted by Bangor University but including seminars at the Universities of Aberystwyth, Sheffield
 and London. The series explored how different aspects of transparency affect questions of
 privacy, security, surveillance and trust, drawing on perspectives from Journalism, Media,
 Sociology, Criminology, Law, Politics, History, Computer Science and Philosophy, and on those
 by end-users from journalism governing bodies, regulators, NGOs, business and security. The
 series directly informed two Special Issues of academic journals, other articles and a book.
 Feilzer was awarded GBP21,667 by North Wales Police to explore ‘Organisational Culture and
 Self-Legitimacy in Policing’. The research was initiated by the Force Confidence and Ethical
 Standards Committee to explore all North Wales Police staff perceptions of organisational
 fairness, feelings of being valued by the organisation, and organisational pride, resulting in a
 policy report and academic publications.



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (iii) Nations, Communities and Culture:
 Karl received UKRI funding for projects on ‘Atlantic Europe and the Question of Shared
 Language’ and ‘Co-Production of Alternative Views of Lost Heritage’ (GBP94,244) under the
 AHRC ‘Connected Communities’ call, bringing a unique interdisciplinary perspective which
 combined Archaeology with Sociological concepts and methodologies to produce heritage data
 in conjunction with local communities. Wynne-Jones received GBP3,690 from NRN-LCEE for a
 workshop on ‘Rewilding in a Changing Europe’, which brought academics and practitioners
 across Europe together to explore how rewilding intersects with questions of sustainable land-
 use transition, rural development and community resilience. Here a central theme concerned the
 importance of the social sciences and humanities in understanding rewilding’s impacts and
 future prospects, central to Wynne-Jones’s research.

 (iv) Identity, the Self and Material Culture: Huskinson received GBP39,296 funded by the All
 Saints Education Trust for a research and outreach programme to establish, via information
 technologies, a pedagogical network for the teaching of Religious Studies, Philosophy, and
 Ethics in schools across North Wales and the North West of England. McStay was awarded
 GBP206,012 by UKRI bodies to further his research in the areas of empathic media and artificial
 intelligence (AI). His AHRC Future Leaders Award explored ‘Empathic Media: Theory-Building
 and Knowledge Exchange with Industry Regulators & NGOs’. This drew on qualitative and
 quantitative methods to assess the rise and scope of organisations interested in data about
 emotional life, ethics, policy, legal consequences, citizen perspectives and what life might be like
 with empathic media in it.

 (v) Rights, Justice and Regulation: Mawhinney was awarded GBP14,250 UKRI funds to
 direct a network on ‘Collective Worship: An Evaluation of Law & Policy’. This culminated in a
 multi-author networking report, which drew on themes of rights, social cohesion and belonging.
 Nason secured GBP53,535 from the Nuffield Foundation for her project ‘Paths to Administrative
 Justice in Wales: Principles, Challenges and Opportunities’. This developed detailed network
 maps of the Welsh administrative justice system, with a focus on housing and education, using
 socio-legal analysis and insights from practitioners and users, together with machine learning
 and visualisation techniques.


 Physical resources

 In this REF period, there has been substantial strategic University investment related to physical
 infrastructure, with benefits to Bangor’s research and impact in Sociology. The University
 opened its GBP51,000,000 Arts and Innovation Centre, Pontio, enabling sustained development
 of research impact with the local community, by providing a state-of-the-art venue for research
 dissemination. For example, the public Four Nations History Festival (2019), with contributions
 from Shapely and Robinson, attracted over 2500 participants across two days, bringing
 together high-profile scholars from around the UK to discuss historical and contemporary
 perceptions of Nationhood, thereby promoting and enhancing Bangor’s Sociology theme
 Nations, Community and Culture.

 Furthermore, the city’s ‘cultural quarter’ was enhanced through a GBP1,400,000 Heritage
 Lottery Fund bid (with Bangor University as partner) to rehouse Gwynedd Museum (renamed
 Storiel) which hosts a large proportion of the University’s collections, which form an invaluable
 material resource for research into both past and contemporary Welsh society and culture. Also,
 since REF2014, the University has added three large study spaces to support postgraduate
 research, and each Sociology PGR has access to allocated workspaces in a large, open-plan
 room situated in the historic Main Arts building. In 2019, investment was made in new computer
 equipment and refurbishment of dedicated workstations. Our PGRs have free access to a range
 of software packages, including qualitative and quantitative analysis programmes such as
 NVIVO and SPSS. Visiting Scholars are provided with workspace and access to scholarly
 resources and associated with one or more of the five research themes. The fortnightly seminar
 series, which hears papers from emerging and distinguished speakers within our themes, is held

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in the University’s historic (1884) Council Chamber (now equipped with state-of-the-art computer
 and visual facilities).


 Scholarly resources

 Bangor University Library, opened 1884, has extensive collections for Sociology and subscribes
 to key electronic research resources including ProQuest; Web of Science; Science Direct;
 JSTOR. The National Library of Wales resources, increasingly online, are freely available to
 Bangor University staff and postgraduates. There has also been investment of GBP95,000 in the
 University Archives and Special Collections, with improved storage and access, enabling the
 Archives to gain National Archives accreditation. It boasts the largest Welsh repository, after the
 National Library of Wales, with over 250,000 manuscripts and 30,000 books, essential
 collections supporting research on Wales. The Archives are important for supporting the
 research of unit members, including Karl (Celtic archaeology), Mann (Welsh politics and
 nationalism), Robinson (archaeology of maritime and coastal communities), Waddington
 (material culture practices in north Wales), and Wiliam (Welsh devolution). Canolfan Bedwyr's
 Language Technologies Unit pioneers research and development in text and speech
 technologies. With the primary focus on Welsh language, the unit provides a unique and
 essential resource, allowing research and impact by Bangor Sociologists to be developed and
 disseminated bilingually. For instance, Mann published a report to the Welsh Language
 Commissioner on Welsh language and volunteering through the medium of Welsh and English.


 Supporting Impact and Knowledge Exchange

 Bangor Sociologists are committed to conducting excellent research from which meaningful
 impact can be derived, aiming for each of the five research themes to generate significant
 impact through tailored engagement and knowledge exchange. The following pathways to
 impact ensure ‘engaged’ research: (i) enhancing relevant knowledge by encouraging attendance
 at internal and external impact training events; (ii) recording and evaluating the impact of our
 research via the annual PDR process; (iii) offering tailored support by the Director of Impact and
 Engagement (Robinson) for individual staff and research centres/networks; (iv) encouraging
 colleagues to apply for impact-promoting schemes including the Bangor-led, Wales-wide
 Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships (KESS) scheme and Bangor’s GBP1,400,000 ESRC
 Impact Acceleration Award (IAA) (see REF 5A).

 Examples of KESS projects by Sociology colleagues fit squarely within our research themes,
 and include those by Loftus (GBP11,435) for a Masters by Research study, exploring how
 Domestic Violence Protection Notices (DVPN) are shaping the contemporary policing cultures
 and practices, and Wynne-Jones (GBP60,474) for a PhD project with the Woodland Trust,
 aimed at developing an improved understanding of the influence of woodland based initiatives
 on personal wellbeing, and providing a greater insight into socio-geographic dimensions of
 woodland use and access. Bakir received an ESRC Accelerator Fellowship for ‘Intelligence
 Elites and Public Accountability: Enabling Journalists’ (GBP7,000). Working with the National
 Union of Journalists, this project created plain English guidance for journalists on how to deal
 with the surveillant state. The guidelines helped civil society ask critical and investigative
 questions of intelligence elites. McStay received an IAA (GBP10,769) to explore ethics,
 standards and governance relating to the development of emotional AI. With Bakir, he secured
 further awards from the Arts Council (GBP50,000) for a project that involved a renowned digital
 artist, and other interdisciplinary academics, to ensure that a team of sound engineers, hackers
 and visual artists understood the concepts of surveillance and sousveillance. Nason and
 Dallimore were both awarded Academic Research Fellowships at the National Assembly for
 Wales in 2019 for knowledge exchange activities.


 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Interdisciplinary Research

 External collaboration is central to Bangor’s approach to Sociology, both in research and in
 graduate education, and with both UK and overseas partners, reinforcing the strategy of
 fostering the excellence, distinctiveness, and visibility of our research. Sociology-led,
 interdisciplinary research is central to all our activities, both intellectually and as a way of
 accessing pools of funding, as exemplified by WISERD and SWRC. Recent collaborations both
 within Bangor and further afield (details below) involve researchers from Sociology, Criminology,
 Law, History, Archaeology, Philosophy, Media Studies, and Computer Science and Geo-
 sciences. Our vision is to enhance Bangor as an international centre of research excellence in
 Sociology, with a distinctive focus on Wales as a key nation within the UK and Europe.


 National and International Research Collaborations

 Bangor Sociology researchers are all active members of various professional organisations
 such as British Society of Criminology, British Sociological Association, European Society of
 Criminology, Heads and Professors of Sociology (HaPS), Royal Historical Society, and the Law
 Society, facilitating collaboration. Our major research initiatives are based on strong
 collaboration with international partners. For example, McStay’s project ‘Emotional AI in
 Cities: Cross Cultural Lessons from UK and Japan on Designing for an Ethical Life’ (joint funded
 by the ESRC and Japan Science and Technology) is a collaboration with several Japanese
 universities. Sedlmaier’s project ‘The Continuation of Politics with Other Means: War and
 Protest, 1914–2011’ (funded by EU Horizon 2020) was a Bangor collaboration with the Institute
 for Social Movements at Ruhr University Bochum in Germany. As part of this, Sedlmaier has led
 an interdisciplinary research network on the global dimension of Vietnam War protest involving
 colleagues from Colombia, Germany, Hungary, Israel, Japan, Netherlands, Serbia, UK, and
 USA. Eyo is an associate researcher at the African Public Procurement Regulation Unit
 (APPRU) at Stellenbosch University, South Africa. The APRU brings together international
 socio-legal academics whose research focuses on public procurement regulation in Africa in
 uncertain social, political and economic times. Nason’s international work on illuminating day-to-
 day experiences of the law includes collaborations with the German University of Administrative
 Sciences in Speyer and Bocconi University in Milan.

 Mawhinney has served as an advisor to the Council of Europe’s group on Human Rights
 Monitoring in the Field and, in 2017, as an advisor to the European Commissioner on Human
 Rights’ Expert Group on Women’s Sexual and Reproductive Health and Rights. Dandy has
 been a founding member of the International Union of Forest Research Organizations’ Working
 Group on Social Dimensions of Forest Health. In 2019, he was an international advisor for New
 Zealand’s Biological Heritage National Science Challenge, providing critical review of the
 proposed research investment prospectus.

 Sociology colleagues have also benefited from extended overseas visits funded by prestigious
 research fellowships. For instance, Sedlmaier retains the status of International Research
 Fellow at the Institute for Social Movements at Ruhr University Bochum and, in 2014, he was
 Visiting Fellow at the Contemporary History Unit, Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz.
 McStay held the William Evans Research Fellowship at the University of Otago (2019), and with
 Bakir was awarded Data and Society Fellowships at the Centre for Information Technology and
 Intellectual Property Law at the University of Leuven (2019).

 Much of Bangor’s Sociology research is pursued in cross-disciplinary collaboration within
 Bangor and with other Welsh HEIs, developing projects within the unique cultural, social,
 economic, and political infrastructure of Wales, with the multi-locational WISERD project as a
 prime example. The Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of Wales has
 worked with Robinson within the Nations, Communities, and Culture research group to better
 understand and protect cultural heritage. Within the same theme, the SWRC is an important

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 conduit for our research in environmental and rural sociology to reach relevant stakeholders,
 also enabling Bangor Sociologists to also respond directly to government policy. For instance, in
 2018, Dandy was involved in putting together a joint response to the ‘Brexit and Our Land’
 consultation by the Welsh Government. The response encouraged bespoke policies which
 delivers for the Welsh economy, society and natural environment. Wynne-Jones has served as
 an advisory group member for Woodland Trust Wales and for Rewilding Britain's Summit to Sea
 community engagement initiative, as a Trustee for Cambrian Wildwood, and on the Welsh
 Government’s Brexit Roundtable Land Use Subgroup. For the latter, she brought a unique
 Sociological perspective on stakeholder decision-making and the human impacts of policy
 transitions.

 For the Rights, Justice, and Regulation research group, Roberts is a member of the Legal
 Affairs Committee of the Welsh Centre for International Affairs, a member of the Wales
 Observatory on the Human Rights of Children, and Chair of the Wales-wide Law, Criminology
 and Policing Subject Panel. She has also organised several funded research seminars, including
 a Welsh-medium legal research conference held in the Welsh Assembly in Cardiff Bay, attended
 by the Law Commission of England and Wales amongst other key figures. She has submitted
 evidence to Assembly and Parliamentary Committees; for instance, her research on summer-
 born children was referred to the Assembly’s Children, Young People and Education Committee.
 Her submissions to national consultations have affected relevant policies, such as in the Welsh
 Government’s Consultation on Managing the Marine Historic Environment of Wales. Mawhinney
 aided the Welsh Standing Advisory Council on Religious Education in developing guidelines for
 schools concerning requests for opting out of religious education and other activities. In 2016,
 she co-presented a shadow report to the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child, arguing that
 in significantly reducing the budget of the Welsh-language public service broadcaster (S4C), the
 UK Government failed to respect the right to freedom of expression of Welsh children and their
 right to enjoy in their native language access to information important to their cultural identity,
 language and values.


 Research Collaborations with Private, Public, and NGO Sectors

 Research on policing and security conducted by the Rights, Justice and Regulation group is
 taken up by North Wales Police. One example relates to research on how the police both
 understand and implement Domestic Violence Protection Notices, funded as part of KESS
 supported by European Social Funds (Feilzer, Loftus). This collaboration has provided research
 data and access for further research, more recently around diversionary schemes within police
 custody (Feilzer, Machura). In addition, Feilzer and Loftus are offering research advice to local
 public sector organisations to improve evidence-based practice (youth justice, probation and
 police services). Others have worked intensively with the UK Home Office Asylum Division on
 applicant cases; for instance, Wali prepared reports for immigration lawyers, their professional
 organisations, and the Joint Council of the Welfare of Immigrants. He generated expert reports
 on the socio-political and religious circumstances in specific countries (the UK, Pakistan,
 Afghanistan, and India) and carried out extensive ethnographic fieldwork in countries of origin for
 asylum seekers, which serves as the basis for expertise in asylum and human rights procedures.

 Within the Political Power, Legitimacy and the State research group, Bakir partnered with 10
 Co-Investigators from the Universities of Cardiff, Sheffield, Kings College London, Brunel, and
 Bangor (including Feilzer and McStay) to deliver the above-mentioned ESRC Seminar Series
 ‘DATA-PSST on Privacy, Security, Surveillance and Trust’ (2015-17). This included 6 x 1-day
 conferences with over 30 diverse end-users in data transparency, multiple policy reports, 3
 documentaries, a blog and numerous academic outputs. Bakir’s research on digital
 disinformation, fake news and public accountability has also led to 9 consultancy reports, written
 and oral evidence, and talks to UK parliamentary inquiries and committees; these include House
 of Lords Select Committee on Democracy & Digital Technologies; All-Party Parliamentary Group
 on Electoral Campaigning Transparency; Digital, Culture, Media & Sport Committee Parliament
 Inquiry into Reality TV (all 2019), Joint Committee on Human Rights Inquiry into Attitudes to

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Enforcement of Human Rights (2018), Digital, Culture, Media & Sport Committee Inquiry into
 Fake News and Disinformation (4 submissions across 2017-18 and citation in the Inquiry’s
 interim and final reports), and Welsh Cabinet Office and Comms Cymru (2017). In addition, her
 ESRC-funded work on data transparency in a post-Snowden landscape led to a televised panel
 on Journalism post-Snowden at the European Broadcast Union’s/Eurovision 10th Annual
 conference (Berlin 2015), comprising over 150 Head of News and Editors-in-Chief from over 60
 TV/Radio Member stations in Europe and beyond. Her work in this area led to her co-production
 of the 50-page guide Journalism post-Snowden: a simple guide to protecting your information &
 contacts (2019), and a benchmark to enable civil society organs to hold intelligence agencies to
 public account (2018).

 Also, a member of the Social Movements, Civil Society and the Public Sphere research group,
 McStay regularly consults, advises, or participates in expert workshops on AI and ethics for:
 United Nations, UNICEF, House of Lords, UK Government Cabinet Office, DCMS, Information
 Commissioner’s Office, Advertising Standards Authority, Committee of Advertising Practice,
 Institute of Electrical & Electronics Engineers, UK Government Centre for Data Ethics and
 Innovation, Royal United Services Institute, Nexus Studio on AI ethics, CognitionX, Re-Work AI,
 Open Rights Group, Sensing Feeling. Bakir and McStay co-produced a European Commission
 2018 white paper to shape the research agenda (H2020, FP9) on Opinion Forming in the Digital
 Age: Fake News, Echo Chambers & Populism. They also collaborated with the artist Ronan
 Devlin to produce theory-practice art installations Veillance on transparency and surveillance of
 personal digital data (exhibited across the UK). Furthermore, McStay collaborated with Devlin to
 co-produce Aura (2018-19), which exhibited across the UK (approx. 600,000 views); Nexus
 Studios’ installation at ‘Meet the AI’ at London Barbican (positively reviewed by The Times,
 Financial Times, Evening Standard, Artlyst, Artnet, British GQ); Intimacy in the Age of AI, a
 Europe-wide art, music, thinking and activism festival (Slovenia, 2018) where McStay’s book
 Emotional AI structured the thematic panels. He also gave the keynote.


 Editorial Duties, Invited Talks and Peer Review

 During the assessment period, Sociology researchers have acted as Editors-in-Chief, Editors
 and Co-Editors of journals including: Archaeological Journal; the British Journal of Criminology;
 Environmental Values; International Journal of Jungian Studies; Mediterranean e-journal of
 Communication and Media Studies; Theoretical Criminology; Zeitschrift für Rechtssoziologie:
 The German Journal of Law and Society. We have also (co-)edited special issues of: Area;
 Behavioral Science; Big Data & Society; Comparativ; Conservation and Society; Critical
 Sociology; European Review of History; International Journal of Press/Politics; Journal of Rural
 Studies; Policing and Society. We have been members of journal editorial boards:
 Behavioural Science; Frontiers in Political Communication; Journal of Greek Media and Culture;
 Keltische Forschungen (Celtic Research); Media and Communication; Media, War & Conflict;
 Moving the Social: Journal of Social History and the History of Social Movements; New Media &
 Society, Parliamentary History; Patterns of Prejudice; Public Law; Quadrant; Social Policy &
 Administration; Spring: Journal of Archetype and Culture; Voluntary Sector Review, and the
 Asian Journal of Communications. Sociology researchers are also co-editors and members of
 academic advisory boards for various book series.

 Bangor’s Sociology researchers routinely receive invites from around the world to present their
 research. Examples of national and international plenary and keynote lectures include: Royal
 Dutch Institute in Rome, and Federal Ministry of Justice and Consumer Protection, Berlin
 (Sedlmaier); Linnaeus University, Kalmar, Sweden (Bakir); and the online conference Virtual
 Mind the PR Gap 2020: AI, creativity and fake news in a post Covid-19 world (Bakir and
 McStay); Centre for the Politics of English Identity (Mann). Conference (co-)organisation
 includes ‘Shaping the Labour Party’ (Shapely); an international conference on freedom of
 religion as part of Mawhinney’s AHRC Research Network on Collective Worship (2015); an
 international conference on administrative justice, leading to the publication of a collection
 (Nason); Bakir and McStay led a conference on Media & Human Rights at Bangor University

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (2014) and three full-day workshops on Emotional AI: Comparative Considerations for UK and
 Japan across Commercial, Political and Security Sectors, funded by the ESRC and Japan
 Science & Technology funds, these took place in Tokyo and London. Colleagues are frequently
 invited to present their research at prestigious seminars, including at the University of Oxford
 (Loftus, Smith), the University of Cambridge (Jing), Duquesne University, Pittsburgh
 (Huskinson); and the University of St. Andrews (Papadogiannis). Colleagues also act as
 external examiners on PhD theses, both nationally and internationally. Recent examples
 include the examination of doctoral theses at SOAS, University of London (Shi), the University of
 Western Australia, Perth (Huskinson) and Aalborg University, Denmark (Loftus).

 Bangor Sociology researchers act as members of several research councils’ peer review
 pools: AHRC Peer Review College (Huskinson, Karl, McStay, Sedlmaier), AHRC Public
 Policy Advisory Group (Mawhinney), ESRC Peer Review College (Bakir, Feilzer, Loftus), the
 EPSRC and UKRI Canada-UK Artificial Intelligence Initiative (McStay), the European Research
 Council Evaluator Pool (Bakir, Sedlmaier); and they have served on panels to evaluate grant
 proposals for the Austrian Science Fund (Bakir), the Research Foundation Flanders (McStay),
 the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (Bakir, Sedlmaier), the Research Council
 of Norway (Bakir), the Independent Social Research Foundation (Papadogiannis), the
 Research Council of the University of Leuven, and the European Union’s BiodivERsA network
 (Dandy).




                                                                                          Page 15
