Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Liverpool Hope University

 Unit of Assessment: 14 – Geography and Environmental Studies


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview

 The Department of Geography and Environmental Science (DGES) at Liverpool Hope University
 (LHU) comprises a small (FTE 5.2), well-appointed transdisciplinary research team spanning the
 natural and human environments. Social responsibility and conscience are rooted in the nature
 and foundation of LHU mission and values. Our research culture draws strength from an
 inclusive approach to research within the department and throughout the wider institution. The
 UoA research breadth across the disciplines of Geography, Tourism, Ecology and
 Environmental Science naturally fosters research themes at the interfaces of: Geography and
 Tourism (e.g., geoconservation, destination management and urban development);
 Environmental Science and Tourism (e.g., hazard perception and preparedness); Environmental
 Science and Ecology (e.g., grassland entomology, forest disturbance dynamics and coastal
 dune conservation); and Geography and Ecology (e.g., grassland dynamics and coastal dune
 dynamics). For an overview of the UoA research themes see Figure 1: Transdisciplinary
 research themes within DGES.



                                                                               Environmental                    gy ics
             Sustainable Development and Hazard Management




                                                                  Ha                                           o
                                                                an zar            Science                    ol nam ion
                                                                                                            m    y t
                                                                  d d
                                                                   pr pe                                 nto e D rva
                                                                                                        E c e
                                                                                                       d an ons
                                                                                                                          Ecology and Environmental Change




                                                                     ep rc
                                                                       a r ep                        n    b
                                                                          ed t i o               sl a t ur e C
                         Research Group 1 (SDHM)




                                                                                               s
                                                                                             a is n
                                                                                                                               Research Group 2 (EEC)




                                                                            ne n
                                                                              ss          G r t D l Du
                                                                                                s
                                                                                           o re sta
                                                                                          F oa
                                                                                               C
                                                              Tourism                                       Ecology
                                                                                  n nt
                                                                              it o me
                                                                                          Gr sta
                                                                                           Co




                                                                             a e
                                                                           rv ag ent
                                                                                            as l D
                                                                                             a
                                                                                              sl a un




                                                                         e
                                                                       ns Ma n pm
                                                                                                  nd e




                                                                      o
                                                                   oc ion velo
                                                                                                    Dy Dy n




                                                                 e
                                                                                                      na a m




                                                                G at De
                                                                                                        m ic




                                                                  t in an
                                                                                                         ics s




                                                                 s                   Geography
                                                               De Urb

                                                             Figure 1: Transdisciplinary research themes within DGES




                                                                                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our UoA structure and development of transdisciplinary research themes since REF 2014 have
 naturally formed two research groups:

    ●   Sustainable Development and Hazard Management (SDHM) with research including
        hazard perception and preparedness (Chester), destination management (Kennedy),
        geoheritage and geoconservation (Crawford), resource management in the Archdiocese
        of Liverpool (Rooney), and contemporary urban development (Speake).

    ●   Ecology and Environmental Change (EEC) with research including coastal dune
        ecology (Rooney), grassland entomology (Lyons), forest disturbance dynamics (Clear),
        and coastal dune dynamics (Smyth).

 Our REF 2021 research vision is for an enhanced research environment with research impact
 achieved through staff support and facility development. Existing and planned investment and
 growth in staffing, infrastructure and facilities are outlined in sections 2 and 3 respectively.

 Unit’s achievement of strategic aims for research and impact during the assessment period

 A submission to UoA 17 in REF 2014 prompted strategic planning of research and development
 to enhance research culture with the aim of creating a vibrant research environment. This is
 synchronous with LHU status as a young research institute, having gained research degree
 awarding powers in 2009. The general strategic aims outlined by the Faculty of Science in REF
 2014 were as follows: (1) 50% of all staff in each department producing research recognised
 internationally in terms of originality, significance and rigour; (2) 90% of all staff to be REF
 eligible (3) all staff members to make at least one bid for research funding each year; and (4)
 areas of international research focus to be identified. Our REF 2014 objectives have been met
 with DGES submitting 100% of research-contracted staff to REF 2021 with a portfolio of
 research hopefully exceeding our 2014 strategic aim. Ambition and success with research
 funding in DGES are outlined in Section 3 and REF4b. Focus on achieving international quality
 research has become a priority with DGES adding scope and depth to existing research
 strengths. Our growth and development in research impact from REF 2014 and new staff
 appointments of Smyth, Clear and Lyons led to the strategic re-focus of research from
 ‘Environment and Economic Sustainability’ outlined in REF 2014, into the development of our
 two transdisciplinary research groups: Sustainable Development and Hazard Management
 (SDHM) and Ecology and Environmental Change (EEC).

 Research impact highlights in research group 1 (SDHM) include:

    ●   Influencing national cultural preparedness for environmental extremes in Malta (ICS1).
        Developed from long-standing departmental research strengths in hazard perception and
        preparedness in Italy and Portugal (Azores) (e.g., output DC13C). DGES (Kennedy,


                                                                                                    Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Crawford, Chester and Speake) promote natural hazard education and training at the
        local and national stakeholder level in Malta. This involves identifying indigenous
        knowledge of island vulnerability, local and tourist natural hazard exposure, and
        stakeholder engagement with the tourism industry. This includes the development and
        management of geotourism (Crawford) and the development of niche tourism markets in
        Malta including waterfront luxury property development and stakeholder engagement
        (Kennedy and Speake e.g., outputs VK12C and VK22C).

    ●   Theodicy, the role of religion (Christianity and Islam) in shaping responses to
        (earthquake and volcanic) hazards (Chester and Speake, e.g., outputs DC23C and
        DC33C). This research asserts how people perceive and respond to disasters and
        identifies the importance of faith communities in disaster risk reduction, and the
        development of NGOs for disaster relief. The research further explores vulnerability and
        recovery of socio-economic and environmental recovery particularly linked to agricultural-
        based communities.

    ●   A new (2019-2022) transdisciplinary ministry project with the subject area of Theology,
        Philosophy and Religious Studies at LHU on strategic planning and evidence-based
        decision making for the deployment of resources and mission of the Archdiocese of
        Liverpool (Rooney).

 Research impact highlights in research group 2 (EEC) include:

    ●   Improving understandings and changing practices in dynamic coastal dunes (ICS2).
        Another long-standing research strength in DGES is coastal dune dynamics and habitat
        conservation (Rooney and Smyth, e.g., output PR11C). This research promotes
        stakeholder engagement between land managers, scientists and the public in coastal
        management practice and the implementation of policies.

    ●   The impact of grazing management on biodiversity in plant communities and invertebrate
        habitats in upland calcareous grasslands (Lyons, e.g., output AL11B) and the training of
        future generations in evidence-based conservation management.

    ●   The application of palaeoecology to inform forest conservation and management in
        Europe (Clear) with a focus on forest recovery after the impact of fire and pathogen
        disturbance (Clear, e.g., JC15D and JC25C).

 Details of future strategic aims and goals for research and impact and how these relate to the
 structure of the unit; and how they will be taken forward.

 Our strategic aim for REF 2021 is for growth in research culture, environment and impact in
 DGES. In order to achieve this, research culture, environment and impact need to be considered

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as an integral part of the future departmental management plan and development with
 incremental investment into staff, facilities and infrastructure. Our progress in this respect since
 REF 2014 can be seen in: (1) The investment and appointment of ECR staff (Smyth, Clear and
 Lyons) with active research profiles demonstrated with co-authorship of approximately 50% of
 REF 2021 outputs; (2) The development and enhancement of PGR research environment with
 students (Lotteri and Main), and delivery of the concordat to support ECR career development
 (see Section 2); (3) An increase in research income (REF 4b); (4) Enhanced collaborations and
 contributions to the research base with an increase in international research and DGES
 management of three research networks: Sand Dune and Shingle Network (Rooney), PAGES
 Forest Dynamics 2016-2019 (Clear) and Royal Entomological Society Insect Ecology Special
 Interest Group (Lyons) (see Section 4); and (5) Investment in facilities and infrastructure (see
 Section 3).

 Our strategic objectives for this period are as follows:

    (a) Staff retention and recruitment

 DGES aims to maintain a transdisciplinary approach to research, a strength of our small
 department, while increasing our research quality and societal impact through staff retention and
 new staff recruitment. Our aim is to further develop research scope and impact with new staff
 appointments within our existing research framework and concurrent research themes, and to
 future proof research investment by mitigating the impact of staff turnover. Staff recruitment will
 be based on research merit or excellence, in addition to DGES teaching requirements. Staff
 progression will continue to be supported through training and professional development
 opportunities and achievable promotional pathways. The continued implementation of the
 concordat to support the career development of ECR staff with Postdoc Teaching Fellows
 (PDTF) often becoming permanent lecturers will continue. In addition, staff support for
 development and progression of ECR staff to independent researchers and future departmental
 research leaders will be maintained.

    (b) Enhance PGR culture

 Increase research capacity through the further development of a PGR research culture.
 Continued investment into PGR students, PDRA staff and the planned development of an active
 MRes program will assist in creating a vibrant postgraduate research community. This
 development will ensure staff engagement into daily routine research activities alongside
 intensive teaching and administrative duties. Re-investment of REF 2014 research funds into the
 Vice-Chancellor Research Scholarship Program successfully prompted an active PGR research
 environment in DGES. Our aim is to capitalise on this success with additional training and
 progression of ECR staff to be PGR supervisors. External doctoral funding opportunities will be


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 identified and bid for with the support of LHU Research Facilitator (Cooper) and further
 supported through research administration management.

    (c)   Identify opportunity for research income and impact

 In addition to sourcing external funding for doctoral studentships, our aim is to increase external
 research funding by increasing our bidding and success with research grants. Since REF 2014
 our research income has increased by 1245% (REF 4b). A new (2021) structure to apply for
 internal research grant opportunities for new research, travel and publication costs are available
 through (i) DGES for grants less than £1,000, and (ii) from the Pro VC for Research (Nagar) for
 grants over £1,000. These internal grant opportunities are available biannually to all staff,
 including PGR students, to promote independent and collaborative research. These seed-
 funding opportunities provide research income to develop research ideas to increase
 competitiveness for external research funding.

 Social responsibility and conscience are embedded in the foundation of LHU. The UoA has
 established strong links with local (e.g., Archdiocese of Liverpool) and international stakeholders
 (e.g., Government of Malta) to enable research impact (see section 4). Our aim is to further
 develop our research impact at the local, national and international levels across both
 environmental and social sciences. This will be achieved by expanding stakeholder engagement
 to additional communities, and through the development of transferable environmental
 management strategies (e.g., sand dunes, grasslands and forests) and tool kits for social
 engagement and response (e.g., Archdioceses resources and hazard preparedness and
 response).

    (d) Promote networking, outreach and knowledge exchange

 A structured research strategy will continue the UoA’s supportive research environment to create
 research opportunities and impact by providing opportunities for networking, outreach and
 knowledge exchange. Continued support will be provided for internal DGES transdisciplinary
 collaboration and external local, national and international research networks; and to promote
 enhanced engagement with professional bodies e.g., Royal Geographic Society with IBG
 (Chester and Crawford), British Ecological Society (Clear), Royal Entomology Society (Lyons),
 Chartered Institute for Ecology and Environmental Management (Rooney) and Tourism
 Management Institute (Kennedy). Guidelines and support for staff to achieve a balance between
 basic and applied research will be used to increase research impact and knowledge exchange
 (e.g., Scottish Natural Heritage (Rooney), Malta Tourism Authority and Maltese Civil Protection
 Department (Kennedy, Crawford and Chester), Tatra National Park, Slovakia (Clear). Support
 for internal and external collaborative research (see Section 4) will be continued, as it is




                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 essential to support the research environment and promote research impact in a small
 department like DGES.

    (e) Incremental investment in research facilities and infrastructure

 The UoA new staff appointments and shift towards ecological and environmental research has
 led to the incremental and planned investment into research facilities and infrastructure. Access
 to the new £8.5m Science Building (2016) includes designated wet and dry research laboratories
 and ICT facilities including a GIS suite. Planned investment and renovation of a designated
 DGES building (the Green Lane Building) including staff offices, lecture theatres, wet and dry
 research laboratories and ICT facilities is approved in principle but is delayed due to COVID-19.
 The DGES has gained approval in principle for the development of a field research laboratory
 facility at Plas Caerdeon Field Centre located in Snowdonia National Park. Again, this is delayed
 due to COVID-19.

 Our DGES vision for 2025 is an active research environment with a varied staffing structure
 including new ECR recruitment, research-led development and thriving PGR community. The
 development of the Department of Geography and Environmental Science into the School of
 Environment and Earth Sciences is planned by Liverpool Hope University to take place by 2025.
 This will be fully supported by the allocated incremental investment into research infrastructure
 and facilities promoting research culture, enhancing research environment and creating
 opportunity for research impact. This development will strengthen existing research groups while
 facilitating space for growth.


 2. People

 Overview

 The Department of Geography and Environmental Science comprises 5.2 FTE research staff;
 Head of Department (Rooney), Professor (Chester), Senior Lecturer (Crawford), and Lecturers
 (Clear, Kennedy, and Lyons). This is a 23% increase in research-active staff since REF 2014
 (4.2 FTE). Staff members have a diverse first-degree background including Tourism
 Management, Geography, Environmental Science, Geology and Biology facilitating the
 transdisciplinary research themes evident in the UoA.

 Since REF 2014, new staff recruitment (Smyth, Clear and Lyons) following the departure or
 retirement of senior academic staff (Professor Siska and Associate Professor Speake), and
 transitional ECR staff (lecturers Smyth to University of Huddersfield, Andreoni to Manchester
 Metropolitan University, and Filimonau to Bournemouth University) have led to a change in
 staffing structure. Staff support, development and retention is highlighted as a key strategic aim
 for research growth in the UoA. This will be achieved through continued staff support, career

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development and opportunities for promotion. In addition to staff support and retention, staff
 recruitment is essential to further develop a thriving research environment. Staff development
 and recruitment across the transdisciplinary research themes (see figure 1) will support DGES
 research development and impact, while maintaining DGES excellence in learning and teaching.

 Staffing strategy and staff development

 DGES staffing strategy (2014-2021) was to employ research-active staff that enhance and
 diversify existing research strengths that have been nurtured over recent decades. The new
 approach of staff appointments, to consider research excellence in addition to teaching
 requirements, has ensured all new staff members hold a PhD in a concurrent yet diverse range
 of subjects in DGES. All new and existing research-contracted staff can demonstrate active
 research profiles with plans for short- (1-year), medium- (3-year) and long-term (5-year +)
 research development. All new staff appointments demonstrate evidence of quality of research
 and are on career trajectories to develop as independent researchers.

 The new staff appointments in 2015 (Smyth), 2016 (Clear) and 2019 (Lyons), and respective
 promotions of staff from fixed-term PDTF to Lecturer in 2014 (Kennedy), 2015 (Smyth), 2016
 (Clear) and 2020 (Lyons) have ensured the development of a core research culture,
 fundamental to the emerging research identity of DGES. The appointment in coastal destination
 management (Kennedy) with a focus on stakeholder power and engagement and networks in
 the tourism industry develops existing research strengthens in hazard perception and
 preparedness (Chester), geoheritage and geoconservation (Crawford), and gentrification and
 urban development (Speake) within research group 1; Sustainable Development and Hazard
 Management (SDHM). The appointment of grassland ecologist (Lyons) with expertise in
 European botany and entomology fits within the framework of research group 2; Ecology and
 Environmental Change (EEC) and supports existing research strengths in nature conservation
 (Rooney). Lyons’ aim to further develop her research interests in Mediterranean island habitats
 strengthens DGES transdisciplinary research between SDHM and EEC. The appointment of a
 palaeoecologist (Clear) adds a temporal perspective of environmental change to conservation
 and management research strengths in EEC.

 Staff development, performance and appraisal are monitored and evaluated using the annual
 Performance Development Review system where the Head of Department conducts a
 constructive, critical performance review of staff development with clearly defined and
 achievable research targets set for the next academic year. ECR staff are set specific,
 measurable, achievable, realistic, and timely (SMART) targets that are relevant to their
 development stage(s) as independent researchers and research leaders. Additional standard
 targets set for all DGES staff are that they are required to produce three research outputs over a
 five-year period, and one grant application per year. This is in addition to external academic

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 duties including peer review and grant review boards, editorial roles and official positions and
 personal engagement with relevant professional bodies (see Section 4). All research targets are
 set within the framework of the academic role profiles outlined by LHU.

 Staff are supported and encouraged to apply for promotion in the annual (Senior Lecturer) and
 biennial (Associate Professor / Professorial) calls with clearly defined promotional guidelines
 encompassing (a) research, (b) teaching and (c) wider university contribution. These criteria
 ensure the holistic development of a well-rounded and balanced academic.

 The DGES mentor system encourages senior colleagues to advise and collaborate with ECR
 staff e.g., Chester, Crawford and Speake publications with Kennedy (e.g., output KC11C); and
 Rooney with Smyth (e.g., output PR11C). Due to the nature of Liverpool Hope University’s
 modern pathway to achieve research excellence, often ECR staff are research intensive and
 competent in identifying research opportunities for collaboration with senior colleagues. Grant
 writing, applications and research administration are supported by LHU Research Facilitator
 (Cooper).

 The university workload model adopted by DGES allocates one third of research-contracted staff
 time to research activities. These activities include planning, preparation and delivery of
 research proposals and publications. Independent and collaborative research are supported by
 internal funding opportunities, travel and publication grants, and research administrative
 support.

 Opportunities for additional research allocation is limited in a small department where teaching
 and administrative duties are distributed between a few members of staff. DGES growth and
 development will enable the department to make better use of institutional time and workload
 management to increase research intensity (e.g., consolidated research time and sabbatical
 leave).

 Weekly informal research lunches facilitate creative transdisciplinary discussion, development
 and feedback of independent and collaborative research. Senior academics support and foster
 ECR research ideas and identify opportunities for research grants and impact. Departmental
 research seminars take place monthly with a program including both internal and external
 speakers. Internal research seminars provide opportunities to showcase DGES research results,
 promote formative feedback on research proposals and support PGR research development.
 External speakers, from both academia and industry, provide opportunities for research
 collaboration, outreach and impact.

 Staff away days at Liverpool Hope University Creative Campus and Plas Caerdeon Field Centre
 are an integral part of staff training and development. Internal and external staff training and
 development workshops including: Research for ECR staff, grant writing workshops, PGR

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supervision training, as well as more holistic training such as mental health awareness and
 personal resilience training is provided for all staff.

 Staff mobility funding and ERASMUS has been utilised to increase international research
 capacity and to visit Liverpool Hope University partners in Hope College Michigan, USA
 (Crawford, Rooney, Smyth), De La Salle University Manila, Philippines (Clear, Rooney) and
 University of Malta (Chester, Crawford, Smyth).

 DGES representation (Clear) at the University Research Committee provides two-way research
 updates and opportunities including Liverpool Hope University funding calls for start-up research
 projects, travel costs for conferences and fieldwork, and open-access publication costs. All staff
 including PGR students are encouraged to apply for annual conference funds to present and
 disseminate their research findings at national and international conferences and workshops.
 This has been extended to online conferences and workshops due to the imposed travel
 restrictions during COVID-19.

 COVID-19 has added unprecedented challenges to staff support and development. DGES has
 provided equipment and research facilities to work from home and onsite COSH and additional
 health and safety protocols for laboratory access when needed. Flexible working hours enable
 staff to adapt to the challenges of working from home while managing home schooling and
 caring responsibilities. E-Learning modules including regular webinar and staff training via Zoom
 as well as enhanced mental health resources with opportunities to refresh these courses
 anytime.

 Training and supervision of PGR students

 The investment of REF 2014 funds into Vice-Chancellor Research Scholarships secured two
 funded PhD research scholarships in Island Hazard Perception, Preparedness and Management
 in DGES. These PhD studentships were completed in 2019 (Main) and 2020 (Lotteri).

 A strategic strength of DGES is the integration of PhD students into daily departmental activities.
 Individual PhD offices with dedicated ICT facilities are located amongst staff offices along the
 DGES staff corridor. In addition to personal PGR offices, access to shared facilities including ICT
 suites with dedicated software (e.g., ArcGIS), as well as dry and wet research laboratories and
 facilities are available to PhD students when required.

 Internal DGES support and mentorship is provided by a team of academics including a senior
 Director of Studies (Speake) and at least one additional Research Supervisor (Crawford,
 Chester). ECR staff are involved in PGR research supervision as research advisors (Kennedy).
 Academic external advisors (e.g., Duncan, University of Liverpool) were appointed for both PGR




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students in DGES. The supervisor team is identified through research expertise and a track
 record of successful collaboration and supervision.

 One benefit of the small Liverpool Hope University community is the support and engagement of
 the wider PhD research community. PhD students attend a series of annual informative
 meetings with Associate Dean for PGR Students (Speake). A clear outline of activities, dates
 and research development programme are disseminated for the duration of the studentships.
 This includes core elements of PGR skills and structured training provided to all PGR students.
 Additional, optional bespoke research training opportunities such as specialist software e.g.,
 ArcGIS training is also available. External training opportunities are encouraged with DGES
 PGR students completing external courses in RStudio, PGR public engagement (University of
 Liverpool) and teaching in Geography (RGS [with IBG]).

 Communal access to shared office facilities and dedicated research space is available. A shared
 PGR and staff common room is available for coffee breaks, lunch, discussions and research
 meetings. The onsite, affordable sports facilities and social spaces offer an escape from
 intensive PGR research, and an opportunity to focus on exercise, meditation and mental health.
 A tutor and student-led active social programme, with an additional programme for international
 students, provide opportunities to develop support, friendship and collaboration amongst the
 PhD community.

 PGR student progression is monitored through: (1) a minimum of eight supervisory team
 meetings per year; (2) Annual Monitoring Reviews (AMR) including the delivery of a research
 presentation to peers and a meeting with the Director or Studies (Speake) on research
 progression and forward planning; (3) A second-year Confirmation of Registration Event (CRE)
 includes a mock viva and (4) Liverpool Hope University Research Skills Scheme (LHURSS).
 This ensures that all PGR students acquire the essential skills required by Vitae’s Research
 Development Framework (RDF). All PGR students are required to keep an updated Personal
 Development Record (PDR) to monitor and evidence their progress towards the acquisition of
 necessary research skills. PGR students are expected to complete the LHURSS before
 submitting their thesis.

 PGR student opportunities span research, administration and teaching. Competitive PGR
 funding is available for PhD student research development with an open call for up to £400 per
 annum. In addition, PGR students are invited to compete with academics for up to £1,000 for
 travel to conferences and workshops, and publication fees. There are abundant opportunities to
 present research internally through: DGES seminar series, Faculty of Science Annual Research
 Day, and annual PhD student progression prepares students for national and international
 conferences. Staff support with identifying conference opportunities (e.g., European Geoscience
 Union (EGU)) and support in applying for competitive student conference funding means all

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students have attended national and international conferences, e.g., Cities on Volcanoes in
 Chile, 2016 and Naples, 2018 (Lotteri). PGR students have assisted with international
 conferences organised at Liverpool Hope University including Littoral (2017; Main) and PAGES
 Forest Dynamics (2016; Lotteri). Lotteri also organised a student-led PGR research conference
 during Science Week 2018. Engagement with external professional bodies such as RGS PGR
 fellow and ambassador (Main) is encouraged along with internal PGR student representation on
 academic boards including ethics, research, and student voice.

 External research collaborations with UAc Universidade dos Açores (Lotteri) and L-Università tà
 Malta (Main) were facilitated with extended overseas research visits to the Azores and Malta,
 respectively. While studying abroad, both PhD students hosted or took part in international
 conferences; Lotteri co-organised the Fourth VERTIGO workshop São Miguel, Azores (2017),
 and Main was invited keynote speaker at The Hazard Exposure of the Maltese Islands, Malta
 (2018).

 Career support and development of PGR students involve wider academic experiences including
 the opportunity to contribute to undergraduate student teaching as well as laboratory, field, and
 international fieldwork demonstrations.

 On successful completion of their PhD programme, PGR students produce a modern thesis
 consisting of peer review publications in high quality journals including joint publications with
 senior staff (e.g., KC11C). DGES has a strong track record of PGR career development
 demonstrated by recent career destinations including lecturer position in Geography at the
 University of Exeter (Main) and PDTF at Liverpool Hope University (Lotteri). Promotional
 pathways of PGR students are a strength of Liverpool Hope University, demonstrated in DGES
 with Lotteri progressing from PhD student (2015-2019) to PDRA (2019-2020) and presently,
 PDTF (2020-). This is one example of Liverpool Hope Universities concordant commitment to
 PGR student and staff career development.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity

 A small yet diverse department with European, national and local colleagues with a range of
 shared experiences from traditional and non-traditional academic backgrounds. DGES fosters a
 research environment that recognises and respects differences, promoting Liverpool Hope
 Universities equality, diversity and inclusion framework. A departmental culture of openness
 amongst staff and PGR students fosters an inclusive and supportive environment.

 Recruitment and career progression follow LHU good practice guidelines in the recruitment
 process which includes competency and merit in teaching, research and an understanding and
 contribution to LHU mission and values.



                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The appointment of three fixed-term Postdoc Research Assistants (PDRA) in Coastal dunes
 (Wood; 2021-) and the Liverpool Archdiocese Project (Ayokunle; 2019- and Lotteri; 2020)
 enhance and diversify the structure of the emerging DGES research culture. The new
 appointments of ECR staff members (Clear and Lyons) contribute to a balance in research
 career demographics and gender. In all, 50% of REF returned staff are female and represent
 more than 50% of the FTE. Short-term PDTF contracts have all been converted to long-term
 lecturer contracts (Kennedy, Smyth, Clear and Lyons) meeting Liverpool Hope University’s
 concordat objectives. Opportunities for ECR staff are similar to senior staff members with ECR
 staff on committee roles including the Research Committee (Clear) and Ethics Committee
 (Lyons). This promotes ECR staff visibility to the wider university. PGR students are also
 represented on both the research and ethics committees.

 Equality, diversity and inclusivity is a regular feature in weekly departmental meetings and
 biweekly senior management team (SMT) meetings. Senior management team comprises 50:50
 male to female ratio and 50:50 established and ECR staff. Gender balance is also a priority for
 appointment to research committees and recruitment panels. Both DGES research groups
 (SDHM and EEC) have female research leaders (Clear and Kennedy) and there are clear
 departmental role models for PGR students.

 DGES staff are encouraged to actively participate in Liverpool Hope Women’s Network. External
 speakers are a regular feature through the Women’s Network and during Science Week. The
 Aurora Management Programme is available to all female staff considering promotion to
 management roles in the university. The department (Clear) contributed to a Liverpool Hope
 University Foundation Hour promoting the International Day of Women and Girls in Science.

 Liverpool Hope University has generous parental leave including extended period of full pay, and
 an award of £1,000 on the production of a birth certificate. Periods of both maternity and
 paternity leave have been available for staff members during this REF period with keep in touch
 days, phased return, and temporarily reduced workloads. Extended periods of staff leave are
 considered for research career expectations in the annual Performance Development
 Reviews. The challenges of online teaching through COVID-19 led to an additional three days
 annual leave in 2020-2021, with an optional additional four days paid annual leave for parents
 impacted by COVID-19 restrictions between January and March 2021.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Overview

 Since REF 2014 the UoA research income has increased by 1245% (REF4). The DGES aim is
 to further increase research funding with the support and development outlined in our key


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strategic aims for REF 2021 (see Section 1). Existing investment into facilities and infrastructure
 including the new shared-access £8.5m Science Building completed in 2016, and the agreed in
 principal investment into both a designated DGES building, and the field laboratory facilities
 highlight the direction of investment into the UoA facilities and infrastructure.

 Income

 The UoA has had an increase in both internal and external research funding success during the
 REF period. External research grants include British Academy funding (2013) of approx. £8,000
 to understand human responses to historic volcanic eruptions in the Azores. This research on
 past perception and response guides preparedness to natural hazards in the Azores and other
 European islands.

 The EU-funded LIFE project held at CEH (2018) in partnership with LHU (Rooney) improved the
 understanding of dynamic coastal dune habitats through the production of management
 guidelines. Key elements of the management guide include land management education
 programmes, policy and practice to develop innovative and creative natural management
 solutions to increasing coastline resilience and response to climate change. The NERC grant
 (NE/T00410X/1) on ‘Landscape-scale environmental drivers of coastal dune mobility’ held at the
 University of Huddersfield (2019) with Smyth and co-investigator Rooney improves the
 understanding of dune surface movement in dynamic dune systems. This new understanding of
 dune adaptability and resilience to environmental change impacts the decision making of land
 managers in terms of dynamic dune restoration and nature conservation practice. Smyth was
 successful in receiving £11,500 from the Royal Geographical Society (2018) for a Differential
 GPS (DGPS) Trimble R8s Model 60 to assess movement of sand dune surface deflation in
 blowouts. This work develops the understanding of coastal dune formation and change in
 coastal dune systems where vegetated dune stability threatens biodiversity.

 The Ministry Project (approx. £21,000) funded by a Dutch Family Foundation via the Porticus
 Trust in 2019 directly informs and influences the Archdiocese of Liverpool decision-making
 synod process. The Synod agrees annually on common goals and actions, which includes the
 ongoing development and implementation of an environment strategy.

 Through PAGES Forest Dynamics, Clear was awarded approximately £8,000 to bring together
 international scientists, land managers and stakeholders to improve the reconstruction of forest
 disturbance dynamics and to identify opportunities and key methods for data integration across
 historical documents and multi-proxy (e.g., tree ring and sediment) palaeoecological records.

 DGES have been successful with grants from LHU internal research funding initiatives during
 the REF period including: REFocus Higher Education Innovation Fund (2017) with £3,000
 awarded to Kennedy, Crawford, Speake and Chester: and REFresh and REFine Higher

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Education Innovation Fund (2018) with £2,500 awarded to Kennedy, Crawford, Speake and
 Chester. The grants enabled DGES to further develop and strengthen the research on
 natural hazard DGES research has previously been focused on human geography and
 pedagogical research. In recent preparedness in Malta by running two conferences with national
 government and NGO stakeholders. The conferences resulted in greater recognition of hazard
 vulnerability in the tourism sector in the Maltese Islands and have resulted in the development of
 a national Tsunami Advisory Board.

 Infrastructure and facilities

 The nature and tradition of years, new staff appointments have created a shift towards physical
 and environmental research, which has led to the incremental development of our infrastructure
 and facilities. In addition to human geography and pedagogical research, we specialise in
 traditional field-based ecological research utilising the local environment, particularly the sand
 dunes of the Sefton Coast, northwest England (ICS2). DGES has a range of basic surveying
 equipment, for instance handheld GPSs, Differential GPS, erosion pins and an EDM. Additional
 equipment orientated to field-based investigations with an emphasis on ecological research,
 particularly species identification and habitat monitoring include specialist field identification
 guides, invertebrate trapping and collection, and items required for botanical and habitat
 surveys. Research group EEC also specialises in environmental change research which is
 supported with field sampling equipment including basic corers, augers, and digital
 environmental sensors. For our research group SDHM, human geography and social science
 research on hazard perception and response, destination management and geoconservation
 (ICS1), DGES has adequate equipment for social science investigations including items such as
 Dictaphones and transcription equipment.

 The new £8.5m Sciences Building was completed in January 2016 and includes shared
 laboratory facilities, technicians, and research space with other UoAs. Specialist research
 facilities include state-of-the-art wet research laboratories with a cold room for sample storage
 and equipment for palaeoecological investigations such as fume cupboard, centrifuge, water
 bath, oven, furnace etc. DGES dry research laboratory facilities including reference collections of
 museum-curated invertebrates, pollen and rock collections. A dedicated ICT facility supported by
 IT services includes a GIS suite with LHU licences for SPSS, ArcGIS, Digimap via JISC, Tilia
 and NVivo data analysis software. DGES library facilities include a designated librarian and an
 annual budget for software licences, e-books, hard-copy books, journal subscriptions and shared
 institutional packages. Research rooms including a PGR base are available for research
 including historical documents, newspapers and historical maps.

 Human resources, including LHU Research Facilitator (Cooper), support the UoA research
 environments by identifying grant opportunities, internal grant review processes, paperwork

                                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 administration and budget planning. For successful grant applications there are resources for
 research administration and management. The DGES designated librarian supports and
 manages the UoAs research outputs in Hope’s Institutional Research Archive (HIRA).

 LHU Field Centre Plas Caerdeon is located in Snowdonia National Park with access to a range of
 outstanding geographical habitats including 18 acres of semi-natural temperate woodland, the
 majority of which is recovering Atlantic wet oak woodland adjacent to the Meirionnydd Bat and
 Oak woodland special area of conservation (SAC). DGES has proposed the development and
 ownership of a research field laboratory facility that has been accepted in principle, with
 development currently delayed due to COVID-19. The proposed development of the research field
 laboratory facilities at Plas Caerdeon would enhance research impact and PGR recruitment with
 the potential for on-site residential PhD students.

 The UoA was scheduled to move into a purposely renovated, dedicated (Green Lane) building
 housing staff offices, lecture theatres, wet and dry research laboratories, and ICT facilities in 2020.
 This has been postponed due to the current remote / offsite working conditions imposed due
 COVID-19.

 Key strategic aim (e) is the incremental investment in research facilities and infrastructure. The
 new staff appointments and shift in research direction towards ecological and environmental
 research has prompted incremental investment into research facilities and infrastructure. This
 includes the planned move to a designated DGES building and proposed development of the Plas
 Caerdeon Field Centre Laboratory, all with the aim of enhancing research environment and future
 research impact.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Overview

 Due to the size (5.2 FTE) and research discipline diversity of the UoA, staff collaborations and
 engagement with their respective research communities at the local, national and international
 level foster individual research development and impact. A key aim is to maintain and enhance
 research collaborations internally in the department, across the university and with researchers
 external to the institution in order to ensure an outward looking, supportive and active research
 environment. During the REF period (2014-2021), DGES published 93 publications, including
 publications from REF-returnable, retired and transitional staff. Of the 75 REF returnable
 documents, DGES staff have published with approximately 197 colleagues from 160
 departments in 107 universities from 32 countries see Figure 2: International co-author of REF-
 returnable staff.



                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




              Figure 2: International co-authors of REF-returnable staff (2014-2021)

 A strategic priority of the UoA is to create and sustain opportunities for networking, outreach and
 knowledge exchange in a supportive and collaborative research environment with the aim of
 promoting transdisciplinary and interdisciplinary research and impact.

 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Effective collaborations between researchers in the department, with those across the university
 and with external partners are important to facilitate an active research environment and to
 achieve international research impact. Some key strategic local, national and international
 research collaborations are as follows: UK (University of Liverpool, Centre for Ecology and
 Hydrology, Edge Hill University, University of Huddersfield); Malta (L-Università tà Malta);
 Czechia (Charles University, Ceská zemedelská univerzita v Praze), Finland (University of
 Helsinki), USA (University of Utah, University of Colorado, Hope College Michigan), Sweden
 (Lund University), Portugal (Azores; UAc Universidade dos Açores), Germany (University of
 Bremen) and Italy (Università degli Studi di Catania).

 DGES research collaborations and partnership with the University of Malta began in 2001 and
 has developed over the last two decades into a successful transdisciplinary research network
 that supports an annual (pre-COVID-19) research-informed final-year and postgraduate student
 field trip. Partnerships with the University of Malta, key government departments and NGO
 stakeholders (e.g., Malta Tourism Authority and Maltese Civil Protection Department) facilitates
 transdisciplinary research impact concerned with hazard perception and preparedness,
 vulnerability and resilience of island destinations, tourism place making and wider urban

                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development, particularly with a focus around aesthetics and neoliberal capitalism. The UoA
 research collaboration with multiple stakeholders on the Maltese Islands is an important
 research partnership with over 50% of UoA staff involved in developing research partnerships
 relating to Malta.

 The size, values and mission of LHU encourages and facilitates interdisciplinary research within
 a wider university context. DGES is engaged in research with the Archdiocese of Liverpool
 focusing on improving strategic planning and evidence-based decision-making relating to the
 deployment of permanent Deacons and to evaluate the Archdiocesan Pastoral Associates
 Project. The research is funded by a Dutch Family Foundation via the Porticus Trust. The
 findings of the project relate to the depth of understanding of the permanent diaconate, and how the
 deacons can better serve the Church’s mission in a dynamic social context. UoA local research
 collaborations, developed from approximately 75% of DGES staff having previously studied or
 worked at other local institutes, fosters strong research connections across the northwest
 England geographical area. This includes research in the following areas: coastal dune
 dynamics (Delgado-Fernandez, Edge Hill University); grassland conservation and management
 (Oxbrough, Edge Hill University); forest conservation and management (Chiverrell, University of
 Liverpool); and pedagogical research (Pownall, Chester University). UK-based coastal dune
 dynamics research partnerships extend to government and NGO stakeholders including Centre
 for Ecology and Hydrology (CEH), Natural England, Scottish Natural Heritage, Natural
 Resources Wales, The National Trust and Wildlife Trusts.

 UoA international collaborations span six continents (Fig. 2), with key research networks and
 partnerships in Europe and the USA. Research group 1 (SDHM) focuses on hazards in
 European coastal and island regions including Portugal (including the Azores), Italy (including
 Sicily) and the Maltese Islands with engagement with stakeholders in Italy (Instituto Nazionale di
 Geofisica e Vulcanologia) and Malta (Malta Tourism Authority and Maltese Civil Protection
 Department). Research group 2 (EEC) focuses on conservation and management in Europe and
 the USA including the European Sand Dune Network (Rooney) with key EU collaborators
 including the Danish State Forestry Service, the French National Forestry Service (Office
 Nationale Foret), the Dutch State Forestry Service (Staatbosbeheer) and the Amsterdam
 Waterworks. Research in palaeoecology and forest dynamics (Clear) has informed forest
 management practice in Slovakia (Fleisher, Tatra National Park), Czechia (Knizek, Department
 of Forest Protection and Game Management Research), and USA (Fettig, USDA Colorado;
 Seybold, USDA California; DeRose, USDA Utah).

 Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences

 In addition to key strategic national and research collaborations, the UoA research-informed
 impact extends to stakeholders including government and non-government organisations, land

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 managers, scientists, policy makers and practitioners in the following countries: UK (Centre for
 Ecology and Hydrology, Natural England, The National Trust, Wildlife Trusts, Natural Resources
 Wales, Plantlife and Scottish Natural Heritage); USA (USDA in California, Colorado and Utah);
 Slovakia (Tatra National Park); Czechia (Department of Forest Protection and Game
 Management Research); Malta (Malta Tourism Authority and Maltese Civil Protection
 Department) and Italy (Instituto Nazionale di Geofisica e Vulcanologia).

 The UoA is involved in local stakeholder partnership and knowledge exchange in conservation
 and management in coastal dunes through the northwest ‘Gems of the Dunes’ project, part of
 the ‘Back from the Brink’ initiative by Natural England.

 By involving postgraduate students in the formulation of draft site management plans, staff in the
 UoA proposed the development of broadleaved woodland and mesotrophic grassland located in
 Nutgrove, St Helens (UK) into a designated Local Nature Reserve (LNR). The proposal is
 accepted by the local authority and is currently under development. It is located on the site of
 what was once the largest mental health hospital in Europe. This new nature reserve promotes
 health and wellbeing for the local community by increasing their contact with nature. The UoA is
 working with local councillors, council officers and the Community Labour Party (CLP) as well as
 two local resident groups to further develop the LNR status, site management and community
 engagement.

 The UoA was instrumental in the designation of Childwall Woods and Fields LNR in Childwall,
 Liverpool. Initially this was through the production of outline site management plans by
 undergraduate students. Recently the UoA hosted an Annual General Meeting (AGM) to re-
 launch the ‘Friends of’ Childwall Woods and Fields with local residents, the Lancashire Wildlife
 Trust and Liverpool City Council. The UoA continues to use the site for PGT research and
 undergraduate teaching, all of which engage with the ‘Friends’ group.

 Wider activity and contributions to the research base economy and society

 Engagement, education and training initiations with government departments and stakeholders
 (land managers, practitioners and the public) are key activities in the department’s research
 strategy as they align with the mission, ethos and values of LHU. During REF 2014-2021, the
 UoA supported and managed three research networks:

 (1) The Sand Dune and Shingle Network established in 2006 (Rooney). The network aims to
 promote the exchange of information and experience in the management of coastal habitats by
 identifying actions to support conservation to statutory agencies, coordinating regional and
 national events, supporting sustainable management of links golf courses, publishing
 newsletters and providing website resources. Littoral (2017) conference focused on the theme of
 ‘Change, Naturalness and People’ with participants from 11 countries in addition to scientists

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 from UK universities and agencies. Sessions focused on invasive alien species in coastal dunes,
 threats and solutions in dunes and dune slacks, and mobile dunes and dune dynamics. Since
 2010 the Sand Dune and Shingle Network took a lead in developing and promoting the
 European Dune Network, an initiative to help raise awareness of the threats to coastal dunes
 and to encourage networking, exchanges of experience and cooperation within and between
 sectors. The network platform is supported by the Coastal & Marine Union (EUCC) Council in
 association with the UK Sand Dune and Shingle Network.

 (2) PAGES Forest Dynamics working group 2016-2019 (Clear). Funded by Swiss Science
 Foundation and NOAA. As part of PAGES Forest Dynamics, the FutureEarth working group
 brought together academics, scientists and practitioners from a range of fields in forest
 conservation and management from boreal and temperate regions. The Forest Dynamics
 workshop (2017) was hosted by Liverpool Hope University with 29 participants, including 14
 ECR from 13 nations. The event explored new approaches to reconstructing forest disturbances
 across four broad themes: (1) Improving reconstructions of non-fire disturbances; (2)
 Reconstructing the severity of forest disturbances; (3) Opportunities for database integration;
 and (4) Key methods for data integration.

 (3) Royal Entomological Society Insect Special Interest Group (Lyons). As an adaptation to
 COVID-19 Lyons held a virtual e-Ecology meeting (2020) hosted by Liverpool Hope University.
 This Royal Entomology Society meeting brought together national and international academics
 and scientists focusing on technological advances and biodiversity in entomology.

 In addition to organising and hosting international conferences and workshops at LHU, UoA staff
 members have developed, organised and hosted conferences at partner institutions including
 the University of Malta (The Hazard Exposure of the Maltese Islands, Malta (2018; Kennedy,
 Chester, Speake, Crawford) and the University of the Azores (Fourth VERTIGO workshop São
 Miguel, Azores (2017; Lotteri). Staff members have chaired sessions at international
 conferences (e.g., PAGES 5th OSM, Zaragoza, Spain 2017; Clear) and have been invited
 keynote speakers (e.g., Littoral Facing present and future coast challenges, Klaipeda, Lithuania,
 2014; Rooney).

 Staff are on local and national advisory and boards and committees including: The Chartered
 Institute of Ecology and Environmental Management (CIEEM), where Rooney has served on the
 membership admissions committee, advisory board and governing body. He is the Convener for
 the northwest England section of CIEEM and is the Vice-convenor of their Academic Special
 Interest Group. Rooney is an expert advisor on the coast for the Liverpool city region authority.
 He is on the steering group for Merseyside Biobank (the local environmental records centre) and
 was the chair of the Education and Outreach Board. He is on the advisory board of the Wildlife



                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Trust for Lancashire, Greater Manchester and North Merseyside. Rooney is on the Steering
 Committee of the International Geographical Union Commission on Coastal Systems.

 Rooney is on the Archdiocese diaconate management board. He also serves on the
 Archdiocese of Liverpool Ecumenical Commission (Commission for Unity and Dialogue) and the
 Archdiocese environment group. He is a trustee of Nugent Care, a registered charity, caring,
 educating, and protecting vulnerable people through schools, care homes, and community and
 social work services.

 Staff members serve on editorial boards including the Journal of Coastal Conservation (Rooney)
 and the Journal of Palearctic Grasslands (Lyons). Clear is a member of the grant review college
 for British Ecological Society.

 Key strategic aim (d) is to promote networking, outreach and knowledge exchange (see Section
 1). This will be achieved by identifying social, cultural and environmental research impact
 through enhanced internal and external research collaborations and increasing research income.
 Dissemination of research to stakeholders including government bodies, NGO’s, land managers,
 policy makers, scientists and the public will remain a priority of DGES while growing and
 maintaining the UoA transdisciplinary research identity.




                                                                                               Page 20
