Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Leeds Beckett University

 Unit of Assessment: 4: Psychology, Psychiatry & Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1. Overview and context

 Our unifying project is improving psychological wellbeing, and our strength in applied
 Health Psychology has delivered research impacts in diverse settings for patients, young
 people and employees through externally funded projects. This focus on real-world
 research aligns with the university mission to ‘make a positive and decisive difference to
 people, organisations and communities’.

 Our submitted staff are primarily based within the Psychology department (n = 27), with
 additional staff contributing from Speech & Language Science (n = 3) and Criminology (n
 = 2), all within the School of Social Sciences –a total a total of 32 staff for REF2021, up
 from 12 for REF2014 (our first REF submission). This number reflects our aim to involve
 all staff in research, expressed in the unit strategic plan (2017) and aligned with Leeds
 Beckett University’s (LBU) objectives for enhancing research excellence via ‘increased
 research intensity’ (LBU Strategic Plan [2016-21]). The unit now has three Professors
 (this includes one current vacancy [Abraham]) and three Readers, compared to one
 Professor and one Reader in REF2014, with a dedicated Director of Research (DoR:
 Gough), who reports to the DVC Research and Enterprise.

 Our focus on research development and grant capture (research prestige) is also in line
 with key unit and LBU objectives and we have delivered growth in research income from a
 low base in 2014 (£33k), to £274k in 2019. Overall, we have attracted approx. £1.8million
 research income since 2014, with successful bids from established funders, including
 NIHR, EU and medical charities. One key to this success has been meeting our objective
 to develop a vibrant research environment via several staff development initiatives
 (see Section 1.2), and investment in PGR numbers (37 currently vs. 8 in 2014) via a blend
 of externally funded, self-funded, and School-funded studentships.

 Centre for Psychological Research: PsyCen
 As part of our strategy to improve and grow our research environment – and to enhance
 unit visibility within the university and externally - we established a dedicated Centre for
 Psychological Research (PsyCen) in 2017, directed by Holch (see
 https://www.leedsbeckett.ac.uk/leeds-school-of-social-sciences/research/centre-for-
 psychological-research-psycen/), focusing on six programmes and areas of strength, with
 a model of co-leadership to maximise staff engagement and sustainability:
 • Cognitive and Behavioural Neuroscience - Programme Leads: Kolokotroni and
     Pauly-Takacs
 • Gender and Sexualities - Programme Leads: Day and Turner-Moore
 • Health and Wellbeing - Programme Leads: Dhingra and Wang
 • Culture, Diversity & Social Behaviour - Programme Leads: Harkry and Moon
 • Psychology Applied to Safety and Health (PASH) & Occupational Psychology -
     Programme Leads: Morgan and Curcuruto
 • Speech and Language - Programme Leads: Hurren and Devers

 Since the centre launch in 2017, all unit staff have benefitted from research support and
 engagement through direct funding, collaborating with colleagues within and between
 programmes, and a thriving research culture featuring seminars, workshops and
 centre/programme events.


                                                                                        Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 PsyCen provides funding (up to £75k p.a.) for colleagues to pursue agreed research
 goals, with high quality publications and grant capture prioritised – in line with university,
 school and unit strategies. The centre is supported by a dedicated School-funded
 Research & Enterprise Co-ordinator, with responsibilities including the processing of staff
 and PGR research claims, publicising our research and organising conferences, seminars
 and workshops.

 1.2. Unit research and impact strategy

 Building on our REF2014 submission, our research strategy has prioritised high quality,
 impactful research facilitated by a sustainable, inclusive and collaborative research culture
 which enables staff to deliver strong outputs and grant applications. The strategy is led by
 the Director of Research (Gough), supported locally by senior staff within the Department
 (e.g. Professors; HoD), School (e.g. Dean) and centrally (e.g. DVC Research &
 Enterprise; REF strategy group). Our research strategy is directly aligned with both
 University and School strategies, focused on making a positive impact on the social and
 economic well-being of the communities that we serve at regional, national and
 international levels - through improving our research environment, intensity and prestige.

 The LBU strategy recognises and supports three broad research themes, including Health
 and Well-Being, the focus of Psychology research across all PsyCen programmes –
 specifically on understanding and improving psychological wellbeing.
 Unit research strategy has been implemented in several ways:

 An inclusive research culture
 Staff research is facilitated by our inclusive culture, designed to promote research projects
 showcasing diverse methodologies, from psychometric and experimental designs to
 qualitative and critical psychology approaches. We also encourage interdisciplinary
 research – we recognise that national and global research priorities require collaboration
 between diverse scholars – and colleagues work with peers from other social and health
 science disciplines and interdisciplinary fields on funding bids and projects (e.g. sociology,
 medicine, gender studies, public health) and publish in a wide range of journals beyond
 Psychology.

 Focus on applied research with impact
 Although several colleagues have published influential conceptual pieces, we have always
 promoted the value of (theoretically-informed) applied research, working in teams with
 colleagues inside the department and beyond, and including external partners and
 stakeholders to deliver impact (see Section 4). Our two REF2014 impact case studies
 were informed by research which fully incorporated patient and public voices (penile
 cancer patients, road users). Our three REF2021 impact case studies (see Section 4.5)
 build upon this past success, with users involved in developing interventions, for example
 young people in the ASBAE (Addressing Sexual Bullying Across Europe) project (Milnes,
 Turner-Moore, Gough).

 Other ongoing research programmes (likely future impact case studies) also prioritise
 patient and public participation, including research with carers looking after family
 members with co-morbid conditions (Ashley), work on patient reported outcome measures
 (Holch) and body image interventions with young people (Deighton-Smith, Jankowski). All
 our research projects have our mission of promoting psychological wellbeing as a key
 focus, whether for rail workers (Morgan), patients living with reproductive health problems
 (Jones) or young people at school (Milnes, Turner-Moore, Gough).

 We have three major approaches and mechanisms for achieving impact from our
 research:


                                                                                         Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     •   collaborative research and dissemination events with users, gathering and
         monitoring evidence of impact where appropriate;
     •   presenting our research at conferences and events aimed at practitioners;
     •   using print, broadcast and social media to engage with the general public about
         our research.

 Our impact strategy is aligned with the LBU’s mission as a civic university, serving the
 needs of local and regional constituencies, while also promoting impact at national and
 international levels. Each member of staff is encouraged to develop a relationship with at
 least one external organisation in order to further the impact of their research, with funding
 available from PsyCen – for example we are now promoting matched-funded PhD
 studentships. These links are reviewed during the annual Professional Development
 Reviews (staff appraisals).

 Enhancing and sustaining our research environment
 Following REF2014, which provided the unit with Quality Research (QR) funds to invest in
 research, and responding to the University Strategic Plan (2016-21), our unit strategy
 (2017) has focused on promoting and growing an inclusive, vibrant and supportive
 research environment to enable staff to pursue agreed research programmes which
 prioritise high quality outputs and, where appropriate, grant capture – all embedded within
 PsyCen. In consultation with staff, we have developed several policies and practices
 agreed at Management Group and wider departmental meetings, including:

 •   Promoting awareness of research goals and REF strategy in the department via:
      o regular Psychology Research Committee meetings led by each PsyCen research
         programme;
      o standing research agenda items at Psychology Management Group and all-staff
         department meetings;
      o dedicated PsyCen research programme meetings;
      o a full annual seminar programme with external and internal speakers to stimulate
         discussion of latest trends and inform staff research programmes;
      o an annual research away day to update and revisit strategy and build our
         research community;
      o annual PhD conference attended by staff and PGRs to promote PGR
         development and intellectual exchange;
      o dedicated initiatives e.g. for ECRs (e.g. writing retreats, led by Jankowski), for
         qualitative researchers (data analysis sessions, led by Muskett) and for
         colleagues
      o contributing to open science developments (led by Persson) – to foster staff
         development and research quality enhancement.

 •   Recruiting and retaining excellent, research active staff to build research
     capacity. We have prioritised the recruitment of accomplished researchers at senior
     levels, and ECRs who show promise, including at Graduate Teaching Assistant level.
     For existing staff with strong research profiles, we have supported research
     development as well as promotion applications (see Staffing Strategy, Section 2.1 for
     details).

 •   Offering a sabbatical scheme. Since 2014, the department has allocated approx.
     four (one semester) sabbaticals per year to staff (24 in total) wishing to pursue
     research goals, typically relating to data collection/analysis, writing journal papers for
     submission to journals, and developing funding bids.




                                                                                          Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 •   Providing a research mentoring programme to enhance research quality (updated
     and rolled out in 2017), involving a transparent matching process (with staff-led
     applications, nominations and negotiations), based on evidence of best practice
     pioneered by a former member of staff (Woolnough; now administered by Tipples).

 •   Requiring all staff complete individual research plans for discussion and
     agreement at annual Personal Development Review meetings (staff appraisal),
     ensuring that research objectives align with departmental strategy, needs are identified
     and supported, goals are realistic, and that staff are motivated to develop their
     research programmes.

 •   Submitting high quality funding bids. In line with university strategy to enhance
     research prestige, we encourage high quality funding bids where appropriate. Staff
     wishing to bid for external funds must seek approval from the DoR so that fit, viability
     and support can be identified. In line with university policy, all draft bids are internally
     reviewed by senior research staff within and beyond the department before
     submission is approved. Since 2014, we have witnessed growth in the number of bids
     submitted by the unit, to a greater variety of funders, resulting in a marked increase in
     grant capture and larger, more ambitious bids to more prestigious funders (e.g. two
     bids to Wellcome Trust in 2020 c£1million each).

 •   Capitalising on internal opportunities for research capacity. DoRs work at senior
     levels to formulate and deliver university research strategy. For example, to grow
     STEM research, DoRs in relevant units were recently (2019) asked to bid for STEM
     funding, and our unit was successful in bidding for four Psychology PhD studentships
     in Medical Psychology and Cognitive Neuroscience – areas which we want to grow.
     Another example: DoRs were tasked with inviting expressions of interest for bids to the
     Wellcome Trust for new research initiatives (2019) – the Psychology bid was
     successful and the bid was submitted this year for approx. £1million (2020).

 •   Growing our research student community: We have successfully targeted growth in
     our PGR numbers since 2014 as part of our strategy to enhance our research
     environment, including investment in 8 x Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTAs) every
     four years, a successful bid for 4 x STEM Psychology studentships from university
     funds, and 4 x School funded fees-only Masters by Research (MReS) studentships
     annually since 2016.

 •   Securing necessary research equipment, software and infrastructure to support
     staff and PGR research (e.g. new suite of research laboratories; BioPack; SONA
     system; Qualtrics; Eyetracker; tDCS – See Section 3).

 •   Promoting our research internally and externally (regionally, UK-wide and
     internationally), including to policy, professional and third sector constituencies (see
     examples below); we now have a bi-annual PsyCen newsletter which showcases our
     latest research and is published on the School website; we also use social media
     (mainly Twitter) to promote research events, staff profiles and achievements.

 •   Supporting collaborations with colleagues in the UK and internationally. We
     recognise that excellent research is facilitated by collaboration with leading
     researchers and stakeholders and every year we reserve staff development funding at
     School and unit level for travel to meetings within the UK and internationally (see
     examples in Section 4). Partnering with experienced colleagues is part of our strategy
     to enhance unit research environment through funding success, project activities and
     raising our profile.



                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Collectively, these policies and practices have bolstered the engagement of all colleagues
 in research-related activities and embedded a supportive research culture, resulting in
 more staff publishing and involved in externally funded projects with colleagues within the
 unit and beyond. The ongoing and future vitality of the department is also boosted by our
 relatively youthful age profile – senior staff in their 40s/early 50s and many Lecturers and
 Senior Lecturers in their 20s and 30s – with staff retention rates high (50% of the group
 have been with us for 10 years or more). Student numbers are stable, and our planned
 MSc Health Psychology (2021-) will deliver further students, provide another pathway to
 grow our PGR community and hence offer staff further opportunities to supervise
 students, participate in new projects and co-author papers.

 In sum, all staff are now research active, and our focus now on promoting quality and
 impact, supported by unit and university investment, will enable us to sustain and grow
 research excellence into the future.

 2. People

 2.1. Staffing strategy

 Our strategic commitment to hiring research leaders and promising ECRs, along with our
 continued investment in staff development, has been bolstered by our growing reputation
 for applied research focused on improving psychological wellbeing for diverse groups.

 Established research leaders
 It has been our policy that the DoR (Gough) chairs all staff recruitment to ensure that we
 bolster our research community and environment. With only one Professor and one
 Reader in 2014, our staffing strategy has focused on attracting established research
 leaders to build on our REF2014 success, develop areas of research strength, including
 grant capture, and provide leadership and mentoring for junior colleagues. We started with
 a Reader (Abraham) in 2015 in the field of Cognitive Neuroscience, and then two
 Professors in 2016 in Health Psychology (Jones – from Sheffield) and Cognition (Stoet –
 from Glasgow; now at Essex). More recently (2020), as part of our drive to develop our
 portfolio in STEM areas, we have appointed 2 Visiting Professors to develop our Cognition
 research (Kemp: Clinical Neuro-Psychology; Abraham [ex-LBU]: Creativity). These
 appointments have proved effective in mentorship opportunities and in enhancing our
 PGR and post-doctoral capacity and communities.

 ECRs
 Following a change in university HR policy in 2017, we have been actively recruiting at
 Lecturer level in order to attract research active ECRs and reinforce the sustainability of
 our research culture. Since 2017, we have recruited five new Lecturers (Round, Harkry,
 Pfeiffer, Moon, Brown) in diverse areas, who have all contributed high quality publications,
 with one already successful in grant capture as a Co-Investigator on an EU-funded project
 (Harkry). Alongside our Graduate Teaching Assistant (GTA) programme (see Section 2.3),
 this ECR focus has further added to the vitality of the department while impacting
 positively on our staff-student ratio, thus creating more time for all staff to engage in
 research activities.

 External research funding has also enabled us to recruit five post-doctoral researchers,
 and we are currently investing c£150k in recruiting a Research Fellow in Health
 Psychology (2021) for three years.

 In terms of staff retention, we have also been careful to support and develop existing
 Senior Lecturers in their research endeavours (see Section 2.2).



                                                                                          Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research deployment
 Since 2018, in line with the university REF 2021 Code of Practice, our work-load model
 has allocated 20% of workload to research for each academic holding ‘significant
 responsibility for research’ (in addition to the 10% for RSA). Each year staff apply for
 research allocation based on research performance, and all applications are reviewed by
 the approved unit REF panel (Gough – DoR; Rickett – HoD; Jones – Professor). Approx.
 70% of Psychology staff have been approved for 20% research deployment each year as
 ‘independent researchers’, with other colleagues ‘working towards independence’ and
 receiving less dedicated research deployment (e.g. 10%).

 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 As a unit, we have always been committed to maintaining and developing policies and
 practices which promote equality, diversity and inclusion in relation to staff recruitment,
 retention and development. Our approach to recruitment is agreed locally through our
 Psychology Management Group (PMG), with consultation and support from the Dean of
 School where appropriate. The minutes of our PMG meetings are made available to the
 group, and staff are encouraged to identify research-related needs pertaining to
 recruitment. Our recruitment processes and practices adhere to HR guidelines concerning
 equality, diversity and inclusion. At university level, we are Disability Positive employers,
 hold institutional Athena Swan accreditation, have received Stonewall Top 100 employer
 status, and are members of the pilot group of universities for the Race Equality Charter
 Mark. At School level, our Athena Swan accreditation application was led by HoD
 Psychology (Rickett), with DoR (Gough) part of the core team, along with ECR
 Psychology colleague Drakett and PhD student (Leach).

 We are very committed to supporting staff with special circumstances. We work closely
 with colleagues who have caring responsibilities or who experience extenuating
 circumstances to agree flexible working practices to maximise time for research-related
 activities. As part of our School Athena Swan application, we received feedback from staff
 that our flexible working policy was family-friendly and effective in supporting colleagues to
 balance their development as researchers with their wider commitments. More generally,
 we use staff availability forms where colleagues can indicate particular times when they
 cannot be available for teaching and related duties. Approximately one third of colleagues
 complete this form annually within the School, with no noticeable gender pattern. To date,
 all applications to change working hours and patterns have been approved by HoD and/or
 Dean. For colleagues taking parental leave, line-managers are responsible for providing
 individual support by using a University level ‘Parental Leave Checklist’ managed through
 a series of meetings which happen at ‘first steps’; ‘during’, ‘planning for return’ and
 ‘following return’ stages. Staff returning to work following parental leave have a 10%
 reduction in deployment for one year (six months for paternity leave). In Psychology, we
 have also encouraged returners to apply for a sabbatical in order to facilitate re-
 engagement with research programmes. To date, six colleagues returning from maternity
 leave have benefitted (Mahmoodi, Thiel, Harkry, Selby, Fozard, Martin).

 Unit staff composition is approx. 80% female, in keeping with our student body, with
 women in key leadership positions (e.g. HoD – Rickett; PsyCen Director - Holch); two of
 our three Professors are female (Jones; Abraham [now at U. Georgia]) as well as two of
 our three Readers (Ashley; Dhingra). Around 25% of staff are from countries outside the
 UK (China, South Korea, New Zealand, Australia, India, USA, Italy, Hungary and
 Germany), lending the department an international outlook. As with most other units at
 LBU, we have work to do to recruit more staff from ethnic minority groups.




                                                                                        Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2.2. Staff development

 We are committed to supporting staff to achieve their research goals and those of the unit.
 To this end we have prioritised a number of initiatives, in keeping with the University’s
 People strategy, which is designed to support colleagues to achieve the best they can for
 themselves and for our university. Various initiatives have already been documented in
 relation to enhancing and sustaining our research environment (Section 1.2 above),
 including:

 •   Staff sabbatical programme

 •   Staff mentoring scheme

 •   Annual staff research plans

 In addition, we have prioritised, with funding where needed, the following PsyCen
 initiatives:

 •   An ECR Initiative led by Mahmoodi, supports unit staff in various activities and is
     funded by PsyCen. Writing retreats have proved successful here, both on and off
     campus, with peer review and feedback offered in a safe, collegial space. This
     initiative is designed to help us foster a sustainable research environment where junior
     colleagues are encouraged to develop their potential.
 •   A qualitative data analysis group (QUALMS) led by Muskett and funded by PsyCen,
     meets regularly to offer support to staff and PGRs working with diverse qualitative
     datasets. Qualitative research is a distinctive and recognised research strength in the
     unit.
 •   Open science, a recent (2020-) initiative to increase staff awareness and improve
     practice concerning latest developments in psychological science, supported by
     PsyCen and led by Persson. This has developed from an informal working group and
     the initiative has already delivered staff training, invited speakers and networking
     events.
 •   Shut up and write! sessions co-ordinated by Singleton, offering weekly two-hour
     slots in a quiet university space for colleagues working up journal articles – highly
     valued by staff who attend.

 We also support staff in other ways:

 •   Supporting productive staff with promotion applications. We recognise that
     successful promotions facilitate staff retention – we want to keep our best researchers
     to promote high quality research and enhance departmental reputation. Colleagues
     interested in applying are invited to one-to-one meetings with the DoR, and feedback
     is provided on draft applications, including advice on planning, timing and likely
     success of bids. Since 2017, we have had one promotion to Professor and three to
     Reader.

 •   We encourage staff to present their work at national and international conferences,
     supporting funding bids to the School Staff Development panel, averaging £14k spend
     per year. For example, colleagues have presented recently at events in the USA and
     Canada (e.g. Abraham, Drakett), Europe (e.g. Golonka [Denmark],
     Day/Rickett/Thompson/Woolhouse [Iceland], Kolokotroni/Selby/ Fozard [Italy]), South
     Africa (Jankowski), Hong Kong (Holch) and New Zealand (Gough).

 We have been proactive in identifying internal opportunities for research-related
 funding and support. Those colleagues interested in applying for internal funding and



                                                                                       Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 support are required to consult the DoR and Head of Department before proceeding, with
 advice and feedback then offered on draft applications. We have been successful in
 several areas, including:

 •   University-funded Early Career Researcher Awards: £10k (Wilson, 2013-14; Pauly-
     Takacs, 2014-15);
 •   University-funded Research Cluster Awards totalling £90k (Wilson, 2014: Virtual
     Reality Research Cluster; Rickett, 2014: Health and Care Needs of Transgender
     Youth; Milnes and Turner-Moore 2016: Sexual Consent for University Students);

 Staff also benefit from the many research-related events we organise:

 •   We host dedicated research events for staff and PGRs (e.g. Annual Psychology
     Research Away Day; Annual Psychology PhD conference; staff seminar programme);
 •   We have hosted a range of regional, national and international research events at
     LBU (see examples in Section 4).

 University-wide staff development workshops, which includes research-related events and
 courses, are open to all staff and PG research award students, coordinated through the
 Graduate School. Human Resources, the Graduate School and representatives of the
 Research community coordinate our implementation of the Concordat to map our support
 activities for the career development of researchers at all stages of their research journey
 from postgraduate researchers to professors. In 2019 Leeds Beckett University retained
 the HR Excellence in Research award.

 Ethics training and support
 Staff and PGRs also receive training and online advice and support pertaining to research
 ethics – to protect staff as well as research participants. All research projects in
 Psychology must receive ethical approval from our Local Research Ethics Committee
 (LREC), chaired by Deighton-Smith, and adhering to the most recent LBU ethics
 framework (December 2016). We have recently (October 2019) moved to an online
 submission system for transparency and efficiency, and staff, PGRs and undergraduates
 have received relevant training and updates, face-to-face and online. Students and staff
 are expected to engage with not only the BPS Code of Ethics for all applications. All ethics
 submissions are reviewed independently by two academics, the majority of which fall
 under risk category 1 or 2 and managed locally. For any project deemed risk category 3,
 the application is referred to the University Ethics Committee for scrutiny. Since much of
 our external research funding comes from health and medical sources, many staff are well
 versed in applying for ethical approval to partner organisations, such as the NHS.

 2.3. Research students

 A significantly expanded PGR community
 Since REF2014, we have grown our PhD community significantly through externally
 funded, School-funded, and self-funded pathways, and now have a community of 31 PhD
 and 6 MReS students (up from 8 in 2014). This planned growth has boosted our research
 culture, benefitting staff through research supervision experience, access to datasets and
 co-authored publications, while PGRs enjoy expert supervision, a supportive environment
 and opportunities for development. Notably, we have attracted 4 externally-funded PhD
 studentships, e.g. from NIHR and medical charities (e.g. Alzheimer’s Society), and several
 self-funding or employer-funded students - 6 currently); we are also promoting matched-
 funded PGRs for the first time in 2020, drawing on established and new partnerships with
 external organisations with a view to future research collaborations (e.g. Leeds Teaching
 Hospitals Trust; Lucy Faithful Foundation). As noted in Section 1.2 above, every four



                                                                                       Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 years we recruit 8 fully-funded (previously 4) GTAs, six GTAs progressing to become
 members of lecturing staff after their PhD. In 2019-20, our recent cohort of eight GTAs,
 along with three university-funded STEM PhD studentships and two matched funded
 studentships, amounted to a total investment of approx. £300k. We are proud of our PhD
 completions record - 15 Psychology PhDs since 2014: Deighton-Smith, Selby (2013-14);
 Thompson, (2014-15); Wilson, Cross, Jankowski (2015-16); Ahearne, Drakett, Round
 (2016-17); Wray (2017-18); Henson, Yang (2018-19); Nuryanti, Jones, Sandle (2019-
 2020). A further seven have been examined in 2019-20 and are currently completing
 (minor) corrections (Gilborn, Price, Lowe, Whittaker, Marwood, Smith, Charlesworth).

 Psychology support for PGR’s

 All colleagues with supervisory responsibility undertake training and must demonstrate to
 the University’s Research Degree Sub-Committee that they are currently active
 researchers as part of the approval process for supervisors. This is to ensure that
 students are properly supported by those whose research is current. In order to best
 attend to PGR needs, we appointed a Psychology PGR tutor (Turner-Moore) in 2017, who
 has been proactive in establishing a bespoke online Psychology Research Postgraduates
 course site covering Announcements, Community, Information and support, and Useful
 tools and resources.

 We also host a local induction for new Psychology PGRs annually, co-ordinated by
 Turner-Moore, and appoint PhD student representatives each year who discuss issues
 with the Psychology PGR tutor twice per semester. In 2019 we supported a small group of
 Psychology research students to be trained in mental health support, and they now run
 the weekly peer mental health support group (called ‘the postgrad picnic’) for research
 students within the whole School.

 Psychology staff also work as co-supervisors for an additional 20 doctoral students
 registered to other units (e.g. Clinical & Applied Sciences; Health and Community
 Studies), and some staff co-supervise students registered at other HEIs (e.g. Imperial,
 Sheffield).

 Our policy is to encourage doctoral students to submit and publish journal articles with
 supervisors during their time with us - those 13 students completed since 2014 have all
 published at least one journal article with supervisors, while several existing PGRs have
 published with staff (e.g. Ahmed, Asquith, Price, Sandle, Whittaker).

 2.4. Training and supervision of research students

 Training and support for PGRs
 All postgraduate research students are required to complete a Research Training
 Programme that equips them with the skills important for their development as
 researchers and improves their future employability. At the beginning of their studies,
 students complete a Training Needs Analysis which forms the basis of an individual
 training programme that they undertake throughout their research degree. The
 competencies that students are required to develop and evidence are based both on the
 needs associated with their individual doctoral research and on the Joint Statement of the
 UK Research Councils’ Training Requirement for Research Students.

 Training sessions are provided at University level and by Schools/Departments. For
 example, the Graduate School co-ordinates a week-long programme of seminars and
 workshops each semester, which are promoted to all PhD students and cover a range of
 methodologies, debates and issues as well as skills development (e.g. publishing,
 literature searching). These sessions are provided by experts (often professors). Many



                                                                                      Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 resources are also made available online so that our distance learning students can
 access them easily. Towards the end of their registration, students produce a portfolio that
 identifies and evidences the skills that they have developed and can be used to enhance
 their employability.

 In Psychology, all PGRs are allocated an allowance of £1000, which is mainly used for
 conference attendance, but can also be used to access further training and development
 externally (e.g. in 2018 two students attended workshops on ethnography at Essex).
 PGRs can also bid for funds to cover research-related costs (normally up to £1000), and
 this budget has typically been used for participant incentive payments, interview
 transcription and equipment/software.

 PGR progress and development
 We have various mechanisms in place to support students, monitor progress and promote
 on-time completions. Four to six months after registration, students prepare a report that is
 reviewed by a panel made up of an independent chair and a senior academic not
 connected with the project and the supervisory team (Confirmation of Registration). The
 panel can confirm the target award, recommend an alternative target award (e.g. rather
 than a PhD the student registers for an MPhil), recommend that the student addresses
 specific areas of weakness and resubmits their report, or recommends that the student
 withdraws from the University. At the end of each year of their doctoral research, students
 are required to present their work to a progress panel (Annual Progression) consisting of
 supervisors, an independent chair, and another senior researcher from within the school.
 These meetings are invaluable in providing students with constructive feedback and
 advice.

 More generally, the most recent (2019) Postgraduate Research Experience Survey
 (PRES) administered by the Graduate School indicated high levels of satisfaction with
 supervision and support within our School. Our most recent (2020) Psychology survey of
 PGRs also highlighted very positive feedback, for example on our most recent Psychology
 induction for PGRS, it was reported in feedback that:
 ‘The Psychology induction day was great, especially as we have some differences in
 research style/ethics. A subject specific induction was really appreciated.’
 and concerning local culture and support:
 ‘As a new starter I would just like to say that all the other postgrads within psychology (and
 the staff) have been really welcoming and helpful with giving information and advice’
 Students who experience difficulties at any stage in the PhD process may apply to the
 University Research Degrees Subcommittee (RDSC) e.g. for an extension or temporary
 suspension due to illness or other personal circumstances (e.g. caring responsibilities,
 maternity). The Graduate School now operate a PhD manager software system (‘SAM’,
 2020-) which automates much of the work concerning RDSC applications while also
 enabling PGRs and supervisors to deposit drafts, feedback and meeting logs.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. Income

 In line with unit strategy (2017), we have developed a culture where bidding for grants is
 expected. Since REF2014, when we reported very modest grant income of £33k, we have
 increased the number of high quality grant applications, targeted a greater variety of
 funders, and achieved substantial growth in research income: an eightfold increase to
 £260k in 2019, and approx. £1.8million in total since 2014 from sources including NIHR,
 EU and various medical charities (e.g. Alzheimer’s Society).




                                                                                       Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 We especially encourage collaborative bids from research teams, as well as strategic
 collaborations with colleagues and groups with a track record in grant capture within the
 university and beyond. Staff are obliged to speak to senior colleagues before preparing a
 bid and supported where appropriate. Draft bids are read by senior colleagues within
 Psychology, but also reviewed by independent colleagues outside the group in
 accordance with university policy for internal grant review. Where appropriate, we solicit
 external reviews from experts, charitable groups and potential research users. There is
 internal support from the University Research Office and, where appropriate, the
 Enterprise Service, concerning bid preparation and costing, chiefly from Research and
 Impact Officers, Research Services Advisors, and Business Development Managers.

 They also provide specialist support on areas including open access and open data;
 knowledge exchange and KTPS; and effective impact and dissemination strategies.
 As stated above, our research is strongly applied and this is reflected in grant success for
 staff as principal investigators, including:
    • NIHR Research for Patient Benefit (RfPB) Programme: (PI Ashley, £150k, 2020-
        2022) – Improving self and clinical management of comorbid diabetes during cancer
        treatments: a qualitative interview study with patients and clinicians to identify
        theory-based intervention targets, strategies and implementation options
    • Sport Allies/Worldwide Roar: (PI Gough, £100k, 2020-22) - Athletes for Action:
        Masculinities, Allyship and Sport
    • NIHR clinical doctorate (PI Jones, £250k, 2018-22): establishing a national validated
        PROM within the UK Gestational Trophoblastic Disease (GTD) Service
    • Gamble Aware: (PI Morgan, with Gough/Muskett /Jones/Kolokotroni. 2019-20,
        c£45k initially) Evaluation of Gamble Aware-funded Treatment System
    • Yorkshire Cancer Research funded ‘Cancer, Fertility & Me’ project (PI Jones,
        £250k, 2016-20) helping young women with cancer to make fertility preservation
        decisions
    • Alzheimer’s Society, funded PhD studentship on cancer and dementia, (PI Ashley,
        £75k, 2018-21)
    • Abbeyfield Research Foundation: funded PhD studentship on cancer and dementia
        (PI Ashley, £70k, 2017-20)
    • BASF scoping grant on improving workplace safety (PIs Morgan/ Curcuruto, £100k,
        2017-18)
    • 2 Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) (£197k and £208k, 2015-19) on safety
        issues within the railway industry (Morgan), working with industrial partners (Amey;
        Volkerrail) (see impact case study below for details)
    • Shire funded project to develop an immunoglobulin burden of treatment
        questionnaire for patients with primary immunodeficiency. (PI Jones, £120k, 2014-
        16)
    • EU Daphne programme funded project ‘Addressing Sexual Bullying Across Europe’
        (Milnes/Turner-Moore/Gough, £264k, 2013-15) which developed an intervention to
        raise awareness of and help prevent sexual bullying in young people (see impact
        case study below for details).

 Staff have also been successful as Co-Investigators on several funded projects e.g. World
 Health Organization (Jones); Crohn’s and Colitis UK (Jones); MRC (Jones); various NIHR
 projects, including programme grants (Ashley, Gough, Jones); MacMillan Cancer Support
 (Ashley, Jones); NIHR Health Technology Assessment (Jones); EU Erasmus (Harkry).




                                                                                     Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3.2. Infrastructure and facilities

 Unit investment
 There has been significant investment in, and support for, research activity at university
 and school levels in recent years, from which Psychology staff have benefitted, including a
 £234k investment in a new suite of research laboratories (2019) configured to enable data
 collection for a range of experimental and qualitative research designs. Most recently, we
 secured £50k from strategic STEM-related university funds in 2019 to invest in laboratory
 equipment such as the CANTAB - experimental test battery, Drager Drug Test 5000 Drug
 and Alcohol Testing Kit, iMotions GSR and ECG Hardware and Software, Eye-tracking
 software Pro Lab and Cotinine nicotine testing. In 2016 we spent £26k on a state-of-the-
 art eye-tracker (Tobii Pro TX300), situated in a specialist laboratory. BIOPAC
 hardware/software for physiological measurements such as ECG, GSR, blood pressure,
 are used currently in stress research and drug cue reactivity. Standard software is
 available on staff and student PCs, such as SPSS, Atlas TI, and E-prime. Recently other
 software has been purchased for research purposes, including MatLab, MPlus and SNAP.

 Matlab is now available on all cognitive lab PCs and laptops for both research and
 teaching use and supports ongoing research in coordination dynamics, masked priming,
 throwing for distance and accuracy and social coordination (Golonka/Wilson). In addition,
 the Magstim HDC kit stimulator contains everything required to administer any stimulation
 protocols and is used for several new research projects (Kolokotroni/Golonka/Wilson), and
 open-source Matlab code can be used to simulate the resulting activation changes in the
 brain. For example, one project will determine whether brief stimulation of areas of the
 prefrontal cortex can temporarily attenuate drug craving in both tobacco and cannabis
 smokers (Kolokotroni). Staff are also beginning to use Transcranial direct current
 stimulation (tDCS), a non-invasive brain stimulation technique, to explore whether it is
 possible to attenuate levels of both trait and drug induced impulsive behaviour, and
 manipulate learning mechanisms (Kolokotroni; Round).

 University infrastructure
 Support for research and impact has become more systematic during this REF period.
 The University Research and Enterprise Office proactively supports research bids,
 including dedicated full-time staff and consultants with established track records of
 securing EU funding. Apart from the Peer Review process, further central support
 includes:
  • Implementation of the Research and Enterprise Management (REMS) system in 2014 to
 enable better costing and data management of all bids across the Unit;
 • Appointment of dedicated Research Funding Advisors, providing specialist funder
 knowledge and experience (e.g. institutional and sector wide success rates, financial
 rules, eligibility and participation criteria at the point of research idea / conception).
 • Dedicated funding available to support preparing bids (£20k per annum);
 • Support from the Post Award Research Team within the wider Research & Enterprise
 Service to ensure colleagues are supported from the point grants / projects awarded.

 Library and Learning Innovation (LLI) plays a key role in the staff and student experience
 at the University, supporting the research, teaching and learning needs of our community.
 LLI offers 24/7 access to research collections both physically (over 380K books) and
 online (150K journal titles).

 The research management infrastructure at Leeds Beckett comprises two separate, yet
 related, software systems - Symplectic Elements research management system and
 EPrints Institutional Open Access repository (http://eprints.leedsbeckett.ac.uk). Symplectic
 Elements research management system collects all Leeds Beckett research activity in one
 place, providing a database of bibliographic records that generates lists of publications on


                                                                                     Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 online staff profiles and provides management reports for research activity across the
 University. EPrints manages full text files (i.e. authors’ final accepted manuscripts)
 uploaded from Elements, including embargo where applicable, and ensures that research
 outputs are discoverable and accessible on the open Web. When a file is uploaded from
 Elements to EPrints it will also be available to download from an associated staff profile as
 a link on the respective bibliographic record.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1. Leading and contributing to the discipline

 Many of our staff are at the forefront of their disciplines and influence the direction it takes.
 Our group is also influential in promoting diverse research methods in Psychology. Impact
 on the discipline has been achieved in various ways, including influential books, editing
 high profile journals and taking up research leadership roles in psychology-related
 organisations. Inevitably much of our evidence here is driven by our senior colleagues, but
 all staff contribute to important activities such as reviewing for journals, examining PhD
 candidates and conference organisation.

 Books that innovate and enhance the discipline:
 Abraham (now at U. Georgia) is a leading expert in the neuroscience of creativity and
 imagination and has recently published a book on The Neuroscience of Creativity with
 Cambridge University Press (2018) and has edited The Cambridge Handbook of the
 Imagination (2020). Gough has edited a Major Work on Qualitative Research in
 Psychology (5 volumes) for Sage, published 2014. Gough also edited the Palgrave
 Handbook of Critical Social Psychology (2017) and recorded three videos on qualitative
 research in psychology for Sage in 2015 for international distribution. Other books include
 Critical Social Psychology of Social Class (Day/Rickett/Woolhouse, 2020); Contemporary
 Masculinities (Gough, 2018); Chemically Modified Bodies (Gough [with Hall/Grogan],
 2016); Madness and Creativity: Yes, No & Maybe (Abraham, 2015).
 Staff have also contributed textbooks to the discipline, including Critical Social Psychology
 (Gough, 2015 [2e] – with McFadden/McDonald); Applying Psychological Ideas in Speech
 and Language Therapy (James, 2018 – with Brumfitt).

 Journal editing and disciplinary good citizenship:
 Several staff are - or have recently been - editors for journals. For example,

     •   Gough is co-founder and co-editor of the journal Qualitative Research in
         Psychology (2004-), co-Editor-in-Chief (2018-) and Section Editor (2006-) for
         Social and Personality Psychology Compass, and Associate Editor of the APA
         journal Psychology of Men and Masculinity (2013-2020).

     •   Dhingra is Editor-in-Chief for Journal of Criminal Psychology and is on the editorial
         board for Journal of Criminal Justice.

     •   Moon has recently been appointed as Associate Editor in Journal of Comparative
         Family Studies (2019).

     •   Wilson is associate editor for Cortex (2020-)

     •   Jones is Speciality Chief Editor for Frontiers in Global Women's Health (2020-)
         and past associate editor of Health and Quality of Life Outcomes (2008-11).

     •   Abraham is an Associate Editor for Frontiers in Psychology: Psychopathology
         (2014-).



                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     •   Golonka and Pauly-Takacs are Review Editors for Frontiers in Cognitive Science
         (2015-).

     •   Rickett was editor of Psychology & Sexuality (2014-17).

 Some staff have guest edited journal special issues (e.g. Ashley: Psycho-Oncology;
 Gough: Health Psychology [twice]); Golonka/Wilson: Cognition & Clinical Psychology;
 Day/Rickett/Milnes: Feminism & Psychology; Jankowski/Gough et al: International Journal
 of Men’s Health; Holch: Journal of Cancer Survivorship Research and Practice; Jones:
 Pilot and Feasibility Studies).

 External research roles and building the discipline:
     • Ashley was Chair of the British Psychosocial Oncology Society (BPOS) 2014-16,
        hosted the annual conference at LBU in 2015, sits on the British Psychological
        Society (BPS) Standing Conference Committee (SCC) (June 2017 –), the National
        Cancer Research Institute (NCRI) Psychosocial Oncology and Survivorship
        Clinical Studies Group (‘interventions to improve outcomes’ subgroup) (Jan 2015
        –) and the International Psycho-Oncology Society (IPOS) (2014 –) - Member of
        the IPOS Federation Committee (2014-16), Member of the IPOS Communications
        Committee (2016 –).
     • Holch is also a member of the International Psycho-Oncology Society (IPOS), the
        ISOQOL (International Society for Quality of Life Research) and their Best
        Practices for PROs- Reporting Taskforce (Patient Reported Outcomes).
     • Jones is an invited member of the Independent advisory Group for a large NIHR
        funded international study on preterm birth (PRIME) and the PROLLIT Study
        (Quality of life following a lower limb reconstructive procedure Advisory panel).
     • Rickett is a core member of the Women & Organizations – MENA Region Think
        Tank (Middle East-North Africa).
     • Gough is a founding member of the European Qualitative Research in Psychology
        (EQuiP) organisation and hosted the third meeting at LBU (February 2019).

 Several staff have or have held leadership positions in various BPS sections, including
 POWES (e.g. Rickett, Drakett) and QMiP (e.g. Day, Gough). Many of our staff review for
 high-profile journals (e.g. Cerebral Cortex, Hippocampus, Neuropsychologia, Neuroimage,
 Perspectives on Psychological Science, Psychonomic Bulletin & Review; Neuroscience &
 Biobehavioral Reviews, Health Psychology, Cognition), funding bodies (e.g. ESRC, NIHR,
 Leverhulme) and publishers (e.g. Sage, Palgrave, MIT press).

 4.2. Open science

 Reproducibility and open science are high priorities for psychology researchers, as
 evidenced by a new PsyCen initiative led by Persson. The Psychology group at LBU has
 been actively engaging with these topics for several years, and is making good progress
 on incorporating best practices into our normal workflows.

 We began by inviting two speakers (Dr Kirstie Whitaker and Dr Hannah Hobson) in 2018-
 19 to give talks on open science and reproducibility (both the underlying issues as well as
 introducing all the tools that have been developed to aid researchers). Following on from
 these, Wilson ran sessions on using the Open Science Framework (www.osf.io) as a
 repository for preprints and data. In his previous role as Ethics Coordinator, Wilson also
 developed guidance for researchers so they can develop their open science/data sharing
 practice within the bounds of our institutional ethical governance.

 In September 2019, Dr Sofia Persson formed the LBU Open Science working group (now
 a PsyCen initiative), which meets regularly and works actively to make Open Science


                                                                                     Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 practices accessible across the School. The group’s activities have included staff and
 member meetings, as well as a recent external talk by Persson, which was organised by
 North West Psychology in the Pub. The working group has also linked with library
 services, who are in the process of developing the University’s online Open Access
 repository. Future planned activities include an Open Science training session for PhD
 students, as well a collaborative venture with the Open Science working group at
 Manchester Metropolitan University, which is a submission to SCORE (Systematizing
 Confidence in Open Research and Evidence), and a reproducibility event for researchers
 across the North West. Persson provides regular updates on Open Science to the school,
 and is the contact person for Open Science queries. She has met with individual members
 of staff to discuss their Open Science queries, which has continued over SFB since the
 University lockdown.

 Subsequently, open science practices and attention to reproducibility are being integrated
 into researcher’s normal workflows. Concrete examples include:
      • The creation of an LBU Open Science repository as managed by Persson. This is
         being continuously updated to provide Open Science material for the School,
         which is of particularly relevance since the University lockdown:
         https://osf.io/562jq/
      • Pre-printing papers and chapters, which achieves green open access, both prior
         to and after publication. A few examples from the group:
             o Abraham: https://psyarxiv.com/5yfnw/
             o Golonka: https://psyarxiv.com/83ztv/
             o Wilson: https://psyarxiv.com/zbkqd
             o Pfeifer: https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/444992v1
             o Kolokotroni: https://psyarxiv.com/c8qvp
             o Persson: https://psyarxiv.com/u4tqa/
      • It is institutional policy for published papers to have the author accepted
         manuscript be submitted to our green open access Symplectic system, which is
         now standard procedure in the group.
      • Publishing in open access journals, which achieves gold open access after
         publication. This is good for the public, but also the authors (e.g. citations). A few
         examples from the group:
             o Moon: https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fpsyg.2018.02262/full
             o Pfeifer: https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fnsys.2019.00029/full,
                 https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2Fs00213-019-05228-w
             o Wilson, Golonka:
                 https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00058/full
      • Publically available data: this takes longer to develop as practice, as it requires
         having the necessary ethical permissions, etc, so this is a developing practice
         here. The Cognition in Action lab (Wilson) has been leading here:
             o Data, analysis files and preprint for a now-published study (the first two
                 authors were post-graduate students and this was part of their training)
                 https://osf.io/z7c9q/; published version
                 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.humov.2018.04.005
             o Data, analysis files and preprint for a now-published study
                 https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/s00426-020-01308-1.pdf
             o Data, analysis files and a preprint for a study currently under review (the
                 first author is a PhD student and has been leading on moving the lab
                 towards fully open science practices) https://osf.io/6hsrj/
      • Study pre-registration: this is a replicability initiative, in which researchers detail
         their methods and data analysis plan prior to data collection and/or analysis. This
         allows them to demonstrate that their analysis was not modified post-hoc, one of
         the primary causes of the replication crisis.



                                                                                        Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


            o   The last study noted above was pre-registered https://osf.io/9cafk/.
            o   Follow-up studies have been able to refine what we pre-registered
                (https://osf.io/25gkd/) and inform the necessary a priori power analyses
                (https://osf.io/ek8hf/).
     •   The engagement with large-scale Open Science projects such as SCORE, which
         aims to estimate the overall reproducibility of Psychology using labs across the
         world.
            o Project details: https://www.darpa.mil/program/systematizing-confidence-in-
                open-research-and-evidence
            o Pre-registration: https://osf.io/a8eg9/

 More broadly, as co-Editor-in-Chief, Gough (with Anne Wilson, Wilfrid Laurier) has
 established a new journal section of Social & Personality Psychology Compass dedicated
 to latest developments in open science (‘Methods and Open Practices’, 2018-).

 Future plans include additional workshops on pre-printing, data sharing, preregistration
 and resources such as the Open Science Framework, along with initiatives managed
 through the research strands of PsyCen to encourage these practices. The development
 of useful procedures to facilitate these, as well as many of the recent hires to the
 department being well versed in open science and reproducibility, means that these are
 becoming increasingly visible and easy to implement. We are very committed to the open
 science agenda and for our unit to influence developments in psychological science.

 4.3. Increasing reach through collaborative and interdisciplinary research

 In line with our research strategy to grow and publicise our research strengths in applied
 research focused on improving psychological wellbeing, our staff have developed many
 collaborations, both national and international, with the aim of enabling our research to be
 funded, recognised and applied as widely as possible. Some examples:
       • Abraham works with academics across the world in research on training effects on
          creative performance (Dr Bourisly, Faculty of Medicine, Kuwait University), cross-
          modal effects in aesthetics appreciation (Dr Wolfensteller, Dresden University,
          Germany) and multimodality in musical experience (Prof Ballan, Touro College
          New York, USA).
       • Gough works with academics in Canada and Australia to explore boys’ body
          image and wellbeing (Prof Kehler, Calgary; Atkinson, Toronto; and Drummond,
          Flinders, Adelaide, Australia). He also works with colleagues in New Zealand (e.g.
          Lyons, Victoria U) on projects concerning qualitative research methods, young
          people, gender and consumption – he was awarded a visiting scholarship to
          Massey university (NZ) during April-May 2015.
       • Jones works with colleagues in Australia (Prof Ledger, Dr Peate, Dr Jasingue) and
          Switzerland (Dr Erhbar) on fertility preservation for people with cancer and in a
          large international team, including colleagues across numerous countries in
          Europe, Canada and the US as part of the development of her burden of
          treatment questionnaire for patients with primary immunodeficiences.
       • Dhingra collaborates with colleagues on prisoner suicide and mental health in
          Canada (Dr David Klonsky, University of British Columbia) and the US (Dr Matt
          DeLisi, Iowa State University).
       • Wang works with academics and practitioners in the UK and China to improve
          patient care, including asthma care and palliative care (Prof Hyland, University of
          Plymouth, Prof Payne, Turner, Lancaster University, Mei Qi, Cancer Centre,
          Tongji Hospital China).
       • Holch works with University of Michigan, USA Dr Joel Gaginer (University of
          Michigan) and Dr Wieneke Mokkink and Caroline Terwee (VU University Medical



                                                                                     Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


         Center, Amsterdam) to develop reporting guidelines for psychometric
         investigations of a Patient Reported Outcome Measure (PROM).
     •   Muskett works with Lester at Indiana on children’s mental health issues and
         practitioner understanding.
     •   Wilson works with researchers in the US to explore the applications of his work on
         co-ordination dynamics (Prof Bingham, Indiana University, Zhu, University of
         Wyoming).
     •   Jankowski works with colleagues in Guelph, Canada (e.g. Rice) on eating disorder
         prevention.

 These examples demonstrate our commitment to working with world-leading experts to
 build success in grant capture and international profile which, in turn, will enable us to
 attract and retain the best researchers and PGRs and grow our research culture further.

 4.4. External recognition

 Our reputation for delivering excellent research focused on improving psychological
 wellbeing has inevitably led to national and international acclaim. Below we note some
 examples of external recognition for our three Professors:
     • Gough was elected as a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences in 2016 and
         was appointed as a Unit 4 REF panel member (2019). He has also given evidence
         (written and verbal) to the Women & Equalities Select Committee Inquiry on the
         mental health of boys and men (2019) and was commissioned by the WHO
         (Europe) to write a report on the role of masculinity in men’s help-seeking for
         mental health issues as well as participate in a webinar on this topic (Gough &
         Novikova, 2020). He has given keynote lectures to Qualitative Research in Sport
         and Exercise Conference, Loughborough University, September 2014 and
         Qualitative Research International Summer School, University of the West of
         England, August 2014. He was an expert panel member at an Institute of
         Education event on boys and education in 2014. Gough has also delivered various
         invited lectures, including Massey University NZ (Auckland, Palmerston North,
         Wellington), March 2015; University of Auckland, NZ, March 2015, University of
         Western Ontario, Canada, May 2015.
     • Abraham has given a keynote lecture at the annual Glimpses conference in Los
         Angeles on Creativity and Human Potential (Nov 2015) and seminars at academic
         departments such as Keble College, University of Oxford (May 2015) and
         University of Surrey (Mar 2015). She was selected to chair a symposium at the
         Annual Convention of the Association for Psychological Science in New York (May
         2015) and was one of invited experts on the Neuroscience of Art panel convened
         by the Salzburg Global Seminar in Austria (Feb 2015). She was awarded
         fellowship of the RSA (Royal Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures
         and Commerce) and the SGS (Salzburg Global Seminar) in 2015. Her most recent
         keynote is at the Eighth International Conference on Design Computing and
         Cognition, 2018 – DCC’18. Politecnico di Milano.
     • Jones was awarded the Lisa Thaxter Trust Prize in July 2016 at The Essentials of
         Fertility in Young People with Cancer, by the national charity ‘Teenagers and
         Young Adults with Cancer’ July 2016, based on her funded research on fertility
         preservation for cancer patients and was invited to deliver an International
         Symposium on fertility preservation for people with cancer (presented at the
         International Society for Psycho-Oncology in Hong Kong, 2018). Jones was
         recently invited by the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists to write
         a Scientific Impact Paper on the relationship between social determinants of
         health and maternal mortality. In addition, she was invited to co-author the new




                                                                                      Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


         policy and practice guidelines for the British Fertility Society on fertility
         preservation for medical reasons in women.

 4.5. The impact of our research

 The Psychology research strategy has delivering impact at its core (see section 1.2:
 Applied research), targeting three main areas:

 4.5.1. Collaborative research and dissemination

 Various projects led by LBU Psychology staff have comprised multi-disciplinary teams
 involving diverse stakeholders: Yorkshire Cancer Research funded research on cancer
 and fertility preservation (Jones), SHIRE-funded the development of a burden of treatment
 questionnaire (Jones); NHS-funded male weight management research (Gough), EU-
 funded (Daphne programme) research to reduce sexual bullying across Europe
 (Milnes/Turner-Moore/Gough), and two Knowledge Transfer Partnerships working with rail
 companies to tackle workforce safety issues (Morgan). This strategy of engagement has
 produced grant success and promotes dissemination to stakeholders and impact that
 reaches far beyond the research team. For example, the EU ‘Addressing Sexual Bullying
 Across Europe’ project involved young people and NGOs from 5 European countries,
 culminating in an intervention jointly produced and delivered by young people and
 disseminated to practitioners and policymakers at the end-of project conference at LBU
 (January 2015; see https://ec.europa.eu/justice/grants/results/daphne-
 toolkit/content/asbae-addressing-sexual-bullying-across-europe_en). An ESRC-funded
 seminar day on older men and physical activity led by Gough included presentations from
 Age UK and a local walking group, with delegates from a range of agencies, including
 public health professionals, men’s groups and charities. A major national conference
 organised by the British Psychosocial Oncology Society (BPOS) took place at LBU in
 2015, hosted by Ashley (Chair) and involving cancer specialists and patients as well as
 academics. The UK National PROMs (Patient Reported Outcome Measures) Conference
 involving patients and practitioners was chaired by Holch (June 2019), with Jones and
 Wang on the conference committee.

 4.5.2. Presenting our research to practitioner conferences

 Our School actively encourages staff to attend professional and sector conferences as
 well as those aimed at academics e.g. through staff development funding. Many academic
 LBU staff who partner with us are also healthcare practitioners, and this fosters a culture
 in which telling users about our research and helping them to apply it to improve their
 practice is both accepted and expected.

 For example, Jones has presented her research on decision aids for young women with
 cancer at key national and International Cancer and Fertility conferences, Fawkner has
 delivered invited presentations on her work on body image to international eyecare
 practitioner conferences, and Turner-Moore presents her work on male sexual offending
 at practitioner conferences, for example the Annual Conference of the National
 Organisation for the Treatment of Abusers. Gough has presented his work on young
 masculinities to an audience of road safety professionals (Innovations in Road User
 Behaviour Conference, 2014). Morgan has presented to industry at the International Rail
 Human Factors Conference (2015).




                                                                                         Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4.5.3. Engaging with the public using print, broadcast and online/social media

 In keeping with our mission to produce meaningful research of interest to local
 communities and beyond, colleagues have benefitted from LBU-sponsored media training
 to disseminate their work across various outlets:
      • Print media: Psychology staff have been interviewed and quoted in several high-
         profile publications, including the Wall Street Journal, Washington Post (Stoet –
         now at Essex); Newsweek; Buzzfeed; Shortlist magazine (Gough); The Guardian,
         The New Yorker (Abraham); Nature magazine (Jankowski; Gough); Men’s Fitness
         magazine (Jankowski/Gough/Fawkner); Scientific American (Abraham).

     •   Broadcast media: Psychology staff have been interviewed on radio and television
         e.g. BBC Newsnight (Stoet); BBC Radio 1 (Gough); BBC Radio 4 Woman’s Hour
         (Jankowski; Budds); BBC World Service (Turner-Moore); ‘What’s Up?’, Sky One
         (Gough); BBC Radio 5 Live (Abraham).

     •   Online/social media: Wilson and Golonka use social media to communicate
         directly with non-academics interested in their research. They write a blog
         http://psychsciencenotes.blogspot.com/ and use a joined Twitter account
         (@PsychScientists). For example, the blog describes and invites comments on the
         theoretical framework for a new approach to neuroscience and cognition. Their
         blog posts have been linked to by the New York Times, Boing and Mind Hacks)
         and has been discussed in the online version of Psychology Today. It has also
         been cited in several papers and a book. As of September 2019, the blog has had
         over 1,674,314 page views for 256 posts and 8206 Twitter followers, primarily
         from general interest / educated lay person sites rather than from universities or
         research institutions. Gough has blogged for the Huffington Post on male mental
         health (November 2015) and the APA Psychology of Men & Masculinity Division
         on men’s health (June 2015). The website hosting the research report and
         intervention pack from the EU-funded Addressing Sexual bullying Across Europe
         project (Milnes, Turner-Moore, Gough) has received over 5000 visits since
         February 2015.

 4.5.4. Current and future case studies

 The three selected case studies reflect our expertise across our three research clusters:
 Health & Clinical Psychology; Psychology Applied to Safety & Health (PASH) and Genders &
 Sexualities. All case studies reflect our strategy on and commitment to delivering impact to
 user groups through networking, collaboration and engagement with stakeholders (see
 section 1.2). All case studies are based on externally funded research projects and build
 on previous foundational research/publications:
     • the ‘Addressing Sexual Bullying Across Europe’ project (Milnes/Turner-
          Moore/Gough) was funded by the EU Daphne programme call focusing on
          reducing sexual violence and features a new intervention aimed at young people;
     • the two projects on health and safety in the rail industry led by Morgan are the
          product of two Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) with two companies
          (Volkerrail, Amey Ltd) which are designed to facilitate company goals (improving
          staff wellbeing, performance and profitability);
     • the ‘Cancer, Fertility & Me’ project was funded by Yorkshire Cancer Research and
          has produced a decision aid for patients to help with difficult fertility preservation
          decisions at diagnosis and pre-cancer treatment.

 Our commitment to delivering impact is reflected in several ongoing applied research
 projects, including projects on:



                                                                                        Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     •   carers looking after family members with co-morbid conditions (Ashley)
     •   patient reported outcome measures (Holch)
     •   body image interventions with young people (Deighton-Smith; Jankowski).
     •   improving male mental health (Gough)
     •   interventions to help problem gamblers (Morgan).

 We are proud of our research achievements to date. The growth in research culture and
 performance since REF2014 has been phenomenal, reflected by significant improvement
 in grant capture and PGR numbers – but also in the commitment of all staff in producing
 applied research on psychological wellbeing of use to diverse communities. Our success
 to date, aligned with an ambitious research strategy beyond REF2021, gives confidence in
 our potential to deliver more internationally excellent and world-leading, impactful research
 in the future.




                                                                                      Page 20
