Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Institution: University of Central Lancashire

  Unit of Assessment: UoA32 Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory

  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Throughout most of REF2021, UoA32 Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory was located
within the School of Art, Design, and Fashion, in the Faculty of Culture and Creative Arts. It now sits
within the School of Arts and Media (SoAM, formed in July 2020).
UoA32 consists of a diverse community of researchers closely engaged with individuals,
communities and society, framed by a global/local geographic and intellectual reach. This is
underpinned by UCLan’s values of Common Sense, Teamwork, Compassion, Attention to Detail,
and Trust with a commitment to the benefit of a reciprocal relationship between research and
teaching.
Vitality and sustainability of UoA32’s research environment is supported by a wide range of research
activities, opportunities and staff achievements, cultural/physical infrastructure, and ability to attract
international researchers and nurture early career staff. Highlights since REF2014 include
supporting:
 1. External bidding to increase grant capture by 205.9% since 2014-15.
 2. World renowned projects by Turner Prize winner Professor Lubaina Himid CBE, whose work
    has opened up the conversation about structural racism internationally and brought visibility to
    Black artists, prompted new audiences to visit exhibitions, and helped to secure the future of
    museums and galleries across the globe.
 3. Successful international UCLan spin-out company Alusid launched in 2015, operating at the
    forefront of sustainable design globally, led by Professor David Binns, championing the first fully
    recycled commercial tile.
 4. Ground-breaking public art curatorial projects with significant societal impact such as ‘Beautiful
    and Brutal’ by research group In Certain Places (ICP), led by Professor Charles Quick and
    Elaine Speight.
 5. Early and Mid-career Researchers (ECRs/MCRs) developing their research trajectory within an
    intellectually diverse, stimulating, and supportive environment.
 6. A global outlook for projects with esteemed institutions including Tate Liverpool, MoMA New
    York, National Gallery of Canada, V&A London, Nottingham Contemporary, 21st Century
    Museum of Contemporary Art Kanazawa, Venice Architecture Biennale, International Print
    Triennial Society Krakow and Si Shang Art Museum Beijing.
 7. A thoroughly interdisciplinary ethos with researchers and projects crossing disciplines including
    psychology, phenomenology, cultural theory, critical theory, anthropology, politics, geography,
    sonic and music production, dance and musicology, architecture, and urbanism.

Structure
Since REF2014, structural changes have supported the internationally excellent and world-leading
research of individuals and groups, those new to research, emerging researchers, staff wishing to
engage in PhD study, ECRs, and MCRs.




                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The largest proportion of staff are located in Fine Art and are engaged in collaborative and
interdisciplinary research. Researchers within the Architecture and Design fields develop sustainable
material, product, and theoretical research, again with an inherent interdisciplinarity.
Since 2015, UoA members have been based within the School of Art, Design and Fashion (ADF),
also containing the Grenfell-Baines Institute of Architecture (GBIA).
UoA32 contains the world-leading research projects Making Histories Visible (MHV, led by Himid
and Guild Research Fellow Christine Eyene), Silicates Research (led by Binns), ICP, and ground-
breaking research projects Artlab Contemporary Print Studios (led by Tracy Hill and Magda
Stawarska-Beavan) and Café Royal Books (CRB, led by Craig Atkinson), operating at the forefront
of an intellectually diverse and stimulating environment.
UoA32 is led by Adam de Paor-Evans, Reader in Ethnomusicology. With a background spanning
architecture, art, and music, he is placed well to manage a UoA with such rich diversity in its research
topics and commitment to supporting a varied range of methodological, theoretical and practice
perspectives, worldviews, and research outputs and impacts.
UoA Research Clusters

UoA32 has three research clusters - Hanover Project; People and Place: Cultural, Spatial and
Technological Narratives; and Cloth, Clothing and Culture. These clusters are organic, and UoA
members are welcome to belong to more than one cluster. Clusters meet twice semesterly with the
aim to hold open and closed forums, seminars and invite external speakers for academic debate.
Clusters overlap and synergise with the University’s Research Centres and Impact Case Study
projects, pushing UoA32’s narratives of collaborative work, fostering societal urban change and
revealing the hidden histories and recognise the cultural values of marginalised communities and
minority groups.

Hanover Project
Led by Dr. Andy Broadey and David Mackintosh, the Hanover Project research cluster contains
the greatest number of UoA32 members, including twelve members working mainly in the field of
fine art. The work is largely practice-research, although Broadey’s work uses practice to inform his
theoretical writings, which address debates in post-relational installation and exhibitionary practice,
focusing on notions of critique, participation, performativity and dissensus. The outputs of this cluster
are exhibition-focused and largely collaborative. Using the base gallery in Hanover Building on-
campus, enables staff to develop ideas in a testbed situation prior to more widely disseminated
exhibitions. Victoria Lucas’ work refers to the radical nature of the heterotopia in a posthuman
context to reclaim landscape, agency, and power. Key projects have worked to agitate hidden filmic
and literary representations of women in the Mohave Desert and the Alabama Hills in California (‘Lay
of the Land and other such myths’ touring exhibition), a derelict hotel room on Margate seafront (‘At
the Violet Hour’, Nayland Rock Hotel residency/exhibition) and a disused colliery in Yorkshire
(‘Conflict’, National Portrait Gallery commission/touring exhibition). Lucas has exhibited in and
curated national and international exhibitions, contributed to panel discussions, conferences and
publications.




                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Victoria Lucas: where rock and hard place meet, 2018. Digital photograph printed on fabric, looped
video with audio, quarried rock. 6m x 2m.

Maeve Rendle’s work is also performative, which she undertakes between the disciplines of music,
performance, film, and fine art. In 2017 her performance of ‘I Remember All’ at Harris Museum,
Preston reframed a fragmented monologue from Aton Chekhov’s play ‘The Seagull’, whilst sixteen
sopranos sung a well-known chorus to accompany, occasionally taunt and influence her tone.
Rendle explores the notion of a pre-determined experience, using video and live performance to
isolate people performing tasks in real time, in a hope that audiences be privy to uninhibited aspects
of the psyche. Heather Ross’ work reveals the hidden stories of Kurt Schwitters at Merz Barn, and
makes visible the work of printmaker Gwyneth Alban Davis, resident at Cylinders (Lake District)
between 1946-50, where she founded her own, one woman printmaking business, ‘The Caravan
Press’.

People and Place: Cultural, Spatial, Technological Narratives
Led by McEwan and one of the newer clusters formed in 2019, six members of this cluster are based
in architecture and design academic units. The themes in the group are connected to theoretical
readings of the city and architectural space, post-colonial conservation and intangible heritages. The
cluster engages the relationship between the human condition and the city to address questions of
social and political imagination, the built, natural, digital, and imagined environment. Dr. Richard
Bower’s research explores the relationships between people, power, and place by critically
questioning a number of interconnecting spatial issues of urbanism, housing, food, and everyday
political agency. Bower seeks to explore aspects of agonistic and anarchistic theory as critical
counter-narratives to the lived reality of contemporary Westernised space, exemplified in his
monograph Architecture and space re-imagined: learning from the difference, multiplicity, and
otherness of development practice (2017) which offers a critical examination of alternative
development practices methods in the Global South, re-contextualising them as architectural
engagements with socio-political space. McEwan’s research focuses on the relationship between
architecture, subjectivity and representation to engage the city as a critical project and is published
internationally in journals and venues including: Architecture and Culture, Arts, arq: Architectural
Research Quarterly, Lo Squaderno, Drawing On, Cambridge Architecture Journal, Venice
Architecture Biennale, Edinburgh Royal Scottish Academy, and The Lighthouse Glasgow.




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Cameron McEwan, ‘The Analogical Surface: City, Drawing, Form and Thought’, 2018.

Dr. Ehab Ahmed’s work engages the study of urban spaces and architecture within, and in relation
to, cultural heritage contexts. His research concerns the understanding of heritage as an asset to
promote better sustainable urban development and city wellbeing. Ahmed’s research concerned the
interpretation management for the sustainable development of cultural heritage sites. His work has
investigated Liverpool World Heritage Site (UK), Historic Cairo (Egypt), and The Imperial Street in
Hangzhou (China), as well as criticising ICOMOS charters and UNESCO’s criteria for World Heritage
Sites’ listing of cultural sites. Currently, Ahmed is researching the relation between city cultures, and
users’ perception and wellbeing, which investigates how design for culturally rich sites learn from the
past to create sustainable environments.

Cloth, Clothing and Culture
Led by Dr. Carole Hunt, the second of the newer clusters, formed in 2018, contains nine members
from fashion and textiles. The key work of the cluster is centred on Dr. Hunt’s ‘Whittingham Lives’
Project and Amanda Odlin-Bates’ ‘Heirloom’ project and ‘Hidden Gems’ project (finalist in the 2019
Fusion Awards) in collaboration with Gawthorpe Hall’s Gawthorpe Textiles Collection.
Hunt’s work interrogates how dress has occupied an important space in the history and
representation of women’s mental health, and forms part of the two-year arts, archives, and mental
well-being project ‘Whittingham Lives’, which explores the history and legacy of Whittingham Asylum,
in Preston, from its opening in 1873 to its demolition in 2016. The central aim has been to examine
attitudes towards mental distress, in the past, the present, and thus to influence attitudes for the
future; cross - disciplinary debate. Hunt is part of a team in partnership with Preston’s Co-operative
Development Network to develop the digital ‘Whittingham Lives Legacy Project’. The aim is to
engage online visitors to share in the memory and history of a community, to document all outputs
thus far, and to act as a forum, and resource, for arts and mental wellbeing.


Key Projects

Lubaina Himid CBE (Professor of Contemporary Art) and Charles Quick (Professor of Public Art
Practice) each lead on major, long-term research projects, and are also lead authors on two of
UoA32’s Impact Case Studies.

Making Histories Visible
The themes in Himid’s work – gender, race, and revealing hidden histories through the work of Black
artists inspires many of the members of our research clusters. Making Histories Visible is a multi-
faceted project consisting of archive, curatorial production and made work. The MHV archive of work
by Black artists, Himid’s, and Guild Research Fellow Christine Eyene’s approaches to issues of
race and gender has fundamentally changed the landscape of modern art in Britain and
internationally. Since laying the foundations for repositioning work by Black artists from the margins
                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
to the mainstream, the work of MHV is securing the future for Black artists and has opened up
conversations about Black history worldwide. The unprecedented interest in Himid’s work globally
has prompted new and diverse audiences to visit exhibitions, helping to secure the future of
museums and galleries across the globe. The MHV archive is located in the School, and members
of the public, scholars, practitioners, students, and academics regularly visit to carry out research
which, in turn, is highly significant and impactful.




(L) Lubaina Himid: ‘Naming the Money’, Spike Island, 2017.
(R) Lubaina Himid: ‘The Carrot Piece’ Purchased using funds provided by the 2014 Outset/ Frieze
Art Fair Fund to benefit the Tate Collection, 2015.

In Certain Places (ICP)
The second long-term research project and Impact Case Study – ICP, led by Quick and Speight
(Reader in Curatorial Practice & Place) – explores the meanings and production of place via art-led
research and innovative curatorial practice. These projects also inspire the work of certain UoA
members. Since 2003, through interdisciplinary projects, ICP has worked with artists to question,
test, disrupt and shape urban places. By connecting diverse experiences and knowledge, and
informed by an ethos of curiosity and care, ICP generate new understandings of places and instigate
change, by engaging with them in creative and critical ways.




In Certain Places and People’s Architecture Office: ‘The People’s Canopy’, Preston, 2015.

The work of Professor of Contemporary Ceramics and Alusid lead, David Binns, falls into two
domains of art-based artefacts and commercial manufacture of unique surfacing materials. Alusid
explores ways in which waste and low-value materials destined for landfill could be repurposed into
beautiful, versatile surface materials. Alusid feeds back into the School and UoA in the form of
research outputs, research-informed teaching, and PhD supervision, where Binns is currently a
supervisor for two PhD students. Between the Preston-based factory (which is off-campus) and the
ceramics workshop within the school, a rich dialogue between the material productions of industry
and academia occurs. Adrian Friend, co-director, The UCLan Research Centre for Smart Materials,
and Craig Martin (both 0.4FTE Professors of Architecture) are engaged across the areas of
teaching, research, and industry-based innovation, working at the leading edge of smart materials
and sustainable cities and societies, respectively.


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Alusid bespoke sloping tiles, Erico House, Nando’s Headquarters, Putney, London.


Other Impactful Projects
Atkinson leads ‘Café Royal Books’ as UoA32’s third Impact Case Study. Since 2012, this inter-
disciplinary research project has focused on preserving, promoting, and making accessible, at-risk
post-war photographic archives, specifically British documentary photography. Atkinson has
created a new democratic and affordable model for publishing photography, and a platform from
which photographers can be acknowledged. Atkinson’s research has led to changes in major
international gallery collections – making publicly accessible, and making it possible to collect, a
whole genre of photography that had previously not been comprehensively collected, much of which
was unseen and unpublished. This research has become the only comprehensive, live, and
accessible archive of this type of work.




Café Royal Books weekly A5 booklet publications.

As part of UoA32’s long-term agenda, there is support for impact at various stages of development,
from nascent to mature. Research Associates Hill and Stawarska-Beavan are carrying out
pathbreaking work in Artlab, which will produce impact during the next REF period. Artlab promotes
contemporary print through innovation and cross-disciplinary practice. During the past 15 years this
studio has been developed by Hill and Stawarska-Beavan, who share their experience and
knowledge, nurturing and maintaining a high standard of cross disciplinary practice, helping early
career and established artists with their projects. ‘ArtLab’ investigates the multiple dimensions and



                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
possibilities of printmaking and promotes print through creative processes and new technologies in
order to challenge existing narratives of print.




Artlab installing in PR1 Gallery, Preston.


Strategy
UoA32 is dedicated to the benefits of research-informed teaching with all members teaching in some
capacity from undergraduate to PhD level. UoA32’s work focuses on reciprocal approaches between
its members and the communities with which it works, developing methodologies for talking and
listening to its audiences, the public and society to affect policy and social change in the everyday
world.
Our future strategy in REF2014 proposed to ‘drive the research themes, build on external
networking, collaborations, bidding activity and post graduate development’, and the details of these
proposals fed directly into a new Research Strategy for UoA32. Since 2014, UoA32’s key strategic
priorities have been the following:

1. To develop and sustain a high-quality research environment that supports inclusive, pluralist,
multi-, trans- and interdisciplinary engagement.
This has been addressed through the work of realigned, refreshed, and new research clusters,
relationships with Impact Case Study authors, and University and Faculty research groups.
Additionally, since 2016 UoA32 has run bi-monthly open seminar sessions ‘Thinking, Practice,
Research (TPR)’, where staff and PG students are invited to present research projects either
complete or under development for critical feedback.
UoA32 places high value on inclusive and pluralist cross-disciplinary and collaborative engagement.
As a result, many art and design research projects productively engage with other disciplines
including psychology, phenomenology, cultural theory, critical theory, anthropology, politics,
geography, sonic and music production, dance and musicology, architecture, and urbanism
(examples are in Sections 2 and 4).
In REF2014, we said UoA32 would continue developing methodologies, outputs and impacts by:
‘excavating and developing diverse creative histories, questioning, and challenging the established
narratives’, relating to this point (and point 4). UoA32 staff are aligned to a minimum of one research
cluster, group, or Institute. Each of these entities explores their own research agendas according to
the specialisms of its members. These clusters and groups overlap with UoA32’s Impact Case
Studies, where authors are also leading members.
A further tier of peer and group structure thrives within the Faculty’s Creative Practice Research
Academy, and Arts and Humanities Research Academy (initiated spring 2020). Every member of
UoA32 is aligned to at least one of the major University Research Centres (see REF5a), the three
main ones being. Migration, Diaspora and Exile (MIDEX), Transdisciplinary Health Research for
Thriving in the Early Years (THRIVE)() and Smart Materials (Figure 1 and 2).




                                                                                               Page 7
                                                                     Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Page 8
         Figure 1. Model illustrating the relationship of research
          institutes/centres, groups/clusters/projects in UoA32.
                                                         Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




         Figure 2 Model illustrating the governance of
           the Creative Practice Research Academy
                and its relationship with UoA32.




Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
All UoA members have protected research time structured as part of their workload model, which is
reviewed bi-annually through the staff appraisal process. Where members are successful in either
being awarded a substantial grant or promotion to Reader or Professor, additional time is granted in
their workload for research.

2. Recognise, support, and develop other ways of producing research that may be different to
conventional text-based or practice-based research.
It is critical to UoA32 that the conventional forms of research and their methodologies are challenged,
and established narratives rethought. Several UoA members are engaged in research which sits
between, and challenges the conventions of, text-based and practice research, leading to outputs of
international excellence which champion new hybrid methodologies and original theoretical
perspectives (examples in sections 2 and 4).

3. Sustain and develop the Mentoring Scheme for ECRs, mid-career researchers and staff new to
research, to support them in their research trajectory and ambitions.
Refreshed by Faculty Research Director Professor Erik Knudsen, our mentoring scheme was
relaunched in autumn 2017 which brought together new mentors and mentees across UoAs 32 and
33. Many UoA members are practitioners who have not arrived in academia through a traditional
PhD route. With support from the Professoriate and Principal Lecturers (including UoA32 Lead),
acting as mentors, new and emerging researchers have been supported in producing and
strengthening their formative research outputs. Those that hold a PhD are encouraged to develop
the skills and undertake University training for PhD supervision and those that do not hold a PhD are
encouraged to consider PhD study with PhD fees funded by the School’s Staff Development Fund
(see Section 3).

4. Prioritize external income through successful grant capture. This will be achieved via workshop
and tutorial sessions by grant capture experts open to all staff. Significantly increase the number of
bids being made in the school, particularly by professors and prolific researchers.
In the UoA statement from 2014, we stated that we would continue to match our grant capture from
Arts Council England and other key funders and build upon: ‘extensive national funding allocations
connected with our work with regional volunteer organisations and local community groups’.
Our Faculty Bid-writer, Dr. John Law, supported 14 UoA members preparing for grant applications
since 2016, acting as a critical friend in the development of grant narratives. The University’s Grants
and Funding Unit (GFU) are key in supporting members of UoA32 in producing the financial and
pragmatic components of grant applications and regularly attend UoA seminars to present the latest
funding opportunities or methods for successful grant capture. As a result of this focused support,
funding bodies – particularly Arts Council England – have been targeted to build upon previous
successes and as a result have increased our grant capture by over 205.9% since REF2014.
UoA32 members meet twice per semester, to present and discuss external and internal issues
connected to grants and awards, exhibitions, publications, and identify potential projects and
collaborations. The meetings provide space for reflective criticality as much as everyday
management of UoA32. Discussions are transparent and rigorous, and cross-reference School
Away Days and Research Away Days. Discussions feed into the Faculty Research Committee and
Faculty REF-related meetings. The UoA/School Research Lead attends all these meetings to ensure
discussion and decisions are disseminated to all.
We strive to ensure that our work is open access. With our practice research, this mentality is
inherent in seeking the best ways to promote work, such as micro-sites to present exhibitions and
other made work. The outputs presented this way also link to the Institution’s research repository

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
CLoK. In terms of published text-based work, UoA members have taken advantage of the
Institution’s Gold Open Access funding. One example of this is Dr. Cameron McEwan who received
Gold Open Access funding of £2,000 for his journal article “Architecture, Multitude and the Analogical
City as a Critical Project.” In Architecture and Culture (Taylor and Francis).

Future direction
The seven main priorities for UoA32 research and impact for the period 2021-27 and beyond are to:
 1. To continue to sustain and enrich a high quality research environment that supports inclusive,
    pluralist, multi-, trans-, and interdisciplinary collaborative engagement that will enrich and benefit
    society. This will be done by developing new open access spaces for critical thinking and the
    production of world-leading research that places people, their histories, and futures at the
    forefront of UoA32’s work. Ongoing and future research projects will become more accessible
    to a non-academic audience, increasing impact and the significance of arts research in society.
    Further cross-disciplinary collaborations across UoA32’s international networks are being
    developed through existing and new relationships throughout UoA32’s research clusters,
    membership of the Faculty’s Research Academies, and the University’s Research Centres.
 2. To provide opportunities, financial support and time allowance for existing and new staff and
    students to complete a PhD by aligning to research groups and utilizing the Institution’s
    Graduate Research School. This will encourage personal confidence and increase our PhD
    supervision capacity. UoA32 will prioritize the development of a PG/PhD recruitment strategy
    which includes supporting our own graduates, as well as new national and international students
    with a view to significantly increasing our PG/PhD student numbers. UoA32 will focus on
    attracting public and private funding opportunities and sponsorship for PhD studentships within
    established and new research projects to grow the PhD programme, and increase and broaden
    our supervisory capacity for PG/PhDs. This will be achieved by ensuring new Readers and
    Professors have PhD completions upon recruitment, supporting existing staff to undertake
    supervisor training, and developing a strategy for staff to gain experience as advisors,
    supervisors, and examiners.
 3. To address the pressing global challenges of the contemporary world: the environmental
    catastrophe that poses an existential threat to our lives; the digitalisation of society; the social
    and political questions that oscillate between local community and the global territory. We are
    informed by the concerns outlined in the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, in
    particular Goal 3- Good health and wellbeing (for example, building upon the work in the
    Whittingham Lives Project), Goal 10- Reduce inequality within and among countries (for
    example, building on the work of MHV and Artlab), and Goal 11- Sustainable cities and
    communities (for example, building on the work of ICP and The UCLan Research Centre for
    Smart Materials. See section 4).
 4. To develop UoA32’s ECRs and those staff new to research in producing internationally excellent
    and world-leading research by the next REF cycle. This will be done by strengthening our
    mentoring resources to increase opportunities for research workshops, forums, symposia, and
    seminars and expanding our employment of external critical friends.
 5. To strengthen UoA32’s international collaborative practice work to address global challenges.
    Following on from projects in Africa, Hungary, the United States, Australia, Poland, and Ireland,
    UoA32 will secure funding to enhance its international profile and continue its trajectory in
    producing internationally significant and path-breaking research relevant to art and design and
    the communities, spaces, and societies it represents.


                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 6. To continue to build upon previous grant capture to secure funding to develop and deliver the
    above five points. UoA32 currently contains several Principal Investigators preparing major grant
    applications for international and collaborative projects. We build on grant capture and funding
    by forming intellectual alliances and encouraging mentored bid writing between successful bid
    winners matched to Early and Mid-Career Researchers.
 7. To ensure that UoA32 members actively participate in our new Creative Practice Research
    Academy initiated to support the breadth and depth of the practice-research in SoAM.


  2. People

UoA32 consists of 22.9 FTE staff, including five Professors (two of whom are part-time architecture
staff, appointed in 2017), two Readers (including UoA Lead), two Research Associates, and a
community of Senior Lecturers and Lecturers, over half of whom are part-time.

Staff Strategy and Development
UoA32’s members are the most crucial component in terms of its success and growth. The Faculty
and University recognise that the activities, aims and ambitions of its staff are key to progressing
research locally to globally. There are supportive mechanisms and research-focused opportunities
for researchers, from ECRs to highly experienced Professors, that aid staff in attaining their research
goals. These goals are discussed and monitored in several ways: individually through the bi-annual
appraisal system and the research mentoring system which are contextualized with the Institution’s
KPIs and Research Strategy, through Faculty- and School-level research strategies, and Faculty
committee meetings. The Graduate Research School provides crucial support for the PGR
community: training for PG students and Research Degree Tutors (RDTs) and internships which
benefit research projects and students.

School Executive Team
The School Executive Team meets monthly and comprises Principal Lecturers, Academic Leads
and the Professoriate, and is chaired by the Head of School. The Professoriate and the School Lead
for Research/UoA Lead report on developments linked to research and REF for discussion and
action where appropriate. These meetings are minuted and relevant information is cascaded through
the rest of the School’s staff. This means that the Head of School and the other members of the
School Executive Team are aware of any issues and/or successes arising from research activities.
Outcomes from these meetings also feed into Faculty Executive Team. Members of the
Professoriate also engage in the monthly University-wide College of Professors & Readers meetings.
Since summer 2020, the Faculty has run a monthly Professoriate meeting which shares ideas, best
practices, and intelligence on global to local research issues.

Appraisals and Workload Model
All academic staff are encouraged to pursue research and/or innovation endeavours for both
personal development and the progression of research-informed teaching and research. All staff in
the school are allocated 20% (pro-rata FTE) as a starting point for research/innovation time in their
workload model, with Professors and Readers carrying an enhanced percentage. This time is
calculated in accordance with the University’s Academic Workload Model.
Professors and Readers are a key part of the appraisal and recruitment team, and since 2014,
UoA32 has appointed several ECRs to full-time teaching/research posts (Ahmed, McEwan,
Broadey), in addition to part-time staff (Ross, Rendle). These ECRs are supported through 1-2-1
meetings with the School Research Lead and mentorship and are also supported to undertake PhD

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
supervision. Broadey has progressed to Director of Studies, and Ahmed acted as Research
Degrees Tutor. The objectives of all new and ECR staff are reviewed regularly, and it is expected
that staff in this category would be able to fulfil criteria for “significant responsibility for research” as
outlined in our REF2021 Code of Practice, within three years of undertaking research activities.

Faculty Sabbatical Scheme
The Faculty runs a sabbatical scheme which, since its inception in Summer 2018, has awarded a
semester-long sabbatical to Atkinson, with a short-term sabbatical awarded to ECR McEwan
through the University’s Catalyst Scheme. Applications are invited from Panel D members twice-
annually, which are reviewed by the panel. All sabbatical applications are reviewed in discussion
with the respective Head of School to ensure smooth handover of other duties should the application
be successful. The sabbaticals awarded above have led to the production of further booklets for Café
Royal’s next archive (Atkinson), and McEwan’s greatly contributed to his project ‘Architecture,
Multitude and the Critical Project,’ which develops an architectural theory of the multitude as a critical
project by transposing architectural and political readings of the city.

Equality & Diversity
The profile of the work in UoA32 is largely centred on themes of gender, race, and class. The
members of UoA32 also make up a more richly diverse group since REF2014, which has been a
direct result of UoA32’s strategy to “develop and sustain a high quality research environment that
supports inclusive…engagement” and to “…build our identity, promote our diversity…”. The E&D
strategy is about enablement and empowering a diverse range of members to take a central position
in UoA32. UoA32 has increased its gender balance to now return 46.1% female members. ECRs
and MCRs from under-represented backgrounds are supported in delivering seminars,
presentations, and exhibitions and bidding for internal and external grant capture, and as a result
have reached wider audiences and captured awards.
Cross-Faculty collaboration also supports UoA members and many are members of UCLan
Research Centre for Migration, Diaspora and Exile (MIDEX) and/or have collaborated with the
Institute for Black Atlantic Research (IBAR).
The leadership and mentoring from senior members of UoA32 is also a key support mechanism for
E&D. For example, Himid’s leadership for ECRs and MCRs has directly supported seven UoA
members from under-represented groups to increase their research profile and achieve greater
visibility. UoA members continue to deliver talks for Black History Month, work with marginal societies
and collaborate with other members of under-represented groups within the Institution and
externally. Additionally, UoA32 contains almost 31% fractional staff, all of whom are practice-based
researchers and active in their respective professions in industry and business. These members are
supported and embedded through mentoring, workshops, Faculty and UoA-level funding
opportunities, sabbatical scheme, and research groups/clusters, resulting from implementation of
the UoA strategy to “…support, develop and produce practice-based research…”, by “…increasing
financial and time support to staff undertaking high quality research”.

Mentoring
With support from the Professoriate and senior researchers acting as mentors, new and emerging
researchers have been supported in producing and strengthening their formative research outputs.
For continuity, the mentoring pairings are aligned to research clusters and groups. This has led to
success stories in the work of ECRs and MCRs Lucas, Ross, Broadey, Rendle, and Jane
Souyave, all of whom are newly returned in UoA32. The mentoring system also benefited from
cross-UoA and cross-School mentoring, and Ewa Mazierska (Professor of Film Studies) and

                                                                                                   Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Knudsen both mentoring staff in UoA32. UoA32’s mentoring process is partly structured and partly
informal. Faculty policies and practices are in place to match research mentors and mentees, but
we also encourage critical friends and intellectual alliances, in which there is mutual support and
opportunities to discuss and develop research ideas. Those that hold a PhD are encouraged to
develop the skills and undertake University training for PhD supervision, those that do not hold a
PhD are encouraged to consider PhD study, and PhD fees are funded by the School’s Staff
Development Fund (see ‘Income, infrastructure, facilities’ section). Lucas was mentored by Quick,
leading to her being returned to UoA32 for the first time. In the past four years, UoA32 has benefited
from two promotions to readers (de Paor-Evans and Elaine Speight), and two promotions from
technicians to research associates (Hill and Stawarska-Beavan), which have resulted directly from
strong professorial mentorship. UoA32’s research clusters and groups are the forum informal
mentoring. Mentoring dovetails into the Faculty-level scheme and staff appraisals. Mentored staff
meet with their mentor thrice annually, to discuss their research trajectory through their aims,
outcomes, activities, impacts and outputs. All mentees are asked to retain a record of the meetings
and to regularly update their progress, which is then used as a reflective/reflexive tool in mentoring
meetings. UoA32 currently has eleven members being mentored by six mentors, and many other
mentees from the school are undertaking mentoring. Where necessary, and upon agreement with
the mentee, outcomes of the meetings are fed back into the appraisal process to additionally support
the mentee’s research trajectory. The mentoring process has achieved success directly through
examples such as external grant capture (Odlin-Bates) and promotions to Reader (de Paor-Evans,
Speight).
UoA32’s has dedicated access to a group of technicians who, as emerging researchers, are
members of CPRA and are being supported by UoA32 members to develop their own research and
so contribute to UoA aims.

PG/PhD Students
UoA32’s strategy to increase the number of staff members who hold a doctorate has improved since
the last REF submission. In addition to appointing academics only who hold a PhD or a close to
completion, UoA32 has benefited from existing staff undertaking and completing PhDs. Staff
undertaking PhD study at UCLan and at other institutions are supported through payment of fees
and PhD time included within their workload. UoA32 contains five members of staff who have
followed this route, one of whom (Dr. Jennifer Barrett) is now a member of two PhD supervision
teams. In turn, as our supervision capacity grows, we can strengthen our PhD presence and increase
our PG numbers. All our PhD students are automatically members of CPRA and join a research
cluster or group. The increased percentage of UoA members holding doctorates also directly
supports our growing PG community.


  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income
Since 2014, UoA32 has captured external funding from Research Councils, central government,
Local Authorities, and charities to the sum of £687,541. This demonstrates an increase of 206%
since REF2014’s total grant capture of £224,739.
External funds have been awarded by: Arts Council England to Quick (£356,372) and Odlin-Bates
(£3,178), by Frank Whittle Partnership to Dr. Abdulkadir Ganah (£45,540), by English heritage to
Christopher O’Flaherty (£10,113), and follow-on funding by the Arts and Humanities Research
Council to Binns (£78,193) for his ‘Aesthetics of Waste’ project. Souyave received funding from
Alzheimer’s Society (£9,739) as an Investment Voucher for her Fidget Widget™ project. ICP’s

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
‘Beautiful and Brutal: 50 years in the life of Preston Bus Station’ received £20,000, paid to UCLan
for ICP’s fee, with additional contributions for commissions: £34,000, exhibitions budget £60,000,
and £4,000 for a celebration and exhibition from Lancashire County Council and Building Design
Partnership.

Funding-in-kind
Due to the collaborative and creative nature of UoA32’s work, it benefits from various forms of
funding-in-kind through sponsorship for projects and donations of professional time, facilities, gallery
space, and other forms of infrastructure – particularly in Himid’s case from esteemed galleries and
museums such as Tate, The New Museum and The High Line (both New York) with a value of well
in excess of £200,000.
UoA members have also received other external awards, financial support and other forms of
funding-in-kind and gifts-in-kind from Arts Council England, AHRC, Preston City Council, Lancashire
County Council, and Merz Barn.
Stawarska-Beavan has received: Step Travel Grant, European Cultural Foundation for £400 (2014);
Hamelin Polska Award at International Print Triennial, £1,000 (2015); International Development
Fund from The Arts Council, £5,000 (2016); fee and production cost for ‘Invisible Narratives’
exhibition Newlyn Art Gallery from Curator James Green for £3,500 (2019); ‘Sounds Like Her’
(touring exhibition) New Art Exchange, Nottingham; Oldham Gallery £2,000; Polish Institute Vienna
provided funding towards the presentation of solo exhibition in MAG3 project place and gallery,
Polish Institute in Vienna for £2,500+ in-kind, for accommodation during installation week.
Hill received International Artist Residency: Travel Bursary from Artist Newsletter for £900 to cover
cost of flight to Australia for ‘Matrix of Movement’ which also included match-funding in-kind by The
Lock Up Gallery, accommodation and exhibition costs, £12,000 (2018); ‘Haecceity’ was a
commission and residency as part of the Warrington Arts Festival (2018), and received £3,000
support in-kind for exhibition, publicity and staffing costs; and Hill received support for exhibition,
publicity and accommodation to £13,000, Stratum project, (2019).
Lucas received funding for ‘Performing Gender’, Arts Council England, (2017), ‘Lay of the Land’,
Arts Council England, (2016), and a-n Collaborations Bursary, Vapaan Taiteen Tila, a-n.co.uk,
(2014). She won the SOLO Award™, Chiara Williams Contemporary, London, 2016, where she
delivered a solo show with curatorial support and was match-funded the artists’ fee.
Broadey was awarded a grant from the Levenshulme Market Fund to the sum of £2,210, for his
Participatory Art project for the Levenshulme Contemporary Art Centre Projects, May-Aug 2015. In
2018, Rendle was awarded a total of £34,535 to carry out her project ‘What Cannot Be Turned
Aside’ a performance piece for exhibition at Contemporary Forward, Touchstones Gallery, Rochdale,
UK. She received match-funding from Foyle Foundation (£4,000), Touchstones Gallery (£7,750),
The Whitworth (£5,400), in-kind from various arts professionals (£2,100), and an award of £13,785
from Arts Council England.
In 2018, Ross received Northern Bridge Funding to develop a re-enactment of Kurt Schwitters’
unknown work ‘The Silence Poem’ which was filmed in a previous internment camp in the Isle of
Man.
Atkinson, Hunt, McEwan, and Souyave all received extensive funding-in-kind for professional time,
facilities, and infrastructure to support the delivery of their exhibitions and research.




                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Infrastructure - Soft
School Research Fund/QR Expenditure
The Head of School provides a School Research Fund, allocated through the School Research Lead
to support research trips, fieldwork, and conference deliver as well as seed funding to attract external
grants. The fund is approximately £10,000-£15,000 per annum and all research-active members of
staff in the School are invited to request funding.
Between 2015 and 2017, QR funding was distributed to UoAs by the Faculty with UoA members
invited to bid for funding up to £2,000 to carry out identifiable research activities that would support
either an output, creation of impact or to help ECRs on their research trajectory. Bids were reviewed
at School/UoA level by a local committee made up of the Professoriate, the Research Degree Tutor
and other members of UoA32, chaired by the School Research Lead. Awardees generated reports
stating how their funding was spent and how it aided their research.
From 2018 to 2020, QR funding was distributed through the Faculty-level Research Strategy Group.
Bids were reviewed by two UoA Leads, bringing in a third reviewer in the case of disagreement.
Again, awardees were asked to generate a report stating how the funding was spent and how it
aided their research. This process is helpful not only to enable Leads to capture and track spending,
but also as a reflective tool for awardees. The fund can support conference delivery, exhibition
construction, materials, travel, and accommodation for undertaking fieldwork, and collaboration
networking.
QR funding also supports the research clusters up to £2,000 per annum to fund seminars,
workshops, and research output development. For example, in 2018, UoA32 supported members of
Cloth, Clothing and Culture to take part in a conference on women’s mental health and Victorian
asylum clothing, and support to In Certain Places was made for artists’ contributions to the
collaborative publication Practising Place: Creative and Critical Reflections on Place.

Infrastructure- Physical/Facilities
Space
In September 2017, the spatial reconfiguration of Victoria Building (the School’s main building)
created a Research Hub, relocating many research active staff to a central space, providing open
meeting/workspace for PG/PhD students and staff, in addition to a ‘Post-Doc Forum’ set up by
UoA32. This space is used for supervision meetings, seminar presentations and UoA meetings,
enhancing the identity and position of UoA32 within the University. UoA32’s research groups MHV
and ICP have been relocated to Victoria Building, also home to Artlab’s print studios which provides
a rich spatial context for informal dialogues.
UoA32 also utilizes the Media Innovation Studio for research away days and UoA members regularly
hold exhibitions in the PR1 Gallery and Hanover Gallery, both on-campus but attracting public
audiences.
In 2019 a converted shipping container installed on a prime major roundabout location provided a
space for the School’s newly launched artists-in-residence programme, the construction of which
was overseen by ICP and designed by members of the architecture staff.
Technical Support
UoA32 has access to over 500 specialist pieces of equipment which are maintained by a dedicated
group of technicians who are also members of CPRA. UoA members work with the technicians to
realise their practice-research - for example, in the world-leading print studios in Artlab, which
approaches traditional print through contemporary innovation methodologies. Artlab boasts a unique


                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
collection of intaglio presses and off-set lithography presses for stone and plate, unlike many similar
studios. The addition of a screen-printing bed purchased in 2019 means Artlab has capacity for large
editions, which generates external income and supports UoA members.



  4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Race, gender, and class
Making Histories Visible
Since REF2014, Himid has extended the societal and public reach of her work globally, shifting the
marginality of the work of Black artists into the mainstream arena. Following her success as the
Turner Prize winner in 2017, her contribution to society includes an appearance on Desert Island
Discs on BBC Radio 4, and “in conversations” with Zoe Whitley at Chatsworth, Tate Director Maria
Balshaw, and Falke Pisano at Hollybush Gardens gallery, all of which has opened up broader
conversations about Black art.
 In 2019, Himid exhibited at The New Museum, New York (which incorporated a sound piece by
Stawarska-Beavan) debuting a new body of work; and ‘Five Conversations’ at the High Line, New
York, comprising five reclaimed wooden doors from traditional Georgian townhouses painted with
portraits of everyday stylish women who enjoy talking to each other. The New York exhibitions
received in excess of two million visitors.
Himid curated ‘Invisible Narratives’ at the Newlyn Art Gallery in Cornwall, featuring work from
herself, Stawarska-Beavan and Rebecca Chesney, and has acted as a judge for Baltic Artists’
Award 2019. She was featured in the BBC4 documentary ‘Whoever Heard of a Black Artist? Britain’s
Hidden Art History’ and delivered a keynote speech at ‘Memory and Performance in African-Atlantic
Futures’ conference at Leeds University.
Himid held a large scale exhibition of her work at the Harris Museum & Art Gallery, Preston, and
‘The Truth is Never Watertight’ brings together a wide range of paintings from the 1980s to the
present day, as well as cut-outs, painted wooden objects, and works on paper at Badischer
Kunstverein, Germany. She has exhibited solo shows in Modern Art Oxford, Spike Island (Bristol),
and Nottingham Contemporary. She became the first Guardian newspaper artist in residence. After
spending four days in The Guardian’s London office, she created the work ‘Random Coincidence’,
where she painted over pages from the newspaper over a week-long period. Her focus was the
newspaper’s representation of Black people and the juxtaposition of text and image and was initiated
in collaboration with Liverpool’s Rapid Response Unit as part of a larger commission linking artists
to the news cycle.
The Outset Fund and the Tate bought ‘Carrot Piece’ by Himid during the Frieze Art Show in London.
The Outset Contemporary Art Fund was founded in 2003 as a philanthropic organisation dedicated
to supporting new art. This acquisition marks the 100th artwork purchased by the fund.
Eyene curated 2018 Casablanca Biennial, which successfully created dialogue between Moroccan
and African artists, and the international art scene. Eyene has also curated ‘Traces of the Black
Body’ (2015, New Art Exchange, Nottingham, UK), and ‘Sounds Like Her’ (2017-2020) which brings
together seven women artists from diverse cultures, each exploring sound as a medium or subject
matter: Ain Bailey, Sonia Boyce MBE RA, Linda O'Keeffe, Elsa M'bala, Madeleine Mbida,
Stawarska-Beavan and Christine Sun Kim.
An integral part of MHV’s ethos is to support up-and-coming artists and practice-researchers, many
of whom are members of UoA32 such as Stawarska-Beavan, Hill, Ross, Hunt, and Mark
Parkinson. The work of MHV and their associated UoA32 artists has generated a significant, policy
                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and attitude changing contribution to the research base and society, affirmed in the work of Black,
female, and working-class researchers.

ArtLab
Working with Helen Cammock (Max Mara prize winner), Ingrid Pollard (Baltic Artists Award 2019),
Himid, Jenny Steele, Shezad Dawood and Ross, ‘Artlab’ assist in the development of ideas around
the printed artefact and generate a new understanding of print within the wider context of a trans-
disciplinary practice. Through their public exhibitions staged at an international level, as well as those
of Hill and Stawarska-Beavan, a number of new concepts around the accessibility of the multiple
have engaged a wider regional, national, and international audience.
‘Artlab’ organises illustrated public talks on-campus and in the city, group exhibitions in a variety of
locations including Harris Museum and practical workshops in the ‘Artlab’ studio. ‘Artlab’ contributed
to, co-curated and supported members of UoA32 with contributions to the international touring
exhibition ‘State of Print’ at UCLan in 2018, which included Hunt, Broadey, and de Paor-Evans.
Hill was awarded the European Printmaking Award by the Executive Board of the International Print
Triennial Society in Krakow, (2018) for ‘Black Waters’, selected from 1,353 original works and
installation projects by 516 artists from all over the world.
Hill was “in conversation” with Himid for ‘Invisible Narratives’, (2019) at Newlyn Art Gallery which
hosted the event discussing Hill’s outputs ‘Matrix of Movement’ and ‘Haecceity’.
Artlab’s collaborative work includes Helen Cammock’s practice where she produced her first project
in Artlab for a Bookworks commission, presented during the Hull City Capital of Culture, (2016).
‘Shouting in Whispers’ was exhibited in Cubitt, London, (2017) and Void Gallery, Derry Northern
Island, (2018). This fostered a pivotal point in her practice, and nomination and award of the Max
Mara Prize and the Turner Prize (2019). Ingrid Pollard combines portrait photography and traditional
landscape imagery to explore social constructs such as Britishness or racial difference. She worked
with Artlab on ‘There Was Much Interruption’, a 10-metre long print which was shown in Carte de
Visite, Hollybush Gardens (2015). In 2019, the print was produced again with Artlab, premiered in
‘The Lie of the Land’ exhibition marking the reopening of Milton Keys Gallery. Pollard was selected
as one of the artists for the Baltic Artists’ Award (2019). Jenny Steele’s work – created by her in
Artlab – was presented in This House for Building Residency & Exhibition at The Tetley, (2017), This
Building for Hope Exhibition at The Midland Morecambe, (2017). With Artlab, she also made
commissioned work for exhibition at Rogue Artist Studios, Manchester, (2016). Ross developed the
project ‘All the Better to Hear You With’ with Artlab, exhibited at the Merz Barn, Cumbria in 2016.
The project also partnered with ‘The Caravan Press: Making Visible the Archive of Gwyneth Alban
Davis’, which led to a book publication and a joint symposium ‘Women in Print’ with Artlab’s Hill and
Stawarska-Beavan.

Other Projects
Lucas was on the board of Bloc Projects (2014-2018), a contemporary art gallery in Sheffield. She
has also undertaken external engagements at: Art Symposium, Haarlem Artspace, Wirksworth,
Derbyshire, (2018); Performance & Culture: Cities, Embodiments, Technologies Conference,
University of Malta (2018); Overwhelming Imaginations Conference - Si Shang Art Museum, Beijing,
China, (2016); ‘Female video artists and the war’, Artist’s Talk and Film Screening, Ca’Foscari
University, Venice, Italy, (2016); and San Francisco State University, Visiting Lecturer, California,
(2015).
Odlin-Bates has been working with non-traditional museum visitors, including widening participation
by engaging with a new audience to promote the textile collection held at Gawthorpe Hall and

                                                                                                 Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
facilities at Queen Street Mill with a view to a more sustainable future for both venues, and was guest
specialist speaker at Fabrications Textile Biennial (2017) hosted by ‘Super Slow Way’ and Creative
Lancashire. Her ‘Hidden Gems’ project was shown in a non-traditional environment, in the centre of
Burnley, UK, where many people had access to the images of Asian women and children wearing
their designed hijabs.

Spatial practice, public engagement, and spatial heritage
In Certain Places
Quick and Speight have worked collaboratively with Preston City Council (PCC) since 2003.
Through a programme of temporary public artworks and interdisciplinary events, they have increased
cultural engagement and informed policy within Preston. The project Harris Flights, addressed a lack
of connection between the Harris Museum and Preston City Centre by installing a temporary
staircase to the building and delivering 60 public events in collaboration with PCC, increasing visitor
numbers by 70%. People’s Canopy, a collaboration with Beijing-based People’s Architecture Office,
developed a temporary architectural space, which can transform under-used public spaces into sites
of cultural engagement. It was created in conjunction with the inaugural Lancashire Encounter
Festival, of which ICP is a founding partner, and has since been used to activate city spaces in
China, Hong Kong, and Belgium, and was presented at the Venice Architecture Biennial. It won the
Red Dot Design Award 2016, AZ Architecture award 2017, and has featured in publications such as
Mobitecture (Phaidon).
In 2016, Quick and Speight were invited by PCC to develop Expanded City – an art-based research
project addressing the lack of cultural and community provision within a series of large-scale
infrastructure projects on the outskirts of Preston, developed through the Government’s ‘City Deal’
scheme. ICP has been working with artists to explore the existing characteristics of the development
areas, raise questions and develop new approaches to infrastructure, which enhance personal,
social and environmental wellbeing. Focuses include cycling, play and leisure provision and
community-designed spaces.
Led by ICP in partnership with Harris Museum, Beautiful and Brutal: 50 years in the life of Preston
Bus Station was an exhibition, series of events and public art commissions by LOW PROFILE and
Keith Harrison, which celebrated the famous Building Design Partnership structure. Preston Bus
Station, Lancashire County Council, Building Design Partnership, Ove Arup, Laing Construction,
Ribble Vehicle Preservation Trust, Preston Bus and Stagecoach.
Since 2014, ICP have collaborated with 51 artists and architects, including Lee Ivett, Friend, Ahmed
(who co-edited book on Humanising the City), and Atkinson. Practising Place, a five-year project,
brokered connections between 11 artists, including Lucas, Stawarska-Beavan and William Titley,
and 10 Humanities researchers from UCLan, Sheffield Hallam, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester
Metropolitan, Sheffield, Nottingham, Brighton, and Manchester Universities. The project involved
public events across the north of England, delivered in partnership with Bluecoat Arts Centre
(Liverpool), Nottingham Contemporary, Whitworth Art Gallery (Manchester), Tyneside Cinema
(Newcastle), Storey Institute (Lancaster) and Liverpool Hope University; an essay series on the
Double Negative culture website; and a book of collaborative projects published by Art Editions
North, University of Sunderland. ICP’s work has been shown at Modern Art Oxford, MOMA (New
York), Art Basel Hong Kong, and Tate Britain. Quick is Chair of Art and Place consortium and a
board member of Eden Arts, Speight is a regional Director of CVAN England, and a board member
of Art Gene.




                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
People and Place
McEwan has held Research Fellowships with University of Edinburgh, Scottish Graduate School for
Arts & Humanities (SGSAH) (2014) and Society of Architectural Historians of Great Britain (SAHGB)
(2018). With Lorens Holm, McEwan is co-Editor of ‘Architecture and Collective Life,’ a special edition
of Architecture and Culture (Taylor & Francis, 2020), which followed on from the Architectural
Humanities Research Association (AHRA) international conference ‘Architecture and Collective Life’
(2019) for which McEwan was an advisory board member and panel chair. McEwan is one of five
trustees of the AE Foundation, an independent research institute for architecture and education
which aims to link society, architectural practice, and academia. Martin’s City-Zen Roadshow
visited nine cities, funded by the EU FP7 Smartcities programme and has impacted stakeholder
engagement, aspiration, policy, and start-up business growth. By intersecting EU cities, City-Zen
demonstrated that carbon neutral cities are achievable via trans-city communication of complex
sustainability challenges between expert and citizen.

Material culture, industry, innovation, and product
Atkinson has made accessible over 500 bodies of work by over 300 international photographers,
through publishing 475 titles on previously unseen photography. Atkinson works through
collaboration with artists, photographers, and everyday people. There are over 100,000 of Atkinson’s
titles in circulation, many acquired by major international galleries and libraries, including Tate,
MoMA USA, National Gallery of Canada, Victoria and Albert London, 21st Century Museum of
Contemporary Art, Japan. Atkinson’s research has led to changes in education and learning, creating
a new history of photography – defining the history of British photography and creating a domain of
research that did not previously exist. Café Royal Books delivers publications through collaboration
with the Martin Parr Foundation Archive, James Hyman Archive, Estate of Shirley Baker, Tish Murtha
Archive, Magnum Archive, Library of Birmingham Archive, and Daniel Meadows Archive.
Souyave collaborated with Alzheimer’s Society to explore new ways in which design can have a
positive impact on the needs of people living with dementia. This resulted in The Fidget Widget™
Toolkit which has been licensed to Active Minds, and The Fidget Widget™ Toolkit is continually
selling out across 26 countries.
Through the successful UCLan spin-out company – Alusid – Binns developed Silicastone, an
innovative and aesthetically versatile architectural surface material made from glass, ceramics, and
mineral waste with minimal environmental impact and 98% recycled materials. Concurrently, Friend
has developed Robotic Craft Tile as a prototype, printed with a robotic arm to ensure the pattern was
continuous across more than one ceramic tile. This was installed to rehabilitate the existing floor of
the Grade 1 listed V&A Main Shop. Robotic Craft Tile is recognised as the world’s first 3D printed
piped tile and was exhibited at ‘FastCraft’ (2019) Camberwell College of Art and ‘Hand Held to Super
Scale: Building with Ceramics’ (2019-2020), The Building Centre, London.

Summary
Since REF20214, many of the partnerships at the centre of UoA32’s activity matured and continue
to be based on a genuine desire to address the societal challenges facing local communities globally;
the need for people to belong and to have their cultural contribution, history and heritage recognised;
and the need for cities to adapt to meet social, technological, and economic shifts in partnership with
communities. Most importantly, and through its collaborative research, UoA32 continues to play a
central role in its contribution to an ecologically and culturally sustainable creative environment.




                                                                                              Page 20
