Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of St Andrews

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 27: English Language and Literature
 1. Context, Strategy, and Structure: Overview

 The School of English at the University of St Andrews is a centre of excellence in critical and
 creative research, currently ranked third in the Guardian and fourth in the Complete University
 Guide, and in the top 50 in the 2020 QS world rankings. The research strategy of the School is
 directed towards the production and dissemination of world-leading critical and creative
 scholarship. We aim to change what is possible in English studies by creating bonds with new
 and different disciplines and methodologies, languages and regions, audiences and research
 users. We work collectively, through the School’s organisational and management structures, to
 maximise the time dedicated to this aim. We prioritise research-led teaching and support for
 early career researchers, and we uphold democratic values that do not privilege one research
 area or type of researcher over any other. The result is an array of imaginative, boundary-
 pushing work in diverse fields of scholarship.

 In the assessment period we have fostered transformative criticism and creativity by:

        •Creating an inclusive and supportive research environment for all our staff and
        postgraduates.
        •Extending the range of our expertise and the diversity of our approaches to English
        studies in order to produce innovative research.
        •Training and nurturing the next generations of researchers.
        •Cultivating partnerships that transfer our scholarship from academia into the wider
        social and cultural sphere.

 These enabling strategies have shaped the administrative structures that are described in this
 section of the environment document. These structures in turn support the work described in the
 final section, in which the movement of our research groups’ scholarship out into the wider world
 is presented in terms of four key intellectual themes. The document as a whole therefore
 describes a movement from strategy to realisation in which the objective of world-class writing is
 always held in view.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




       Fig.1 The relationship between strategies, research groups, intellectual themes and
                                    administrative structures.

 1.1 Key Structures

 The School of English is one of 19 at St Andrews. Schools are budget-holding units, negotiating
 operations and staffing budgets with senior management. There are no administrative divisions
 within the School: Creative Writing is an integral part of our activities. Several colleagues
 supervise both academic and creative PGRs and we are proud of our distinctive fusion of critical
 and creative practice, which is an enduring feature of the School’s environment. More generally,
 we believe that as a School of more than 30 FTE colleagues excellence consists not just in the
 quality of individual outputs but also our ability to speak to a wide range of issues and historical
 periods, from the earliest writing in English up to the present day, and in a variety of formats,
 from critical to creative to editorial work.

 The School’s principal instruments for planning research are:

        •Four research groups: Medieval and Renaissance; Eighteenth Century, Romantic and
        Victorian; Modern and Contemporary; and Creative Writing. These are loose
        confederations rather than period silos; every colleague is a member of one group, and
        some are members of several. Their functions range from events planning to peer-
        reading work.
        •The Research Support Committee, consisting of the Director of Research, Director of
        Impact, and the conveners of research groups, which meets every semester. The
        Committee oversees research strategy and reports to School Council. When joined by
        the Head of School it also acts as the REF preparation committee.
        •Annual Academic Development and Review interviews with the Head of School which
        help direct resources to support individual researchers.



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        •Support from outside the School. English has dedicated contacts in Financial Advice
        and Support (FAS) and Research Business Development and Contracts (RBDC). We
        take advantage of monthly drop-in centres run for the School by RBDC to discuss
        funding opportunities and collaborations. Impact activities are supported by a dedicated
        office within Research and Innovation Services whose staff offer bespoke advice to
        colleagues working at any stage or level of Impact.

 1.2 Support for Excellence in Research

 The School believes that variety of research activity is essential to support and complement the
 production of major works of scholarship and directs its resources accordingly. We have:

        •Earmarked £8,000 pa to fund a series of research colloquia, organised by one or more
        colleagues, including PGR students, bringing distinguished scholars from across the
        world to the School. These events cross chronological and methodological boundaries,
        benefiting multiple research groups, and resulting in significant publications.

            2014–15     Bannockburn 2014
                        Publications: Robert Crawford, Bannockburns (2014); Gill Plain,
                        ed, Scotland and the First World War (2016)
            2015–16     World Literature and Dissent
                        Publication: Lorna Burns and Katie Muth, eds, World Literature
                        and Dissent (2019)
            2016–17     (Un)Civil Wars
                        Publication: Peter Mackay and Éadaoín Lynch, eds, (Un)Civil
                        Wars (projected publication 2022)
            2017–18     Keats in Scotland
                        Publication: Katie Garner and Nicholas Roe, eds, John Keats in
                        Scotland (forthcoming 2021)
            2018–19     Libraries in Literature
                        Publication: Robert and Alice Crawford, eds, The Library in
                        Literature (forthcoming, 2021)
            2019–20     Reimagining Andrew Marvell: The Poet at 400 (in collaboration
                        with the Folger Institute) To be rescheduled.
                        Publication: Matthew Augustine and Giulio Pertile, eds, Andrew
                        Marvell: The Poet at 400 (forthcoming 2021)

 Table.1: research colloquia organised by members of the School and resulting publications

        •Further developed the responsibilities of research groups to include specific support
        for earlier career scholars and Impact activities.

        •Deepened our collaborations with organisations such as StAnza, Scotland's
        International Poetry Festival, to share research more widely and in new formats. An
        annual planning meeting with the Festival Director results in events showcasing research
        from the School, such as C. Jones’s series of ‘Old English for Poets’ workshops.

        •Improved personal support for research by increasing personal research allowances
        to £2,200 pa (pro rata for part-time colleagues) and increasing the frequency of
        entitlement to apply for research/Impact leave. In 2019-20 the School devoted £71,720 to
        research allowances.

        •Launched research themes enabling focused collaboration across research groups,
        supported by £1,000 pa, with a lifetime of 2-3 years. Scholarly Editing is the first theme
        supported, from January 2020, though its activities were disrupted by COVID-19.
        Colleagues engaged in editorial projects across the chronological range of the subject

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        will exchange ideas and practice, collaborating with colleagues from other disciplines in
        St Andrews (History, Philosophy) and from other institutions.

 1.3 Impact

 Impact is part of the architecture of our planning. This is evident from the level of individual
 mentoring to the collective shaping of School strategy via the Planning and Management
 Committee and the School Council to which it reports. All colleagues attend School Council and
 Impact is on each agenda.

        •The School instituted the separate role of Director of Impact in 2014 in recognition of
        the importance of developing and maintaining Impact activity across the School.

        •Impact is discussed in research groups, in collaboration with the Research Support
        Committee, as some Impact work crosses the boundaries of research groups: Sellers’s
        ongoing Impact deriving from her research and creative writing about Vanessa Bell and
        Virginia Woolf is supported by both the Creative Writing and Modern and Contemporary
        Research Groups.

        •Since 2015, support has been offered to researchers involved in significant Impact work
        via teaching relief and regular working brunches led by the DoI: Case Studies and other
        Impact plans are peer-read, discussed, and support offered to colleagues as they
        propose or develop new projects

 The development of these structures implements proposals set out in the School’s REF2014
 Impact template. We have:

        •Invited representatives from publishing, broadcasting and museums and galleries to
        speak to staff and PGRs about developing public outreach from their research. These
        include Jenny Brown (Jenny Brown Literary Agency), Claire Cunningham (RTÉ),
        Jonathan Coffey (BBC Panorama), Jeff Cowton (The Wordsworth Trust Museum), Mark
        Richards (BBC Scotland).

        •Appointed colleagues with extensive media experience (Raychaudhuri and Tate were
        AHRC/BBC New Generation Thinkers; Mackay’s existing broadcast experience was
        complemented by joining that scheme in 2015). Media experience is disseminated within
        and beyond the School: Tate was invited to run a workshop on public engagement at the
        2019 meeting of the British Association for Victorian Studies.

        •Built extensive links with the local community through the Byre and other performance
        venues, and with local schools through workshops and teaching resources developed by
        C. Jones and Sutton as part of their Impact work.

 The School thus aims to develop new Impact work and to nurture longstanding and successful
 projects. In addition to the projects featured as ICSs for REF2021, the School encourages larger
 KE and PE activities that may develop into future ICSs. The activity described in Section 4 of this
 document speaks to an overall increase in public engagement.

 1.4 Achievement of Aims for Research and Impact in the Assessment Period

 Since REF2014 we have been consciously inculcating greater diversity in our research
 environment, building expertise in world literatures and postcolonial theory, further strengthening
 our activities in dramatic writing and production –aided by the University’s acquisition of the Byre
 Theatre (see Institution-Level Environment Statement, ILES, 4.3) –and building on our strong
 record of collaboration in research groups, Knowledge Exchange and Impact activities at local,
 national and international level.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 In REF2014 the School achieved demonstrable success in its aim of producing ‘substantial,
 world-leading and internationally excellent contributions to scholarship and writing in our
 discipline’. 40% of our submission were book-length publications. 79.1% of outputs were judged
 3 and 4*. Between 2014 and 2020, 30 colleagues, or 83% of our staff have produced at least
 one book-length output –ranging from academic monographs, scholarly editions and edited
 collections to biographies, poetry, novels and plays. This is a 6% increase on the previous
 assessment period. This work is supported by grants: in the census period over a quarter of the
 School’s FTE won funding for between one and three years of dedicated research activity.

 The introduction of the light-touch administrative measures detailed above has improved the
 quantity, quality and variety of our research over the period. Three initiatives from our 2014
 strategy can be picked up here:

        •Collective research endeavour. Research groups and research themes provide
        structures within which colleagues (PGT, PGR and staff) can meet, share ideas, and plan
        collaborative projects.
        •Appointments and intellectual culture. We have consolidated our expertise in
        postcolonial and world literature and drama while opening up a new specialism in
        American literature. A fixed-term research-focused post with a concentration on
        postcolonial studies was converted into a permanent lectureship. Treen brings a
        research focus in American literature and an interest in cultures of memory. Haddow’s
        work on performance forms a bridge with the playwriting and screenwriting expertise of
        Harris and Emanuel. Connolly’s appointment adds to existing strength in Middle English
        and contributes new expertise in Manuscript Studies. Other appointments add to existing
        strengths in Older Scots (Mapstone) and nineteenth-century studies (Garner, Gill, Tate).
        •Increasing open access to research-related material. Our Impact webpages
        (https://www.st-andrews.ac.uk/english/research/impact/) share the School’s current and
        past research, presented in a range of formats including text, video and audio, and apps,
        with an unlimited group of users. Additionally, several members of staff have created
        specific, large-scale online resources, including:
           •Lodge’s recordings of Edward Lear’s music, much of which was previously
           unavailable: www.edwardlearsmusic.com
           •Manly’s RTÉ Lyric FM documentary on Edgeworth:
           https://www.rte.ie/radio/radioplayer/html5/#/lyric/11038262
           •Sutton’s website on Woolf and music: https://virginiawoolfmusic.wp.st-andrews.ac.uk/

 1.5 Future aims

 The School’s research environment has produced world-leading publications for several
 decades, as evidenced by the critical reception of the work, the international recognition detailed
 in this statement, and previous RAE/REF assessments. Building on these foundations, we will
 focus on the following areas to augment the diversity of our research and its international
 outreach:

        •Collaboration and funding. The School will nurture large collaborative projects that
        emerge organically from colleagues’ research interests. Colleagues are developing
        collaborations through networking grants, such as Tate’s recently funded AHRC network
        exploring Victorian literary languages. To increase the geographic and socio-economic
        diversity of our PGR community we have made an ambitious case for up to 5 new PhD
        scholarships in our strategic plan. The School has awarded three new PGR scholarships
        through a University scheme in 2020/21.

        •Interdisciplinarity. We will make a significant contribution to the University through our
        support for interdisciplinary research at all levels. We supervise and examine PGR
        students with Art History, Film Studies, History, Modern Languages, Music and

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Philosophy. We are major contributors to 7 University research centres and institutes
        (see Table 2). The School always appoints researchers with interdisciplinary interests;
        we aim to make more shared appointments with other schools, as that of Connolly with
        History in 2017 (ILES, 2.5). Connolly has since August 2019 been Director of the
        interdisciplinary St Andrews Institute of Mediaeval Studies. The School’s annual research
        colloquia always include an interdisciplinary strand: for example, ‘Bannockburn 2014’
        with History, Art History, and Cultural Studies; ‘Reading Scotland before 1707’, the 2021
        colloquium (postponed to 2022 due to COVID-19) with History, Mediaeval Studies, and
        Music. Although the majority of our interdisciplinary work is within the humanities, it is not
        confined to them. Treen’s Civil War Monuments project (discussed below) is being
        developed with the School of Computer Science, while Emanuel’s 2018 BBC Radio 4
        series ‘The Truth About Hawaii’ evolved in dialogue with Adam Roberts (Liverpool School
        of Tropical Medicine) and Joanna Coast (Health Economics, Bristol), and was funded by
        the Wellcome Trust’s Experimental Stories workshop. Our interdisciplinary work is
        already evident in this return in Lodge’s work on Lear, Raychaudhuri’s Narrating South
        Asian Partition and Sutton’s ICS, for example.

        •Open research environment. We will develop our knowledge of and activity in open
        research environments. Members of the School are editors and contributors to open
        humanities projects and publications: Purdon is co-editor of the Technographies book
        series at Open Humanities Press; Augustine was editor in chief of Marvell Studies, a fully
        peer-reviewed journal with the Open Library of the Humanities. Harris-Birtill, a doctoral
        graduate and since 2020 Honorary Teaching and Research Fellow, is the Editorial
        Officer for the Open Library of the Humanities and will offer presentations and guided
        discussions on OA publishing to PGRs and colleagues.

 We will, across these activities, maintain our commitment to Research Integrity. All new
 members of the School are alerted to the processes of the University’s Teaching and Research
 Ethics Committee and the Research Integrity policy. Students at all levels are required to pass
 an online course in Good Academic Practice provided by the University’s Centre for Educational
 Enhancement and Development. The School’s annually revised Staff Handbook details the
 activities of the School’s ethics committee. The School has programmed visits from the Head of
 Research Policy, Integrity, and Governance to refresh awareness of research integrity.

  Centre/Institute      Expertise                  Collaborating disciplines
                        contributed by
                        English
  Centre                writing and the          Art History, Classics, Computer Science,
  for Landscape Studies environment              Earth and Environmental Sciences, Film,
                                                 History
  Cultural Identity        South Asian           Art History, Classics, Geography, History,
  Studies Institute        studies, oral history International Relations, Modern
                                                 Languages, Social Anthropology
  Cross-Cultural Circa     medievalism, Anglo- Art History, Divinity, History, Modern
  Nineteenth Century       Saxonism, scientific Languages, Social Anthropology
  Research Centre          enquiry, music, the
                           Pacific
  Institute for Gender     the cultural history  Art History, Biology, Classics, Computer
  Studies                  of gender in the      Science, Divinity, Earth and Environmental
                           nineteenth and        Sciences, Economics, English, Film
                           twentieth centuries   Studies, Geography and Sustainable
                                                 Development, History, International
                                                 Relations, Mathematics, Medicine, Modern
                                                 Languages, Philosophy, Psychology and
                                                 Neuroscience, Social Anthropology



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Institute of Intellectuallinks between         Art History, Classics, Divinity, History,
  History                  literary and          International Relations, Philosophy, Social
                           intellectual history  Anthropology
  Institute of Legal and   literature and the    Classics, Divinity, History, International
  Constitutional           law in the medieval Relations, Philosophy, Social Anthropology
  Research                 and renaissance
                           periods
  St Andrews Institute     literary, linguistic, Art History, Classics, Divinity, History,
  of Medieval Studies      religious and         Modern Languages
                           cultural history of
                           the British Isles
                           across the Middle
                           Ages, and
                           medievalism
 Table.2: Research institutes and centres to which the School contributes expertise



 Section 2. People
 2. Staffing strategy and staff development

 2.1 Staffing strategy

 Research and research-led teaching drive the School’s staffing strategy. The School has grown
 from 31 to 36 colleagues since 2014. We maintain our activity across the chronological range of
 English studies, from the seventh century to the present, an intellectual breadth that is
 increasingly rare. At the same time, we have expanded and will continue to expand the
 geographic, linguistic and methodological range of our research and the diversity of our
 curriculum. Appointments are carefully managed to harmonise with existing research strengths
 across periods, in textual scholarship, drama, or non-British literature and culture, for example.
 The School is proud to appoint many early career colleagues, and to create many more
 professors than it hires.

 We take every opportunity at appointment and in-post to provide the best contractual and non-
 contractual terms. We only make fixed-term appointments to replace colleagues who have won
 externally-funded leave or moved to a fractional contract. Fixed-term colleagues have the same
 teaching and administrative responsibilities, research allowances and leave entitlements as
 permanent members of staff. As a School we seek to reduce the casualisation of labour within
 Higher Education. We have no staff on zero-hours contracts, and our only hourly-paid staff are
 PGR students who train as tutors on pre-honours modules. During the review period, we have
 reduced the number of staff on fixed-term contracts from 10 in 2014 to 1 in 2020, and we offer
 12 rather than 9-month contracts. We have not employed any staff on research-only contracts in
 the census period but are aware of the principles of the Concordat to Support Career
 Development of Researchers relating to environment, employment and development, and
 embrace them in our treatment of all colleagues as researchers.

 2.2 Staff development

 We recognise that for all researchers, especially ECRs, the key requirement for career
 development is time. During the first two years of a standard/open contract appointment
 colleagues are not required to fill any of the major administrative offices of the School. When
 appointed to promoted posts, colleagues are not, as far as possible, asked to fill major
 administrative roles in their first year. Annual Academic Review and Development meetings
 were described above. New staff are assigned a mentor to work with them through the
 probationary period of 3-4 years. Two colleagues have participated in the University’s Elizabeth
 Garrett Mentoring Programme for women (ILES, 3.2) as mentees, and two more as mentors.

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


        •Early Career Researchers. One graduate of the Elizabeth Garrett Mentoring
        Programme joined the School as an ECR during the assessment period. The School
        explicitly encourages the support of ECRs through Research Groups and the Research
        Colloquium. Funding from these sources has enabled ECRs to develop public
        engagement activities, such as Garner’s involvement in Frankenreads, and to gain
        experience as conveners of research networks, such as Treen’s Network of Nineteenth-
        Century Americanists in the North. The School’s Fleeman Fellowship, which supports
        research visits of up to six months to work on eighteenth-century literature and culture,
        has often been awarded to ECRs, producing publications in the Review of English
        Studies and elsewhere. Early-career Fleeman fellows have gone on to secure positions
        at Glasgow, Old Dominion University, VA and Christ’s College, Cambridge. The arrival of
        two ECR Fleeman fellows in the School in autumn 2020 was delayed by COVID-19.

        •Fixed-term colleagues. The positive impact of the School’s support for colleagues on
        fixed-term contracts is evident in their subsequent appointment to permanent positions at
        Liverpool Hope, Birmingham, Northumbria, Goldsmiths, Exeter and St Andrews.

        •Promotions. The School supports applicants for promotion. Since 2014, the School has
        seen 3 promotions to senior lecturer, 4 to reader and 5 to professor. In 2017, we
        introduced a gender-balanced panel to supply feedback on draft applications and in 2018
        an annual promotions workshop with a representative of senior management, a
        colleague in HR, and a colleague who has served on the University promotions panel. In
        2019 the School submitted 7 applications, of which 6 were successful. 4 women were
        promoted to Senior Lecturer/Reader or Professor.

        •Personal Research Support. Increased research allowances were noted above. In
        2014 the School increased the frequency of entitlement to apply for research/Impact
        leave from 1 in 8 to 1 in 6 semesters to sustain focus on major research projects and
        Impact activities. This enabled 14 colleagues to take leave in session 2019-20.

        •Developing Impact. The movement between scholarly research and Impact is
        supported through the teaching relief noted above and a £3,000 pa pool of funding,
        available since 2014, to kick-start projects.

 2.3 PGR Students

 Application and Induction. Applicants for PGR study are encouraged to contact potential
 supervisors to discuss research proposals. Our dedicated Postgraduate Administrative Officer,
 Sandra Wallace, provides personalised advice about PGR life in St Andrews. St Andrews is a
 member of the Scottish consortium in receipt of AHRC block-funding and has won 8 of these
 studentships since 2014. Additionally, PGR students have been supported by a range of internal
 and external funding sources including the Wolfson Foundation (external), World-Leading St
 Andrews, Bonnyman, Ewan and Christine Brown, and Carnegie scholarships. The School also
 funds scholarships from its operations budget, to the level of £52,890 in 2019-20. Induction of
 PGRs into the research culture of the School is partly managed by current and former PGR
 students, who play a full role in our generic skills training and career development programmes.

 Training and Support. The heart of our PG research environment is 66 North St, a dedicated
 hub for the exchange of ideas and a valued social space. Each PGR student is a member of at
 least one research group and they are encouraged to organise and participate in research
 events. PGRs in the School participate in the University’s annual review scheme. Within their
 first year, PGR and PGT students take a course in research skills, covering library and archival
 research, as well as legal and ethical considerations. PhD students also take up our offer of a
 series of ‘Professionalising your PhD’ events, run throughout the year. Topics include: ‘Applying
 for Academic Jobs’, ‘Public Engagement and Impact’, ‘Non-academic Careers’. Within each

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research group, PhD students are mentored through the process of funding applications and
 calls for papers. PGR students have organised or co-organised conferences on Joe Corrie; Ben
 Jonson; David Mitchell; pageants; and civil wars in literature. In June 2020 two PGRs (Gardner
 and Spinelli) organised a conference on Renaissance Academic Drama and the Popular Stage
 that was held online due to the COVID-19 crisis. It attracted 111 delegates, representing
 universities in ten countries (including China, Turkey, Chile and Brazil). This success led to a
 further one-day event for PGRs on delivering online conferences, which itself attracted 91
 participants. Research students are entitled to an allowance of £300 pa to cover research
 expenditure. In Spring 2020, £3,675 of research group funds that remained unspent due to
 COVID-19 were redirected into a hardship fund to assist postgraduate students affected by the
 crisis with research expenses such as books, all of which was claimed.

 We have awarded 65 doctoral degrees in the assessment period (47 in the previous cycle), 2
 MPhils and 17 MFAs.

 After Graduation. PGR students are mentored beyond graduation, with supervisors offering
 advice on job and grant applications and on the development of theses for publication. Recently
 graduated PGRs have gone on to teaching and research posts including Lectureships at the
 University of Birmingham (twice), Bangor University, Jadavpur University, Kolkata, Pepperdine
 University, Malibu and Roehampton; Lecturer (fixed-term contract) at University College,
 London; Humboldt Postdoctoral Fellow at Freie Universität Berlin; Leverhulme Early Career
 Fellow at the University of Sheffield; and Irish Research Council Postdoctoral Fellow at
 University College Dublin.

 Our graduates have produced book-length research publications with presses such as Ashgate,
 Boydell & Brewer, CUP, Liverpool UP, Palgrave and Routledge, including:

        •Lenore Bell, The ‘Other’ in 9/11 Literature (2017)
        •Dustin Frazier Wood, Anglo-Saxonism and the Idea of Englishness in Eighteenth-
        Century Britain (2020)
        •Hrileena Ghosh, John Keats’ Medical Notebook (2020)
        •Rose Harris-Birtill, David Mitchell’s Post-Secular World (2019)
        •Megan Hoffman, Gender and Representation in British ‘Golden Age’ Crime Fiction
        (2016)
        •Karin Koehler, Thomas Hardy and Victorian Communication (2016)
        •Johanna Laitila, Melodrama, Self, and Nation in Post-War British Popular Film (2018)
        •Doyeeta Majumder, Tyranny and Usurpation (2019)
        •Claire Pascolini-Campbell, François Villon in English Poetry (2018)
        •Rosalind Powell, Christopher Smart’s English Lyrics (2014)
        •Tsung-Han Tsai and Emma Sutton, eds, Twenty-First-Century Readings of E. M.
        Forster’s Maurice (2020)
        •Anna West, Thomas Hardy and Animals (2017)




                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Current and recent postgraduates have contributed to the School’s Impact culture. Parker
 Gordon has collaborated extensively with KCL’s AHRC-funded project ‘The Redress of the Past:
 Historical Pageants in Britain’, devising and performing concerts and writing an essay for their
 2020 OA book Historical Pageants Local History Study Guide. Harris-Birtill created a collection
 of unique research materials on David Mitchell for Special Collections at the University Library,
 including her own interviews and privately-held video footage of an opera, Wake, in
 performance. This is an example of a PGR student contributing to the research infrastructure by
 enlarging Special Collections.

 2.4 Equality and Diversity

 The School recognises the ethical imperatives of equality, diversity and inclusion in
 administrative life and also in research and teaching. This commitment was recognised by an
 Athena Swan Bronze award in 2019. In preparing for REF2021, the School has followed the
 principles laid out in the University of St Andrews Code of Practice. The REF preparation
 committee sought gender balance in the review of outputs, and has routinely reflected on the
 gender balance of attributed outputs. A disproportionate number of outputs is attributed to men
 in our return. We have reflected on why this might be, and what we will do to mitigate this
 imbalance. We are proud that female colleagues have filled many leadership roles in the School
 over the period: Heads of School 2014-20; Director of Teaching 2014-19; Director of Impact
 2016-present. These commitments reduce the time available for research. Reductions in
 expectations relating to outputs as a result of the disclosure of circumstances were only applied
 to women in the School. Some female colleagues worked at less than 1FTE for periods just prior
 to and during the assessment period in a way not captured by the census date snapshot. Two of
 the three ICSs presented by the School relate to work by and are authored by female
 colleagues. Female colleagues are involved in several major collaborative multi-volume
 scholarly editions that have longer-term publication horizons. There is, additionally, a correlation
 between number of outputs attributed and age, with those 55 and older more likely to have 2 or
 3 outputs attributed to them. This age bracket in the School is disproportionately male. To
 mitigate this potential for imbalance the School will consider the gender distribution of its
 administrative roles at assignment; avoid, where possible, assigning demanding administrative
 roles to colleagues returning from parental, sickness or other periods of leave, or from part-time
 working; consider return to full-time work as a factor in approving requests for research/Impact
 leave. The University promotion procedures now fully recognise the contribution of Impact work
 (ILES, 3.2), including Case Studies. The School encourages its members to engage in long-term
 collaborative projects that may not result in double-weighted publications within one assessment
 cycle. We will advocate for colleagues engaged in such projects by continuing to recognise
 collaboration in and management of larger and longer projects as a research contribution in
 applications for promotion.

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Staffing. Founded in 1897, our Berry Chair was held by a woman for the first time in 2004.
 Joining Plain and Sellers as a female professor, Lorna Hutson initiated vigorous scrutiny of EDI
 matters at both School and University level. This era consolidated a culture of equality and
 diversity in the School, which outperforms the rest of the University in the equality between
 genders at all levels. At the census we have 18 female and 18 male colleagues, including 7 male
 and 6 female professors. While the School’s staff is geographically diverse it is less diverse in
 ethnic background. Members of the School have, through trades union work, encouraged the
 University to consider addressing this lack of diversity through recruitment processes (ILES, 3).
 The School seeks to invite more speakers from and develop academic collaborations with
 regions other than Europe, North America and Australasia, and particularly to develop links with
 the global South. Raychaudhuri’s UKIERI-funded Narratives of Migration and Exchange
 collaboration with Presidency University, Kolkata and Sutton’s GCRF-funded work with Sāmoan
 musicians are two examples.

 Training. All staff in the School have completed online training in Diversity in the Workplace and
 Unconscious Bias. The School has put reasonable adjustments in place in response to the
 disclosure of disability. Confidential support via the Head of School and Occupational Health is
 available for colleagues experiencing mental ill health.

 EDI Planning. The School’s EDI officer and committee are responsible for implementing our
 Athena Swan action plan. In 2018, the School conducted a review of diversity across its
 curriculum, led by Burns and Raychaudhuri; issues raised in this forum have helped us to think
 about diversity in our research. In 2019 the School established an EDI fund to assist staff with
 childcare or travel costs. The School will adjust workloads for colleagues and requests for part-
 time and flexible working, on caring or other grounds, are always considered. Members of the
 School have supported EDI more widely through trades union activity (the UCU branch president
 and equalities officer 2015-19 are both members of the School). Contributions included helping
 the University to update its Disability policy, initiating and hosting a series of events on race in
 HE and implementing routine scrutiny of protected characteristics in the promotions procedure.
 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Income

 External Funding. Forms of external funding applied for and secured align with our strategic
 aims to produce exceptional literary research, and to support collective endeavour within and
 beyond the School. The first aim has been achieved by winning major individual research
 fellowships to initiate or complete large-scale projects. 9 members of the School have won
 fellowships since 2014, funding 14 academic years of research, creating 9 fixed-term posts and
 producing major outputs for this submission:

        •Crawford, Young Eliot (2015)
        •Lodge, Inventing Edward Lear (2018)
        •Rhodes, Common (2018)
        •Paterson, Zonal (2020)
        •Tate, Nineteenth-Century Poetry and the Physical Sciences (2020)

 The Longman Annotated English Poets edition of Byron's Don Juan, funded by a Leverhulme
 major research fellowship, is in advanced stages of preparation. George Berkeley: A
 Philosophical Life, funded by a Leverhulme research fellowship, will be published in April 2021.
 Funding has also supported collaborative research. Sutton won £29,304 (pending confirmation
 of the final year’s award) in Global Challenges Research Funding (ILES, 2.3) to support Sāmoan
 new music and writing (discussed in 4.2 below).



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School has increased its rate of application for funding from just over half a million £s in
 2015–16 to just over a million £s in both 2018–19 and 2019–20. Colleagues applying for grants
 draw on the advice and support of the Directors of Research and Impact and other colleagues
 within or across research groups. In 2019 a grant-writing workshop meeting every semester was
 initiated, particularly to support work on collaborative research grants.

 Internal Funding. Increased research allowances for staff have been noted above. The School
 has also won £29,577 from the University’s KE and Impact Fund (ILES, 2.3) to support work on
 Virginia Woolf and Edward Lear and music; the translation of a novel into Farsi; lectures in
 Japan on Bloomsbury; a radio broadcast on Maria Edgeworth; and a podcast on the State of the
 Theory.

 3.2 Infrastructure

 Physical Infrastructure. The School occupies three nineteenth-century townhouses. Academic
 staff have an individual office space or share when part-time or flexible working arrangements
 permit. The School contains four lecture and seminar rooms, one with step-free access, another
 with an adjoining break-out room. These allow us to programme and host research events within
 our own buildings. Our third building is a dedicated postgraduate centre.

 The Byre Theatre is an integral part of the School’s infrastructure (ILES, 4.3). It provides
 facilities for advanced research and teaching in theatre. It houses our two playwrights, and is the
 teaching venue for our PG programmes in Playwriting and Screenwriting. The School is
 represented on the board of the Byre, contributing to discussion of programmes, budgets and
 staffing. Working with the Byre, the School has established the St Andrews Playwriting Award,
 which will bring a new play to full production at the Byre and other venues in Scotland. The
 Award has attracted $30,000 from a private donor. The theatre also provides space for research
 and Impact activities for all colleagues, including Royal Society of Edinburgh-funded workshops
 on the philosophical life, a PGR-organised conference on Ben Jonson, and performances of
 poetry and other creative work on its main stage for the StAnza poetry festival. As the main
 cultural centre in St Andrews, the Byre provides physical infrastructure for deepening
 collaborations with research users, including festival organisers and audiences.

 Library. The School has an annual book budget of £38k and has in recent years successfully
 bid for an additional £67k to enhance research materials (journals, physical and electronic
 archival material, rare books). Research in the School is supported by Special Collections
 holdings. In addition to possessing the archival holdings of a medieval foundation, St Andrews
 was a copyright library 1710–1837. The School actively develops special collections, making
 strategic acquisitions to support interdisciplinary research, such as the purchase of the
 Marchmont Manuscript in 2016 (valuable for research in Older Scots, manuscript studies, legal
 history, late medieval Scottish history), and a copy of Tennyson’s Idylls of the King with
 photographic plates by Julia Margaret Cameron. Publications that have made use of these
 collections include studies of women’s Arthuriana in the nineteenth century and of Byron’s
 letters. Special Collections holds the Douglas Dunn archive and the papers of John Burnside
 and Robert Crawford, demonstrating commitment to the marriage of creative and critical
 research in poetry. Local access to these materials is as important to our research as electronic
 resources. As partners in the Folger Institute Consortium, our researchers additionally have
 access to the research infrastructure of the Folger Shakespeare Library in Washington, including
 its collections and seminar series.

 Research Support. We realised a long-held strategic goal with the appointment in 2014 of a
 dedicated Computing Officer (Sansom) who has been key to making our research available to
 more people and in a greater variety of forms (https://www.st-andrews.ac.uk/english/research/).
 Sansom also offers technical support for everyday research computing needs. The University
 provides research computing support for larger projects (PGR student Malgrati’s website on Joe
 Corrie is an example of this work: https://arts.st-andrews.ac.uk/joe-corrie/).


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Intellectual breadth and collegiality are our most treasured assets. It is the explicit ethos of the
 School that all members with a significant responsibility for research participate equally in
 teaching and administrative work regardless of grade. This ethos is supported by a detailed
 workload model, shared openly with the School every year. Colleagues are trusted to pursue the
 most intellectually urgent research, and are not required to adapt their scholarship to priorities
 set by the School or any external bodies. We cherish what might, in a more directive culture,
 appear peripheral or untimely. Our reward has been to expand the boundaries of the discipline.
 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base,
 economy and society
 The School’s research outputs develop from a range of academic partnerships and
 collaborations. In this section, we give an overview of these collaborations (4.1) and then show
 how they move outwards, transmitting our critical and creative energies to the wider social
 sphere. Our research partners and audiences see the contribution that our work makes to social
 wellbeing, by broadening and deepening understanding of cultures and how they represent
 themselves. This activity serves the sustainability of the discipline: new students, new funders,
 new audiences and new research collaborators are identified, and new research relationships
 built (4.2). The micro case studies below demonstrate this pattern, as, for example, in the
 generation of new audiences and collaborators for critical and creative work in Iran and Japan
 through Sellers’s activity.

 4.1. Research collaborations, networks, and partnerships

 The School’s collaborative and networking activity demonstrates our breadth of chronological
 and methodological engagement, ranging from an investigation of Anglo-Saxon ideas of the
 Pope to the cultural history of partitions. Members of the School led 11 networks and
 collaborations, including those funded by UKIERI (Narratives of Migration and Exchange), the
 RSE (Loch Computer; the Philosophical Life), and European Cooperation in Science and
 Technology (COST). They initiated centres and networks that bring together Scottish universities
 such as the Scottish Centre for Victorian and Neo-Victorian Studies. Colleagues participated in a
 further 17 research networks, including networks funded by the British Academy (Seventeenth-
 Century Fiction: Text and Transmission); the Carnegie Trust (Literature and Union); and the
 AHRC (Land Lines: British Nature Writing 1789-2014). Colleagues have participated in
 translation workshops in the Czech Republic, Germany, and Slovakia. Members of the School
 have served as a Trustee of The Scottish Centre of Tagore Studies; the European Treasurer of
 the Early Book Society; the Secretary of the British Association of Contemporary Literary Studies
 (Harris-Birtill, a PGR student); and the President of the Classical Association. They have taken
 up visiting professorships at Liverpool Hope and the University of Grenada. 13 members of the
 School have given 27 plenary or keynote lectures across the world. These include Johnson, ‘The
 Middle English Meditationes vitae Christi: Corpus or Repertoire?’, Sorbonne/Institut de
 recherche et d’histoire des textes (2015); Crawford, ‘Life, Writing’, Norwegian Academy of
 Science and Letters conference on ‘The Future of Literary Studies’ (2016); Connolly, keynote
 address at the 35th Anniversary Japan Society of Medieval English Studies conference, Tokyo
 (2019); Plain, ‘“A difficult sort of world”: Remaking Men in the Postwar’, University of Mississippi
 (2015); Sellers, 2nd International Conference on English Language and Literature for South-East
 Asia, Bangkok, Thailand (2017).

 Members of the School sit on the editorial boards of 14 journals, with particular concentrations in
 crime fiction, medieval studies, Romanticism and Scottish studies. Two of the General Editors of
 The Mediaeval Journal are based in the School (Connolly and Johnson). Two members of the
 School have served as General Editor for Special Issues at Forum for Modern Language
 Studies, a journal owned by the University Court of St Andrews, and managed by an editorial
 board drawing on expertise in English and the Modern Languages. Through a profit-share
 mechanism with OUP, the School is able to fund PGT scholarships through this work (10 since
 2015). Members of the school peer-review for FMLS and for 53 other journals, including long-
 standing serials such as Review of English Studies and newer entrants such as

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Victoriographies. We peer-review for journals based in North America and Europe, and journals
 focusing on South Asia. Colleagues peer-review for interdisciplinary journals that reflect
 research themes in the School: in war and literature/culture, music and literature, medieval
 studies, early-modern studies, nineteenth-century studies, gender studies, and also in
 environmental humanities, literature and science, oral history, and political thought.

 Members of the School provide leadership in the field as general editors of major book series
 and editorial projects: Connolly of Universitätsverlag Winter’s Middle English Texts; C. Jones of
 Boydell & Brewer’s Medievalism; Plain of CUP’s British Literature in Transition 1900–2000 and
 Cambridge Themes in British Literature and Culture, and of EUP’s Critical Studies in War and
 Culture; Rhodes of the MHRA Tudor and Stuart Translations; Sellers of the CUP edition of the
 works of Virginia Woolf; Stabler of the Longman Annotated English Poets edition of Byron.
 Colleagues make a particularly significant contribution on the editorial boards of book series
 across medieval studies, from Brepols’ New Communities of Interpretation (Johnson) to the
 Iberian Books of Chivalry in English Translation series (Davis).

 Our expertise is widely sought by other universities, funding agencies, and scholarly publishers.
 Colleagues have reviewed book manuscripts for university presses across the UK and in North
 America, including extensively for CUP, EUP and OUP, and for academic publishers unattached
 to universities (Bloomsbury, Boydell and Brewer, Broadview, Lexington Books, Palgrave, Pluto
 Press, Routledge, Rowman and Littlefield). Members of the School have reviewed for national
 research funders in Canada, Croatia, Éire, Germany and Switzerland and for the British
 Academy, the British Council, the Carnegie Trust, and Leverhulme Trust. Crawford and Roe
 have taken on panel and section leadership roles for the British Academy and Royal Society of
 Edinburgh. Colleagues have judged prizes for poetry, essays, books, editions and research aids
 in the UK and abroad, including the Vereniging van Oudgermanisten prize for best thesis on Old
 Germanic Studies in the Netherlands and Belgium; the Katherine Mansfield Essay Prize; the
 Poetry Society’s Next Generation Poets competition.

 4.2. Moving Outwards

 The School of English communicates its research to the wider public in ways that inspire
 independent creative activities. This outward movement is driven by individual scholarly interests
 and supported by a range of University and external resources (ILES, 2.8). For the purposes of
 this document, we highlight four areas that exemplify contact in the School between core
 intellectual imperatives, different patterns of research funding and institutional organisation, and
 communities beyond academia.

                            i. Language: Community and Transmission

 The story of English studies cannot be one of English and England alone. St Andrews is poised
 between different political communities (Scottish, British and Irish, and European) and language
 groups (English, Scots, and Gaelic—among others). Translation forms a significant element of
 our creative writers’ work, while scholarly investigation of the movement of ideas and stories
 between linguistic communities has inspired these notable external collaborations:

        •Collaboration with European partners in response to an international initiative for
        scientific cooperation is seen in Johnson’s roles as Financial Rapporteur, Management
        Committee Member, and Working Group Co-ordinator for the COST-Action New
        Communities of Interpretation: Contexts, Strategies and Processes of Religious
        Transformation in Late Medieval and Early Modern Europe (2013-17). This established a
        focus of expertise for the study of religious culture in late medieval and early modern
        Europe, challenging the binary oppositions between learned (Latin) and unlearned
        (vernacular) language. Funded by EU European Cooperation in Science and
        Technology, the initiative brought together over 300 researchers from 24 countries. Its
        official report judged it highly successful. Resulting publications include 7 edited
        collections and a special issue of English (2018).

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


        •Rhodes’s founding role in a major collaborative venture, the MHRA Tudor and Stuart
        Translations project, formed an element of the School’s REF2014 environment
        statement. It has now published 15 titles, with another 18 forthcoming, including major
        editions of translations of Christine de Pizan, Boccaccio, and Erasmus.

        •In March 2021 St Andrews will host the Folger Institute symposium ‘Reading Scotland
        Before 1707’. The School is one of only two non-North American members of the institute
        of advanced study attached to the Folger Shakespeare Library in Washington DC. Led
        by Connolly, ‘Reading Scotland’ is a unique event, representing the Folger ‘on tour’
        beyond the United States. It was competitively selected from a number of proposals and
        will provide the impetus for rethinking Scotland’s literary culture before the Act of Union.

        •Mackay’s An Leabhar Liath: 500 Years of Gaelic Love and Transgressive Poetry (2016)
        offers a landmark reappraisal of the Gaelic literary tradition. It was the basis of a BBC
        Radio 3 ‘Sunday Feature’, and was repeated in part on ‘Woman’s Hour’ (both 2016), and
        led to an invitation to ‘The Verb’ (BBC Radio 3). That programme also led to music
        events at the Isle of Skye festival SEALL and the Belladrum Festival, Inverness, in
        August 2017. The book won the Saltire Scottish Research Book of the Year, and the
        Donald Meek Prize for best Gaelic book of the year. Mackay is also co-editor of 100
        Favourite Gaelic Poems, launched on National Poetry Day, 1 October 2020. Following
        conversations between Mackay, his co-editor and BBC producers, BBC Radio nan
        Gàidheal programmed a month of activities (‘Mìos nam Bàrdachd’ / ‘The Month of
        Poetry’) trailing the launch. Mackay was a mentor on the Gaelic Critics Scheme funded
        by Creative Scotland (March-August 2020), and led workshops at a Gaelic Poetry retreat
        at Moniack Mhor (funded by Bòrd na Gàidhlig and Creative Scotland). He has
        collaborated with the Welsh poet laureate Ifor ap Gwyn and the Irish poet Ciara Ní É on 9
        video poems, developed from workshops and readings at Poetry Ireland (Dublin), the
        Cultúrlann (Belfast), and the Cúirt Festival in Galway (online in 2020). His latest book,
        Nàdar de, has been shortlisted for the inaugural Derick Thompson award for Gaelic
        poetry.

                                   ii. Gender: Women’s Writing

 Over the last 25 years the School has led in the field of women’s writing through scholarship,
 and through teaching, supervising and mentoring students from PGT through to post-doctoral
 level and their own publication and teaching careers. Creative work complements these
 scholarly activities. Harris’s work on reimagining female characters for the contemporary stage is
 detailed in her ICS. Here we highlight two instances in which research into the history of
 women’s writing has generated significant economic and social benefits through collaboration
 with publishers, non-academic societies, and journalistic and broadcast outlets:

        •Manly’s research for her forthcoming life of Maria Edgeworth produced contacts with the
        Edgeworth Society in Edgeworthstown in June 2016, resulting in numerous
        collaborations and public engagements. She gave a public lecture at the 2017
        Edgeworthstown Literary Festival. On 25 April 2018, the Irish Independent (estimated
        readership of 523,700 per day) published a supplement, ‘Cultural Longford’, which
        included a double-spread article by Manly about Edgeworth’s life. In December 2018,
        she curated an exhibition of Edgeworth’s letters at the National Library of Ireland. In
        2018-19, Manly devised, wrote, and presented a one-hour radio documentary, broadcast
        on the Irish station RTÉ Lyric FM in their ‘Sunday Feature’ slot at 6pm on 19 May 2019.
        Lodge was a co-writer; Claire Cunningham (Rockfinch Ltd) edited and produced the
        programme. Lyric FM estimates an audience of 20,000 live listeners, and another 40,000
        online after broadcast.




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        •Sellers’ 2014 ICS ‘Vanessa and Virginia’ (featured in Nature, ‘The Leading Edge of
        Impact’, March 2015), continues to produce Impact marrying creative and scholarly
        activity. The source of Impact is a novel published in 2008 by an independent Scottish
        publisher and now translated into 14 languages. The American paperback was editor’s
        choice in The New York Times Book Review. Adapted as a stage-play, it toured
        throughout the UK and to France, Germany, and Poland. Following the Japanese
        translation in 2017, Sellers undertook a fully-funded lecture tour of Japan in Autumn
        2018. During her visit to Tsuru University, Yamanashi, students performed an abridged
        version of the play adaptation and prepared their own translation. Roshangaran, Iran’s
        only feminist publishing house, recipient of a PEN International prize in the United States
        and the Pandora prize in the UK for its courageous and important publishing, released
        the Farsi translation in 2019. Sellers’s work brought economic support to the publisher
        when many Iranian presses are closing due to censorship and rising costs, winning
        funding of £2,700 to subsidise the first 1,000 copies of the book and £1,250 for the
        Iranian translator. Sellers has continued to receive invitations to speak, write, and
        broadcast. In January 2015 she gave a creative writing masterclass at Presidency
        University, Kolkata as part of a UKIERI-funded visit. In summer 2015 a keynote lecture in
        Bangkok led to the Thai translation. In the UK, invitations to speak have ranged from
        public lectures such as the 2017 Virginia Woolf Birthday Lecture and multiple conference
        keynotes, to school talks, continuing education outreach activities and literary festivals.
        Sellers was interviewed by the BBC World Service on 2 April 2016 (75th anniversary of
        Woolf’s death), and by BBC Radio 3’s ‘The Verb’ on 3 July 2015 (‘Virginia Woolf and the
        Sea’). There have been follow-on academic outputs and publications orientated towards
        a general audience (e.g. the ‘Introduction’ to the Collector’s Library edition of Virginia
        Woolf’s Orlando, 2017).

                                   iii. History: Literature and War

 The School has a research focus on war and conflict that involves innovative cross-period
 approaches, interdisciplinary collaboration, and engagements with digital humanities and oral
 history. This work is directed towards public conversations addressing the legacies of historic
 wars and conflicts.

        •Crawford’s book Bannockburns focuses on the relationship between literature and
        Scottish national identity, moving between medieval warfare and its modern legacies.
        Two School colloquia complemented this work: Plain’s ‘Bannockburn 1914’ and Mackay
        and Lynch’s ‘(Un)Civil Wars’. Plain is also the founder and listowner of the network for
        the study of war and representation, War-Net.

        •Treen is producing (with Dr Jill Caddell, University of Kent) a comprehensive open
        access resource on American Civil War monuments, accompanied by
        interpretative/contextual essays. It currently incorporates some 200 entries. Academics,
        early career researchers, and graduate students from the US and UK have written
        essays for the site. Treen collaborates with Dr Alan Miller and a PG student from the
        School of Computer Science at St Andrews on site design. When complete, the resource
        will be a focus for an UG module in Computer Science and used for UG teaching in
        English. The site was the focus of a panel at the Civil War Caucus of the Midwest MLA
        (November 2019), and an article by Treen for Apollo International Art Magazine (2020).

        •Raychaudhuri’s work on the partition of India-Pakistan is brought together in his book
        Narrating South Asian Partition (2019), which combines extensive research in oral history
        (165 interviews with survivors of partition), and analysis of works of literature, film, and
        the visual arts. It underpinned events marking the 70th anniversary of partition, including
        ‘Research Live!’ at St Andrews in 2015, and a creative response with artist Adrienne
        Salgado at the ‘Being Human Festival’ in 2016. ‘Partitioned Memories’ was part of Radio


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        3’s ‘The Essay’, 2016. In 2019 Raychaudhuri received the University’s Public
        Engagement (Individual Achievement) prize for this work.

        •The School’s literary and cultural research is complemented by creative writing that
        generates significant collaboration with artists, composers and theatre companies, and
        produces benefits for wider audiences. Emanuel’s plays The 306 Trilogy (Dawn, Day,
        Dusk) focus on the men executed during the First World War by the British Army for
        military crimes, and on the origins of the Women’s Peace Crusade. They were jointly
        commissioned by the National Theatre of Scotland and 14-18 NOW (the UK arts
        programme for the First World War, used by 35 million people). The plays involved
        collaborations with historian Samuel Tranter (PGR, School of History); a genealogist
        employed by National Theatre of Scotland; and composer Gareth Williams.
        Performances in 2016, 2017 and 2018 coincided with publication of each text by Oberon.
        A total of 6,406 people saw the plays. Dawn premiered at a site-specific location, a barn
        in rural Perthshire; Day toured small-scale venues in Scotland; while Dusk premiered at
        the newly re-opened Perth Theatre. A 2016 BBC1 documentary about the first ten years
        of the National Theatre of Scotland highlighted the trilogy as an example of its
        community-focused ‘theatre without walls’ approach. All three productions were reviewed
        in national newspapers, previewed on BBC radio and extensively discussed on social
        media. The plays fed outreach projects with schools and community groups, including
        poetry, music, embroidery and history-writing workshops, in which 1,196 people
        participated.

                                  iv. Poetics: Word, Music, Image

 Scholarly and creative writing that engages with other forms of artistic making constitutes a
 central strand of the School’s work. Sutton’s work on Virginia Woolf and music, including a
 concert series and new musical commissions, is detailed in her ICS. E. Jones wrote the libretto
 for Ēriks Ešenvalds’ oratorio City Songs. The Roundhouse commissioned Paterson to translate
 Striggio’s libretto for a new version of Monteverdi’s Orfeo. From this class of activities we
 highlight three projects:

        •The Loch Computer collaboration drew on work by Crawford, Lodge, and Mackay,
        among others. Over a two-year period it brought together 20 writers, artists, computer
        scientists, humanities scholars, and digital curators to explore the meaning of
        remoteness and connectedness in the digital age. Funded by a Scottish Government
        Arts & Humanities Research Network Award from the Royal Society of Edinburgh, this
        project crossed boundaries between arts and sciences, scholarship and creative
        practice. The outcomes included: an exhibition of artwork, poetry, and scientific invention
        at the Edinburgh College of Art, March-April 2016; a limited edition set of poems and
        photographs, Loch Computer (2016); an anthology of stories and poems, The Book of
        Iona (2016); a pamphlet, Loch Diànnăo, of classical Chinese poems alongside new Scots
        translations by undergraduates (published by the University of St Andrews in 2016); and
        a website https://lochcomputer.weebly.com/.

        •Sutton’s work on Robert Louis Stevenson, funded by the Carnegie Trust, RSE and
        Huntington Library, led to a 3-year (2018–2021) SFC-GCRF-funded collaboration with
        the National University of Sāmoa and with partners including Polynesian film-makers,
        musicians/composers, creative writers and heritage industries. New work by
        distinguished Polynesian artists forms part of the project, including writing from Sāmoan
        Sia Figiel (Commonwealth Writers’ Prize Winner, 1997) and music by Sāmoan composer
        Igelese Ete (Director, Pasifika Voices Choir; NZ Choir Master for Disney’s Moana and
        Peter Jackson’s Lord of the Rings).

        •Lodge’s groundbreaking study Inventing Edward Lear (2018) discusses Lear’s work as
        a composer in detail for the first time. It led to her producing an 8-concert series on

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        ‘Lear’s Words and Music’. Performances from Edinburgh to Kent raised more than
        £2,500. With broadcaster and pianist David Owen Norris and tenor Mark Wilde, Lodge
        directed recordings of all Lear’s music, now freely available online. Little of this music has
        previously been recorded and almost none of it has been freely available before. Part-
        funded by a 2016 grant from the Russell Trust, the website includes over thirty pieces.
        Lodge and her collaborators continue to give concerts of Lear’s own music, and of music
        responding to Lear that has resulted from Lodge’s research. Lodge organised a major
        exhibition ‘Edward Lear and Thomas Bell: The Nature of Friendship’ at Gilbert White’s
        House, Selborne from May to October 2019. This reproduced Lear’s natural history
        paintings and explored the History of British Quadrupeds and other works on which Bell
        (a zoologist) and Lear collaborated. The exhibition was visited by over 10,000 people,
        including a celebrity visit by David Attenborough. A smaller exhibition mounted at
        Ightham Mote is still in place. Lodge’s research led to Lear’s nonsense botanies being
        incorporated into the Cambridge University Botanical Garden’s new Systematic Garden
        and she presented her research at the festival ‘Sorted! By Science and Art’ in September
        2018, which was attended by over 300 people. In 2019, her research led directly to the
        National Gallery of Ireland acquiring 6 watercolour sketches illustrating Lear’s Irish tour of
        1835. It also led to her proposing, making and presenting (with Nicholas Parsons) a TV
        episode of BBC4’s The Secret Life of Books on Lear, broadcast in 2015 and watched by
        252,000 people. She proposed and will record a one-hour radio documentary on ‘Lear
        and Ireland’ for Lyric FM in 2021 (following COVID-19 delays): episodes typically attract
        an audience of 20,000 live listeners and 40,000 on catch-up. A separate strand of
        Lodge’s work led to a collaboration with epilepsy expert Professor Arjune Sen of Oxford
        University and the charities Young Epilepsy and Epilepsy Scotland. Lodge and Sen use
        Lear as a ‘relatable figure’ to explore the experience of having epilepsy and run
        workshops for children to explore their own neurological diversity creatively. Lodge is
        raising awareness of Lear’s epilepsy via collaboration with Young Epilepsy, a Wellcome
        Trust grant bid, and a short film made with children with epilepsy.

 These case studies are intended to give a sense of the range of activities within the School. We
 write books and essays, but we are also involved in workshops, readings, exhibitions, concerts,
 and podcasts. Members of the School have not just contributed to but also (and more unusually)
 written, produced, and anchored full-length feature shows on television and radio in the UK and
 abroad. Many of us are collaborating with artists and musicians to make and perform new work.
 In these ways our research moves outward to benefit society generally. In turn, our discipline
 becomes more sustainable by reaching wider audiences –from Iranian readers of biographical
 fiction, to young naturalists, to enthusiasts of Gaelic song –drawing them into our reflective and
 adaptable, critical and creative practice.

 4.3 External Recognition

 Researchers’ achievements have been recognised through fellowships and memberships of
 learned societies and by prizes. Since 2014 Roe has been elected a Fellow of the British
 Academy, Harris of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, and Connolly of the Society of Antiquaries of
 Scotland. Colleagues have won library and research fellowships at the Harry Ransom Center,
 Huntington Library (3), the Bibliographical Society and the Trinity College Dublin Arts and
 Humanities Research Institute. Rauer’s Old English Martyrology edition won the ISAS Best
 Edition Prize in 2015; her article ‘Mann and Gender in Old English Prose’ was nominated one of
 2018’s ‘world-changing articles in the Social Sciences, Education, Philosophy and Psychology’
 by Springer. In 2015–16, Crawford’s Young Eliot was a book of the year in the Washington Post,
 The Independent, and The Financial Times, and was serialised on BBC Radio 4. Lodge’s
 Inventing Edward Lear was a Choice Outstanding Academic Title, 2019. In 2014 Glaister’s Little
 Egypt won the Jerwood Fiction Uncovered Prize and Burnside’s story collection Something Like
 Happy the Edge Hill Prize. Paterson’s 40 Sonnets won the Whitbread and the Costa prizes,
 2015. Harris-Birtill won the International Society for the Study of Time New Scholar Prize, 2016.
 Emanuel’s radio play Emile Zola: Blood, Sex and Money won the BBC Audio Drama Award for
 Best Adaptation, 2017.

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The research environment of the School of English is underpinned by a democratic ethos that
 does not privilege any research area over another, but gives all colleagues the time and
 resources to develop their own initiatives. The result is work that is extraordinarily diverse; that is
 strong across the board; marked by a notable interdisciplinary and creative emphasis. Our work
 issues into an array of shared experiences ranging from podcasts to concerts, and engages with
 sectors as diverse as heritage, public health, and primary education. Our work enters the public
 sphere, and brings new and different people to our discipline.




                                                                                                Page 19
