Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 St George’s, University of London
 Unit of Assessment:
 2 Public Health, Health Services and Primary Care
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Unit Context and Structure
This submission presents research activity in public health, primary care and health services
research at St George’s, University of London (SGUL) based on the Population Health Research
Institute (PHRI), one of three SGUL Research Institutes formed after restructuring in 2013 to
prioritize areas of internationally recognized research strength. PHRI (directed by Professor David
Strachan until 2016 and then by Professor Peter Whincup) was formed from the Population Health
Research Centre (established 2010). It has 46 core staff members, including 19 academic staff
(11 Professors, 2 Readers, 3 Senior Lecturers, 3 Lecturers), 21 research staff (including 6
Postdoctoral Researchers), 4 teaching staff and 2 administrative staff. Academic and research
staff bring both quantitative and qualitative research skills, with special expertise in epidemiology,
medical statistics, public health, primary care, health services research and evaluation, behavioural
medicine, medical sociology and anthropology. Academic staff include 6 clinicians, of whom 2
hold honorary consultant contracts with Public Health England (PHE), 3 are practising General
Practitioners and one holds an honorary clinical consultant.

PHRI research addresses population health aspects of specific conditions (cardiovascular disease,
type 2 diabetes, eye disease, respiratory and allergic diseases, mental illness and their
determinants) and also includes research on life course and environmental epidemiology and on
ethnic health inequalities. This REF2021 submission is based on 19 academic staff (14.67 FTE)
of whom 3 (16%) are at Lecturer grade. This reflects appreciable growth and rejuvenation from
REF2014, when our submission was based on 14 staff (11.57 FTE), of whom only one (7%) was at
Lecturer grade. PHRI academics and researchers work seamlessly within a single coherent
organization emphasizing both disciplinary excellence and multidisciplinary working. PHRI is home
to the Cochrane Airways Group and interfaces with several other organizations including the St
George’s University Hospital NHS Foundation Trust (SGUHFT), the South West London and St
George's (SWLSTG) Mental Health NHS Trust and King’s Health Partners, which led the NIHR
Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care (CLAHRC) South London
(2014-2019), recently renewed as the NIHR Applied Research Collaboration (ARC) South London
(2019-2024).

1.2 Unit Research and Impact Strategy
1.2.1 Overview
SGUL has an established tradition of population-based research, flagged for special mention in
RAE2001 and underpinning strong submissions at RAE2008 and REF2014. Our strategic aim
during 2013-2020, defined at REF2014, has been to build on existing strengths in population-
based research `to carry out population-based research which is intellectually stimulating,
financially sustainable, respected nationally and internationally, and which has a positive impact on
public health policy and/or health care practice’. Considerations influencing UoA2 research
strategy in 2013-2020 have included our established expertise in population-based research, our
size (small compared with many UoA2 units), the characteristics of our local, national and
international study populations (largely urban populations with marked ethnic diversity and
characteristic chronic disease challenges), the increasing availability of large-scale data resources
dovetailing with areas of research interest and the increasing need for applied population health
research into areas including the quantification of disease burdens, risk stratification and chronic
disease prevention. As a small unit, we have maintained a strongly collaborative ethos, using
collaboration to strengthen critical mass, expertise, access to data resources and external scientific
reach. Securing investment in population health research, both in staff (particularly Lecturers) and
in research resources have been important objectives of research strategy, together with


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
strengthening the culture in which research is undertaken. Below, we review the specific
elements of that strategy and its achievements during 2013-2020.
1.2.2 Increasing focus on defined areas of research strength, emphasizing robust research
methodology
We have focused increasingly on specialized research areas, selected on the basis of their fit with
PHRI-based expertise, their importance as public health challenges for local, national and
international populations and their potential for research and policy impact. At REF2014, we noted
particular strengths in chronic disease epidemiology, in life course, environmental, primary care
and genetic epidemiology and in evidence-based healthcare; these have remained at the core of
our research activity. In the SGUL Operational Plan for Research and Enterprise (2019), we
identified specific disease areas (cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes, eye disease, respiratory
and allergic diseases, mental illness) and disease determinants (particularly physical inactivity),
which, together with life course and environmental epidemiology and ethnic health inequalities,
constitute priority research areas. We focused research and research funding bids in these areas
and emphasized the use of robust research methods, particularly natural experiments, randomized
controlled trials, systematic reviews and meta-analysis, providing protected research time and
support for investigators working in these areas. In addition, medical statistics (a key PHRI
discipline, led by Morris) was defined as a cross-cutting theme, strengthening links across SGUL
and with SGUHFT, particularly its newly formed Translational and Clinical Research Institute
(TACRI).
1.2.3 Emphasizing use of large-scale national data resources in research
We have emphasized the use of large-scale, high-value national data resources to complement
research based on primary data collection studies in defined populations. We have prioritized
securing funds both from grant funding bodies and from SGUL to provide access to key large-scale
data sources including the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD), UK Biobank and the
National Child Measurement Programme for England (NCMP).
1.2.4 Strengthening applied health research
There has been a growing recognition of the importance of applied health research in developing,
testing and applying strategies to improve population health. PHRI researchers have strong
expertise relevant to applied health research in areas of chronic disease prevention and mental
health improvement. We have therefore aimed to strengthen our research contributions in applied
population health research.
1.2.5 Maintaining and extending research collaborations
We have aimed to maintain and to enhance local, national and international collaborations, to
extend our research expertise, academic reach and available data resources. Participation in
collaborative research has been facilitated by providing protected time and resources to underpin
collaboration (including underwriting travel costs when required) and improving communication
facilities to enable online collaborator meetings. We have also encouraged Interdisciplinary
research collaborations, with specific support for the development of interdisciplinary pilot projects
from Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Funds.
1.2.6 Investing in population health research
An important priority has been to secure investment in population health research, both from SGUL
and from SGUL’s Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund award, in order to support
staff recruitment and staff development, enhance research momentum and strengthen research
facilities. We have worked closely with SGUL to facilitate new academic appointments, especially
new Lecturer appointments, and to strengthen promotion and career development opportunities, to
reinforce the sustainability of PHRI research disciplines. We have also sought opportunities to
recruit early career researchers through a combination of predoctoral, doctoral and postdoctoral
fellowships.
1.2.7 Strengthening research culture
Strengthening PHRI research culture (including the elements of research integrity, ethics and
governance) has been an important priority, supported by SGUL research and information
governance and the SGUL Ethics and Integrity Office. Regular training on information governance
has been undertaken (completion >90%) and periodic seminars on ethics and research integrity

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
have been provided. With support from both SGUL and PHRI funds, investigators have aimed to
make all peer-reviewed research publications freely available, through a combination of `gold
route’ and `green route’ publication options. Research data sharing is strongly encouraged, with
the support of an SGUL data sharing facility (Figshare); several PHRI investigators have shared
research study data in support of collaborative research projects. Research engagement has
been actively encouraged; several PHRI investigators have contributed to SGUL-wide research
engagement initiatives, particularly SGUL `Spotlight on Science’ public engagement events.

1.3 Unit Achievements
Headline PHRI achievements during the REF period have included the following:-
1.3.1 Successful progression of research projects in all key research areas, with an
emphasis on use of robust research methods
Substantial research initiatives have been initiated or continued during 2013-2020 in all priority
research areas; many studies have used robust research methods, with an increasing emphasis
on natural experiments, randomized controlled trials and systematic reviews with meta-analysis. A
natural experimental design has been used to investigate the influence of the built environment on
physical activity (ENABLE London Study, based on the 2012 Olympic Village site) (Owen,
Rudnicka, Cook, Whincup). Randomized trials have been used to evaluate a range of
interventions designed to increase population physical activity levels in primary care (PACE Trials)
(Harris, Cook, Ussher, Whincup), to reduce the risk of food allergy (EAT Trial) (Perkin), to
increase maternal smoking cessation in pregnancy (Ussher, Harris), to prevent emerging type 2
diabetes risk (Donin) and to examine the role of peer worker support in mental health care
(ENRICH Trial) (Gillard). Systematic reviews by the Cochrane Airways Group have identified
and evaluated effective strategies for asthma treatment and prevention using randomized,
controlled trial evidence (Cates, Fortescue). Systematic reviews have been used to quantify the
health effects of air pollution, using data from large-scale cohort studies and time series studies
(Atkinson, Butland) and have also addressed the health effects of childhood obesity (Owen), the
prevalence, global variation and determinants of eye disease and sight loss, using novel Bayesian
methodology (Rudnicka, Owen, Cook) and the effects of primary care-based interventions on
physical activity (Harris, Cook, Fortescue). Through these and other research initiatives, PHRI
secured an average annual grant income of £1.6m between 2013 and 2020 and its investigators
published 801 papers, of which 84 (11%) were in the top 1% and 213 (27%) were in the top 5% of
citations for their field and year. Many UoA2 research outputs returned at REF2021 are based on
research projects referred to in this section.
1.3.2 Acquiring and using large-scale national research data resources
Successful acquisition of primary care data from the Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD)
with mortality data linkage was supported by SGUL investment (£150,000 between 2016-2019)
and has facilitated innovative and efficient studies addressing key research issues, including the
cardiovascular health effects of bereavement (Carey, Harris, Cook), the burdens of infection in
patients with diabetes (including potential benefits of tight metabolic control) (Critchley, Carey,
Cook), the health effects of air pollution (Atkinson, Butland) and the effect of NHS health checks
for people with learning disability on health and health service use (Carey, Harris, Cook). The
acquisition of UK Biobank data has facilitated studies of the respiratory health of UK adults
(Strachan) and the potential of retinal vascular imaging in prediction of vascular health and
disease (Rudnicka, Owen). Data from NCMP have been analysed to re-evaluate the burdens of
childhood overweight and obesity in ethnic minority population groups (Nightingale, Whincup).
Several REF2021 UoA2 outputs are based on these projects, which provided appreciable research
income; £600,960 for CPRD, £444,735 for UK Biobank and £107,000 for NCMP analyses.
1.3.3 Strengthening applied population health research
Applied population health research in PHRI has been strengthened by active participation in the
new applied research collaborative NIHR CLAHRC South London research programme (2014-
2019), which facilitated new applied health research projects on the assessment of childhood
overweight and obesity (Nightingale, Whincup), the early prevention of type 2 diabetes (Harris,
Owen, Donin, Whincup, Rudnicka), and the management of psychosis (Ussher, Gillard). In
addition, Gillard provided specialist advice on Patient and Public Involvement (PPI) in NIHR
CLAHRC research. Participation in CLAHRC provided £264,000 in direct research income, with a

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
further £295,000 of co-funding raised from other sources. Continuing involvement in the public
health and multimorbidity theme of the successor NIHR Applied Research Collaboration (ARC)
South London is now facilitating further research on type 2 diabetes prevention in 2019-2024,
providing £150,000 in direct research income (Whincup, Donin, Owen, Harris).
1.3.4 Strengthening collaborative and interdisciplinary research
We have strengthened collaborative research during 2013-2020. PHRI became a collaborating
centre in the UK-Medical Research Council (MRC) Centre for Environment and Health in 2014,
joined the NIHR CLAHRC South London (2014-2019) and has been a member of the UK Centre
for Tobacco and Alcohol Studies. PHRI investigators have led and participated in major national
and international collaborations and specific collaborative research projects, addressing the
epidemiology and prevention of respiratory disease (Strachan), the health effects of air pollution
(Atkinson, Butland), smoking cessation during and after pregnancy (Ussher), chronic diseases in
low and middle income countries (Critchley), primary care interventions to increase physical
activity (Harris) and the influence of the built environment on health (Owen). With the arrival of
Morris (2018), a major new research collaboration, EUROlinkCAT, led from PHRI, has brought
together 22 congenital anomaly registries in 14 European countries to study the determinants,
prevention and longer-term outcomes of congenital anomalies. Collaborative interdisciplinary
research initiatives have been established with investigators in other SGUL Research Institutes
(UoA1), bringing together epidemiologists, clinicians and basic scientists to investigate the
prevention and control of asthma in low- and middle-income countries (Perkin working with Cooper
in the Infection and Immunity Research Institute [IIRI]) and the control of sexually transmitted
infections (Oakeshott working with Sadiq in IIRI). More details of PHRI collaborative research
activities are in Section 4.
1.3.5 Securing new investment in population health research
Support has been obtained both from SGUL and from a Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic
Support Fund award to SGUL (section 3) to create new PHRI posts, including a non-clinical
Lecturer in Medical Statistics and Epidemiology post in 2017 (Nightingale), a new Lecturer in
Evidence-Based Practice in 2019 (Fortescue), a new Senior Lecturer post in Clinical Epidemiology
in 2017 (Perkin) and a new Professorship of Medical Statistics in 2018 (Morris). We have
supported career progression, promoting 9 PHRI academic staff during 2013-2020, which allowed
us to increase the proportion of senior academic posts held by women (section 2.4.1). PHRI has
hosted two competitive NIHR Postdoctoral Research Fellowships, an NIHR Predoctoral Fellowship
and an NIHR In Practice Fellowship in Primary Care, as well as supervising and supporting >10
Academic Clinical Fellows (ACFs) in Primary Care. A well-resourced PHRI personal development
programme has been maintained. In 2015-16 PHRI was allocated funding to refurbish population
health research facilities as part of a university-wide investment programme (£2.25 million). This
provided new high-quality office accommodation, freezer and archiving facilities, with meeting
rooms with online conferencing facilities. The close proximity of these facilities to other SGUL
Research Institutes has simplified cross-disciplinary working.
1.3.6 Achieving recognition for an outstanding PHRI researcher
The outstanding research record of one PHRI investigator (Strachan) led to his inclusion in the
Thomson-Reuter / Clarivate List of Highly Cited Researchers between 2014 and 2018 and in the
top 1% of scientists based on citation metrics reported in PLoS Biology in 2019.

1.4 Facilitating the achievement of impact from research
Our emphasis on important population health challenges in areas of established expertise and
using robust research methods has prioritized research with potential for policy impact. The two
impact cases presented for UoA2 are drawn from distinctive, established PHRI research areas in
environmental epidemiology (Atkinson, `Outdoor air pollution and mortality: systematic reviews
supporting the UK Government Air Quality Strategy’) and the epidemiology of respiratory and
allergic diseases (Perkin, `Early introduction of allergenic foods and the prevention of food allergy
in infancy’). Both cases involved robust research methods, one (Atkinson) using evidence from
systematic review and meta-analytic approaches and the other (Perkin) using a randomized
controlled trial to investigate the timing of allergenic food introduction on the incidence of food
allergy in early childhood. A regular review process within PHRI identified the strategic
importance of these projects for impact prioritization, facilitating financial support for open access

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
publication of key reports, and enabling key investigators to participate in major national and
international conferences and to attend relevant national and international guideline and policy
committees. Investigators were able to draw on the expertise and support of experienced PHRI
investigators, particularly from the Cochrane Airways Group, which has a strong track record in
maximizing research impact, particularly through influencing clinical guidelines (Cates,
Fortescue). Close liaison with the SGUL Communications Directorate has prioritized media
exposure of key project publications. This strategy has yielded both the submitted impact cases
and identified further research activities with emerging impact, including strategies for effective
prevention and treatment of asthma (Cates, Fortescue), rapid automated assessment of sight
threatening diabetic retinopathy using retinal images (Rudnicka, Owen), simple accurate
assessment of body fatness in children of ethnic minority origins (Nightingale, Whincup). These
projects and other emerging research narratives continue to receive priority support to maximize
ongoing research impact.
1.5 Future strategic goals for research and impact
Future strategic goals will be closely aligned with those defined during 2013-2020 and updated in
the SGUL Operational Plan for Research and Enterprise (2019). Building on our successes of
2013-2020, we will continue to develop, fund and conduct innovative and robust research to inform
population health, in focused areas of strength with high potential for impact and policy relevance.
We will aim for a balance of projects using both established large-scale data resources and
primary data collection in observational and interventional studies. Cardiometabolic disease,
respiratory and allergic diseases, life course and environmental epidemiology and health services
research will continue to be important research areas. Within these areas, key research priorities
will include: - (i) improving chronic disease risk prediction; (ii) development and evaluation of novel
strategies for chronic disease prevention across the life course; (iii) development and testing of
strategies for accurate identification and prevention of sight-threatening eye disease, particularly
diabetic retinopathy; (iv) identifying and evaluating strategies for preventing and managing asthma
and food allergy. Membership of NIHR ARC South London will facilitate coproduction of research
through increasing patient and public involvement in research. New collaborations will support our
strategic aims and strengthen research capacity and research culture. We will invest in creating
new Lecturer posts and seek externally funded fellowships at all levels to promote training of the
next generation of population health researchers. We are strongly committed to equitable career
development and a strong, inclusive and open research culture.

 2. People

2.1 Staffing Strategy
The development of SGUL Research Institutes from 2013 has encouraged stronger research
prioritization, with all Research Institute academics encouraged to devote 80% of their time to
research (confirmed in the SGUL Operational Plan for Research and Enterprise in 2019). The
Research Institute structure has provided an effective framework for strategic management and the
support and oversight of staff performance and development. Our staffing strategy has two key
objectives, (i) recruitment and development of early career academic staff, particularly Lecturers
(endorsed in the SGUL Operational Plan) and (ii) the development and progression of established
academic and research staff. Our staffing and staff development strategies are underpinned by
SGUL-wide commitments to equality, diversity and inclusiveness, to the VITAE Concordat to
support the career development of researchers and to the principles of the European HR
Excellence In Research Award (HREIRA).

Since REF2014, we have made new appointments consistent with our strategy, recruiting new
Lecturers in Medical Statistics and Epidemiology (Nightingale) and in Evidence-Based Practice
(Fortescue). In addition, a new Senior Lecturer (subsequently Reader) in Clinical Epidemiology
(Perkin) and a new Professor of Medical Statistics (Morris) have been recruited. Internal
promotions have led to 4 new Professors (Owen, Harris, Rudnicka, Atkinson), 2 new Readers
(Cates, Perkin) and 3 new Senior Lecturers (White, Butland, Carey). Of our 19 category A staff,
17 (89%) are on open contracts and 2 (11%) are employed on contracts of <5 years duration, with
defined pathways to open contracts.

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.2 Staff Development Strategy
Our staff development strategy is underpinned by SGUL core values (commitment, openness,
respect and engagement) and by SGUL commitments to the VITAE Concordat and HREIRA in
underpinning academic and research careers for all staff. Key elements of our staff development
strategy have included:-
2.2.1 Commitment to career planning
We aim to secure longer-term support for promising academic and research staff, where necessary
using bridging support funds provided by PHRI and by SGUL under the control of the Deputy
Principal (Research and Enterprise). Since 2014, these resources have enabled us to provide
short-term continuity for 4 PHRI research staff (all female), who all secured longer-term funding
and continued their research careers within PHRI.
2.2.2 Effective annual personal development review (PDR)
Annual PDRs have occurred in PHRI since 2014, allowing review of academic progress, definition
of goals for the coming year and agreement on personal development needs. The annual PDR
process has been consistently completed by >98% of all PHRI staff, with high levels of satisfaction
reported in periodic staff surveys.
2.2.3 Staff development programme
This programme provides opportunities for all academic and research staff opportunities to attend
training and educational courses (including Masters programmes where appropriate) and
conferences. We have been able to meet all training requests made, providing on average £8,700
annually for staff development support since 2018, mainly to Lecturers and research staff.
Leadership training is also encouraged, both through Aurora (attended by 2 PHRI staff) and other
training schemes. A recently appointed Professor of Primary Care Research (Harris) attended
the International Primary Care Research Leadership Programme (Oxford) with PHRI support and
was subsequently appointed PHRI Deputy Institute Director.
2.2.4 Programme of learning and networking opportunities
Our weekly seminar programme includes both internal and external speakers and provides regular
opportunities for staff to present new research concepts and projects for critical review. This is
complemented by a monthly University Seminar Series (to which PHRI contributes) and an
Institution-wide Research Day each autumn, which provides strong networking opportunities.
2.2.5 PHRI investigator group
Established in 2015, this group includes all PHRI academics and meets regularly to review
opportunities for research funding, strategic investment and collaboration and to identify research
projects with potential to generate research impact. The group offers collaborative support with
preparation of funding applications, particularly for Lecturers. It also reviews succession planning
for key roles within the Institute and identifies opportunities to provide continuity of support for
research staff on short-term contracts.
2.2.6 Support for specific staff groups
All PHRI Lecturers are supported by a PHRI senior academic and have regular progress reviews
with the Deputy Principal (Research and Enterprise) and the Institute Director. They can also
receive coaching through an SGUL-wide mentorship scheme. In addition, SGUL-wide support
groups have been established for Senior Lecturers, Lecturers and Postdoctoral Researchers,
which meet regularly and liaise directly with the Deputy Principal (Research and Enterprise).
Continuing skills development for post-doctoral researchers are provided through Postgraduate
Certificate in Healthcare Research Skills and Methods training, supported by an individual mentor.

2.3 Strategy for Research Students
Opportunities for doctoral research students are provided in PHRI, with 5 internal and 2 external
students registered between 2013-2020. Since 2016, SGUL has participated in the joint UK-MRC
London Intercollegiate Doctoral (LID) Training Partnership with London School of Hygiene and
Tropical Medicine (LSHTM) (£2.0 million during 2016-2021) which funds recruitment of up to 7.5
PhD studentships/year, emphasizing projects analysing large data resources and complex
interventions. Studentships are widely advertised and recruitment carried out using best equality
and diversity practice. In addition, promising PHRI pre-doctoral researchers have been

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
successfully supported to apply for NIHR doctoral training fellowships and PhD studentships.
PHRI doctoral students are actively supported by trained supervisors, with regular scheduled
supervision meetings and a 6-monthly review by the PHRI Postgraduate Co-ordinator. PhD
students attend the mandatory SGUL Graduate School Skills Programme (GSSP), mapped against
the Vitae Researcher Development Framework. This includes modules on good research practice,
research integrity, ethics, time management and public engagement and on core disciplines
(statistics, research methods, project planning and critical appraisal). PHRI PhD students present
their work periodically within PHRI and Fellowship interview practice is offered. A bespoke SGUL-
wide scheme providing an independent mentor is offered to all PhD students. All PHRI doctoral
students registered between 2013-2020 have submitted their theses on time. Two former PHRI
doctoral students were appointed to Lecturer positions in PHRI during the REF period (Donin,
Nightingale), after a period as postdoctoral researchers.

2.4 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
2.4.1 Equality and Diversity practice in PHRI
SGUL is fully committed to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) employment practices, as
emphasized in the SGUL Strategic Plan (2017-2022); these are overseen by the Dean for Equality,
Diversity and Inclusion. SGUL has held an Athena Swan Silver Award since 2018 (achieved by
only 16 other UK universities) and is a Stonewall Diversity Champion and a Disability Confident
Employer. PHRI has made substantial progress in equality (particularly gender equality). The
PHRI Institute Director is a member of the Athena Swan Self-Assessment Team (SAT). The PHRI
Institute Management Team (IMT) is gender balanced and consults widely on decisions. PHRI
has supported EDI principles in the domains of staff recruitment, retention, development and
promotion. EDI considerations are addressed in assessing staff for promotion and defining career
opportunities; practical Institute support is provided for promotion applications. Among PHRI
academic staff, gender balances have changed favourably during 2014-2020. The proportion of
female Professors has increased from 2/6 (33%) to 5/11 (45%) while the proportion of female
Senior Lecturers has increased from 0/3 (0%) to 2/3 (67%) and the proportion of female Lecturers
has risen from 1/2 (50%) to 3/3 (100%). Examples of good EDI practice have included:- (i)
unbiased recruitment practice, based on external advertisement of all substantive roles,
systematically gender-mixed recruitment panels and mandatory training in unconscious bias for all
interviewers, with inclusion of a Diversity Representative interview panel member; (ii) strong
support for flexible employment and working arrangements (including remote working and
implementation of family friendly policies), taken up by 80% of female and 20% of male PHRI staff
pre-COVID); (iii) anticipatory advice and support for staff on short-term contracts, including the use
of PHRI funds (and SGUL bridging funds) to facilitate continuity of employment; (iv) high priority
given to staff development for all staff, coupled with an open and transparent application process
and approval of all requests for support; (v) an inclusive and systematic approach to reviewing
promotion opportunities, aiming to provide equity across gender, ethnicity and other protected
characteristics; (vi) special provision for disabled staff, including flexibility of working arrangements,
parking support and other measures. PHRI aims to facilitate return to work after periods of
absence associated with maternity or parental leave, ill-health or caring; flexible working
arrangements are provided and constructive use of Keeping In Touch (KIT) days during maternity
leave is encouraged. Special support is provided to allow PHRI academic and research staff with
family commitments to attend conferences and academic meetings, providing financial support to
cover carer travel and support costs where needed.
2.4.2 Equality and diversity considerations in construction of the UoA2 REF2021 return
This submission has been prepared in accordance with the SGUL REF2021 Code of Practice. A
panel of internal output assessors was appointed, which all PHRI academic staff were encouraged
to apply to join. All applicants (3 professors, 2 female, both with previous EDI training) were
included and trained in the scoring of scientific quality of research outputs, using criteria based on
REF2021 output quality guidance. Selection of outputs for review was based on papers proposed
by individual staff members (encouraged to provide up to 6 strongest papers for consideration);
any omitted papers with strong citation criteria (top 5% in specific field) were added for
consideration. The highest graded paper for each individual academic was selected, followed by
papers with the highest overall quality ranking, until the appropriate number of papers had been

                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
identified. Academic staff were then consulted about the draft selection and given an opportunity
to propose final amendments for reassessment by the panel. All academic staff were given the
opportunity to put forward a draft research impact case; cases were assessed using criteria based
on REF guidance on impact case quality by the SGUL Research Impact Case Committee.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Unit Income
PHRI research income during 2013-2020 has been raised from a wide range of funding bodies,
including UK-MRC, AMRC medical research charities, the European Union and UK Governmental
agencies, particularly the National Institute of Health Research (NIHR), which accounts for >50%
of total research grant income. We have raised research funds both for primary data collection
projects and also for projects using existing large-scale databases to conduct innovative research.
During 2013-2020, UoA2 grant income was £10.9 million (~£1.6 million/year) from 53 grant awards
to PHRI investigators. Among these, large primary data collection projects included (i) the
ENABLE-London Study (Examining Neighbourhood Activities in Built Living Environments in
London), which used a natural experimental design to investigate the influence of the built
environment on physical activity (Owen, Rudnicka, Cook, Whincup) (£1.4 million); (ii) the PACE
(Pedometer Accelerometer Consultation Evaluation) Trials, examining the effect of pedometer-
feedback interventions on physical activity levels in primary care (Harris, Cook, Ussher,
Whincup) (£1.3 million) and (iii) the ENRICH Trial (Enhanced discharge from inpatient to
community mental health care) which examined the effect of peer support on the experience of
hospital discharge in patients hospitalized for mental illness (Gillard, White)(£936,000). Projects
based on large scale data resources included (i) the EUROlinkCAT Study (Establishing a linked
European cohort of children with congenital anomalies), investigating causes and prevention of
congenital anomalies (Morris) (1.9 million Euros to SGUL, 7.3 million Euros in total), (ii) the
ConcepTION Study, using routine health data to study medication safety in pregnancy and
breastfeeding (Morris) (£300,000), (iii) research using UK Biobank data, investigating the UK
burden of respiratory disease (Strachan) and the potential value of retinal imaging in the prediction
of chronic diseases (Owen, Rudnicka, Strachan, Whincup) (£444,735 combined) and (iv)
research based on CPRD, investigating the health effects of air pollution, burdens of infection
associated with diabetes, the health and health service use of adults with learning disability and
time trends in neuromuscular dystrophies (Atkinson, Carey, Cook, Critchley, Harris) (£600,960
combined). In addition, the NIHR CLAHRC South London funded research on type 2 diabetes
prevention, psychosis management and PPI activity (Whincup, Owen, Donin, Gillard, Ussher,
Harris) (£264,000 from 2014-2019); its successor, NIHR ARC South London (2019-2024) is
providing continuing support for PHRI diabetes prevention research (£150,000). The Wellcome
Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund (award to SGUL (£1.0 million for 2016-2021, extended to
2022 with £200k of additional support) has supported PHRI staff investment, provided protected
academic sessions for clinicians and funded pilot projects.

3.2 Unit Research Facilities
In 2016, PHRI acquired refurbished accommodation, supported by an SGUL-wide investment
programme (£2.25 million). This provided high quality office accommodation (480m 2) with natural
lighting for all staff members and students. It also included a 100m² air-conditioned freezer storage
area, containing 18 upright and 6 chest freezers. These freezers maintain biological samples from
PHRI field studies and are protected by 2 independent security systems provided by SGUL (one
hardwired, one Wi-Fi based). PHRI also has exclusive use of a 40m² storage area (for archiving
and field equipment). High quality meeting and seminar rooms (127m2), including both audio and
video conferencing facilities are also provided. These facilities are available to all staff and
students to use, and currently meet all storage and archiving needs. The close proximity of the
new accommodation and facilities alongside the other Research Institutes has facilitated the
development of interdisciplinary collaboration. The meeting rooms and conferencing facilities have
enabled the management of major collaborative studies, particularly online Investigator meetings
(e.g. for ENABLE-London and EUROlinkCAT collaborations).



                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3.3 Research Infrastructure
3.3.1 Structures for research support
SGUL research is directed by the Deputy Principal (Research and Enterprise), who chairs
Research Committee, which reports directly to SGUL Executive Committee and SGUL Council.
Research is supported by the Joint Research and Enterprise Service (JRES), whose Director
reports to the Deputy Principal (Research and Enterprise). JRES manages SGUL research grants,
providing high-quality pre-award and post-award support to PHRI investigators. It also oversees
the research governance framework, provides oversight of research and data governance and
compliance with regulatory, legal and contractual commitments.
3.3.2 Information Technology and Library Facilities:
PHRI depends on key institutional infrastructure including Information Technology Services (ITS)
and Library Services (LS). An addition to basic facilities, ITS maintains on-site high-performance
computing (HPC) for academic and research staff and students, consisting of several computing
clusters, used for all forms of predictive modelling, data analysis and simulation. The HPC
currently has 272 cores, 4 GPU nodes with 20000+ GPU cores and 1.5Tb of RAM. A secure Data
Safe Haven (DASH) is provided on the University computing network, which provides a secure
processing area for Personal Identifiable Information conforming to Data Security and Protection
Toolkit (formerly IG Toolkit) / ISO27001 auditing and security requirements. SGUL information
security policies, procedures and standards are compliant with the NHS Data Security and
Protection Toolkit (allowing investigators to access patient data for research from the UK National
Health Service) with Cyber Essentials Plus certification. Literature search services are provided
through the Clinical and Research Enquiry Service (CARES), and training for systematic reviews
provided. The Figshare data-sharing facility allows PHRI investigators to make research data
accessible to other bona-fide research users, regulated by the Research Data Management
Service with the support of the SGUL Research Data Support Manager.
3.3.3 Central Research Resources
Central SGUL research resources support expenditure on major research equipment, provide
bridging support for research staff and support open access publication of key research. The
University Capital Investment fund (£400,000 per annum) has allowed maintenance and upgrading
of the PHRI freezer facility (including the provision of back-up freezers). The SGUL research staff
bridging fund (£70,000/year) under the control of the Deputy Principal (Research and Enterprise)
has enabled us to provide employment continuity for 4 strategically important staff on short term
research funding, who were then able to secure longer-term funding continuity. SGUL funding has
supported Gold Open Access publication for strategically important PHRI research publications
(£65,500 committed between 2013-2020).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Collaborations, networks and partnerships
4.1.1 Collaborations at Institutional Level
Collaboration has been a key element of PHRI research strategy, strengthening critical mass and
expertise, providing access to data resources and increasing scientific reach. Collaboration (local,
national and international) has been actively supported through PHRI workload planning,
protecting investigator time, underwriting travel costs and supporting collaborator meetings. Since
2014, PHRI has been a collaborating centre in the UK MRC Centre for Environment and Health
with Imperial College and King’s College London, investigating air pollution and health (Atkinson,
Anderson, Butland, Strachan, Cook, Whincup) and a participating centre in the NIHR CLAHRC
South London and its replacement, the NIHR ARC South London. Several PHRI investigators were
members of specific CLAHRC research themes, including diabetes (Whincup, Harris, Owen,
Donin, Rudnicka), psychosis (Gillard, Ussher) and public and patient involvement (Gillard).
PHRI has been a member of the Department of Health UK Centre for Tobacco and Alcohol
Studies, including its Senior Management Group (Ussher) and is a partner in the joint UK MRC
London Intercollegiate Doctoral (LID) Training Partnership with LSHTM (2016-2021) (Strachan,
Morris, Critchley). PHRI investigators have collaborated with local NHS Trusts, including the St
George’s University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (with which SGUL shares a campus) and with

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
SWLSTG Mental Health NHS Trust. Important PHRI research collaborations in which SGUL
investigators have played key leadership roles (2013-2020) are summarized below.
4.1.2 Collaborations on cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes in low and middle
income countries
With colleagues in Qatar, Critchley has jointly led collaborative research investigating the
emerging type 2 diabetes epidemic in the Middle East and its associations with tuberculosis. She
was co-investigator on a major EU-funded project `Concurrent Tuberculosis and Diabetes Mellitus’
(TANDEM). She is co-investigator on a new European & Developing Countries Clinical Trials
Partnership funded consortium (PROTID 2020-2026), which will conduct the first randomized trial
of preventive treatment for latent tuberculosis in people living with diabetes. Reports from the
collaboration have been published (Clinical Infectious Diseases, WHO Bulletin, Lancet Diabetes
and Endocrinology and Chest).
4.1.3 Collaborations on ophthalmic epidemiology
PHRI investigators (Owen, Rudnicka) have collaborated with colleagues in the Institute of
Ophthalmology, UCL and with Moorfields Eye Hospital to investigate retinal architecture and its
associations with later cardiovascular morbidity. Collaboration with the NHS (Homerton
University Hospital, Guy’s and St Thomas NHS Trust have allowed them to investigate the scope
for improvements in the NHS Diabetic Eye Screening Programme.
4.1.4 Collaborations in respiratory disease epidemiology, management and prevention
Strachan led the collaborative Respiratory Health of the Nation project with Imperial College
London, Nottingham and Edinburgh Universities supported by the British Lung Foundation (2014-
15). He has also been co-investigator on collaborative studies of common and rare genetic
variants in respiratory health (PIs Hall and Tobin, Universities of Nottingham and Leicester).
Following his involvement (1990-2012) as a founder member of the International Study of Asthma
and Allergies in Childhood (ISAAC), Strachan has been a Steering Group Member of the Global
Asthma Network (GAN), working to raise the profile of asthma and to promote global access to
essential asthma medications; he co-authored Global Asthma Reports (2014 and 2018). PHRI is
home to the Cochrane Airways Group (Cates, Fortescue) which prioritizes, supports and
conducts collaborative systematic reviews (publishing ~20/year) to underpin the evidence base for
effective treatment for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
4.1.5 Collaborations on the health effects of air pollution
Atkinson and Butland have participated in the international comparative evaluation of Spatio-
Temporal Exposure Assessment Methods for estimating the health effects of air pollution (STEAM)
with King's College London, Imperial College London, the University of Athens, Harvard University
(PI Katsouyanni). Butland is a collaborator in the MELONS Study, investigating the
consequences of measurement error in long-term personal exposure models for air pollution.
Atkinson and Carey have participated in a Europe-wide collaboration, `Effects of Low-Level Air
Pollution: A Study in Europe (ELAPSE)’ funded by the US Health Effects Institute to examine the
health effects of long-term, low level air pollution exposure on health in 22 cohort studies in 11
countries.
4.1.6 Collaborations on congenital anomalies
Morris is PI of the EUROlinkCAT collaboration (2017-2021), based on 22 congenital anomaly
registries in 14 European countries, which is enabling health and educational outcomes of
European children with congenital anomalies to be studied throughout childhood. She also leads
EUROCAT, a network of 39 congenital anomaly registries in 21 European countries and hosted by
the Joint Research Council and is co-investigator on collaborative studies of the determinants and
prevention of congenital anomalies, including ConcepTION and ZIKAPLAN. ConcepTION (PI
Sturkenboom, University of Utrecht, Netherlands) is using routine health data and patient-reported
information to reduce uncertainty about medication safety in pregnancy and breastfeeding, while
ZIKAPLAN (PI Wilder-Smith, University of Umeå, Sweden) is investigating the severity, impact and
preventability of Zika infection.
4.1.7 Collaborations on health and the built environment
The ENABLE-London Study (Owen, Rudnicka, Cook, Whincup) used the transformation of the
2012 Olympic Village to investigate the impact of the built environment on physical activity levels

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and included national and international collaborators at the Universities of Bristol and Glasgow,
and RMIT University, Australia. Key reports have been published in Lancet Public Health and
other journals.
4.1.8 Collaborations on smoking cessation during pregnancy
Ussher led the London Exercise And Pregnant smokers (LEAP) collaborative trial evaluating the
effectiveness of physical activity in smoking cessation (2012-2015) and has collaborated on
several large smoking cessation trials, including a multicentre trial of physical activity assisted
reduction in smoking (TARS), the Cessation in Pregnancy Incentives Trial, Helping Pregnant
Smokers Quit: A Multi-Centre RCT of Electronic Cigarette and Nicotine Patches and BabyBreathe,
an NIHR-funded trial supporting mothers to remain smoke-free postpartum.
4.1.9 Collaborations on interventions to increase physical activity
Harris led 2 collaborative trials (PACE-UP and PACE-LIFT) investigating strategies for increasing
physical activity levels in adults in primary care. These trials involved both national and
international collaborators (University of Oslo, Norway); reports were published in PLoS Medicine
and other journals.
4.1.10 Collaborations on ethnicity and child obesity
Nightingale and Whincup led a collaborative research project on overweight-obesity in children of
different ethnic backgrounds, establishing a collaborative data resource based on all published UK
studies with deuterium dilution assessments. This was used to develop ethnic-specific BMI
adjustments and prediction modelling for assessing body fatness in children of different ethnic
origins (published in BMJ and IJO). Whincup is also co-investigator on the Born in Bradford Birth
Cohort Study.

4.2 Evidence of how staff interacted with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences
to develop research impact
PHRI investigators have worked closely with research users and beneficiaries to maximize
research impact. Atkinson (Impact Case `Outdoor Air Pollution….’) served on Department of
Health Advisory Committees on air pollution and health, notably the Committee on the Health
Effects of Air Pollution (COMEAP) and its subgroup on the Quantification of Air Pollution Risks
(QUARK). His involvement provided timely evidence on the adverse health consequences of
outdoor nitrogen dioxide exposure to inform government policy on exposure reduction strategies.
In addition, Atkinson has also been an independent reviewer of the US Health Effects Institute air
pollution research programme (2016-2020) and consultant to the World Health Organization.
Perkin (Impact Case `Early introduction.…’) disseminated the Enquiring about Tolerance (EAT)
Trial results at major international scientific meetings in the UK, Europe, Australia and Japan,
leading to new infant feeding guidelines in the UK and other countries; he was a member of the
British Society of Allergy and Clinical Immunology Guideline Group which developed, published
and disseminated new UK infant feeding guidelines influenced by the EAT Trial. Cates and
Fortescue (Cochrane Airways Group) have provided best evidence on effective treatment and
care for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and have developed strong
relationships with research users, including people living with respiratory disease and their carers,
healthcare providers and clinical guideline producers. The Cochrane Airways Group is
represented on the British Thoracic Society Guideline Group and the Scottish Intercollegiate
Guideline Network (SIGN). The Group works closely with the National Institute for Health and
Care Excellence (NICE) and has influenced many national and international guidelines, recently on
vitamin D in the management of asthma and on the effectiveness of combination therapy and
antibiotic treatment for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. It maintains a strong social media
network presence (>5000 followers) which inform priority setting for the Group, ensuring that
reviews address areas of concern for patients and carers. Morris is a member of the MHRA
Commission Expert Working Group on optimizing data on medicine use during pregnancy and a
member of the National Congenital Anomaly and Rare Disease Registration Service Expert
Scientific and Clinical Advisory Panel and has been a member of key expert scientific committees
on congenital anomaly prevention, including a European Medicines Agency report on ‘Long-Term
Effects of Medicines taken before, during pregnancy and breastfeeding’. Critchley was scientific
adviser to a joint World Health Organization-International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung
Disease initiative on the public health response to combined epidemics of tuberculosis and type 2

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
diabetes and co-wrote their joint report with the World Diabetes Foundation ‘Management of
Diabetes Mellitus-Tuberculosis. A Guide to Essential Practice’. Strachan was an editorial team
member for the Global Asthma Network and lead author of 2 chapters in Global Asthma Reports
(2014 and 2018).

4.3 Wider contributions to the economy and society, including evidence of the wider
activities and impact of research
Research by Harris and Ussher on increasing physical activity levels in adults have featured in an
NIHR review of effective physical activity interventions and been included in the Royal College of
General Practitioners’ online physical activity and lifestyle toolkit and on the Moving Medicine
website (www.movingmedicine.ac.uk) for health practitioners. Research by Rudnicka and Owen
on the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of automated retinal image processing in in patients with
diabetes has led to collaboration with PHE, the UK National Screening Committee and the NHS on
the implementation of automatic retinal image processing in the National Diabetic Eye Screening
Programme (DESP). Nightingale and Whincup have developed novel methods for accurately
identifying overweight-obesity in children of ethnic minority origins and have worked with local
authorities in South and East London to develop best practice strategies for the assessment of
overweight-obesity in these children.

4.4 How the Unit engages with diverse communities and publics through its research
PHRI research has provided opportunities for engagement with diverse research populations,
including East Village residents (formerly the 2012 Olympic Village) in East London (Owen,
Rudnicka), South London primary school children (Donin, Whincup, Nightingale), pregnant
women smokers in South London (Ussher), adult participants in physical activity trials in London
and Oxfordshire (Harris) and people with learning disability and their carers in South London
(Carey), the last highlighted by NIHR Involve as a model of PPI practice in research. Participant
and public involvement with these study populations has included involvement in study aims and
design, discussion on the experience of participation, sharing of study results and discussion of
their implications. The results of the Test-n-Treat trial in ethnically diverse teenagers (Oakeshott)
had important implications for sex education provision for young people and was highlighted by the
London Impact Initiative. An evaluation of the detection of sight-threatening diabetic eye disease
included ethnically diverse East London populations (Rudnicka, Owen). Many PHRI investigators
(Strachan, Perkin, Atkinson, Harris, Owen, Ussher) have participated in SGUL `Spotlight on
Science’ events, which have high levels of engagement with the London public and are supported
by SGUL with Wellcome Trust funding.

4.5 Evidence of the Unit’s contribution to discipline sustainability
PHRI staffing strategy has focussed strongly on longer-term career development for PHRI staff.
Most current PHRI Professors (7/11) started their research careers in junior roles at SGUL,
suggesting that SGUL-based career development provided has contributed substantially to staffing
sustainability in population health research disciplines. During 2013-2020, PHRI investigators
have undertaken activities sustaining core population health research disciplines, participating as
supervisors in the joint UK MRC London Intercollegiate Doctoral (LID) Training Partnership with
LSHTM as well as supervising predoctoral fellows, PhD students, postdoctoral researchers and
research fellows. Many PHRI academics have examined PhD theses (>20 theses examined).
Strachan is an appraiser for public health clinical academics with honorary PHE contracts. PHRI
primary care academics (Harris, Oakeshott) have trained >10 NIHR and Health Education
England Academic Clinical Fellows (ACFs) in Primary Care, providing academic supervision,
career development advice, research project support, and supporting NIHR In Practice Fellowship
applications. They also regularly organize the annual regional Society of Academic Primary Care
(SAPC) conference, which academic primary care trainees attend. Critchley has provided
teaching on epidemiology and population health for the ‘People’s University’ in low- and middle-
income countries. Morris and Critchley have hosted visiting Erasmus scholars from universities
in Germany and Turkey.




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.6 Wider Roles Undertaken by Unit Members
Ussher was Senior Editor for the journal Addiction (2009-2020) and Morris is a Board Member for
the Journal of Medical Screening (2018-2021). Strachan was UK Biobank Outcomes Advisory
Group member (2012-2017). Rudnicka and Owen have been founder members of the UK
Biobank Eye and Vision Consortium since 2012 and Owen has been a member of the UK Biobank
Physical Activity Working Group since 2014. Carey was a scientific member of the Independent
Scientific Advisory Committee on MHRA database research (2017-2020). Recent funding panel
memberships have included the NIHR Public Health Research Programme (Owen, 2015-2020),
the UK Prevention Research Programme Expert Review Group (Owen, 2017-2020), NIHR HTA
Primary Care and Community Preventive Interventions Panel (Harris, 2015-2019) and NIHR RfPB
panel (Oakeshott, 2015-2017). PHRI investigators have been members of >20 Trial and
Programme grant Steering Committees for trials addressing food allergy prevention (Strachan),
food provision in secondary schools (Owen), obesity prevention (Harris, Whincup), smoking
cessation interventions (Ussher), safe sex among teenagers (Oakeshott) health behaviours
(White), physical activity promotion (Harris) and several trials of eczema prevention and treatment
(Perkin). Strachan is a Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences and was a highly cited
researcher (top 1%) in the Clarivate Analytics ranking for 2014-2018. Rudnicka was awarded the
Arthur Bennett Prize of the College of Optometrists for eye disease research (2017) and is the
most highly cited UK optometric researcher (2020). Oakeshott was awarded the British Medical
Association TP Gunton Prize (2017). The UK Faculty of Public Health Sam Ramaiah Prize (for
research into the health of ethnic minority populations) was awarded to Hudda (PhD student
supervised by Nightingale and Whincup). PHRI investigators have organized and chaired
conference sessions at the Society for Academic Primary Care (Harris, Oakeshott), the European
network for congenital anomaly surveillance (EUROCAT) (Morris) and NIH/NIAID meetings on
‘Tuberculosis and Diabetes’ (Rockville, Maryland 2016) (Critchley). Invited keynote lectures have
been delivered at the SAPC 2017 (Harris), the European Society for Research on Nicotine and
Tobacco 2016 (Ussher) and the International Congress on Endocrinology 2018 (Critchley).
Perkin gave keynote lectures at scientific conferences of the Australian Society of Clinical
Immunology and Allergy (2016), the Japanese Society of Pediatric Allergy and Clinical Immunology
(2019), the European Academy of Allergy and Clinical Immunology (2019) and the British Society
for Allergy & Clinical Immunology (Harry Morrow Brown Lecture 2020). Many PHRI investigators
have reviewed grant applications for a wide range of funding organizations (e.g. UK-MRC, NIHR,
Wellcome Trust, BHF, Diabetes UK) and reports for medical journals, including NEJM, Lancet,
BMJ and PLoS Medicine.




                                                                                          Page 13
