Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Northampton

 Unit of Assessment: Public Health, Health Services and Primary Care (UoA2)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context and structure

 Sustaining high quality research with significant national and international impacts is a key aim for
 Health staff. Major research specialisms relate to Health Research Across the Life-course and
 Dementia. Health Research Across the Life-course incorporates risk and early diagnosis, for
 example early diagnosis of childhood illness, and educational interventions in Public Health,
 including perceptions of cancer risk and associated interventions. Our Dementia research
 focusses on early diagnostic criteria, young people with dementia, evidence-based practice of
 community post-diagnostic support groups for people with dementia and caregivers. Our research
 is underpinned by values and commitment to ensuring that ‘voices’ of lesser heard groups are
 central to the health/social care research and service-delivery.

 This is the first time that the University has submitted to UoA2, reflecting significant strategic
 investment to Health-related research and associated outcomes. In REF2014, our Health research
 was situated within a cross-university research institute. Following a University restructure, this
 institute was migrated into a dedicated Faculty Research Team, who also oversee the Faculty
 management of research degree students, ensuring they are embedded into our research
 activities. This restructuring has been a positive one for Health, resulting in a more coherent
 research environment and strategic vision.

 Four new Research Centres were established within the Faculty covering a diverse number of
 specialisms, reflecting the research expertise and interests of Faculty staff. Research for Health
 is driven through two of these centres, the Northampton Dementia Research and Innovation
 Centre (NDRIC, led by Parkes) and the Centre for Health Sciences and Services (CHSS, led by
 Ward). Both have a strong focus on inter-disciplinary work, collaborating extensively with
 colleagues across the University in other research centres such as The Centre for Physical Activity
 and Life Sciences (PALS), and the Centre for Educational Research (CER).

 NDRIC’s key focus is to create and develop partnerships with all stakeholders actively engaged
 in the dementia sphere such as people with dementia and carers, health and social care providers,
 voluntary organisations and students. This includes designing, developing and researching
 contemporary, community-based early interventions looking at economy, efficiency and
 participant satisfaction that then act as a blue-print for similar community-based interventions
 nationally. Strong links have been developed with similar academic and care organisations
 internationally, primarily in Denmark and Norway, and active international research projects are
 informing practice, particularly in educational activities for people with dementia.

 The CHSS builds on established local, national and international partnerships delivering
 interdisciplinary, collaborative, high quality health-related research to advanced knowledge
 designed to improve the health of the population. This includes research on educational
 programmes to promote early intervention in breast and gynaecological cancer, cancer risk
 information in general practice, epidemiological research on the relationship between radon
 exposure and multiple sclerosis, parental decision-making prior to admission to hospital with sick
 children, and end-of-life beliefs and practices in Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME)
 communities.

 1.2 Unit research and impact strategy

 There is considerable evidence of positive step changes in health research culture, strategy,
 capacity, funding and impact. Staff range in expertise and experience, spanning from senior
 professorial colleagues, to (predominantly) early/mid-career researchers (ECRs and MCRs), who

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 are new to research and Post Graduate Research (PGR) students. From 2014 we have cultivated
 a strong research culture within Health. This is shown through the development of t research
 centres as noted above. Since their inception, we have demonstrated achievements against the
 objectives as set out in NDRIC (2017-2020) and CHSS (2018-2021) Operational Plans and the
 University Strategic ‘Social Impact’ Plan (2015-2020). Our overall strategic aims for this period
 were to support research active academics, to further develop research collaboration, and
 enhance publication activity.

 1. To support research active academics, with a particular focus on ECR development

 Focused investment in researcher development since 2014 has been extensive. The Faculty has
 supported 11 staff within Health to complete their doctorates during the REF period, at a cost of
 GBP147,840. Their programmes of study have been built into Personal Development Review
 (PDR) objectives and subsequently tailored support has been made available as part of our
 development programme for their continued progression towards becoming independent
 researchers. These staff will be supported to progress their research careers through the
 Researcher Development Plan, outlined in section 2.1.

 ECRs have been supported in particular through pump-priming with seed-corn funding being
 made available for projects to support individuals or groups to undertake small research projects,
 developing concepts and building evidence to support future larger grants and outputs. An
 example includes a project to explore the use of drama and arts practice with people with younger
 onset dementia, this enabled an evidence base to show a limited engagement with this cohort in
 drama practice and associated researcher in this field. This has led to a new partnership with
 Derby University and the development of a bid to fund a joint research project.

 An institutional commitment to invest in ‘Teaching & Research’ (T&R) contracts has provided all
 colleagues with additional time allocated to research and scholarship activities. The
 multidisciplinary Faculty structure provides a strong, consolidated infrastructure for our peer
 review process, research support, governance, impact enhancement and public engagement. As
 part of our move to the new Waterside campus, academic workspaces were built to facilitate
 collegiate dialogue and Faculty research and enterprise planning has significantly increased
 opportunities for interdisciplinary research discussions, project development, and researcher
 development.

 2. Grow capacity through the development of international networks and collaborations

 International travel to develop networking and dissemination is encouraged and supported. Staff
 regularly present at local, national and international conferences and their research has benefitted
 from the award of international fellowships (e.g. Ward via Winston Churchill Travelling Fellowship,
 Neill via Florence Nightingale Foundation, Baross Wellcome Trust Summer Vacation Scholarship
 (on two occasions)), travel grants (e.g. Campbell and Ward via Santander Staff Research Award)
 and Erasmus+ mobility grants (e.g. Campbell, Parkes, Pyer and Ward). Where necessary these
 have been part funded by the Faculty.

 Staff have international national and local partnerships and are integral members of strategic and
 professional bodies, including membership of INTERDEM (a European multi-professional group
 of dementia researchers: Parkes and Ward), Regional Advisory Board Chair of the East Midlands
 Research Design Service (Campbell), Deputy Chair of the Young Dementia Network Research
 Workstream (Parkes), UK Research Collaborative Committee for the International Family Nursing
 Association (Redwood). Staff have developed local partnerships through active engagement on
 boards and committees, for example, they contribute to five Special Research and Innovation
 Groups (SpRInGs) established by Northamptonshire Healthcare Foundation Trust (NHFT),
 represent the University on local Research Ethics Boards (for example at Kettering General
 Hospital, and for the Health Research Authority), and lead the Northamptonshire Dementia Action
 Forum. They also deliver research training and support for Northampton General Hospital’s


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Director of Nursing Research Fellowships. We work closely alongside the County’s Health and
 Wellbeing Board which has our Vice Chancellor as its Chair.

 We collaborate with multidisciplinary colleagues at other HEIs and multi-professional practitioners
 in diverse regional, national and global contexts. Staff development and research seed corn
 funding has enabled colleagues to extend – and particularly internationalise – our networks of
 research collaborators and beneficiaries. All the major research funding successes e.g. from EU
 Erasmus+, Cancer Research UK, Santander, National Institute of Health Research, Alzheimer’s
 Society, Health Education England Thames Valley, NHS England and Motor Neuron Disease
 Association, have arisen from this support for colleagues’ work to develop leadership and co-
 investigator roles within diverse, international, interdisciplinary networks.

 3. Enhance the publication activity arising from health-related research

 Our outputs regularly impact on practice, e.g. interventions with parents about when to take unwell
 children to hospital (PI Neill), interventions to alert women to the signs of gynaecological and
 breast cancers (PI Campbell, Co-I Pyer) and a walk-in chest X-ray service for people with a
 persistent cough (PI Campbell, Co-I Pyer). Our interdisciplinary, participatory Cyber Safe
 Generation: Digital Education by Design (CyGen) research with children and educators identified
 a range of ways that families, schools and practitioners in health and social care can support
 children to remain safe and well, whilst also observing the benefits of using the online world (Co-I
 Pyer). Funded by Erasmus+ (EUR266,652), it was circulated as a best practice case study,
 illustrating the quality and impact of our interdisciplinary approach. A research team comprising
 staff from the UoN (Campbell and Ward), University of Cambridge and the National Institutes of
 Health (NIH) in the US has just produced a UK-specific tool for the identification of cancer risk
 perception which will enable further public health research relating to the prevention of common
 cancers.


 1.3 Future research aims and objectives

 The strategic ambitions for research mesh with the wider Faculty of Health, Education & Society’s
 (FHES) strategic vision to enable ‘impactful research and enterprise to advance excellence in
 health, education, social care and social sciences locally, nationally and internationally’. An
 extensive consultative process with colleagues and external stakeholders has shaped the Faculty
 strategy in relation to research environment and identified four priority areas:

    1. Community building and inclusion, in support of ambitious institutional targets for
       interdisciplinary research bidding and outputs, and equalities and inclusion;
    2. Strategic partnerships, supporting colleagues to extending national and international
       networks of external collaborators and develop new opportunities for social impact, user-
       involvement and public engagement around research activities;
    3. Assuring quality, constituting supportive processes to enable colleagues to enhance
       quality of research outputs, bids, environments and impacts;
    4. Researcher development, sustaining a rich, responsive offer of development opportunities,
       activities and events for researchers at all career stages.

 Activities over the next five years will align with a detailed Faculty implementation plan focused on
 these areas and supported by four colleagues appointed to specialist cross-Faculty roles mapped
 to these areas. Existing research partnerships (for example the extension of our Memoranda of
 Cooperation with our local NHS partners) will be reviewed to establish further joint working
 opportunities, alongside the identification of additional Visiting Professors and Fellows to further
 support the development of our research expertise.

 1.4 Impact



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Impact from research undertaken can be demonstrated in a number of ways. For example, our
 research into dementia (explored in our impact case study Improving Social Cohesion), research
 on dementia training (Health Education England Thames Valley funded GBP500,000 multi-
 university research and the Angela Project (Co-I Parkes)), has developed a national Good
 Practice Guide distributed via the Young Dementia Network. At a local level, our researchers have
 used their findings to design and deliver ongoing support groups for people with dementia and
 their families. The Forget Me Nots group was set up in 2013 (Co-PI Parkes and Ward) to provide
 a normalised social engagement for people with dementia and their families, while the UnityDEM
 group (2018-2020) provided formal support and cognitive training for people with dementia and a
 support programme for family carers (PI Parkes; GBP70,000 funded by Changemaker and
 Advancement Funding at UoN and GBP36,000 from innovation funding). UnityDem’s model has
 underpinned NHFT’s plans for future dementia care delivery across the county. Annual Memory
 Days (2016-current) have also been established and provide advice and signposting on issues
 relating to memory and dementia.

 1.5 Open access

 In addition to receiving training and support in open access and copyright, staff are trained in
 research data management paying particular attention to the preservation and reproducibility of
 research. Datasets are now required to be uploaded to the University’s CRIS (Current Research
 Information System) on submission, enabling checking for replicability and long-term digital
 preservation. Staff adhere to the FAIR (findable, accessible, interoperable and reasonable)
 sharing of data, striving to be as open as possible, but understanding when restrictions are
 required.

 Staff have been trained in the selection of the most appropriate places for publication and use
 tools such as Sherpa/Romeo to check funder copyright requirements. Where possible staff make
 workshops and key presentations available as open educational resources. The University of
 Northampton has an institutional fund to cover the cost of open access where the green route is
 either not available, or the length of the embargo period is prohibitive. Staff are trained and adhere
 to University level policies in relation to open access, and this is enhanced through regular
 discussion at Faculty level, hosted by our Faculty Research and Enterprise Committee, which
 oversees the application of research policy and procedure.

 1.6 Supporting a culture of research integrity

 All research activity is underpinned by values of integrity, ethical practice, and professional
 requirement. This is core to our values, meeting the needs of staff, research participants and
 collaborators, and the participants and stakeholders to our projects. Staff and students are trained
 by central University teams to ensure that they are aware of the legal obligations relating to their
 research related activity. All research projects obtain approval from a UoN’s Research Ethics
 Committee (REC) and – where relevant - from the Health Research Authority (HRA) Ethics
 Committee. Staff involved in research with the NHS are obliged to hold a Good Clinical Practice
 certificate before recruiting participants for studies and have Honorary Research Contracts with
 the NHS Trusts involved. The Faculty research team and Human resources support these
 processes.

 Staff members actively engage with the development of University policies and procedures,
 ensuring that they reflect the requirements of researchers working in Health and related
 disciplines. Pyer participated in extensive cross-university strategic discussions regarding revised
 ethical policies. As Faculty Research Ethics Committee (REC) Chairs, Ward and Pyer work
 closely with the University’s Data Protection Officer and University Research Ethics Committee
 Chair to ensure policies and templates, in relation to research, are compliant with relevant data
 processing legislation and Health Research Authority requirements. Pyer and Ward have also
 developed a modular training programme for REC reviewers, completion of which is mandatory
 when joining the committee to ensure that values of quality, consistency, constructiveness,

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 proportionality and timeliness are understood and adhered to. They are also supported to engage
 with collegial ethical discussions at research centre meetings, and through the Faculty Research
 and Enterprise Committee.

 Staff regularly deliver teaching sessions to undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in
 Health with a focus on research ethics and integrity. The Health REC has an open-door policy for
 questions and queries and staff and students are supported through bespoke advice and
 guidance. In addition, staff actively engage as reviewers of applications (Campbell, Redwood,
 Spencer, Parkes, Pyer, Ward and Neill). A member of our doctoral alumni manages research at
 a local NHS Trust, and provides annual updates to Health researchers regarding their obligations
 in line with HRA requirements.

 Students enrolled on the Doctor of Professional Practice in Health and Social Care programme
 (DProfPrac) are expected to maintain the highest standards of ethics and integrity. This begins
 with a programme of induction focusing on ethics and integrity which are then fed through into
 each of their research modules. This ensures that their experiences map to a typical PGR
 students, involving an assessment within the first two years of the programme, including the
 completion of mandatory research integrity and research ethics courses hosted by Epigeum.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and development

 Research expertise and a good record of research outputs have been a key requirement in person
 specifications for all Health roles. However, candidates’ experience of professional and clinical
 roles has often (and necessarily, given the strong development of taught undergraduate and
 postgraduate provision in Health at the University) taken primacy during recruitment. The
 distinctive needs of our staff and strategic investment has been made in academic research skills-
 development and capacity-building. We have invested resources into supporting staff to study for
 PhD or a Professional Doctorate including payment of fees, study leave and a flexible approach
 to timetabling to allow engagement with their research studies. Three have successfully completed
 their doctorate during the REF period (Ward, Spencer and Ryan). ECRs and MCRs have been
 given opportunities to move into strategic roles, for example acting as leaders/ theme leaders
 within Faculty research centres (e.g. Ward as centre lead of CHSS from 2019). Staff have also
 progressed in their careers, with Parkes being promoted to a Professor, Neill and Redwood
 becoming Associate Professors, Pyer and Ward promoted to Senior Researchers, and Spencer
 joined the institution as a PhD student and successfully obtained a substantive academic post
 after her successful completion. We feel that these continuing links with those who have previously
 completed our programmes significantly enhances the experience of ongoing students, and our
 alumni are key assets to enhancing our research agenda.

 Researcher development is principally managed and audited through the University’s PDR
 process. Individual objectives and key performance indicators are agreed annually with line
 managers and appraised after six and twelve months. Within Health, a suite of research
 objectives have been developed to support engagement of staff at all stages of their research
 career, whilst also supporting line managers in their roles. All colleagues on T&R contracts have
 research-focused objectives via their PDR and a wider goal of supporting more teaching-focused
 colleagues to become research active. Through the PDR, individual research training needs are
 identified and plans made for dedicated ‘research and scholarly activity’ hours. The Faculty
 Research Leader and central research team are also responsible for mentoring colleagues at all
 career stages. The Research Leader meets with all new appointments in Health as part of their
 induction to signpost Research Centre themes, make connections to those with shared interests,
 and set research-related milestones for the probationary period and beyond. Our research
 Centres provide a focus, network and support structure for all research active staff, PGRs, and
 colleagues seeking to develop research skills within Health.



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Researcher Development Plan (RDP) for Health aligns to the VITAE Researcher
 Development Concordat, offering set standards of support for research career development,
 linked with reciprocal expectations. The purpose of the RDP is to assist staff in delivering against
 key research metrics, in relation to scholarly outputs, PGR enrolments and research income. It
 also enables us to develop our future research capacity and underpin our innovation activity. The
 RDP is available to all staff, PGRs and student alumni across the Faculty, as well as external
 stakeholders, strengthening our research culture and environment. There are more than 20 core
 focused workshops run on a range of topics to suit each of the different stages of career that we
 have within the unit (e.g. planning impact into your research, publishing in academic journals,
 navigating the peer review system, accessing National Institute for Health Research (NIHR)
 funding, and understanding statistics).

 The RDP offers a range of community-based activities offering support to staff (with a focus on
 ECRs), PGRs and PGR alumni at any stage of their research career, including:

    1. Research newsletter: including articles on current/ completed research, submitted bids,
       and best practice examples embedding research into practice.
    2. Research centre engagement and open days: To support staff and PGRs to align
       themselves to a research centre, open days/ informal meetings are regularly held with
       Centre leads.
    3. Mentoring: A mentoring scheme is available to staff. Selection of a mentor is undertaken
       on a case-by-case basis based on the objectives of the mentoring relationship which are
       defined at the outset with the individual seeking mentorship.
    4. Each Research Centre produces their own programme of research-related activities, of
       research seminars and networking events: research centres host a researcher
       development programme which combines workshops focussing on skills, alongside
       seminars on current or completed projects. This includes the externally facing Café
       Scientifique events and internal Lunch and Learn seminar series.
    5. For those new to research: Open evenings focussing on research degree study are hosted
       regularly to act as an information point.

 Subject groups are actively encouraged to include research and enterprise engagement of staff
 and students in all planning activities. Finally, a dedicated virtual learning environment has been
 created with up-to-date information about research processes/procedures to ensure all staff have
 easy access to information to support their research and enterprise activities.

 We encourage staff to participate in cross-university supervision teams, strengthening networking
 and interdisciplinary working across the institution. Health staff are required to complete the
 Research Degrees Supervision programme, with eight having completed or working towards a full
 postgraduate certificate. All staff involved in recruiting to Research Degree programmes have
 undergone University Equality and Diversity training.

 2.2 Postgraduate research students

 In the current REF period 28 Health PGRs have completed level 8 study, which includes those
 pursuing the traditional PhD route and the Doctor of Professional Practice (DProfPrac). Our PGR
 programme recruit two cohorts per year (March/October), whilst our DProfPrac recruits
 approximately every 18 months. The timings of these recruitment cycles ensure that we have the
 staffing and supervisor capacity to provide an excellent student experience which was reflected in
 our recent Postgraduate Research Experience Survey results. Our DProfPrac has recruited four
 student cohorts (18 completions and 20 ongoing students to date). Students of the programme
 are all senior health and social care professionals.

 Student support and monitoring structures are designed to offer potential applicants relevant and
 timely support from enquiry to post-graduation. We strive to strike a balance between ensuring
 students are adequately supported, whilst enabling them to develop their academic independence
 and confidence. Open evenings are offered at pre-application stage, hosted by Pyer and

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Campbell, offering an overview of programmes, enabling applicants to hear the experiences of
 former and current students. The marketing of our PGR programmes is diverse in its approach. It
 has been integrated with other Health postgraduate marketing. This has offered greater reach to
 a wider range of potential applicants. All potential applicants to Health PGR programmes are
 offered sessions with the admissions tutor (Pyer) at their initial contact. These meetings enable
 tailored advice to be given in relation to support needs, previous experience and qualifications,
 and expectations/potential barriers to study. Interviews for PGR programmes are held flexibly in
 terms of timing and mode of attendance.

 Upon entry PGRs are aligned to the relevant research centre depending on specialism. Most of
 our PGR students are studying part time so we work towards delivering centre activities flexibly.
 Café Scientifique, for example, is delivered in the evening. Based on feedback form our DProfPrac
 students, we run facilitated module days on different days of the week each time, ensuring that
 where one student has, for example, a regular clinic, they are not disadvantaged in terms of their
 learning.

 Pyer (as PGR Leader for Health and Society subject areas), instigated a new process of
 monitoring of PGR supervisions. A review of supervision meeting reports is completed three times
 per year and check-in emails sent to supervisors and students who have not logged the required
 frequency of meetings. This approach has received positive feedback from across the University.
 This process ensures regular contact is made with students and supervisory teams throughout the
 academic year by someone independent of supervisory teams, enabling support to be put in place
 in good time should any challenges have arisen. This approach compliments the regular review
 of student progress completed by our subject specific Research Degree Boards. Subsequently
 our approach has been adopted across the University as best practice. Students at the modular
 stage of our DProfPrac award are allocated a Personal Academic Tutor who offers regular pastoral
 check-ins throughout the first two years of their study, working with candidates to further ensure
 an excellent student experience, and signposting them to additional University support where
 necessary, for example the University’s Additional Student Support and Inclusion Services Team
 (ASSIST) team, our academic librarians and our counselling service.

 Within Health, alumni from our research degree programmes regularly engage in Faculty bidding
 activities and offer guest teaching on development sessions or on the DProfPrac modules. They
 participate in the mentoring of current students and one DProfPrac alumni has held an extended
 contract at UoN including leading modules on the programme.

 PGR’s satisfaction with our extensive support programme can be seen with the University ranking
 1st in the 2020 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey, up 3 places from 4th in 2018. In the
 2019/20 PRES results, 91% of students taking the survey were satisfied with their research degree
 experience. At a subject level this is further reflected with 83% of Health PGRs being satisfied with
 their course compared to the 81% national average.

 2.3 Equality and diversity

 There is a strong tradition of critical and inclusive practice within Health. Opportunities to engage
 in research are openly shared through communications across the Faculty and through the
 research centres. Regular consultations invite all staff to share their views on strategic and
 procedural research related issues. One example of this is a consultation undertaken by CHSS to
 review its aims. All staff across Health were invited to a participatory session to explore strengths
 of CHSS and ways to support the Centre’s growth and development. Despite the diversity of roles
 in terms of participants of the consultation (academic and administrative, as well as researchers
 at a range of different stages of their career), there was a great deal of agreement regarding vision
 and approach that the Centre should take.

 The appointment of Research Centre Leads follows a transparent selection process and is
 reviewed on a three-yearly basis (unless significant external or internal events require a more
 frequent review). This ensures a continuing fresh approach to how research and enterprise is

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developed within the Faculty, and the widening of opportunities for new and developing members
 of staff. Applicants to Centre Lead posts are normally expected to be Professors, Associate
 Professors or Readers, supporting the provision of a career path for more senior or experienced
 members of staff.

 Both research centres have a strong ethos of public and patient involvement (PPI), delivering
 research in partnership with people. CHSS has PPI representation on their membership and
 projects teams are strongly encouraged to access support for projects though the Health PPI
 Forum run centrally by the Faculty. PPI forum members are regularly involved in the development
 and delivery of research, with one member currently undertaking a doctorate to explore
 involvement in primary care, and one member developing a research project to explore the impact
 of culture on mental health care in the BAME community. To ensure PPI is embedded in our
 work, dedicated training has been developed (Parkes, 2013) for face to face and online delivery
 (Parkes, 2019). This training has been made available and adapted for individual project PPI
 teams (for example Sixsmith and Ward) and has been embedded within nursing curriculum.

 In addition, many colleagues participate in a growing number of colleague-led institutional support
 and advocacy groups such as the BAME Staff Network, LGBTQ+ group and Staff Disability
 Network. Colleagues have also benefited from the University’s Navigator (men and
 transmasculine) and ‘Springboard+’ (women, trans and non-binary) staff development programme
 for colleagues in academic or professional services roles which provides an opportunity for staff
 to undertake personal and professional development and support for leadership, goal-setting and
 strategic visioning skills. Staff have also benefitted from the University’s leadership programmes,
 including ‘The Changemaker Fellowship Programme’, providing a year-long leadership training
 alongside volunteering activity to support and build inclusive and caring communities.

 Additional support is offered to our PGR students through the ASSIST team. PGR supervisors are
 regularly updated about the support that ASSIST offers and are well-placed to ensure students
 are made aware of these. The PGR leader for Health also actively engages in discussions with
 students and ASSIST team members where support is required, offering a form of advocacy in
 sharing the needs of research degree students. The Nursing subject team have a strong strategic
 partnership with Mental Health First Aid (MHFA) England, and train both students and staff across
 the University, feeding into our organisational Wellbeing Community. Our full course has been
 delivered to over 120 staff, and 1,000 students across the institution, including PGRs. Research
 staff (Ryan and Ward) are integral members of the University’s Wellbeing Community, which
 develops and promotes initiatives that support staff and student wellbeing. Research underpins
 this work, through evidence bases and evaluation of projects.

 Staff benefit from University-wide support for their needs through, for example, our Employee
 Assist scheme. Within Health specifically, staff are also supported through the Faculty
 administration team, with reasonable adjustments made to support their work, for example: though
 the provision of lumbar support chairs, transcription software, and screen adjusters allowing them
 to engage in research activity productively.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income




                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Over the REF period GBP1,034,696 of external funding has been awarded to Health. This is a
 significant amount taking into consideration the number of ECRs. Colleagues have been
 successful as Principal- and Co-Investigators on a wide range of large-scale, externally funded,
 collaborative research projects. Areas where we have been particularly successful are through
 international partnerships which have led to successful funding through the Erasmus+ funded
 international project CyGen (Pyer), the establishment of a dementia lifelong learning collaboration
 with Denmark and Norway (Parkes and Ward), the development of balance board early
 identification of dementia with Italy and Australia (Campbell), exploration of childhood illness in
 Sweden and Finland (Neill), and isometric resistance training and the effects on resting and
 ambulatory blood pressure with Canada (Baross).

 Centre and individual objectives have specifically focused upon extending research networks, with
 success evidenced through joint projects with other universities, businesses and the voluntary
 sector. The Dementia Academic Action Group (Parkes and Ward) was a collaboration with the
 Universities of West London, Oxford Brookes and Bedfordshire to develop, deliver and research
 dementia awareness training for health and social care professionals, and the Angela Project
 (Parkes) which was a joint collaboration with the Universities of Bradford, Northampton, Surrey
 and University College London, and in partnership with Dementia UK and YoungDementia UK, to
 look at post-diagnostic support for people living with young onset dementia. Other examples are:
 work in cancer risk identification with University of Cambridge and National Institutes of Health
 (USA) (Campbell), and research to develop resources to help families with young children
 understand signs and symptoms of acute illness in collaboration with University College London,
 University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust, University of Oxford, Whittington Health and
 University of Cambridge (Neill). We have been successful in tendering for substantive research
 and consultancy projects from diverse national and international funders including: Erasmus+,
 Wellcome Trust, Cancer Research UK, Alzheimer’s Society, Motor Neurons Disease Association,
 Rennie Grove Hospice Care, WellChild and Health Education England Thames Valley.

 We want to celebrate the funding successes that have come from ECRs bidding for the first time.
 These are often smaller scale projects supporting local health care service providers and the
 voluntary sector, providing our expertise to support evaluation of health and wellbeing initiatives,
 for example: exploring the wellbeing impact of dance for older people with the Elders Dance
 Company (Spencer); diabetes training evaluation (Ward); developing, piloting and evaluating a
 universal assessment tool for use from pregnancy to 2.5 years of age (Redwood, Spencer and
 Neill). In addition, where independent researchers are bidding for funding, opportunities are
 inclusively communicated for ECRs and PGRs to join proposed project teams to enhance their
 research portfolio. Examples of these include Ryan’s bid to Wellcome Trust and Parkes KTP bid
 to explore the use of digital cognitive assessment and training for people with mild cognitive
 impairment.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 The University relocated to its new purpose-built Waterside campus in 2018. This
 GBP330,000,000 investment in infrastructure and facilities have put us at the cutting edge of what
 campuses can offer researchers. Previously each specialisation had their own area which were
 segregated from each other. Colleagues now work within new flexible academic workspaces,
 which are purpose-built to foster collegiate dialogue and community-building within the
 multidisciplinary FHES. Already there is evidence of dialogue, bid-development and strategic
 collaborations, for example collaboration with Biosciences staff gives us access to specialist tissue
 culture, molecular biology, microbiology and biomechanics laboratories. We also have shared use
 of laboratories in the Institute for Creative Leather Technologies which includes an advanced
 imaging suite containing fluorescent and electron microscopes. For more clinically oriented
 research, the University runs its own podiatry clinic and has simulation suites for nursing, midwifery
 and paramedics, including an ambulance. Other equipment available to staff is a BTE Eccentron,
 AMTI Force Platform, Monarch Arm Crank Ergometer, and an age simulation suit for simulating
 experiences associated with frailty. This suit was donated to the Faculty by Health Education


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Thames Valley after the successful completion of the Dementia Academic Action Group (DAAG
 project, 2016), to support ongoing dementia awareness training.

 We have had use of equipment external to the university such as Campbell’s use of the University
 of Genoa and its University Hospital (L’Ospidale St Martino)’s clinical neurophysiology facilities to
 record nociceptive evoked potentials (EPs) from patients with pain-related neurological disorders.
 This work is being extended using the University of Northampton’s exercise laboratory to enable
 the identification of balance mechanism changes in ageing and cognitive decline.

 Health staff are supported by consolidated and interdisciplinary Faculty infrastructure for
 researcher development and research support, peer review, governance, integrity, impact
 enhancement and public engagement, enabling scaled-up strategic support for researcher
 development. We have a dedicated research administrator to support staff on all research
 projects and Faculty accountant to support with proposal development and monitoring successful
 projects. Further support is available via the NIHR Research Development Service (RDS) who
 offer annual funding support sessions as part of our researcher development programme. One
 staff member was seconded to the regional RDS (Campbell), and now liaises as the Chair of the
 Regional Advisory Board and Member of the RDS Expert Panel, enabling close partnership
 working. Research funding and project development is also supported through connections with
 research groups, such as the NHFT SpRInGs.

 Impact and research focussed training and development opportunities have been delivered
 through Centre meetings, with invited speakers from across the University. For example, our
 Research Impact Officer has co-facilitated centre meetings. Our DProfPrac programme Research
 Leadership module includes a range of sessions by invited speakers who discuss case studies of
 research impact and host critical discussions on this topic in relationship to research leadership
 theory and practice.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The unit has contributed to the vitality and sustainability of the Health discipline by forming
 collaborations with multidisciplinary colleagues at other HEIs and multiprofessional practitioners
 in diverse regional, national and global contexts. This has allowed us to sustain the research
 activities and income highlighted in sections 1.1 and 3.1. Our research directly contributes to
 national and international priorities, for example by responding to the Prime Minister’s Challenge
 on Dementia (2015-2020), cancer screening and early diagnosis, and children’s health and
 wellbeing.

 A key objective in this period has been to extend – and particularly internationalise – our networks
 of research collaborators and beneficiaries. This can be seen in our major research funding
 successes, arising from careful, sustained work by colleagues to develop leadership and co-
 investigator roles within diverse, international, and interdisciplinary networks. Staff have a wide
 range of collaborations with HEIs that underpin our research and enhance our outputs and impact.
 Campbell has active partnerships with the University of Genoa (Italy - nociceptive evoked
 potentials; balance and cognitive decline), University of the Sunshine Coast (Australia - analysis
 of balance data), La Trobe University, Melbourne (Australia - falls in older people), Cambridge
 University (cancer risk perception), Manchester University (cancer risk prediction) and King’s
 College Hospital (arterial stiffness and kidney damage). Parkes works closely with colleagues
 from University of Malta, Radbound University Medical Centre, Maastricht University
 (Netherlands), University College London, Surrey University, Bradford University on the Angela
 project to explore diagnosis criteria in young onset dementia; Leicester University, and Worcester
 University on the development of meeting centres to support members of the community with
 dementia. Pyer works with VIA University College (Denmark), UC Leuven Limburg (Belgium) and
 Huddersfield University, in addition to a consortium of primary schools in participating countries
 (children’s wellbeing and safety online), and Derby University (Pre-nursing care experience).
 Ward has a partnership with University College Northern Denmark (Denmark) and University of
 Adger (Norway) to develop and research lifelong learning for people with dementia. Barros

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborates with the University of Windsor (Canada) and Greenwich University (Isometric
 Resistance Training and Blood Pressure). Ryan partners with members of the Musculo-Skeletal
 and Sports Medicine Research Centre at Manchester Metropolitan University and Liverpool John
 Moores University (relationship between sedentary behaviour, physical activity and cardiovascular
 markers in older adult population). Redwood is a member of the transforming motherhood project
 with Queensland University of Technology and Office of Health Ombudsman (Australia).

 Alongside partnerships with HEIs we have substantial links with external third sector, charitable
 and private health organisations. We work alongside NHS trusts (Ward and Ryan),
 Northamptonshire Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust (Ward and Parkes), Health Education
 England Thames Valley (Parkes and Ward), Leicester and Northampton Clinical Commissioning
 Groups (Parkes), Northants County Council (Campbell and Pyer, and local mental health
 charities (Campbell and Pyer). We partner with health stakeholders as seen with Ryan’s
 partnership with the BUPA Retirement Village, Parkes links with the Leicester Dementia Action
 Alliance, Northampton Dementia Action Forum, National Young Dementia Network and National
 Meeting Centre Support Programmes Reference Group. Staff have also worked with national
 charities such as the Motor Neurone Disease Association (Campbell and Pyer) and Alzheimer’s
 Society (Parkes and Campbell) and industrial partners such as Reproductive Sciences
 (Campbell).

 Staff engage with diverse communities throughout their research planning, implementation,
 dissemination and impact activities. This is evidenced through PPI representation on projects such
 as Angela with young onset dementia and CyGen with young children. This agenda has been
 furthered using innovative and creative research methods that have been designed to be inclusive
 and enable lesser heard voices to engage in research (Ward, Pyer, Spencer, Neill, Sixsmith).
 Our PPI work is embedded through the close working relationships we have built with the Faculty
 PPI Forum: members attend Centre meetings, undertake research, and support strategy
 development. Staff also work closely with local organisations to develop an evidence base that
 support their future funding and delivery (e.g. Spencer’s work with Elders Dance Company
 evaluating an intervention to keep older people moving; Pyer and Ward’s work with Silhouette
 Youth Theatre Company exploring youth theatre’s impact on wellbeing aspirations of young
 people). The applied research that we conduct has led to the creation of a number of public facing
 services and groups, based on the needs that our projects identify. This includes our annual
 Memory Days, Forget Me Nots social group for people with dementia and their caregivers and
 University wellbeing days for staff and students.

 Staff have taken on wider roles contributing to the sustainability and vitality of the discipline.
 Parkes was invited to be the Chair of the Dementia Academic Action Group from 2014-16; a role
 which attracted additional funding. She was also invited to represent the nursing community on
 the Royal College of Psychiatrists review of Young Onset Dementia in Mental Health Services in
 2018. Redwood is a forum member for the Royal College of Nursing’s Children and Young people.
 Campbell has been a member of numerous grant awarding bodies such as NIHR, Nuffield
 Foundation, Dunhill Medical Trust, College of Occupational Therapists and Scottish Executive
 Health Department. Campbell is also a reviewer for the NICE guideline department. Campbell is
 both a chartered statistician (Royal Statistical Society) and chartered Physicist (Institute of
 Physics). Parkes has been on the editorial board of the International Journal of Community, Work
 and Family. She has also been a reviewer for the Alzheimer’s Society Grant Awarding Programme;
 the NIHR HS&DR and RfPB programmes. She is also an External Reviewer for the MSc in Aging
 and Dementia, University of Malta; and an invited editorial member for the International Institute
 of Aging Journal, Malta. Campbell is a member of the statistical review panel for The Lancet and
 associated journals and on the international advisory board for The Foot (International Journal of
 Foot Science). Pyer is an editorial board member for the International Journal of Therapy and
 Rehabilitation, has reviewed for funding bodies such as the Big Lottery, and has acted as expert
 reviewer for a rapid evidence review on Motability, Disability and Transport for NatCen Social
 Research. We have also won a fellowship over the period with Ward (2015) being awarded a
 Winston Churchill Memorial Travelling Fellowship.


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff have also held invited speaker and keynote positions at prestigious conferences such as
 Parkes to the Solicitors for the Elderly National Conference (2017), the Young Dementia Network
 Research Network Event (2019) and the UCL Young Dementia Conference (2019), Sixsmith to
 the Third International Summer School on Ageing in Santiago (2016) and invited speaker to the
 69th Annual Scientific Meeting of the Gerontological Society of America (2016), Neill at the Building
 Children’s Nursing for Africa Conference Foundations of Evidence (2015), and Ward was invited
 speaker at the Caritas Social Action Network Aging in an Inclusive Society seminar (2016).




                                                                                              Page 12
