Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 University of Nottingham
 Unit of Assessment:
 UoA2: Public Health, Health Services and Primary Care
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 The strategic aim and priority of the Public Health, Health Services and Primary Care unit in the
 current REF period has been the generation and growth of a dynamic, sustainable and
 interdisciplinary environment, which cultivates the ambition of our staff and students, and
 stimulates world-leading research into some of the most urgent health problems of our times.

 1.1. Overview of unit context
 This unit comprises colleagues in the Divisions of Epidemiology and Public Health (DEPH) and
 Primary Care (DPC) and the Nottingham Clinical Trials Unit (NCTU), situated within the School
 of Medicine in the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, and includes 47 REF eligible staff.
 Research conducted across the unit shares the global aim of improving the health and well-
 being of individuals, patients and society.

 Our research focuses on NHS priorities, employs diverse methodologies and is inherently
 multidisciplinary. Accordingly our research teams comprise of behavioural scientists, data
 scientists, epidemiologists, health economists, social scientists, statisticians and clinicians; with
 active collaboration with the wider University, other UK and international universities, NHS,
 charitable organisations and industry.

 We have three broad research themes: lifestyle influences on health; epidemiology; and health
 of the public. We consider the active involvement of patient and public partners to be critical to
 the development of our research questions, the methods by which we answer them and our
 ability to maximise the reach and impact of our findings. Consequently, each of our research
 themes has their own active Patient and Public Involvement and Engagement (PPIE) groups
 which they draw on throughout the research lifecycle.

 Our key achievements since the previous REF are highlighted in Table 1.

     Table 1: Key achievements since 2014
     Outputs               • Over 1080 peer-reviewed research papers.
     Grant Income          • £105 million: total amount awarded.
                           • £26 million allocated (section 3.1, Table 3).
                           • Major funding - leading or collaborating on:
                               10 NIHR Programme Grants for Applied Research (over
                               £21 million).
     Impact                Key areas of impact:
                           • Evidence underpinning development and implementation
                               of UK tobacco control policies and practices.
                           • Evidence underpinning development and implementation
                               of UK home safety equipment schemes for preventing
                               child unintentional injuries.
                           • Development of a pharmacist-led IT-based intervention
                               (PINCER) provided to over 25 million patients,
                               demonstrating large reductions in hazardous prescribing.



                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                •   Development of risk prediction tools for conditions such
                                    as cardiovascular disease and diabetes, used in general
                                    practices covering over half of the national population and
                                    recommended in several national guidelines.
                                • Impact on several countries’ national influenza
                                    management guidelines to recommend early antiviral use,
                                    and new WHO Europe guidance on the control and
                                    prevention of influenza in long-term care facilities.
     Studentships               132 postgraduate students supervised, including 68 new
                                registrations within this REF period.
     University investment      17 new academic posts.
     in new posts
     Centres & units with       •  NIHR Nottingham Biomedical Research Centre (BRC).
     new or continued           •  NIHR School for Primary Care Research (SPCR).
     funding                    •  NIHR Patient Safety Translational Research Centre.
                                •  SPECTRUM (Shaping Public hEalth poliCies To Reduce
                                   ineqUalities and harM).
                                • ARUK Pain Centre.
     People                     Athena Swan Silver renewal (School of Medicine, 2019).



 1.2. Unit structure
 Our research focuses on three key areas of excellence and includes both fundamental discovery
 and interdisciplinary work. The integrated research of clinicians, statisticians, clinical trialists,
 data scientists and epidemiologists within the unit continues to deliver major breakthroughs for
 the benefit of patients and the public. The interdisciplinary nature of our research also builds a
 culture of reproducible and open research. Below we provide an overview of each theme.

 1.2.1. Lifestyle influences on health
 This theme is concerned with lifestyle determinants of poor health and health inequalities, with a
 particular focus on reducing tobacco and alcohol consumption. The work is led by the UK Centre
 for Tobacco and Alcohol Studies (UKCTAS) and the SPECTRUM research group. UKCTAS was
 established in 2008, with an initial focus on tobacco, and expanded with renewed funding of
 £4.3m in 2013 to include prevention of harms from alcohol. Building on the successes of
 UKCTAS, a new strategic partnership (SPECTRUM) was established in 2019 with a £5.9m grant
 from the UK Prevention Research Partnership. This collaboration led by the University of
 Edinburgh includes 10 other UK universities and Public Health Organisations.

 Key research is on delivery of smoking cessation services and we have unique expertise on
 smoking in pregnancy, leading or contributing to trials of nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), e-
 cigarettes, financial incentives and text message support for stopping smoking in pregnancy.

 Key research achievements include:
 • The largest ever trial to examine effects of a physical activity intervention on smoking
    cessation in pregnancy. BMJ 2015 doi:10.1136/bmj.h2145
 • First trial to demonstrate effectiveness of a complex intervention including behavioural and
    pharmacological support and air quality feedback in reducing children’s exposure to second
    hand smoke. Tobacco Control 2018 doi:10.1136/tobaccocontrol-2016-053279
 • The only randomised controlled trial of a smoking cessation intervention for pregnant women
    to collect outcome data on offspring. Lancet 2014 doi:10.1016/S2213-2600(14)70157-2

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.2.2. Epidemiology
 Our epidemiology research covers cancer, diabetes, gastroenterology, injury prevention, mental
 health, perinatal epidemiology and respiratory disease, with a strategic focus on:
     1. Enhancing understanding of the burden and consequences of disease.
     2. Understanding and predicting who is most at risk of disease.
     3. Evaluation of risks and benefits of new and existing therapies and interventions.

 We address these aims through expertise in diverse methodologies including the development
 and use of large e-health databases (e.g. QResearch, Clinical Practice Research Datalink
 (CPRD), Hospital Episode Statistics (HES)), randomised controlled trials and systematic
 reviews/meta-analyses. In particular, our UK primary care database research has achieved
 international recognition, with the unit being identified as the most productive internationally and
 three of our colleagues within the top 10 most productive researchers in this field worldwide
 (BMJ Open 2016 doi:10.1136/bmjopen-2016-012785).

 The theme includes the following research areas of international and national significance:
 • Primary Care Epidemiology: Research includes developing and validating risk prediction
    algorithms and tools such as QRisk for predicting cardiovascular disease and QDiabetes for
    diabetes, which are recommended in national guidelines and used in the NHS Health
    Checks prevention programme in England. The group also investigates the safety of
    commonly prescribed drugs such as antidepressants, anticholinergic drugs and hormone
    replacement therapy. The group has published 16 papers in the BMJ since 2014.
 • Injury Epidemiology and Prevention: Research includes evaluating effectiveness of home
    safety interventions in childhood; maternal mental health and injury in children; adolescent
    poisoning including self-harm and alcohol-related injury; developing and evaluating
    interventions to improve longer-term injury outcomes in working age adults and evaluating
    falls prevention interventions in older people.
 • Clinical Epidemiology: Research in:
    1. Cancer: determining the risk of venous thromboembolism risk in cancer.
    2. Gastrointestinal disease: occurrence, natural history and consequences of inflammatory
         bowel disease; understanding the burden of chronic liver disease; predicting the
         occurrence and mortality of upper gastrointestinal haemorrhage.
    3. Perinatal health: drug safety in pregnancy; effects of maternal health on pregnancy
         outcomes; risk factors for congenital malformation and early life outcomes.
    4. Respiratory disease: understanding the progression of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, the
         effect of morbidities in COPD; optimising treatment for asthmatics; a birth cohort on the
         development of asthma in Cuba.

 Key research achievements include:
 • Development of the first cardiovascular risk prediction model (QRisk3) to include major risk
    factors such as serious mental illness, atypical antipsychotics, migraine, corticosteroids and
    blood pressure variability. BMJ 2017 doi:10.1136/bmj.j2099 (awarded RCGP research paper
    of the year 2017: Category 2)
 • Large multi-centre trial to test if quadrupling inhaler dose in asthmatics who start to
    deteriorate prevents exacerbations. NEJM 2018 doi:10.1056/NEJMoa1714257
 • Development of a new risk prediction model for venous thromboembolism in postpartum
    women. The model was acknowledged in NICE venous thromboembolism prevention

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     guidelines (NG89) and an online calculator has been produced (maternity-clot-risk.co.uk).
     BMJ 2016 doi:10.1136/bmj.i6253
 •   Demonstration that only 40% of diagnosed gout patients receive urate lowering within 5
     years of diagnosis, also cited in recent EULAR guidelines. JAMA 2014
     doi:10.1001/jama.2014.14484 and doi:10.1136/annrheumdis-2016-209707
 •   Systematic review demonstrating that early introduction of egg and peanut foods to the infant
     diet was associated with reduced risks of egg and peanut allergy; this has informed UK and
     international guidance. JAMA 2016 doi:10.1001/jama.2016.12623

 1.2.3. Health of the public
 The work of this theme seeks to advance the health of patients and the public in the UK and
 globally.

 The theme includes the following areas:
 • Nottingham Clinical Trials Unit (NCTU): The NCTU enjoys a national and international
    reputation for excellence in clinical trials. The Unit primarily conducts large, multicentre
    clinical trials to address questions of importance to the NHS.
 • Medicine Safety: This group, which is part of the £6.7m NIHR Greater Manchester Patient
    Safety Translational Research Centre, identifies factors which increase the risk of medication
    errors. It has developed and evaluated interventions that reduce these risks (e.g. the
    pharmacist-led PINCER intervention is being successfully rolled out nationally).
 • Biobehavioural Health: This research area examines how patient characteristics (such as
    mood, adherence) can be harnessed to influence disease and treatment outcomes. Its
    primary focus is on the development of psychological interventions to: (i) improve outcomes
    in diabetic foot disease; (ii) optimise effectiveness of influenza vaccination. It also carries out
    research on: (iii) identifying modifiable psychological and behavioural correlates of fertility;
    (iv) the mental health impact of the SARS-COV-2 pandemic.
 • Primary Care Stratified Medicine: Research focuses on developing methods to identify
    patients’ risks of future health outcomes, the stratification of interventions or treatments
    according to this risk and use of data science to achieve effective stratification.
 • Influenza group: The Health Protection and Influenza Research Group (HPIRG) has
    research interests spanning a broad range of communicable diseases areas but specialises
    in respiratory virus infections, of which influenza is the key strategic focus.
 • Global Health: Research and training is conducted to improve health in a wide range of
    diseases and social environments in 90 countries across the world. This includes studies of
    the aetiology of asthma and community interventions for acute psychosis in Africa, and
    respiratory epidemiology in Cuba. Research members are also part of the new Nottingham
    China Health Institute which includes a centre of excellence for systematic reviews and
    guidelines.

 Key research achievements include:
 • Large trial of the Family Nurse Partnership, a licensed intensive home-visiting intervention,
    among teenage mothers from early pregnancy until the child's second birthday. The
    programme remains in place following changes to improve efficiency.
    Lancet 2016 doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(15)00392-X
 • Demonstration that the FAMCAT algorithm significantly improves identification of patients
    with familial hypercholesterolaemia. Lancet Public Health 2019 doi:10.1016/S2468-
    2667(19)30061-1


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Individual patient data meta-analysis demonstrating that treatment with neuraminidase
     inhibitor results in a significant reduction in mortality in patients admitted to hospital with
     influenza. Lancet Public Health 2019 doi:10.1016/S2213-2600(14)70041-4
 •   First study to demonstrate that positive mood at the time of influenza vaccination is
     associated with enhanced effectiveness, with an effect size comparable to that seen for
     statins in the prevention of major cardiovascular events. Brain, Behavior, and Immunity
     2018 doi:10.1016/j.bbi.2017.09.008

 1.3. Research strategy
 We seek to deliver research on some of the most important health problems of our times by
 strategically focusing on and investing in our people and our collaborations, with a view to
 maximising research productivity, quality and impact.

 •   ‘Our people’ reflects our commitment to creating and sustaining a culture which encourages
     growth in ambition, excellence and capacity through:
        - Ongoing development of existing staff (personal and professional development): this
            is realised through a comprehensive programme of staff training and development,
            mentorship and a transparent and equitable approach to promotion (see section 2).
        - Core investment in new staff: this has resulted in new posts in public health (5 new
            posts), applied health methodologies (5 new posts in data science, epidemiology,
            health economics, Sport and Health Psychology and qualitative methods) and clinical
            trials (7 new posts).
        - Development of the next generation of leading researchers (e.g. through
            postgraduate research students (PGRs), fellowships): achieved through a year-on-
            year increase in PGR and fellowship numbers and a comprehensive training
            programme (see section 2).
        - A vibrant academic clinical fellow programme covering all years. This has allowed us
            to support 16 fellows in the current REF period.

 Our work in these areas is further underscored by a commitment to delivering a working
 environment in keeping with the Athena Swan (Silver Award) charter, i.e. one which maximises
 opportunities for progression and success for all.

 •   ‘Our collaborations’ reflect our commitment to work with leading people, organisations and
     societies locally, nationally and internationally to ensure excellence in the research we lead
     and to enhance the impact of our research. In addition, we contribute and bring added value
     to research led by others (see section 4).

 •   ‘Research productivity, quality and impact’: reflects our commitment to ensuring
     successful completion of major funded research programmes (e.g. centre grants, programme
     grants, multi-centre trials); continuing and growing our success in securing competitive
     funding; commitment to embracing and developing new methodologies, and striving for
     widespread dissemination and impact of research findings by reaching both academic and
     wider audiences (see section 1.4).

 Review of research plans in REF 2014
 We have achieved our strategic aims stated in REF2014:
    a) Continued to secure long term funding including NIHR BRC, NIHR programme grants,
       and renewed CLARHC/ARC funding.

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    b) Achieved renewed membership of the NIHR School for Primary Care Research, and
       consolidated UKCTAS growth.
    c) Successfully completed major funded research (see sections on research groups and
       impact).
    d) Increased our PGR community (from 117 in REF2014 to 132 students).
    e) Recruited nine new early and mid-career posts.

 1.4. Impact during assessment period
 Our research has had impacts on health and welfare, benefiting patients and their
 families/carers, as well as the general population. It has achieved this through disease
 prevention, harm reduction, reducing health inequalities, realisation of NHS cost-savings and
 raising public awareness. These benefits have been delivered through changes to health policy
 and practice at international, national and regional levels.

 Strategic support for impact is facilitated through several mechanisms. Examples include:
 • Annual School of Medicine Impact Competition for researchers and PhD students (3 awards;
     £3,000; £1,500; £500). These awards promote awareness of impact, enable sharing of good
     practice in relation to maximising impact and provide investment for achieving impact.
 • Impact workshops are provided for all early career researchers.
 • Funding for impact includes external (RCUK) impact accelerator funds and internally funded
     schemes (Nottingham Impact Accelerator, Knowledge Exchange awards, Hermes
     Fellowships).
 • Strategic appointments: The Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences has appointed three
     research impact officers and the School of Medicine has created a new role of Research
     Excellence Manager; these roles jointly work to ensure that research in this unit is
     disseminated beyond academic spheres and translated into real-world change. We have
     also appointed two members of academic staff as Impact Champions (Kendrick, Tata) who
     develop impact activity through formal support for specific impact case studies, and cultural
     promotion of impact throughout the research lifecycle.

 Our impact case studies were chosen to reflect the wide range of impact achieved though
 research within the unit. They cover impact on health policy, strategy, and guidelines; health
 service design and delivery; health service IT systems; health outcomes; practitioner training
 and development of implementation and dissemination resources. In line with our impact
 strategy, our case studies demonstrate proactive engagement with policy makers and
 organisations that can facilitate change across health and social care settings. This includes
 representation on national and international policy, guideline and strategy development groups
 and developing translational-related outputs specifically for policy makers. The final submitted
 case studies were chosen based on a series of independent reviews of the significance and
 reach of their impact and the strength of their supporting evidence.

 Policy impacts
 Notable policy impacts include:
 • Our leading role in research promoting electronic cigarette use as a substitute for smoking
    underpinned a Public Health England recommendation in 2014/15 for tobacco harm
    reduction and the 2018 House of Commons Science and Technology Committee report on e-
    cigarettes.



                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Our research on passive smoking led to new legislation in 2015 prohibiting smoking in cars
     with children.
 •   The 2017 Tobacco Control Plan for England recommends routine carbon monoxide
     monitoring as a component of NHS ante-natal care because our research shows that this
     successfully identifies women who smoke in pregnancy and, with appropriate support, nearly
     doubles their chances of quitting.
 •   Our research on smoking and stillbirth provided the key scientific evidence for an NHS ‘care
     bundle’, that has been associated with a 20% fall in stillbirths since 2016.
 •   Risk prediction algorithms developed by the Primary Care Epidemiology group are
     recommended in National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guidelines on
     cardiovascular disease, hypertension, suspected cancer, osteoporosis, diabetes and
     multimorbidity.
 •   Our research on pandemic influenza (PRIDE study) provided important new evidence for the
     House of Commons Public Accounts Committee’s 2014 decision to continue antiviral
     stockpiling and related guidance on use of antivirals for the treatment and prophylaxis of
     influenza from Public Health England (PHE), the US Centers for Disease Control and
     Prevention (CDC) and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control.
 •   Our pharmacist-led IT-based intervention to reduce clinically important medication errors in
     primary care (PINCER) is recommended in NICE guidance (NG5, 2015) and included in five
     NHS guidance documents.
 •   Our injury prevention research has influenced NICE guidelines and the 2018 National
     Accident Prevention Strategy recommendations on home safety, and PHE local authority
     guidance on injury prevention. There is evidence that this guidance has been used for local
     injury prevention strategies and home safety equipment schemes.
 •   PHE has developed a strategy to identify familial hypercholesterolaemia, with our approach
     to search primary care records recognised as a key approach.

 Impact on practice
 Our research has changed practice at international, national and regional levels:
 • Our smoking in pregnancy research has been cited in WHO and four NICE treatment
    guidelines (PH 1, 10, 26, 48), in European Tobacco Treatment Guidelines and national
    guidance from US, Norway, Greece, New Zealand and Australia. This research features
    prominently in National Centre for Smoking Cessation Training courses which are a
    compulsory part of UK smoking cessation practitioner training.
 • Our work on indoor air quality in English prisons with the National Offender Management
    Service led to their decision to make all prisons smoke-free from 2016.
 • A model of acute inpatient smoking cessation service provision demonstrated by our
    research was recommended by NICE and is now being implemented nationally.
 • Emergency research during the 2009 influenza pandemic has widened practice
    recommendations in the UK for availability of antiviral treatment for all cases regardless of
    risk group, including early use for hospitalised cases.
 • The QPrediction risk prediction tools have been implemented into the UK GP clinical record
    system EMIS, which covers over 55% of GP practices and 30 million patients nationally.
    QRISK is incorporated in the national NHS Health Checks programme; over 6 million people
    in England received a check between 2013-2017.
 • The QRISK lifetime cardiovascular risk model is used to estimate heart age on the NHS One
    You website, with the aim of acting as an incentive to make simple lifestyle changes.



                                                                                           Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   The PINCER intervention to reduce medication errors has been rolled out to 39% of English
     general practices, covering 40% of England’s population, and over 25 million patient records
     have been searched to identify those at risk of medication errors.
 •   Our injury prevention research has underpinned international home visiting programmes,
     national and regional home safety equipment schemes, PHE practitioner guides, practitioner
     and commissioner resources and training provided to more than 500 health and childcare
     professionals.
 •   The FAMCAT tool for identifying familial hypercholesterolaemia has been implemented in
     nearly 800 general practices and the Academic Health Science Networks in Greater
     Manchester, East Midlands, Northeast Region, and Wessex are implementing pilot
     programmes.

 1.5. Future strategic aims for research and impact

 1.5.1. Future research strategy
 An independent external panel undertook a major research review of the School of Medicine in
 2018. This fed into a revised research strategy, with the overall aim to further improve the
 quality, value and impact of our research as part of a University-wide transformational vision.
 The main strategic priorities and how we are addressing them are:

 Encourage ambition and grow research income to address the most pressing research
 priorities of the day:
 • Continue and grow our involvement in existing research centres. We have been successful
     in renewing our involvement in SPECTRUM (2019-2024) and NIHR School for Primary Care
     Research (2021-2026) and will be participating in the NIHR BRC renewal bid.
 • Seek new opportunities in health data science research working with our Health Data
     Science Strategy (HDRUK) Midlands centre. Nottingham is part of the HDRUK Midlands
     hub, and our unit is collaborating with an HDRUK exemplar project with the University of
     Leicester.
 • Consolidate and grow our research in Global Health, for example our involvement in the
     Nottingham China Health Institute.
 • Integrate data science with trial methodology by establishing methodologies and processes
     to enable use of routinely collected health data, which may be an efficient and cost-effective
     means of obtaining data.

 Create a supportive culture that promotes shared priorities and a collaborative ‘Team
 Science’ approach:
 • Actively promote a culture of joint working, team research, and strong collaboration
    particularly between DPC and DEPH but also across the wider School of Medicine.
 • Development of good recognition mechanisms for individuals and teams, such as through
    the new Nottingham Reward Scheme.
 • Social/networking events which encourage team building.

 Support career growth:
 • Provision of a mentorship scheme and workshops to facilitate grant writing, high quality
    outputs and research ambition across all academic levels.

 Encourage partnerships and collaboration with NHS and international collaborators:

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Improve global engagement including international research collaboration.
 •   Continue our strong linkages with key NHS organisations to facilitate our research (e.g.
     CLAHRC/ARC, EMAHSN, RDS).

 1.5.2. Future impact strategy
 Review of our Impact Strategy articulated in REF2014 demonstrates that we have built on
 successful knowledge exchange mechanisms, for example, through close working with AHSNs,
 working with policy makers to influence health policy, ensuring our research made major
 contributions to numerous NICE and PHE guidelines, developing NICE-endorsed
 implementation resources, developing practitioner training and through contributing to national
 and international guideline and strategy development groups (section 1.4).

 We plan to continue to grow our impact culture through the following mechanisms:
 • Annual appraisal processes will incorporate discussions on planning and developing impact.
 • Continued development of our methods for co-design and co-production of interventions with
   end-users to maximise adoption and impact to ensure the research meets the needs of
   patients and the public.

 Our future Impact Strategy is to:
 • Continue improvements in outputs beyond academic publications, including translational-
    related outputs such as implementation tools, implementation workshops for stakeholders,
    practitioner training and dissemination of such outputs using a wide range of media.
 • Maximise collaboration with organisations that can facilitate change across health and social
    care economies, such as AHSNs, ARCs, NHS England and NHS Improvement.
 • Broaden our public health impact by moving towards a more cohesive approach of research
    collaboration between DPC, DEPH and NCTU.
 • Sustain and grow our impact on health policy by increasing our representation on national
    and international policy, guideline and strategy development groups, developing
    translational-related outputs specifically for policy makers and proactively engaging with
    policy makers.

 1.6. Research integrity and ethics
 Research integrity and ethical considerations are central to all the research within this unit and
 supported through the University of Nottingham’s endorsement and promotion of The Concordat
 to Support Research Integrity (2012). Training in research integrity, data protection and ethics is
 continuous for all staff and students, commencing at induction with regular updates occurring in
 response to changes in legislation and good practice. See institutional statement (section 2.4).

 1.7. COVID-19 research
 Our agility with respect to meeting external challenges is exemplified in our response to the
 COVID-19 pandemic. Our researchers worked rapidly to address emerging needs through
 leading or collaborating on research such as: the RECOVERY Trial, designed to evaluate
 potential treatments for people hospitalised with COVID-19; leading the COVID-19 Stress and
 Health study looking at the effect of COVID-19 on mental health in the community (doi:
 10.1136/bmjopen-2020-040620); research developing an algorithm (QCovid) for predicting death
 and hospitalisation due to COVID-19 (BMJ 2020 doi:10.1136/bmj.m3731).

 2. People

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘Our people’ reflects our commitment to creating and sustaining a culture which encourages a
 growth in ambition, excellence and capacity.

 2.1. Staffing strategy
 Staff are key to our research strategy. This is reflected in our commitment to creating and
 sustaining a culture which encourages growth through a focus on ongoing personal and
 professional development of existing staff.

 2.1.1. Recruitment policy
 Our recruitment strategy seeks to ensure the sustainability and vitality of our research, as well a
 culture for success. Central to this is our commitment to ensuring a supportive and inclusive
 research community enriched through cultural and ethnic diversity. This is achieved in part
 through bespoke equality and diversity and unconscious bias training at all job levels.

 2.1.2. Annual reviews
 These focus on a constructive review of activities and achievements including outputs, research,
 quality of work, outreach, training, administration, and citizenship. Personal development and
 career aspirations/promotion are discussed, together with future objectives that link to
 University/School strategy. Culture and climate are embedded into the appraisal framework e.g.
 promoting equality, diversity and inclusion.

 Our School delivers bespoke appraisal training for appraisers and appraisees. These are
 delivered every two years (90% satisfaction) and supported by a checklist developed as part of
 our Athena Swan Silver Award. The checklist and training have resulted in a demonstrable
 improvement in the quality of appraisals. Key highlights include increased discussion of career
 ambitions and access to career development opportunities. Our most recent School audit
 indicated that 92% of females and 89% of male respondents reported discussions on training
 and career development had taken place, compared with 80% of females and 75% of males in
 2013. The School has additionally introduced Personal and Team Research Strategies to sit
 alongside appraisals for all research-active staff irrespective of career stage, to promote long-
 term planning for meeting research ambitions.

 2.1.3. Promotions
 Our university promotion criteria are signposted and published on the intranet. Availability of
 criteria and promotions-readiness workshops aid staff in planning, and line managers in
 supporting career development towards promotion. Our colleagues have enjoyed considerable
 promotion success, with 23 promotions since 2014, including 21 for female colleagues (Table 2).

                  Table 2: Promotions since 2014 by HESA contract level
                  K0 to J0                                 6 Females/2 Males
                  (Research fellow to Assistant Professor)
                  J0 to I0                                 10 Females
                  (Assistant to Associate Professor)
                  I0 to F1                                 5 Females
                  (Associate Professor to Professor)

 2.2. Staff development


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2.1. Training and development
 Colleagues can access a broad range of internal training courses and financial support for
 external courses through University, Faculty, School and Divisional funding.

 Examples accessed by colleagues in our unit include:
 • School of Medicine Grant Writing and Fellowship Course: to provide training and support for
    early career researchers. The course of 6 half-day sessions provides a route to
    independence, fosters collegiality and improves success rates for competitive research grant
    applications, particularly personal fellowships, and has seen 124 delegates trained across
    the School of Medicine from 2015-2019.
 • Digital “PI Toolkit”: a suite of resources available to all staff and postgraduate researchers to
    help them develop, submit, and deliver research projects; highlighted by an independent
    panel in our 2018 School of Medicine Research Review as particularly beneficial for staff
    development and support.
 • Widespread support for study design and data analysis is available through the NCTU and
    Research Design Service (RDS) East Midlands. A weekly Statistics Clinic with a School-
    funded external consultant is provided exclusively for research staff and PGR students.
 • The Faculty has a dedicated Research Library team headed by a Senior Research Librarian,
    offering support including systematic reviews, open access support, advice, a review service
    for writing Data Management Plans/sharing data and a mediated-deposits service.
 • School mentoring scheme open to staff of all levels and PGR students.
 • Peer review of grants: this includes maintaining an expertise list, so early career researchers
    can find people best able to support them.
 • Travel awards through School committees, providing matched funding to allow staff and
    PGR students to attend conferences and other networking events.
 • Workshops and training events (including methods seminar programme, writing impact
    statements, intellectual property, research integrity, career optimisation workshops,
    leadership training).
 • Divisional Research Away-days: annual events for research staff and PGRs designed in
    response to areas of need identified by colleagues. In this REF period they have covered
    topics such as Patient and Public Involvement, communication skills, writing for publication,
    promoting research in the media, working as a team, branding, designing infographics,
    participant recruitment skills.
 • Annual events for PGR students informed by the students’ priorities have included career
    planning, thesis and viva preparation.

 2.3. Equality, diversity and inclusion
 Equality, diversity and inclusion, and unconscious bias training is mandatory for all staff. REF
 coordinators have also completed bespoke training in these areas. Our current staff consists of
 57% female, with 23% of staff being black or other ethnic minority, and 4% of returnable staff
 having a documented disability by headcount. The Faculty and School have Equality and
 Diversity Committees to address equality, diversity and inclusion issues in all forms, with the
 School ring-fencing £35k per annum to support initiatives in these areas.

 The School also engages with institutional initiatives for BAME staff including the ‘Stellar HE’
 Leadership programme. In October 2019, the University hosted the “BecoME: BME Leaders in
 Healthcare Conference” to highlight journeys of black and minority ethnicity leaders in
 healthcare, to inspire future leaders in healthcare.

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The School of Medicine was awarded an Athena Swan Silver Award in 2016, renewed in 2019,
 in recognition of our successful efforts to promote equality, diversity and inclusion in STEMM
 and ensuring EDI and fairness remain core to our ethos and culture. Central to this is
 encouraging participation of women on influential committees that determine research strategy.
 Within our unit, women are represented on the School Research Committee, School
 Management Group, School Postgraduate Research Committee and University Senate. The
 School has introduced a shadowing scheme which has successfully increased female
 membership of decision-making committees, most notably in the School’s Executive. The School
 supports a Contract Researchers’ Forum including female-only workshops in support of ensuring
 opportunity for researcher career development.

 At Divisional level we have an equitable gender split for our management committees (DPC:
 59% female; DEPH: 67% female) and both Divisions are currently headed by women.

 A high proportion of staff work part-time across all job families (Figure 1).

 Figure 1: Percentage of staff working part-time or full-time.




 Flexible working is offered to all staff, and a high proportion (>50%), including senior staff, take
 up this opportunity reflecting an embedded respect for life outside work.

 2.4. Ongoing professional development
 • Training and support are available for all early career researchers and PhD students within
     the unit. For example, all PhD students are required to attend formal training courses to
     enhance their research skills and career development.
 • All PhD students are encouraged to present at internal seminar programmes and attend
     conferences. They are also expected to present at School PGR events.
 • All research active staff (including Academic Clinical Fellows/GP HEEM Fellows) and
     students are encouraged to attend and present at conferences, with over 230 people
     attending meetings over the REF period.
 • The University of Nottingham provides staff development courses for all levels of staff
     including research skills development, career development, well-being and leadership.
 • Divisions run monthly research seminar programmes with internal and external speakers. In
     addition, a methods seminar is held bi-monthly and longer 2-day seminars with external
     speakers on specific methodological areas are conducted.

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Early career researchers are encouraged to co-supervise student dissertation projects for
     their personal career development.

 A key indicator of our development of PhD students is captured by the destinations of our
 students with 6 going on to lecturer positions, 12 to Postdoctoral research posts, 2 returning to
 clinical training, 1 returning to a government research post in their home country, and 4 going
 into public sector, charity or commercial research organisations.

 2.5. Integration of clinicians and NHS-employed active researchers
 • Our colleagues have strong links with the NHS, with 17 tenured staff having ongoing clinical
     commitments within the NHS. We have also hosted 16 Academic Clinical Fellows and nine
     Honorary Academic appointments for staff working in the NHS during this REF cycle.
 • Two Public Health Consultants provide academic supervision to public health registrars with
     Health Education England East Midlands.
 • Staff in the unit provide training to the wider research community through bespoke courses,
     including statistics, clinical trials, public and patient involvement, and systematic reviews
 • We deliver a vibrant academic clinical fellow programme covering all years. In the current
     REF period this resulted in the support of 16 fellows (DPC 10; DEPH 6)

 2.6. Misconduct policy
 The University has relevant policies and procedures to respond to staff and research
 misconduct: Regulations of Academic Misconduct, Staff Disciplinary Procedure, Code of
 Discipline for Students and Fraud Policy.

 2.7. Investment in research leadership
 There are a number of Leadership training opportunities including the Nottingham Research
 Leaders Programme (aimed at senior academics to support and advance high-level strategic
 research leadership roles and development), University of Nottingham Leadership and
 Management Academy (providing a wide range of online resources for performance
 management and personal diagnostics), and the Leadership Toolkit of models and
 methodologies The University also provides opportunities for coaching and mentoring in
 addition to those provided within the School.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 We strategically pursue a diverse funding model in which we seek both large collaborative
 grants (e.g. programme and centre grants) to maximise the quality, impact and reach of our
 research, whilst also ensuring we secure income streams which facilitate the development of
 early career researchers and provide essential early data to underpin larger funding initiatives.

 3.1. Income
 In the current REF period, the unit has increased the total value of grants awarded to £105
 million with £26 million allocated (Table 3). This reflects sustained income levels from UKRI
 funders, and increases in funding from NIHR and charities, including 10 Programme Grants for
 Applied Research.




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     Table 3: Research income for Unit of Assessment by Sponsor
              All data £000
              Funder             Current REF period        Previous REF period
                                   Total for period          Total for period
                                (Aug 2013 – Jul 2020)     (Aug 2008 – Jul 2013)

     UK Research Councils             2,922.7         11.2%        2,512.6          10.8%
     UK based charities               4,332.5         16.7%        2,124.9           9.2%
     UK central government           13,692.2         52.7%        6,368.5          27.4%
     bodies, local authorities,
     health and hospital
     authorities (NIHR)
     UK central government             2,189.9         8.4%        5,293.9          22.8%
     bodies, local authorities,
     health and hospital
     authorities (Ex NIHR)
     UK central government              448.4          1.7%              -               -
     bodies, local authorities,
     health and hospital
     authorities (RDEC)
     UK industry, commerce &            548.8          2.1%          482.9           2.1%
     public corporations
     EU government bodies               538.1          2.1%          552.5           2.4%
     EU industry, commerce &             91.1          0.4%
     public corporations
     EU other                             3.9              -             -               -
     Non-EU Other overseas              597.3          2.3%          276.2           1.2%
     industry, commerce and
     public corporations
     Non-EU Other overseas                29.4         0.1%          135.8           0.6%
     charities
     Non-EU Other                       358.3         1.4%         5,462.5          23.5%
     Other sources                      230.9         0.9%            10.4           0.0%
     Total per Sponsor               25,983.5         100%        23,220.2           100%

 Through our strategic and collaborative approach, partnerships, infrastructure support, and
 pump priming, we have been successful in attracting major grants, with examples given below.

 Lifestyle influences on health:
 • Improving effectiveness of nicotine replacement therapy for smoking cessation in pregnancy
     through better adherence and adequate dosing. NIHR Programme Grants for Applied
     Research (PGfAR), 2017-2024, £2,383,264
     The third NIHR PGfAR awarded to the Smoking in Pregnancy group; this focusses on
     improving adherence to nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) in pregnancy.
 • A comprehensive evaluation of the impact of recent English tobacco control policy using
     secondary data. Department of Health, 2017-2019, £457,137



                                                                                        Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     The first comprehensive evaluation of a range of national tobacco policies on smoking
     behaviours.
 •   The effect of adding a personalised smoking cessation intervention to a lung cancer
     screening programme. Yorkshire Cancer Research, 2018-2021, £917,978
     This study is evaluating effectiveness of a specialist smoking cessation service co-located
     within a community lung cancer screening programme.

 Epidemiology:
 • NIHR Nottingham Biomedical Research Centre (BRC): Unit involvement in the Mental Health
    and Technology, Respiratory, and Gastroenterology themes. Overall funding for the
    University of £23.6m, 2017-2022
    Aims to deliver patient-centred research in order to advance knowledge and improve health
    outcomes.
 • Multicentre Research Programme to Enhance Return to Work after Trauma (ROWTATE).
    NIHR Programme Grant for Applied Research, 2019-2024, £2,405,840
    This research programme will develop and test a novel complex intervention to promote
    successful return to work after serious injury. It is a multidisciplinary research programme
    involving collaboration with five major trauma centres in the UK.

 Health of the public:
 • Avoiding patient harm through the application of prescribing safety indicators in English
    general practices (acronym: PRoTeCT). NIHR Programme Grants for Applied Research;
    2017-2023, £2,430,144
 • Reducing the impact of diabetic foot ulcers on patients and the health service: the REDUCE
    programme. NIHR Programme Grant for Applied Research, 2020-2026, £2,531,202
 • Cost-effectiveness of cascade testing for Familial Hypercholesterolaemia. NIHR HTA, 2016-
    2021, £840,042
    This study will inform the approach to cascade testing for familial hypercholesterolaemia in
    the NHS.

 3.2. Infrastructure and facilities
 The University invests heavily in infrastructure to support research, including excellent IT
 facilities, research grant support, studentships and fellowships, training and high-quality
 accommodation. See also institutional statement (section 4.2).

 Public health and clinical data
 The School of Medicine has a Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) license, renewed
 annually throughout this REF period. This means that CPRD is available to researchers in the
 unit with and without access to funds (including PGR students). Researchers in the unit also
 make extensive use of the QResearch database which was originally established at the
 University of Nottingham. Access to these databases has resulted in influential new research
 during the REF period (see section 1.2.2).

 Open access, data sharing, and digital support
 Within this REF period, the University has invested significantly in Digital Research as part of its
 research vision. This includes a Research Information System (RIS) which supports delivery of
 open access, open science and research data management. An Open Access team at the
 University supports researchers in making their publications and data accessible to the broadest

                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 possible base of end users and includes a mediated deposits service to facilitate archiving in the
 institutional repository. At unit level, over 95% of papers are deposited in the open access
 repository.

 We have a dedicated Faculty Digital Research Specialist as part of the University’s digital
 research team, bridging requirements between Information Services and research staff needs in
 terms of software, data collection and management, equipment, access to High Performance
 Computing services. Furthermore, the School has appointed two academic digital leads
 representing the digital needs of different geographical sites.

 The University hosts an online digital research data repository which ensures that published data
 fulfil our stringent policies on data governance, preservation, accessibility and discoverability,
 aligned with funder and stakeholder requirements. The service enables researchers to publish,
 search, access and store research data and metadata.

 Clinical database support
 The School led the introduction of the Clinical Database Support Service in 2019, established to
 provide a robust platform for researchers which actively promotes regulatory compliance. It
 provides specialist assistance in database design and data management, and training and
 access to REDCap database software. The service is uniquely designed to ensure that even
 smaller-scale projects maintain the same level of rigour as large multicentre clinical trials.

 Research networks and centres
 This unit is part of the following research networks/centres which have all received strategic
 support, wholly or in part, from the University of Nottingham:

 •   Nottingham BRC: A £23.6m initiative funded by NIHR in 2017 focussed on Hearing,
     Gastrointestinal and Liver Disorders, Musculoskeletal Disease, Mental Health and
     Technology, Respiratory Disease and Magnetic Resonance Imaging. The BRC has been
     highly successful, recruiting 11,000 patients into clinical projects in its first year alone.
     Colleagues in the unit lead on and contribute expertise to each of these themes. Examples
     include establishing a bronchiectasis cohort to develop novel biomarkers of infection;
     identifying trends in antidepressant prescribing, polypharmacy and drug interactions;
     behavioural research examining patients’ understanding of fluctuations in musculoskeletal
     pain; development of novel approaches to promote weight loss in patients with non-alcoholic
     fatty liver disease.
 •   CLAHRC/ARC: The NIHR East Midlands CLAHRC was awarded £10m from the Department
     of Health over five years (2014-2019). During this time it attracted a further £18m of matched
     funding from local NHS, academic and commercial partners to translate research findings
     into improved patient outcomes. In 2019, funding was secured for a further 5 years as the
     NIHR Applied Research Collaboration (ARC) East Midlands.
 •   Nottingham Clinical Trials Unit (NCTU): The UKCRC-Registered NCTU works with
     clinicians across the UK (e.g. Imperial College London; University of Leeds; University of
     Manchester; Nottingham University Hospitals; University Hospitals Birmingham). A small
     number of trials are run in collaboration with partners in Nigeria (University of Ibadan),
     Sweden (Skånes University Hospital) and Denmark (Nordsjaellands Hospital). NCTU has
     expertise in the core competencies required for design and conduct of high-quality trials
     including experienced trialists, trial management, data processing and statistical analysis.

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Additional research areas include meta-analysis and methodological research to improve
     conduct of trials. During the REF period NCTU has expanded and secured dedicated space
     in accordance with its five-year plan, following a successful £1m bid to the University for
     infrastructure and posts.
 •   NIHR School for Primary Care Research (SPCR): DPC continues to be a key member of
     this strategic partnership of nine leading academic centres for primary care research in
     England. SPCR aims to increase the evidence base for primary care practice through high
     quality research and strategic leadership, and also build capacity in primary care through a
     well-established training programme. In this REF cycle, we attracted £1.9m for research
     projects and £1.26m in capacity building funding from the SPCR. In 2020, DPC was
     successful in retaining its membership in the renewed SPCR (2021-2026).
 •   UKCTAS/SPECTRUM: A network of 13 universities (12 in the UK, one in New Zealand), and
     in 2019 extended to include Public Health England, Public Health Wales, Health Scotland
     and two commercial companies, funded by the UK Clinical Research Collaboration. This
     consortium is a continuation of the original Nottingham-led work on tobacco, but the remit
     has been broadened to include unhealthy food and drink products (see section 1.2.1 above).

 Studentship support
 The unit has benefitted from several University scholarship schemes. This includes matched
 funding for PhD studentships, Vice-Chancellor research excellence scholarships, and School of
 Medicine legacy studentships.

 Future plans for sustainability and growth
 A key recommendation of the 2018 School of Medicine Research Review was to seek greater
 integration between our unit and other areas of the School undertaking applied health research.
 In part this is being achieved through our involvement in the centres described above. These
 centres provide fertile ground for collaboration across disciplinary boundaries. In addition, we
 strategically use the opportunities of these centres to sustain and grow our research.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Our research collaborations and networks play an intrinsic role in achieving our vision of
 enhancing the health and well-being of individuals, patients and the public.

 4.1. Collaborations
 Each of our three research themes have national and international collaborations which extend
 the reach and impact of our research. These collaborations are typically multidisciplinary,
 engage colleagues across the School of Medicine and wider University (e.g. Computer Science,
 Health Sciences/Nursing, Business School, Geography) and are multi-sector (e.g. NHS,
 charitable organisations, government bodies, commercial companies). We provide examples to
 illustrate the breadth and scope of our collaborations within each theme.

 Lifestyle influences on health:
 • Clinical trial collaborations: We lead or have collaborated on 8 trials related to smoking
     behaviour. For example, the ECLS trial (Early Cancer detection test – Lung cancer
     Scotland), the largest trial in primary care of a biomarker for early detection of lung cancer,
     reflects a multidisciplinary and multi-institution collaboration (Universities of Nottingham,
     Glasgow, Dundee, Strathclyde and Tayside Clinical Trials Unit, NHS Greater Glasgow and


                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Clyde, NHS Lanarkshire, NHS Tayside) which led to the successful recruitment and
     randomisation of 12,000 individuals at high risk of lung cancer.
 •   International collaborations: In response to the emerging epidemic in tobacco-related
     health issues in developing countries, we have established collaborations in India, Gambia,
     Nigeria, Ethiopia and Cuba, supported primarily by MRC funding totalling over £4m to date.

 Epidemiology:
 • Enhancing our understanding of the true burden and consequences of disease.
    A key example is the collaboration with Aarhus University Hospital, Denmark. Initially funded
    by the University of Nottingham International Research and Industrial Collaboration Funding
    Scheme in 2015, this has led to submitted joint grant proposals, published joint papers
    combining English and Danish health care data (doi:10.2147/clep.s147535;
    doi:10.1016/j.jhep.2018.04.002) and joint supervision of a PhD student (Gronbaek). Most
    recently, the collaboration has resulted in a Novo Nordisk Foundation Borregaard Clinical
    Ascending Investigator award (P Jepson, 2019, £1.2m)
 • Maternal and child health.
    The Clinical Epidemiology group enjoys an active collaboration with researchers at the
    Karolinska Institute in Sweden. One key research area involved using UK and Swedish
    healthcare data to develop a risk model to predict which women develop venous
    thromboembolism within 6 weeks of childbirth. This work was published in the BMJ
    [doi:10.1136/bmj.i6253] and cited in the update of NICE guidelines on preventing venous
    thromboembolism in over 16s (NG89)
 • Evaluating the effectiveness and safety of interventions in injury research.
    The Injury Epidemiology and Prevention Research Group has a long history of successful
    collaborations on randomised controlled trials and systematic reviews of the effectiveness of
    injury prevention interventions, including with nine different universities and two charities,
    resulting in over £8m funding.

 Health of the public:
 • Medicine safety: This group led on a collaboration between five universities, Lincolnshire
    Community Health Services NHS Trust, and the East Midlands Academic Health Sciences
    Network (EMAHSN) for the large-scale rollout of a pharmacist-led, IT-based intervention
    (PINCER) to reduce medication errors across the East Midlands. This collaboration
    culminated in a £2.43m NIHR Programme Grant to determine the impact of primary care
    interventions such as PINCER on serious harm outcomes (with NIHR Greater Manchester
    Patient Safety Translational Research Centre colleagues). The collaboration has expanded
    to involve AHSNs across England as part of the national rollout of PINCER.
 • NCTU: The majority of NCTU’s research activity involves collaborations with multidisciplinary
    teams of researchers and clinicians to conduct clinically important high quality multicentre
    randomised trials and pilot/feasibility work in preparation for future large-scale multicentre
    trials. As well as national collaborations, the Unit collaborates internationally (e.g. POSNOC,
    axillary treatment in early stage breast cancer, Australia & NZ; iCORD, cord-clamping in
    LMIC; EXPONATE, STEPCARE, management of depression, Nigeria; FEED1-LMIC, feeding
    in preterm infants, India & Pakistan; AIMS, miscarriage management, Africa & Pakistan).

 4.1.1. Category C staff
 During this REF period we have worked closely with an outstanding group of 26 clinical,
 government and international colleagues with honorary appointments. These collaborations

                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have enriched our environment through facilitating primary and secondary research,
 contributions to over 95 outputs and joint supervision of PhD students.

 4.2. Networks and partnerships
 Section 3 reviews networks and partnerships which have received infrastructure support from
 the University of Nottingham. Other external networks and partnerships include:

 Research Design Service (RDS) East Midlands: RDS provides high quality funding advice
 and methodological support to researchers in our unit seeking funding for applied health
 research. Specific benefits of close collaboration with the RDS include provision of public
 involvement funds to inform development of applications, helping to build research teams and
 partnerships with other academic and clinical researchers, and provision of regular training
 events relevant to grant writing and NIHR funding streams.

 PRIMIS: PRIMIS is a leading organisation in extracting knowledge and value from primary care
 data, helping to achieve better health outcomes across the UK. It produces effective and
 practical solutions to help people understand and use patient data held on GP IT systems. GP
 practices and the primary care organisations that support them can access a variety of products
 and services from PRIMIS enabling them to meet their varied data and reporting requirements.

 Examples of our work with PRIMIS:
 • PRIMIS is integral in the national rollout of PINCER, in partnership with AHSNs and the
    PINCER research team.
 • The FAMCAT tool to identify familial hypercholesterolaemia in primary care has been
    embedded in primary care computer systems as a case-finding tool offered to general
    practices by PRIMIS. Over 800 UK general practices have installed FAMCAT, and we are
    working with 4 AHSNs across England to scale up implementation.

 Business, industry and public/third body sectors:
 • Collaboration with commercial partners:
       - The Biobehavioural Research group identified that positive mood at the time of
           influenza vaccination is associated with greater vaccine effectiveness. In
           collaboration with Rehab (a SME) funding for an MRC iCase studentship was
           secured which has supported the development of a novel digital intervention to
           promote positive mood in older people. The intervention is currently the focus of a
           clinical trial conducted in collaboration with Public Health England.
       - The Primary Care Stratified Medicine (PRISM) Research Group uses novel
           applications in machine-learning and prediction models in cardiovascular disease
           with electronic health records. This has created over £200,000 of funding
           opportunities and research investment from a leading UK lifestyle SME (Road to
           Health Group) and a major US global biotechnology Pharma partner AMGEN. One
           AMGEN funded study involves pooling data from cardiac centres across Europe,
           deriving and validating a new prediction model for secondary prevention of acute
           coronary syndrome.

 4.3. Patient and Public Involvement and Engagement (PPIE)
 We have proactively pursued an increase in PPIE activity across our research. This is driven
 centrally by a School of Medicine PPIE working group which follows INVOLVE guidance. This

                                                                                         Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 working group ensures that PPIE is promoted from the earliest stages of researcher training,
 including a PPIE module in the medical degree programme, training for PhD students, and a
 workshop devoted to PPIE in the School’s grant writing course. We have national leadership in
 PPIE with Avery being a member of the NIHR PPI Senior Leadership Team.

 Unit away-days and other events have focussed on PPIE. DPC, as part of their involvement in
 the NIHR School for Primary Care Research, follows Guidance for Reporting Involvement of
 Patients and the Public (GRIPP2). This helps promote diversity in our PPIE activities. We have
 been awarded funds from the NIHR School for Primary Care Research for developing
 systematic approaches to ensure diverse PPIE representation (£5k: 2020/21).

 All NCTU’s clinical trial applications, whether pilot/feasibility studies or large multicentre trials,
 engage with patient/public partners. This often means including patients as members of the
 multidisciplinary team of co-applicants, but also includes PPIE members in trial management
 groups and oversight committees. NCTU’s National Advisory Group includes two PPIE
 members.

 4.4. Support for international collaboration
 The University of Nottingham is proud of its international reach, with campuses in Malaysia and
 China and offices and collaborations globally. The School of Medicine introduced a new role of
 Global Engagement Lead in 2015 to promote, monitor and assess potential for further
 international engagement. The School is an active member of the Universitas21 Health Sciences
 group which provides our students and staff with opportunities for collaborative research,
 information exchange, and sharing resources. It also facilitates research exchanges for students
 and staff. Colleagues in our unit have benefitted from Universitas21, facilitating study visits for
 students and staff between Nottingham and New Zealand.

 The University of Nottingham launched an initiative in 2016 to address major public health
 challenges in China through research, education and training. Nottingham Health China
 facilitates interactions between UK and China based researchers and clinicians, contributing to
 the provision of healthcare education in China by providing high quality programmes tailored to
 China’s healthcare sector needs and engaging with both the government and the Chinese
 private sector. Our new Nottingham Health China Institute, launched in November 2018 and led
 by colleagues in this unit, enables cross-campus multi-disciplinary work in evidence-based
 health care both in China and the UK. We have launched the GRADE centre in Ningbo to
 provide expertise on clinical guideline writing in China and internationally; this is only the 10th
 GRADE centre in the world.

 4.5. Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences

 4.5.1. Policy and guideline development
 Each of our three research themes makes important contributions to the development of clinical
 guidance and health policy. Examples include:

 Lifestyle influences on health:
 • Two key reports have informed government policy on tobacco control. These reports are
     multi-author, multi-institution and led from Nottingham. Our research environment and



                                                                                                   Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     combination of clinical and public health skills made production of these reports uniquely
     possible in Nottingham:
        - Tobacco Advisory Group of the Royal College of Physicians. Nicotine without smoke:
            Tobacco harm reduction. Royal College of Physicians, 2016.
        - Tobacco Advisory Group of the Royal College of Physicians. Hiding in plain sight:
            Treating tobacco dependency in the NHS. Royal College of Physicians, 2018.
 •   Research along with a written report to the National Offender Management Service
     contributed to the decision for English prisons to go smoke free in 2016. (Letter from Prisons
     Minister Andrew Selous to Robert Neill MP, Chairman of the Justice Select Committee
     regarding smoking in prisons. 2015).

 Epidemiology:
 • An Injury Prevention Briefing (Preventing unintentional injuries to the under-fives: a guide for
    practitioners, 2014) was endorsed by NICE and available on their website linked to
    guidelines PH29/30. The Briefing is extensively cited in PHE’s “Preventing unintentional
    injuries - A guide for all staff working with children under five years 2017” and in module 2 of
    the Institute of Health Visiting online training package (2015) on child accident prevention for
    health visitors.
 • A series of Lancet Commission reports paved the way to bring early diagnosis of liver
    disease to the forefront of thinking. These reports are multi-author, multi-institution but the
    early diagnosis initiatives are pioneered from Nottingham:
        - Lancet Commission into Liver Disease in the UK 2018-present
        - Unacceptable failures: the final report of the Lancet Commission into liver disease in
             the UK. Lancet 2019 doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(19)32908-3
     As a result, the Royal College of General Practitioners and NICE have published guidance
     on diagnosing liver disease using the novel Nottingham pathway as the exemplar:
        - NICE guideline on diagnosing liver disease (NG50).
        - RCGP/British Liver Trust Liver Clinical Priority Project (Commissioning Pathways
             Group) 2018- present.

 Health of the public:
 • The Medicine Safety research group have undertaken a considerable amount of work with
    NHS England and NHS Improvement, including:
    a) NHS England and the Academic Health Sciences Network to facilitate the national rollout
        of our PINCER prescribing safety intervention.
    b) NHS England on the creation of the Medication Safety: indicators for safer prescribing
        dashboard.
    c) NHS Improvement to develop strategies for improving patient safety in primary care
        based on the findings of our DHSC-funded study on avoidable harm in primary care.
 • Several colleagues contribute to NICE guideline development, informing clinical practice in
    areas such as atrial fibrillation (Tagger), familial hypercholesterolemia (Qureshi) and
    research recommendations in diabetic foot disease (Vedhara).
 • Leading governance roles held by J Van-Tam:
        - Member of WHO pandemic committee (2019–current).
        - Department of Health, Deputy Chief Medical Officer (2017-22).
        - Member of SAGE (Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies).




                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        -   Chair of NERVTAG (New and Emerging Respiratory Virus Threat Advisory Group)
            which advised the UK government on the threat posed by new and emerging
            respiratory viruses (2013-2017).
 •   Qureshi leads the disparities subgroup at Genome England with the remit to improve access
     to genomic services by underserved communities.
 •   Nellums has been a member of the Expert Consortium on Refugee and Migrant Health since
     2018, the European Society for Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases Study Group
     on Infections in Travellers and Migrants since 2016, and the American Public Health
     Association (APHA) Caucus for Refugee and Immigrant Health since 2012 (Chair 2018-to
     date).
 •   Montgomery is a member of Executive Group for Trials Methodology Research Partnership,
     advancing methodology, developing capacity and reducing research waste in clinical trials.

 4.5.2. Editorial boards, grant committees, and advisory panels
 Colleagues across the unit are involved in several editorial boards, grant committees and
 advisory panels.

 Editorial boards

     Journal Name                             Role
     Addiction                                Senior Editor (Coleman, 2011-current)
     BMC Pregnancy and Childbirth             Associate Editor (Cooper, 2017-current)
     British Journal of Dermatology           Associate Statistical Editor (Leonardi-Bee,
                                              2017-current)
     Cochrane Skin Group                      Statistical Editor (Grainge, 2017-current)
     Cochrane Diagnostic Test Accuracy        Editorial Team (Grainge, 2013-current;
                                              Leonardi-Bee, 2013-current)
     Influenza and other Respiratory          Van-Tam
     Viruses                                  • Editor in Chief (2014-2017)
                                              • Senior Editor (2007-2014)
     Injury Prevention                        Associate Editor (Kendrick, 2005-2019)
     International Journal of Pharmacy        Board Member (Avery, 2001-current)
     Practice
     International Journal of Environmental   Guest editorship of special edition on Smoking
     Research and Public Health               Cessation in Pregnancy and Postpartum
                                              (Cooper, Orton, Campbell, 2019-2020)

     Joanna Briggs Institute Database of      Senior Associate Editor (Leonardi-Bee, 2019-
     Systematic Reviews and                   current)
     Implementation Reports                   Associate Editor (Leonardi-Bee, 2018-2019)
     Journal of Community Genetics            Editorial Board (Qureshi, 2017-current)
     Nicotine and Tobacco Research            Deputy Editor (Langley, 2017-current)
     PLOS Medicine                            Statistical Methods Editor (Weng, 2019-2020)
     PLOS ONE                                 Academic Editor (Ayling, 2017)
     Public Health                            Morling
                                              • Co-Editor in Chief (2020-current)
                                              • Senior Associate Editor (2015-2019)
                                              • Associate Editor (2015-2016)

                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     Public Health in Practice                Co-Editor in Chief (Morling, 2019-current)
     Thorax                                   Statistical Editors (McKeever, 2004-2015;
                                              Gibson, 2009-2017)
     Tobacco Control                          Associate Editor (Coleman, 2015-current)

 Grant Committees

     Funder                                   Role
     Cancer Research UK                       • Vice Chair, Tobacco Advisory Board
                                                 (Lewis, 2015-current)
     Department of Health Policy Research     • Funding Committee Member
     Programme                                   (Kai, 2020-current)
     NIHR Health Services & Delivery          • Funding Board member
     Research (HS&DR)                            (Lewis, 2016-current)
     NIHR Health Technology Assessment        • Clinical Evaluation & Trials Funding Board
                                                 Member (Montgomery, 2015-current)
                                              • Clinical Evaluation & Trials Funding Board
                                                 Member (Coleman, 2015-current)
     NIHR Programme Grants for Applied        • NIHR Programme Grant Panel Member
     Research (PGfAR)                            (Vedhara, 2010-2016)
     NIHR Research for Patient Benefit        • Funding committee member
     (RfPB)                                       (Taggar, 2017-2019)
                                              • East Midlands Regional Advisory
                                                 Committee (Grainge, 2015-2018;
                                                 Coleman, 2012-2015)
     NIHR School for Primary Care             • Board/Funding Committee Member
     Research (SPCR)                             (Kai 2016-Current; Avery 2009-2015)
                                              • Training Committee Member
                                                 (Qureshi, 2011- current)
     NIHR Health Technology Assessment        • Member (Montgomery, 2015-current)
     Programme Clinical Evaluation & Trials
     Funding Committee
     Yorkshire Cancer Research Advisory     •     Panel Member (Vedhara, 2016-2019)
     Panel

 Advisory panels:
 • Weng serves on the CPRD Independent Scientific Advisory Panel (2017-current).
 • Coupland is on the QResearch Advisory Board (2018-current).

 4.6. Wider activities, contributions to research base, economy and society

 4.6.1. Public engagement
 Our outreach activities are multiple and varied with excellent and increasing participation. For
 example, an audit in 2015, revealed that 88% of female and 77% of male academics, and all
 levels of staff including PGRs in the School of Medicine engaged in public outreach. Outreach is
 recognised in appraisal, workload planning, and promotions. Engagement activities include
 public engagement, media, mentoring work experience students, and participation in the
 Wellcome Trust funded INSPIRE programme for medical students.

                                                                                           Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Public engagement examples:
 • Smoking in Pregnancy group: stall at the University’s Wonderfest in 2017, a large biennial
    community engagement event aimed at families, which attracts over 7000 people. Activities
    included ‘What’s your lung capacity?’, ‘What’s your CO reading?’, a smoking health related
    quiz and colouring sheets.
 • Presentations at the Nottingham Pint of Science festival:
        - “E-cigarettes: Public Health’s Friend or Foe?” May 2017 (Langley)
        - Psychology, Behaviour, and Immunity: “Can How We Feel Affect Our Body’s
           Response to Vaccination?” May 2019 (Ayling)
        - Myth Busting: Trust Me, I'm a Doctor (of science) – “Unicorns are real and E-
           cigarettes cause popcorn lung!” May 2019 (Johnston, PhD student)
 • Qureshi led an outreach event for school aged children in Nottingham urban areas for
    consideration of a career in medicine or allied health (2019).
 • 30th Erasmus Darwin Memorial Lecture (LSES.org.uk): Thinking the unthinkable: Influenza
    Pandemic Preparedness and Response’. November 2018 (Nguyen-Van-Tam).

 4.6.2. Media engagement
 Colleagues across this unit work closely with the University’s Press Office to ensure widespread
 dissemination of our latest research findings to the public. In this REF period, our research has
 resulted in extensive media interactions covering print and broadcast media. Examples include:

 Lifestyle influences on health:
 • Langley was interviewed and her research (Public Information Films) cited by high profile
     media including The Economist (January 2015) and on Radio 4 ‘You and Yours’ (February
     2015).
 • Jones had media engagements with several radio stations, and the BBC News Website
     regarding his restarting smoking postpartum research.
 • Murray’s publication [doi:10.1136/tobaccocontrol-2017-054125] highlighting exposure of
     branded and unbranded tobacco imagery in a reality television programme led to
     considerable media interest and a positive change in that the 2018 show had no tobacco
     imagery in its broadcasts.

 Epidemiology:
 • Coupland’s paper on risk of dementia associated with anticholinergic drugs
    [doi:10.1001/jamainternmed.2019.0677] had extensive media coverage (international
    newspapers, CNN News, BBC News website, BBC radio 4 news bulletins) across 27
    countries, with an estimated reach of 413 million people and media value of £3.8m. It was
    the second most viewed paper online across all JAMA journals in one year from 2018 (over
    250,000 views).
 • A publication on trends in poisonings among adolescents [doi:10.1136/injuryprev-2015-
    041901] received considerable media attention, including the BBC Radio 4 Today
    Programme (May 2016) and BBC Breakfast. This study was reported by a total of 82 media
    outlets, with an estimated reach of almost 36 million people and media value of over £496k.

 Health of the public:
 • The Biobehavioural group’s work on the effects of positive mood on influenza vaccination
    effectiveness [doi: 10.1016/j.bbi.2017.09.008] was reported by national and international

                                                                                           Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     news organisations (e.g. The Times [Front Page] and other international newspapers), radio
     (including Today Programme, BBC radio 4), and television. The Advertising Value Equivalent
     of the Coverage was estimated to be over £4 million (Meltwater).
 •   Research on psychological interventions to promote wound healing
     [doi.org/10.1016/j.bbi.2016.11.025] was featured on All in the Mind (BBC Radio 4).

 4.6.3. Awards, prizes and fellowships

 Major awards:
 • Avery:
        - Winner of NHS70 Award for Midlands and East for the category ‘Excellence in
            Primary Care’ (2018). National competition from UK parliament to celebrate the 70th
            Anniversary of the NHS.
        - James MacKenzie Lecturer Silver Medal (2016) presented at the Royal College of
            General Practitioners Annual General Meeting; it is one of the highest honours in
            academic general practice to be invited to give the annual James MacKenzie Lecture.
 • Britton:
        - British Thoracic Society Medal (2018): given for activity in relation to tobacco control,
            including chairing the RCP London’s Tobacco Control Committee, leading many
            game-changing reports and helping to reduce smoking in the UK.
        - Royal College of Physicians President’s medal (2018): for notable service to the
            College.
 • Avery and Coleman:
        - NIHR Senior Investigator Awards. Awarded to the ‘most prominent and prestigious
            researchers funded by NIHR and the most outstanding leaders of patient and people-
            based research within the NIHR Faculty’ (2018-2023).
 • Vedhara:
        - Fellow of Academy of Social Science (2015).

 Major prizes:
 • Coupland/Hippisley-Cox: RCGP research paper of the year 2017 (Category 2). BMJ 2017
    doi:10.1136/bmj.j2099.
 • Vinogradova: awarded best UK research paper published in the BMJ 2019 doi:
    10.1136/bmj.k4810.
 • Montgomery: Royal College of General Practitioners (RCGP) Research Paper of the Year
    Award - Cancer Category (2015) doi: 10.3399/bjgp15X684829.
 • Morling: Health Service Journal Awards, Improving the Value of Diagnostic Services Award
    Winner - The Scarred Liver Project (research team award), May 2019.
 • Weng - 2019 NAPCRG Pearl for the presentation entitled “A novel clinical algorithm to
    predict low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) response for statin management”.

 Fellowships:
 During this REF period, our unit has had 10 NIHR fellowships (£1.8m), two Cancer Research UK
 fellowship (£1.1m), an MRC Fellowship and a Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh Clinical
 Research Fellowship.




                                                                                           Page 25
