Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Cambridge

 Unit of Assessment: 09 (Physics and Astronomy)


 1: Context and structure, research and impact strategy

 CONTEXT AND OVERVIEW
 The Cavendish Laboratory (the Department of Physics) and the Institute of Astronomy (IoA)
 together constitute one of the world’s foremost centres of research in physics and astronomy.
 We host 81 permanent academic staff, 233 postdoctoral researchers and 390 doctoral students.
 Distinguished competitive research fellowships have been awarded to 131 of our scientists since
 August 2013. Together these create a vibrant and stimulating research environment.
 Examples of outstanding research contributions since the REF2014 include:
    •    precise determination of cosmological parameters from the ESA PLANCK Mission;
    •    GAIA measurements of the positions and motions of stars in the Milky Way with
         unprecedented precision uncovering hitherto unknown structures within our Galaxy;
     • direct searches for new particles and measurements of rare B-meson decays placing
         limits on physics Beyond the Standard Model;
     • discovery of new states of matter at ultrahigh pressures, low temperatures and strong
         magnetic fields;
     • development of computer codes to provide full quantum mechanical models of very large
         molecules and their interactions;
     • new perovskite light emitters and absorbers unlocking charge transport physics and
         devices;
     • development of spintronic devices for ultrafast magnetic switching;
     • confinement of visible light on scales smaller than the size of an atom exploring
         molecule-metal interfaces;
     • folded 2D materials trapping electrons to create qubits for quantum sensing;
     • folding DNA into 3D shapes creating filters and sensors for biomolecules;
     • experimental and theoretical discoveries of new organising principles in far-from-
         equilibrium quantum many-body systems.
 Our research culture embraces challenging new areas, very often involving strong collaborations
 with other academic disciplines and institutions, while maintaining a powerful core of traditional
 areas of physics and astronomy. 32% of our research output is classified as multidisciplinary,
 meaning collaboration with other disciplines such as chemistry, materials and biology.
 Collaborations with industry and national and international bodies are essential features of our
 contributions to the many global challenges facing society.
 Highlights of other developments since the REF 2014 include:
    •   twenty-five appointments to the tenured academic staff with 17 men and eight women
        appointees;
    •   three elections to Fellowship of the Royal Society (Hills, Queloz and Teichmann) and one
        to Fellowship of the Academy of Medical Sciences (Teichmann);
    •   two Royal Society Research Professorships (Simons, Sirringhaus) and a Research
        Professorship of the Royal Academy of Engineering (Cole);
    •   EU/ERC Awards include eight Advanced Grants, one Synergy Grant, three Proof of
        Concept Grants, six Consolidators Grants and five Starter Grants and five Future and
        Emerging Technologies Grants;
    •   Centres for Doctoral Training in Nanoscience (Baumberg) (now i4nano), Computational
        Methods for Materials Science (Nikiforakis) and Data Intensive Sciences (Gilmore);
    •   the opening of the Battcock Centre for Experimental Astrophysics (2013), consolidating
        collaboration between the Cavendish and the IoA;


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •  the opening of the interdisciplinary Maxwell Centre for collaboration between Industry
        and fundamental physics (2016).
 Perhaps most exciting, and critical for the future strength of the Laboratory, is the construction of
 the Ray Dolby Centre which began in late 2018 on a neighbouring green-field site at a cost of
 £303M. Due to be opened in 2022-23, the Centre will complete the rebuilding of the new
 Cavendish Laboratory. It will be a national facility for physics, resulting in even closer
 collaboration with the national and international physics communities.

 Research Structure

 The Cavendish and the IoA are separate departments within the University’s School of Physical
 Sciences. In 2018 the Cavendish International Advisory Board (IAB) was established,
 comprising senior members of the UK and international physics community. It meets annually
 and provides advice on the future programme, including proposals for appointments and
 strategic investments.




                                                                                   Energy Materials
                                   Cosmology (AP)




                                                                                                                  Systems(AFCS)
   Table 1.           Research
                                   Astrophysics &




                                                                   Physics (BBP)
                                                    Physics(HEP)




                                                                                                                                  Measurement
                                                    High Energy




                                                                                                      Phenomena


                                                                                                                    Assembly &
                                                                    Biological &
                                     Astronomy,




                                                                                                                    Function of
                                                                    Biomedical




                                                                                                                                   Devices &
                        Theme




                                                                                                       Emergent
                                                                                                       Quantum




                                                                                                                                   Quantum
                                                                                                                     Complex




                                                                                                                                    (QDM)
                                                                                                        (EQP)
                                                                                        (EM)
  Research
  Group


  Astrophysics (AP)
  Atomic, Mesoscopic &
  Optical Physics (AMOP)
  Biological and Soft Systems
  (BSS)
  High Energy Physics (HEP)
  Nanophotonics (NP)
  Optoelectronics (OE)
  Microelectronics (ME)
  Molecular Engineering
  (Meng)
  Quantum Matter (QM)
  Quantum Sensors (QS)
  Laboratory for Scientific
  Computing (LSC)
  Semiconductor Physics (SP)
  Surface, Microstructure and
  Fracture (SMF)
  Theory of Condensed Matter
  (TCM)
  Thin Film Magnetism (TFM)
  Collaborative/interdisciplinary research and training centres
  Centre for Scientific
  Computing (CSC)
  Kavli Institute for Cosmology
  (KICC)
  Cambridge Exo-planets
  Research Centre (CERC)
  Centre for the Physics of
  Medicine (CPOM)
  Maxwell Centre (MC)
  Nanoscience DTC (Nano
  CDT now i4nano)
  Data Intensive Science CDT
  (CDT Big Data)


 Since 2018, Cavendish research strategy has been realigned under seven Strategic Research
 Themes with the intention of enhancing collaboration across the numerous Research Groups

                                                                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Research Centres, which provide the focus for specific research projects. The relations
 between the themes, groups and centres are shown in Table 1. The themes are well matched to
 the UKRI‘s Industrial Strategy Challenges - quantum technologies, decarbonisation, the electric
 revolution, smart manufacturing and disease detection – as well as the four EPSRC Grand
 Challenges – Emergence and Physics Far From Equilibrium; Quantum Physics for New
 Quantum Technologies; Nanoscale Design of Functional Materials; Understanding the Physics
 of Life.


 REVIEW OF REF2014 PLANS
 Priority areas for investment described in the REF2014 have flourished, often exceeding our
 expectations.
 Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics (AMOP) The Group has capitalised upon the huge
 potential for impact in many areas of quantum technology. Atature won an ERC Consolidator
 award for work in solid state quantum experiments. New appointments include Schneider
 (topological optical lattices) and Knowles (quantum sensors based on nano-diamonds). A spin-
 out company, NuQuantum, offering single photon devices for quantum communications,
 attracted £650k seed-funding in 2019.
 The Winton Programme in the Physics of Sustainability has been highly successful in
 addressing many physics aspects of the sustainability agenda in innovative ways. Project
 director Friend has led research in solar technology, directs Cambridge Photon Technology Ltd.
 and leads efforts on materials for low energy electronics through the Royce Institute. Dutton
 leads a Faraday Institution project on battery degradation and is a Deputy Director of the
 EPSRC SuperGEN Network Plus on energy storage. Sebastian works on high temperature
 superconductors for energy applications. Since 2014, ten Winton Advanced Research Fellows
 and 43 Winton Scholars (25 men and 18 women) have been supported. Rao (ultra-fast
 spectroscopy for energy materials) and Ciccarelli (spintronics) have been appointed to
 Lectureships. Seven Winton Fellows gained permanent employment in Cambridge and five at
 other universities. The Winton Pump Prime scheme, encouraging ’high risk/high reward’
 projects, awarded 29 grants of up to £50k, the majority being collaborative across groups and
 departments. Fourteen are led by Early Career Researchers.
 Collaborative astrophysical research has been greatly enhanced by the co-location of the
 Cavendish’s Battcock Centre for Experimental Astrophysics, the Kavli Institute for Cosmology
 Cambridge (KICC) and the IoA. The KICC facilitates joint activities with the Department of
 Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics (DAMTP) in the fields of cosmology and
 exoplanets, in advanced astronomical technologies and access to telescopes and space
 missions. Of the cohort of 23 Kavli Fellows during the REF2021 period, 11 have moved on to
 tenure-track positions. The appointments at Professorial level of Maiolino and Queloz have
 resulted in much stronger collaborations between the Cavendish and the IoA than ever before.
 Maiolino was appointed Director of the KICC in 2016, succeeding Efstathiou.
 The Maxwell Centre, to enhance the long-term involvement and collaboration of industrial
 partners in research, was opened in 2016, providing offices for 260 staff, students and
 collaborators and state-of-the-art research laboratories. Welland took over as Centre Director
 from Friend in 2019. There are now six full-time resident companies (ARM, NPL, NuQuantum,
 Ovako, Sorex Sensors and Talga Technologies), and over 40 individuals from 15 companies
 such as Alphasense, Artemis Technologies, BT, IBM, IP Group, LGC, Magna International and
 Silicon Microgravity have benefited from part time access and hot-desking.
 The Centre for Scientific Computing led by Nikiforakis has grown industrial partnerships with,
 among others, Boeing, Orica, AWE, Qinetiq and Jaguar Land Rover. In 2019 a major gift
 resulted in the Gianna Angelopoulos Programme for Science, Technology and Innovation
 (GAPSTI), supporting four academic positions, two support staff and 15 PhD studentships in the
 fields of energy materials and devices, computational multiphysics and bioengineering. Of the



                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 two academic posts, Jasak was appointed to a Lectureship in Scientific Computing and Bale to
 a joint lectureship in bio-compatible materials and biomechanics with Engineering.
 Physical Biology is a strategic focus across the University. Cavendish research interests
 include the design of novel molecular imaging strategies for clinical application (Bohndiek),
 microfluidics (Cicuta), optical manipulation techniques (Euser), single-molecule microscopy,
 DNA origami and the fabrication of artificial ion channels (Keyser) and biofilms (Fusco).
 Theoretical activities include the development of novel image processing strategies for biological
 and clinical applications, bioinformatics, biological (and social) network analysis, evolutionary
 dynamics, and biophysical modelling (Cicuta, Croze, Fusco, Terentjev). Simons holds his
 Royal Society Research Professorship in DAMTP during a five-year period of leave, applying
 statistical methods from physics to biological problems. In 2016, Teichmann co-founded the
 Human Cell Atlas consortium to map the trillions of cells in the body. The impact is expected to
 be at least as significant as the human genome project.
 The Centre for the Physics of Medicine participates in collaborative activities with partners
 across and beyond the University, including the Wellcome Trust-MRC Cambridge Stem Cell
 Institute, the Cancer Research UK Cambridge Institute, the Wellcome Trust-CRUK Gurdon
 Institute, the Departments of Chemistry, Genetics, Physiology, Development and Neuroscience
 and Zoology, the Clinical School, the Vet School, the Sainsbury Laboratory, the Wolfson Brain
 Imaging Centre, the EMBL European Bioinformatics Institute and the Wellcome Trust Sanger
 Institute.

 The reconstruction of the Cavendish Laboratory will be completed in 2022/23, thanks to
 philanthropic, government and University funding. (see Section 3).


 FUTURE RESEARCH PROGRAMME
 The future research programmes are surveyed by theme involving all the Groups and Centres
 shown in Table 1.
 Astronomy, Astrophysics and Cosmology (AP and IoA)
 The STFC strongly supports UK leadership in the future development of the world’s largest
 telescopes, the European Extremely Large Telescope (E-ELT), the Large Synoptic Survey
 Telescope (LSST) and the Square Kilometre Array (SKA). These are key elements of the
 departments’ future strategy.
 Extragalactic astronomy is a major strength with active observational programmes in high-
 redshift quasars and their host galaxies (Hewett, McMahon), quasar absorption lines (Pettini)
 and star formation across cosmic time (Maiolino). The study of newly-discovered active galactic
 nuclei from all sky surveys (UKIDSS, SDSS and VISTA) will be transformed by observations with
 the forthcoming optical facilities as well as the JWST, 4MOST and Euclid projects. Data
 processing for the petascale optical datasets will be carried out by the Cambridge Astronomical
 Survey Unit (CASU). Theoretical support will be provided by Sijacki (structure formation) and
 Haehnelt (reionization).

 Complementary observational studies of the epoch of reionisation will be undertaken by the
 REACH project (Lera Acedo) in South Africa, a precursor for the mapping of the reionisation
 epoch by the SKA. Fialkov’s appointment enhances expertise in 21cm cosmology. Alexander
 led the Cambridge Big Data Strategic Research Initiative, now the Cambridge Centre for Data-
 Driven Discovery. The Astrophysics Group is leading the design of the Square Kilometre Array
 (SKA) computer and software system, one of the most advanced data analytics systems ever
 deployed in a large-scale science experiment.
 Within the Battcock Centre, new capabilities in optical and infrared astronomy are strongly
 supported (Buscher, Haniff). MOONS, an NIR multi-fibre spectrometer for the VLT, will provide
 a powerful tool for studying galaxy evolution, the high-redshift universe and the structure of the



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Milky Way. Maiolino is Project Scientist with about 40 scientists from six countries involved.
 Other projects include HARPS3 for planet finding and HIRES for the E-ELT.
 The Cambridge Exoplanet Research Centre (CERC), led by Queloz, involves researchers
 from AP, the IoA and DAMTP. The IoA hosts theorists working on exoplanet atmospheres
 (Madhusudhan), protoplanetary disks (Clarke) and debris disks (Wyatt), as well joint-appointee
 Shorttle between the IoA and Earth Sciences and instrumentalists developing next-generation
 direct imaging techniques (Parry). There are strong connections with the stellar astrophysics
 group (Tout). The Universal Life initiative aims to understand pre-biotic chemistry in
 exoplanetary systems though collaboration with the Laboratory of Molecular Biology. Queloz
 and his colleagues are involved in future national and international instrumentation and satellite
 projects such as NGTS, SPECULOOS, CHEOPS and the Terra Hunting Experiment.
 Near-field cosmology is focused on the Gaia mission with Gilmore, the UK PI of the Gaia data
 processing and analysis consortium, leading highly successful programmes probing the
 structure, dynamics and history of the Milky Way and its halo and the structure and dynamics of
 local group dwarf galaxies (Gilmore, Belokurov, Evans). These efforts exploit the infrastructure
 provided by CASU (N.Walton, Worley), positioning the IoA to play key roles in the future LSST,
 WEAVE and 4MOST projects.
 The IoA maintains a strong programme in high-energy astrophysics, exploiting X-ray data from
 NASA, ESA, and JAXA facilities (Fabian, Reynolds, D.Walton). Significant advances are being
 made in the understanding of stellar and supermassive black holes, neutron stars and feedback
 processes in clusters of galaxies. These activities are supported by theoretical studies of
 relativistic accretion disks (Reynolds) and black hole feedback in galaxies and galaxy clusters
 (Reynolds, Sijacki). Time-domain astronomy will include studies of type-1a supernovae
 (Mandel) and fast radio bursts (Fialkov).

 Cosmology and studies of large scale structure formation are fostered at the KICC
 particularly through the exploitation of cosmic microwave background (CMB) temperature and
 polarization data (Efstathiou, Challinor, Gratton). Both departments are closely involved in the
 next generation of CMB experiments.

 High Energy Physics (HEP)
 Research is focused on experiments at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) at CERN, the neutrino
 facilities at Fermilab and R&D activities for future collider projects, supported by a team of
 theorists. Cavendish facilities are used to develop HEP detectors, their readout electronics and
 data acquisition and monitoring systems. The future research programme is well-aligned with
 2020 European Strategy for Particle Physics.
 ATLAS is the largest experiment at the LHC. The Group makes major contributions to the
 Semiconductor Tracker and Inner Detector (ID), having lead roles in the Inner Tracker (ITK)
 (Hommels) and Level-1 Calorimeter Trigger upgrades. Robinson, ID project leader and deputy
 ITK project leader, sits on the Executive Board. Batley oversees the ATLAS Standard Model
 Physics group and coordinates the Z to 4 leptons group. Potter, Brandt, Lester and Williams
 play leading roles in the continuing search for Beyond the Standard Model (BSM) physics.
 Future priorities are to understand the Higgs sector more deeply, to search for dark matter and
 to continue the search for evidence for supersymmetry. Potter is coordinator of the four lepton
 SUSY analysis and High-luminosity LHC SUSY groups. This activity is strengthened by the
 appointment of Brandt as convenor of the Dark Matter Group and the BSM Higgs group.

 The LHCb experiment at the LHC involves studies of matter-antimatter asymmetries and
 searches for BSM Physics in heavy quark (B and D hadron) decays led by Gibson, who
 currently chairs the LHCb Collaboration Board. The HEP group leads the global particle
 identification for LHCb (Jones) and the development of the electronics readout for the two RICH
 detectors (Wotton). Science priorities include precise measurements of the CP-violating phase
 γ, and resolving the significance of the current lepton flavour non-universality anomalies in B-
 meson decays by measuring key rare decay channels (Alvarez-Cartelle). The breakthrough


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 discovery of BS decays into muon pairs strongly limits BSM physics (Bettler). The group also led
 studies of electroweak physics and QCD, accessing a new kinematic regime (Ward).

 The Group hosts the Phenomenology Working Group, bringing together experimentalists and
 theorists from the Cavendish and DAMTP, as well as international visitors and collaborators
 working on particle and astroparticle physics problems. Mitov is a world expert on top quark
 physics theory while Gripaios works at the cutting-edge of BSM Physics.

 The HEP group plays major roles in the MicroBoonE and the Deep Underground Neutrino
 Experiments (DUNE) at Fermilab. DUNE is the flagship of the US neutrino programme, seeking
 to resolve the mass spectrum of neutrinos and CP violation in the neutrino sector. Thomson
 pioneered the technique of particle flow algorithms, now central to the DUNE pattern recognition
 techniques (Whitehead). While co-spokesperson of DUNE, Thomson secured UK investment
 of £65M in the project. While Thomson serves as STFC Executive Chair, Uchida has been
 appointed to lead the neutrino group and develop the electronics readout for the DUNE Liquid-Ar
 TPC anode planes.
 Gibson, together with Schneider, are leading the Atom Interferometry Observatory and Network
 (AION) project which recently secured funding from the UKRI Quantum Technologies for
 Fundamental Physics programme to search for ultra-light dark matter and for the detection of
 gravitational waves. Gibson also joined the MAGIS experiment at Fermilab with Kavli support.
 The Cavendish team will develop the cold atom transport and final cooling stages for AION, the
 data readout and network capabilities for AION and MAGIS, and undertake data analysis and
 theoretical interpretation.
 Brandt is the initiator of the ANUBIS proposal, searching for long-lived neutral particles
 predicted in many extensions of the Standard Model. Gibson, Batley, Brandt, Lester and
 Potter will continue their leadership roles while Parker will continue to serve on the International
 Advisory Board for a CERN Future Circular Collider.
 Biological and Biomedical Physics (BBP)
 The application of physics to the life sciences and clinical practice spans a very wide range of
 topics, particularly in the development of new instruments and the theoretical underpinning of
 these disciplines. These areas, falling outside conventional disciplinary boundaries, require a
 collaborative, multidisciplinary approach. Using techniques from classical polymer physics, fluid
 dynamics, soft matter physics and the physics of condensed matter, impressive progress is
 being made in understanding biological systems from molecular to cell levels (Donald, Keyser,
 T.Knowles, Terentjev), at tumour and organ levels (Bohndiek) and from host-pathogen
 (Cicuta) to more complex communities (Croze, Fusco). Optics, automation and microfluidics
 are the foundational technologies for much of this work. Future technological developments
 include single strand sequencing and custom imaging approaches, as well as emergent
 phenomena in biology as they occur from the genome, epigenome and transcriptome of single
 cells, through biomimetic synthetic biology systems up to laboratory-scale ecology.

 New approaches in video and image processing (Cicuta) and biosensor technologies
 (Bohndiek) are being deployed from airway physiology, of relevance for understanding the
 impact of COVID-19, to tumour detection. In the area of imaging devices, the BBS theme has
 been expanded with Bale’s joint appointment with Engineering.
 Simons has opened up new areas of quantitative, multidisciplinary research in developmental
 and cancer biology. Using concepts from scaling theory and population dynamics, new avenues
 for therapeutic intervention in cancer based on cell differentiation have been discovered. Ahnert
 and Teichmann use network theory to investigate the enumeration and classification of all
 possible protein complex topologies. A theoretical model of genotype-phenotype (GP) maps
 reproduces a number of global structural properties observed across a number of biological GP
 maps. Teichmann is co-founder of the Human Cell Atlas (HCA) international consortium, as
 noted above.



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Energy Materials (EM)
 The efficient and sustainable generation, storage, transmission and use of energy are arguably
 the key challenge facing society. This highly interdisciplinary field involves chemistry, materials
 science, engineering and biology. The Cambridge spoke of the Sir Henry Royce Institute (SHRI)
 focuses on materials for energy efficient information and communication technology. New solar
 cell materials, such as organic and hybrid organic/inorganic (perovskite) semiconductors, are
 being developed with the aim of approaching, and potentially exceeding, the Shockley-Queisser
 efficiency limit. New thermoelectric materials based on conjugated polymers or topological
 insulators may reach the efficiency of conventional heat-engines. More efficient light-emitting
 diodes based on high bandgap inorganic semiconductors and hybrid organic-inorganic
 semiconductors could reduce significantly the amount of energy used for lighting.
 Sirringhaus’ work on the charge transport physics of conjugated polymers resulted in a new
 generation of donor-acceptor copolymers which were commercialised by BASF and Merck KGA.
 These processes find application in flexible electronics and spintronics, particularly in thermo-
 electric waste heat conversion. The operational stability of organic field-effect transistors is now
 at levels comparable to those of conventional inorganic semiconductors. This technology is
 exploited by our industrial partner FlexEnable.
 Ciccarelli investigates spintronics systems in ferromagnets and antiferromagnets using
 magnetic resonance and ultrafast THz spectroscopy techniques in collaboration with the Hitachi
 Cambridge Laboratory. Sebastian investigates the new physics that will eventually allow
 superconductors to operate at room temperature, enabling essentially lossless transmission of
 electrical energy. Rao and Dutton are developing high-resolution optical microscopies to
 evaluate structural transformations and dynamics in battery electrodes.
 The Centre of Advanced Materials for Integrated Energy Systems (CAMIES) is an energy
 materials network investigating the materials requirements for the transition to a zero-carbon
 economy by 2050 (Friend, Greenham, Rao, Sirringhaus, Dutton). Friend leads the University-
 wide Energy Transitions@Cambridge, which is part of the Cambridge Zero programme, and
 which spans topics from hard science to policy. A new strategy for the Maxwell Centre, launched
 in October 2019, will focus on proactive support for the Cambridge Zero initiative.
 Emergent Quantum Phenomena (EQP)
 This theme spans many areas of experimental and theoretical research in atomic, electron and
 light-matter systems including new coherent quantum phenomena, ultra-cold atomic physics,
 quantum many-body systems and characterisation of complex functional materials.
 Hadzibabic specialises in novel collective quantum phenomena which can be studied using
 ultracold atomic gases as highly controllable, strongly correlated many-body systems. He has
 been awarded a Quantum Sensors for Fundamental Physics grant from the EPSRC entitled
 Quantum Simulators for Fundamental Physics. Current research in Atature’s group includes
 optical control of single and multiple quantum-dot spins, high-resolution spectroscopy of
 diamond-based emitters (H. Knowles), solid-state cavity-QED and nanoplasmonics.
 Schneider’s research focuses on topological optical lattices which are loaded with ultracold
 atoms. The resulting periodic optical potentials play the role of the electrostatic potential felt by
 electrons in a conventional solid, resulting in a quantum simulator for condensed matter physics.
 Baumberg and Euser study quantum systems embedded in a variety of nanophotonic
 resonators.
 Dutton, Grosche, Lonzarich, Rowley, Sebastian, Saxena and Sutherland address
 coherence phenomena in correlated electron systems, such as unconventional
 superconductivity and magnetism, and investigate quantum phase transitions, low-dimensional
 materials, structural instabilities and quantum functional materials, for example for cryogenic
 refrigeration. The group’s laboratories access extremes of magnetic field (20.4 Tesla), low
 temperature (1 mK) and pressure (300 kbar). The Advanced Materials Characterisation Suite in
 the Maxwell Centre houses state-of-the-art facilities for the structural, electrical and magnetic
 characterisation of complex functional materials.



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Theoretical work on novel quantum phases of matter addresses topological systems and out-of-
 equilibrium phenomena. Castelnovo is an expert on frustrated magnetism and glassy dynamics,
 Cooper on cold atomic gases and open quantum systems, Béri on interacting topological
 phases and Slager on topological crystalline materials.
 Underpinned by this wide-ranging expertise, the research direction adjusts itself to emerging
 collaborative opportunities. Current priorities include quantum many-body systems far from
 equilibrium, involving pioneering studies in atomic physics (Hadzibabic, Schneider), in
 magnetic materials (Grosche, Sebastian) and in theory (Castelnovo, Cooper). Topologically
 ordered systems and their consequences for quantum information and quantum computing are
 studied theoretically (Béri, Castelnovo), and experimentally in semiconductor nanostructures
 (Ritchie). Ritchie runs an MBE topological Insulator growth system as part of the Royce
 initiative, with Barnes, Ford and Smith also studying topological insulators with theoretical
 expertise provided by Slager and Monserrat.
 Assembly and Function of Complex Systems (AFCS)
 This theme concerns how novel function arises in condensed matter through the assembly of
 molecular and nano-scale components into complex systems. In contrast to the 'emergent
 quantum phenomena' theme, the primary focus is on the emergence and control of structural,
 dynamical and optical behaviour from the nanoscale through the mesoscale to macroscopically
 observable phenomena. The theme encompasses many aspects of soft matter physics and the
 physics of biological systems. The activity is underpinned by the CDT in Nanoscience which will
 support more than 100 PhD students until 2028 through £6M third tranche funding.
 Baumberg leads a wide range of activities in nanophotonics, specialising in constructing nano-
 materials with unusual interactions with light on a huge range of physical scales. These range
 from those that can be fabricated on a large scale, leading to practical use in kilometre-scale
 polymer opals, to exploring light confined to 1nm volumes or less, probing single molecules and
 reactions. Euser studies nanoscale light-matter interactions, including optical, thermal and fluidic
 forces using novel optical techniques based on optofluidic waveguides and spatial light
 modulators to study such interactions in a highly-controlled way. Joint sensing work on batteries
 is funded by the Faraday Institution, in collaboration with many industrial partners.
 Construction of nanoscale systems with different components programmatically nano-assembled
 with DNA is a major strength together with nano-assembly (Keyser, Eiser, Baumberg). Other
 important areas include sensing and nano-microfluidic techniques (T.Knowles, Cicuta) for
 identifying trace proteins, pathogens, and hormones. Strength continues in functional polymer
 science, advanced materials and composite and granular materials (Warner, Terentjev,
 Donald). Warner started a revolution in shape-programmable materials drivable by light and
 heat, using differential geometry to engineer evolution to states of changed Gaussian curvature.
 Terentjev’s work on new liquid crystal elastomer materials for use as mechanical actuators led
 to the start-up company, Cambridge Smart Plastics.
 The theme involves strong collaboration with other Departments in the Schools of Physical
 Sciences, Technology and the Biological Sciences. The bottom-up assembly of functional
 systems has great potential for further coordination and synergy. Collaborations with both
 Chemistry and DAMTP, for example, are thriving in both experimental and theoretical soft
 matter. A major future direction is the construction of nanomachines.
 Quantum Devices and Measurements (QDM)
 This theme concerns the development of materials, devices and systems in which quantum and
 spin phenomena can be controlled for technological applications.
 Ritchie uses MBE facilities to study two-dimensional electron and hole gases, quantum
 transport in low-dimensional structures and the use of terahertz radiation in quantum devices.
 The programme includes self-assembled InAs quantum dots and single and entangled photon
 sources for quantum information. Smith studies quantum phenomena using novel low-
 temperature probes, as well as investigating the physics of nano-MEMS devices and spin
 injection in semiconductors. He has created a ‘laboratory on a chip’ for micro-fluidic pumping.
 Ford uses surface acoustic waves passing through narrow channels to move and process

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 quantum bits (‘qubits’) of information. He is pioneering the generation and detection of single
 photons with Surface Acoustic Waves (SAWs) and using them to move single-electron quantum
 dots.
 Theoretical collaboration includes Béri’s work on interacting Majorana fermion systems, with
 new results on the topological Kondo effect, a paradigm for demonstrating Majorana-based
 topological qubits, now on the experimental roadmap for Microsoft/Delft. In collaboration with
 Hitachi, Nunnenkamp has introduced an innovative hybrid system called ‘cavity
 optomagnonics’, establishing Cambridge as a leader in the field.

 Jardine, Ellis and Avidor are developing a new form of microscope using neutral helium
 atoms. Scanning helium microscopy (SHeM) has great promise for imaging samples which are
 damaged by conventional optical or electron microscopes. The dynamics of atoms and
 molecules on surfaces are observed on picosecond timescales and nanometre length-scales.
 Jardine investigates the fundamental processes which control the constitutive properties and
 failure of materials, a particular focus being atomic defects in diamond, and the development of
 damage in polycrystalline diamond, probed solid particle erosion and micromechanical testing.

 Cowburn’s team investigates nanoscale magnetism and spintronics, the aim being to create low
 energy computer chips, ultrahigh density three-dimensional data storage and healthcare
 devices. Barnes’ bespoke MBE systems enable his group to study a wide variety of materials
 systems from magnetic oxides to topological insulators. His Environmental Physics Group is
 collaborating with three Peruvian universities to develop practical methods of carrying out
 environmental impact studies in extreme environments.
 Sirringhaus and Ciccarelli study the charge and spin transport and photophysics of organic
 semiconductors as well as low-temperature processible hybrid organic-inorganic
 semiconductors. Rossi and Ferguson investigate spin states in silicon nanowires in
 collaboration with the Hitachi Cambridge Laboratory, leading to silicon-based quantum bits.
 Spin-based qubits are among the most robust implementations of quantum information. Hitachi
 aims to realise a silicon-based quantum computer by this means.
 Withington’s Quantum Sensors Group develops advanced instrumentation and ultra-low noise
 quantum electronics and sensors for fundamental physics, mostly at mm, submm and infrared
 wavelengths. The Group is developing superconducting imaging arrays for the ESA/JAXA far-
 infrared space telescope SPICA, and millimetre-wave chip spectrometers for space-based Earth
 observation. The Group collaborates with the NPL in various aspects of precision measurement,
 enhanced by the award of an EPSRC Quantum Sensors for Fundamental Physics grant entitled
 Quantum Engineering of Solid State Technology (QUES2T).
 Theory and Computation
 Theoretical and computational expertise in astrophysics, cosmology and high energy physics are
 provided within the associated research groups (AP: Lasenby, Hobson, HEP: Gripaios, Mitov
 and Webber). The Theory of Condensed Matter (TCM) group brings together 15 principal
 investigators working on diverse problems in collective quantum phenomena, electronic
 structure, soft matter and biological systems, underpinning five of the research themes. The
 group has close links to experiment within the Department/University and internationally. It has
 an excellent track record of commercialising its research.
 Contributions of the TCM group to the research themes are included above. TCM’s work on
 Electronic Structure cuts across many research themes, through the development of new
 methods allowing calculations of ever wider classes of materials and regimes. The CASTEP
 code developed by Payne recently reached $40M total sales. Artacho introduced the use of
 Floquet theory to understand how ion projectiles are stopped by electrons in condensed matter
 systems through first-principles simulations of these highly non-equilibrium processes. Needs is
 pioneering studies of superconducting hydrides at high pressure, by incorporating anharmonic
 effects. Monserrat is developing novel computational techniques to enable the inclusion of finite
 temperature in first principles quantum mechanical calculations, permitting a 100-fold reduction
 in computational cost.


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The interdisciplinary environment of TCM allows rapid transfer of ideas, and highly innovative
 research. For example, the group is currently developing novel applications of machine learning
 (ML) to address diverse problems. In electronic structure, the innovations of Payne and his
 colleagues on ML potentials are having enormous impact and provide the reference state-of-the-
 art in this field. Conduit’s novel ML technique, originally for materials design, is being
 commercialised by the start-up company Intellegens. Eight new patented metal alloys have been
 designed for Rolls Royce, Samsung Electronics and Welding Alloys with superior properties to
 others commercially available. Lamacraft develops applications of ML to physics and ideas from
 physics to ML. This involves collaborations with Spotify and with GTN to bring physics and ML
 models into drug discovery. Lee develops ML algorithms that, for the first time, have
 outperformed skilled human chemists in predicting the outcomes of chemical reactions and ways
 to create complex organic molecules, paving the way towards solving a major stumbling block in
 materials and drug design.
 The TCM group has particular expertise in the theoretical description of novel quantum phases
 of matter. Castelnovo has set up a theory-experiment collaboration with Oxford and Royal
 Holloway on tuning and characterising disorder in magnetic pyrochlore oxides. Cooper has led
 theoretical contributions to the realisation and characterisation of topological phases of cold
 atomic gases, opening up new avenues for the topological classification of non-equilibrium
 quantum phases of matter.


 IMPACT AND IMPACT CASE STUDIES
 Impact
 Impact is an integral part of our research strategy. All researchers are encouraged to maximise
 the impact of their work, making use of the University’s training programmes in entrepreneurship
 and commercialisation. The Maxwell Centre promotes closer interaction between Cambridge
 researchers, other collaborating UK universities, and industrial partners, led by the Centre’s
 Director of Partnership Development and an Engagement Coordinator. Similar functions are
 provided by ideaSpace, particularly in helping start-up companies become successful
 businesses. The CDT in Nanoscience runs translational prize funding that leads to
 demonstrators and spinouts.

 Cambridge Enterprise support includes advice on writing grant applications and identifying and
 connecting academics with potential beneficiaries of research. Particularly important are its role
 in patent filing, Intellectual Property (IP) issues and assistance in licensing and exploiting IP.
 They also advise on seed-corn funding for start-up companies and access to funding from
 industry and investors in the Cambridge Network. Measures of our impact in promoting
 innovative technology are the 184 active or submitted patent applications over the REF2021
 period.
 The Vice Chancellor’s Awards for Impact and Public Engagement reward those whose research
 has led to outstanding impact beyond academia. Patto received the Vice-Chancellor’s Impact
 Award in 2017 for his development with Baumberg of a cheap device built by 3-D printing for
 testing water quality in underdeveloped regions in Africa. Cambridge Enterprise and the
 Entrepreneurial Postdocs of Cambridge host an annual Postdoc Business Plan Competition.
 During the REF2021 period, we have received 28 EPSRC and STFC Impact Acceleration
 Account (IAA) awards with total value £1.67M in the form of Follow-on Funding, Partnership
 Development Awards and Knowledge Transfer Fellowships involving secondments, both
 inwards and outwards. We are regularly a partner in Innovate UK awards: for example in
 obtaining pre-seed investment funding for the start-up company NuQuantum.
 Impact Case Studies
 Nine Impact Case Studies are described in document REF3. Most of these result from the
 commercialisation of ideas developed by members of the Cavendish. The ‘Collider’ case study,
 involving collaboration with the London Science Museum, is an example of research being used
 to educate the wider public and decision makers about value of basic scientific research. The
 late David MacKay’s work on explaining how our choices on energy use and generation impact

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 climate change has had a large impact on government policy on climate change both in the UK
 and other countries. Another programme which is having enormous impact is the Isaac Physics
 project, which has raised the standard of physics teaching in schools in the UK and
 internationally (see also Section on Outreach).

 In all the technological case studies, extensive use has been made of the advanced research
 facilities available within the Department, for example, Smith’s start-up company Cavendish
 Kinetics, based on his research into nano-mechanics. Other inventions and innovations are just
 beginning to be commercialised, for example, the endeavours of Conduit and Lee described
 above and Cambridge Photon Technology and Helio Display Materials.


 Open research and research integrity
 We support the University’s policies on promoting open research and data sharing. Open access
 to research outputs and data sharing are mandated by EPSRC. Restrictions may apply, for
 example, when dealing with commercial interests and publisher requirements, third party rights
 holders, GDPR, patient confidentiality and confidential social data. The University’s Research
 Data Management Policy Framework addresses how these issues are managed. At all times,
 researchers are required to act in accordance with the requirements of the funding bodies,
 following the guidelines set by regulatory bodies. Baumberg helped develop University policy on
 Electronic Laboratory Notebooks, which was recently approved.
 Incoming doctoral students are given training in ethical research and research integrity as part of
 their induction. We follow rigorously the University’s policies on these matters and take the
 recommended action when issues arise. We comply with all ethical requirements from our
 regular funding bodies and rely on the Committee on Benefactions and External and Legal
 Affairs and the University ethics officer for new funders and difficult cases.




                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 2: People

 There are 81 permanent academic staff and 233 postdoctoral researchers in the Cavendish and
 the IoA, including six inter-department lectureships. The Cavendish also hosts three affiliated
 Academic staff from other departments. The environment is significantly enhanced by 29 active
 emeritus Readers and Professors and by a constant flux of visitors, many of them international,
 typically at a level of about 240 researchers each year.
 The research programme and the departments’ infrastructure, buildings and estate are
 supported by the following:

    •    administration, human resources, finance, grant management (45)
    •    departmental management and project coordination (14)
    •    student services and outreach (23)
    •    health and safety, facilities and built estates maintenance support (63)
    •    instrumentation and technical equipment specialists (29)
    •    IT and scientific software developers (23)

 STAFFING STRATEGY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT

 The staffing strategy for academic staff aims to appoint world-leading scientists at all academic
 levels. In the Cavendish, appointments to the permanent academic staff occur at a rate of
 typically two per annum. Priorities for future research are established by the research themes
 and discussed at the Annual Away-Day. These discussions inform the recommendations of the
 Laboratory’s Strategy Working Group, which formulates a roadmap for future appointments. At
 the IoA four retirements are anticipated in the next seven years. The strategy is to identify a
 small number of key areas and to extend searches over more than a year if necessary. The
 intention is to coordinate appointments in the IoA and the AP Group, as successfully achieved in
 building up exoplanet research.
 Evidence for the success of these processes is reflected in the prizes and leadership roles of our
 appointees (Section 4). Our ability to attract early career researchers of the highest calibre is
 demonstrated by the 131 prestigious, competitive Fellowships hosted since August 2013. These
 include:
     •   Marie Curie Fellows (28),
     •   Royal Society University Research Fellows (21),
     •   Kavli Fellows (17),
     •   Winton Fellows (7),
     •   Leverhulme Trust Fellows (11),
     •   EPSRC Fellows (4),
     •   Ernest Rutherford Fellows (7),
     •   Herchel Smith Postdoctoral Fellows (5),
     •   Oppenheimer Fellows (3)
     •   1851 Exhibition Fellows (2).


 Future Appointments

 Three senior professorial appointments are planned, the overriding considerations being the
 distinction, future promise and leadership qualities of the candidates.



                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   The Ray Dolby Professor is funded by a £10M gift from the Dolby family. The appointee will
    establish a new research group in quantum materials and quantum technology, areas in
    which there is already considerable strength in personnel and equipment. The gift includes
    provision for fellowships, studentships and infrastructure support.
•   The Cavendish Professor is the senior physics Chair in the Cavendish with a preference for a
    theorist in statistical physics.
•   The Professor of Astrophysics (1909) is one of two senior Chairs in the IoA, the post
    becoming vacant with the retirement of Efstathiou in 2022.

 Within the Cavendish Astrophysics theme, two lectureships in exoplanets and galaxy formation
 and a third appointment are planned in the next five years. At the IoA, opportunities will be
 sought to expand into gravitational wave and time-domain astrophysics. The exploitation of the
 next generation of major ground-based and space-based observatories is a key priority. These
 appointments will enhance synergies between DAMTP, the IoA and the Cavendish.

 As part of the Cavendish’s commitment to support the wider physics community, three research
 fellowships per annum of three years’ duration will be awarded to young research workers from
 outside Cambridge from philanthropic and other resources. These can be held at any UK
 university, roughly 50% of the fellow’s time being spent in the Cavendish exploiting our national
 facilities.
 Academic and Support Staff Career Development

 A formal Training and Development Policy was launched in July 2018. All staff are encouraged
 to attend University-provided Personal and Professional Development (PPD) and IT courses
 advertised in the monthly HR newsletters. Line managers must allow staff time off to attend
 these courses. Non-University external course fees are reimbursed and paid time-off for study
 and examination leave are allowed. Line managers discuss training requests with the HR
 Manager to ensure that staff receive appropriate support for their training needs.

 Health and Safety training is mandatory for all staff. Staff members working with hazardous
 equipment, such as chemicals, lasers or biological materials, have to attend a mandatory Health
 & Safety briefing relevant to their work. The 2020 Covid-19 pandemic resulted in the closure of
 the Laboratory in March 2020, supervised by the outstanding efforts of the Strategic and
 Operational Emergency Response Teams. Remote working has been remarkably successful in
 maintaining the momentum of research, although experimental work has been significantly
 impacted. The Silver Team is managing a phased return to work, applying strictly the rules for
 the safe conduct of research, according to Government and University instructions.

 Academic staff
 A new Staff Review and Development (SRD) process was implemented for academic research
 staff in 2017. Comprehensive training for both reviewers and reviewees is mandatory. New
 appointees to University Lectureships and those still in their five-year probationary period are
 reviewed annually by a professorial staff member. For University Lecturers out of probation and
 those promoted to Senior Lecturer or Reader, an SRD by a senior academic staff member, not
 from the same research area, takes place every two years. New academics are given a senior
 mentor. Interdepartmental Lecturers are supported through mentoring to enable them to
 integrate with their academic colleagues and participate in the Cavendish’s Annual Strategy
 Forum. New employees are offered an Induction Buddy from within their research area to help
 them settle into their new roles.

 Career progression discussions are part of the Senior Academic-Researcher Promotions round,
 which requires Department Heads to meet with those seeking promotion. The guidance and
 evaluation criteria provide a structured framework within which to judge progress and future
 directions. During the REF2021 period, 17 promotions to Reader/Senior Lecturer were made
 and 16 from Reader to Professor. Five staff were promoted twice from Lecturer to Professor. In
 the 2020 round, Bohndiek, Castelnovo, Mitov and Nikiforakis were promoted to

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Professorships and Béri, Bronstein, Jardine and Potter to Readerships, effective from October
 2020.
 There are well established academic sabbatical and secondment leave procedures for research
 staff. They are encouraged to take sponsored external secondments or academic leave of up to
 five years, provided funding can be obtained to cover their teaching. Chapman was posted to
 CERN for a period while Cowburn and Hobson had secondments to develop their companies.
 Doctoral students, postdoctoral researchers and faculty involved in the Winton Programme have
 the opportunity to take part in a five-year exchange programme with the University of Berkeley’s
 Kavli Energy NanoScience Institute in California.

 Support Staff
 Most features of the staff review and promotion procedures for academic staff apply equally to
 support staff but the promotion criteria are more closely related to their career progression.
 There is a strong emphasis upon career development through specialised courses for all classes
 of administrative and support staff. To enhance the skills of the technical staff, training schools in
 the use of workshop equipment, manufacturing and 3D design modelling are offered. The
 workforce of apprentices is expanding to produce the top-quality technicians for the future. We
 strongly support the University’s initiative for technician development and recognition. A Senior
 Technical Officer sits on the Technician Commitment Working Group and attends meetings and
 events, such as National Apprentice Week.

 POSTDOCTORAL AND EARLY CAREER RESEARCHERS

 University Provision
 Postdoctoral researchers are the powerhouse of our successful research programmes. There
 are numerous mechanisms to ensure that they realise their potential and get the most out of
 their time in Cambridge. The University has made considerable efforts over the last few years to
 improve significantly support and facilities for them. Many have benefited from subsidised
 housing on the nearby Eddington site, where high-quality, sustainable accommodation for lower-
 paid staff is provided. Currently about 65% of the flats are occupied by postdocs, many of whom
 work in the Cavendish and the IoA.

 Cambridge’s Postdoc Academy supports postdocs across the University through programmes
 such as the Mentoring Scheme, which offers matching with mentors from academia, business or
 industry as appropriate with a focus on developmental mentoring. Many use the University
 Postdoc Careers Service, which helps with their next career choices. Specialised careers
 advisers arrange one-to-one meetings, review fellowship or lectureship applications, and help
 prepare for academic or industry interviews.

 The University retained its HR Excellence in Research Award in 2015, recognising its
 commitment to improving the working conditions and career development of research staff. It
 has adopted and implemented the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers. Researchers from both Departments have taken part in University courses on
 transferable skills, leadership development, time management, career planning and professional
 development.
 Departmental Provision
 There is strong support for early career researchers (ECRs). They are hosted within a research
 group and theme while they build their own groups. They can apply to local funding schemes,
 such as the Isaac Newton Trust, as well as seek doctoral students funded by University and
 Departmental endowments and the CDTs. They are provided with laboratory and office space
 and grant and general administrative support. ECRs are strongly encouraged and allowed time
 to develop and commercialise their research – the examples of Conduit and Lee were
 described above.



                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In 2016 the Cavendish adopted new provisions for ECRs with three years research experience
 to gain promotion to Senior Research Associate to accommodate both those likely to develop
 academic research careers, and those providing very high level professional scientific expertise
 to support the research programme. Those in research-only positions can now be promoted to
 Principal Research Associate, and Director of Research. We take part in the contribution
 increment scheme for researchers, which allows Heads of Institutions to reward research staff
 for outstanding work.
 ECRs are encouraged to participate in academic staff recruitment processes at the search
 committee stage, helping identify strong candidates, encouraging them to apply and ensuring a
 reasonable gender balance. The result has been a more diverse and stronger shortlist of
 candidates and appointees.
 The Cavendish Research Staff Committee (RSC), with a representative from each research
 group, meets once a term. Feedback is provided on all aspects of the provision at University and
 Departmental levels. We have adopted the good working practices codified by the IoP Juno and
 Athena SWAN principles. The RSC provides networking opportunities through a monthly social
 event and a termly film discussion evening to which all staff are invited. It also organises
 research showcasing days, highlighting their research to outside commercial interests.
 The Impulse Programme, established in 2016 at the Maxwell Centre, is targeted at PhDs,
 postdocs and ERC entrepreneurs, as well as researchers, engineers and managers from the
 corporate sector. There are two intensive residential modules and individual assignments
 between the modules over a period of three months, including training by industry professionals
 and two alumni companies. For the four years 2017 to 2020, 13 doctoral students and postdocs
 have taken part. Patto (Waterscope) and Palacios-Berraquero (NuQuantum) have gone on to
 be involved in start-up companies. A Research Development Coordinator (Sirringhaus) was
 appointed in 2018 who works closely with the Maxwell Centre programme manager and
 coordinates weekly funding opportunity notifications through the Laboratory’s Research Grant
 Office and the University’s Research Operations Office.



 DOCTORAL STUDENTS

 Details of the doctoral students who have passed through the Departments during the REF2021
 review period are given in document REF4a. On 31 July 2020 a total of 390 PhD students were
 registered, 340 from Physics and 50 from the IoA. About 55% of our PhD graduates continue to
 academic research on graduation, others finding employment in industry, commerce, the
 financial sector and the civil service, as well as teaching. The output of high-quality doctoral
 students is one of our most important contributions to the economy.
 Many doctoral students go on to win competitive fellowships in Cambridge and elsewhere.
 Recent students who have become Cavendish ERCs include Chikkaraddy, Engel, H. Knowles,
 Mathiesen, Monserrat Sanchez, Nikolka, Stern and Waldie.
 In the Cavendish, typically 70 Doctoral students are taken on each year and 13 at the IoA.
 551.5 Cavendish and IoA doctoral students completed their PhDs during the REF2021 period.
 The number of registered doctoral students has been relatively stable for the past seven years,
 about 15% greater than the comparable figure in 2010, partly associated with the Cavendish’s
 participation in Centres for Doctoral Training. The application rate for both Departments is about
 four to five applicants per place.
 The University wishes to increase doctoral student numbers which could undoubtedly grow if the
 financial support and space were available. Every opportunity is taken to identify new sources of
 funding for PhD students (Section 3).
 Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs)
 Our EPSRC CDTs are interdisciplinary initiatives involving staff based in Physics, Chemistry,
 Materials Sciences, Engineering and Chemical Engineering. The three CDTs in Nanoscience,

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Computational Material Science and Big Data included shared courses between departments as
 part of the assessed first-year training programmes. The students’ first-year mini-project work
 can be hosted in any of the participating departments, providing opportunities that might not be
 available in any single department.
 The EPSRC recently announced a new award for a Centre for Doctoral Training in Integrated
 Functional Nano (i4nano). Now in its third phase and based in the Maxwell Centre, the Centre
 encourages interdisciplinary research and training in nanoscience, building on the world-leading
 work of the Nano DTC Programme. An overarching theme is understanding and control of the
 nano-interfaces connecting complex architectures, which is key to major advances in emerging
 scientific grand challenges. These span vital areas of Energy, Health, Manufacturing,
 Sustainability, ICT/Internet of things and Quantum Physics. The training grant of 40 EPSRC
 studentships is enhanced by pledges of more than 20 studentships from industry and other
 partners.
 The STFC CDT in Data Intensive Science managed by DAMTP and the IoA has further
 strengthened doctoral training links between the Cavendish, IoA, DAMTP and the Department of
 Pure Mathematics and Mathematical Statistics (DPMMS). The CDT focuses on areas crucial for
 the exploitation of the vast datasets created by many of the world’s largest scientific facilities
 supported by the STFC. Several companies fund PhD studentships, 30 sponsoring work
 placements. The research carried out at the IoA will have wide impact across many areas,
 including the medical sector through application of image-analysis techniques and in the space
 industry.
 Doctoral student training, mentoring and assessment
 Oversight of the Cavendish’s doctoral training provision is the responsibility of the Director of
 Graduate Education supported by the Graduate Education Committee (GEC).The IoA supports a
 Graduate Education Office, with a senior academic serving as Director for Postgraduate
 Students assisted by a Graduate Student Administrator.

 Our procedures and policies set the framework for a supportive and positive environment for all
 doctoral students. Both Departments have written policies on the appointment and functions of
 supervisors and advisers for doctoral students. We have adopted the best practices for research
 student training, as required by the Research Councils, in the areas of training, supervision,
 mentoring and assessment of progress, including transferable skills and career development.
 The doctoral students and postdoctoral staff are strongly encouraged to participate in
 undergraduate teaching. In the academic year 2019-20, 172 graduate students and postdocs,
 about 50% each, participated in demonstrating in undergraduate practical classes, examples
 classes and computer courses. Many also participated in providing College supervisions,
 organised through the Colleges. These experiences are important contributions to their career
 development.
 The Cavendish Doctoral Student Conference, largely organised by the students themselves, has
 been running annually for a number of years. It provides an opportunity for doctoral students to
 share their research and to learn about what their peers are studying, as well as building a
 friendly student cohort.
 Both Departments have excellent Library resources, both in hard copy and electronically, and
 these are fully accessible by doctoral students.
 Management and administration of the Doctoral student programme
 Administrative support is provided by the Departments’ Graduate (Education) Offices. Their
 functions are to manage and deliver student recruitment, to provide effective face-to-face
 support for students, organise a wide range of transferable skills training and to collect and
 deliver enhanced tracking and feedback data required by sponsors and other stakeholders.
 Additional administrative support is provided by the CDTs.
 The Graduate Students’ Consultative Committees provide fora for the discussion of issues
 affecting doctoral students. They are proactive in supporting the students’ training needs and
 takes initiatives to support them. Both departments provide strong support for students with

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 protected characteristics. We currently have a package of support measures in place for a
 student with very severe disabilities, for whom considerable funds were raised to support a
 personal science writer.


 EQUALITY, DIVERSITY AND WELLBEING

 Equality and Diversity
 The departments aim to provide an environment in which all staff are valued and can flourish,
 actively promoting an inclusive culture as described in the principles enunciated by the Institute
 of Physics Project Juno and the Athena SWAN charter. Both departments have been actively
 engaged with the University-provided Respect at Work programme. Cavendish academics lead
 the Equalities, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) agenda within the University, nationally and
 internationally. Gibson chaired the IoP Juno Panel and is the University’s Gender Equality
 Champion for STEMM subjects, in succession to Donald, the first Equality Champion. She
 works with the VC and Pro-VCs on the University’s EDI agenda.
 The Cavendish was the first Department in the University and the first Physics department in the
 UK to attain Athena SWAN Gold status in 2014 and this has been renewed twice since 2014.
 The Cavendish has also held IoP Junior Champion status since 2013. There has been a 64%
 increase in the number of women academic staff. Of 25 academic appointments during the
 REF2021 period, eight are women. From 2014, all women academics eligible for promotion have
 been promoted at least once. Current lectureships are now more gender balanced with seven
 women and ten men, while among current Readers there are four women and eight men.
 Professorial promotion opportunities for women are therefore increasing as the more junior
 population advances. Sustaining this progress, and attracting more minority candidates, will
 enable the Cavendish to progress towards a gender and diversity balanced faculty.
 The IoA has been awarded an Athena SWAN Bronze Award and Juno Practitioner status. An
 analysis of four years of recent data (62 students) showed that the percentage of women
 amongst its graduating PhDs who continued in academia was 29%, the same as the percentage
 in the IoA’s PhD student population. The IoA has had notable success in attracting women
 Senior Research Fellows, the average percentage of women in the past ten years being 28%,
 similar to that of the research student cohort. The percentage of women among IoA tenured
 academic staff, three out of 18 or 17%, is similar to national benchmarks, a fall by a factor of two
 compared with the untenured postdoctoral researchers. IoA’s Athena SWAN activities aim to
 encourage more highly qualified women to apply for forthcoming tenured academic posts.
 The principles underlying the Athena SWAN and Supporting Women in Physics projects have
 driven much of the Career Management and Development for contract research staff activity. All
 contract research staff, college research fellows and those on personal fellowships are
 encouraged to take advantage of the wide range of activities and programmes available to help
 them develop their careers. From January 2019, all new Cavendish staff and line managers
 must attend Equality and Diversity (E&D) training before they can become involved in any
 recruitment process. All staff involved in hiring attend the Unconscious Bias training module.
 Staff returning from parental or carer’s leave are entitled to work flexibly either as part of a
 phased return to work, or more permanently. University Teaching Officers are relieved of their
 teaching duties, allowing them to revitalise their research programmes. Funds are provided for
 conference attendance and other means of getting their careers fully back on track. To support
 postdocs with young families, the IoA has introduced a policy whereby any extra costs involved
 in a postdoc completing their research programme following parental leave are borne by the IoA.
 The Cavendish’s Athena Swan Action Team is now part of a Community Forum under the
 Personnel Committee, where E&D issues are debated and pursued proactively. The Head of
 Department is present to take action as needed. The Forum identified LGBTQ and BAME
 groups as priorities for support and the Cavendish LGBTQ+ network was founded in 2019. The
 Cavendish supports University efforts in race equality, recently recognised by a Bronze award,

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with the aim of balanced minority representation among its staff. The IoA’s E&D Committee
 represents all groups and includes men and women at all career stages from undergraduates to
 academics and administrators.
 Cavendish Inspiring Women (CiW) is a postdoc and student-led group supported by the
 Cavendish to promote and support women and non-binary people pursuing studies and careers
 in physics. CiW is open to undergraduate students, doctoral students and postdocs in
 Cambridge. It encourages school-aged girls to study physics through our outreach events. Talks
 by successful women physicists about their work are organised and there are numerous social
 events throughout the year. For International Women’s Day 2017, CiW organised a day of
 festivities, including the launch of Cavendish Values by the Head of the Department and the
 Chair of the Athena-SWAN Self-Assessment Team.
 As part of a new Visitor and Access Policy launched in 2019, the Cavendish clarified the
 provision and processes for supporting disabled visitors to the Cavendish.

 Wellbeing
 Both departments take the wellbeing and mental health of staff and students very seriously.
 Over the last three years active wellbeing programmes have been developed with four main
 aims:
    •   to promote and encourage good physical and mental wellbeing of all staff and students
        within an inclusive and positive working environment,
    •   to highlight the availability of effective interventions to managers, staff and students
        through increased provision and availability of information,
    •   to provide appropriate training and support for managers and supervisors to allow them
        to discuss concerns with and provide support to employees and students,
    •   to support our strategy for health and wellbeing as part of our commitment to maintain
        Athena SWAN Gold Award standards.
 Since 2017, this is communicated through a regular Wellbeing Newsletter and through extensive
 information on internal webpages.

 In the Cavendish, a formal Wellbeing Committee, reporting to the Personnel Committee, meets
 every two months. In the IoA, wellbeing lies within the remit of the E&D committee. There are
 currently seven trained Wellbeing Advocates in the Cavendish and four in the IoA who provide
 confidential guidance to all members of staff in matters relating to wellbeing, including mental
 and physical health and dignity at work. Two Cavendish staff have attended the MIND mental
 health first aid course. An annual Wellbeing Week takes place at the start of every year with a
 focus on postdoctoral concerns about resilience, mental health and work/life balance in the
 context of an academic career. Funds are available to pay for counselling sessions at very short
 notice.
 The Cavendish supports an active Social Committee which is allocated an annual budget and
 includes representatives from administrative, technical and research staff groups. With the
 Research Student Committee, it organises a monthly social event, as well as arranging the
 annual Christmas lunch and a large summer BBQ event for staff and their families. At the IoA,
 regular social events are organised by staff and students, with participation extended to all
 members of the Cavendish Astrophysics and DAMTP staff working on the site.




                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3:Income, infrastructure and facilities

 RESEARCH FUNDING AND STRATEGIES FOR GENERATING
 RESEARCH INCOME

 As described in REF4b, the total research income for the period of the REF2021 is £340.86M.
 The year-on-year income increased from £23.3M in 2013/14 to £90M in 2019/20.

 Funding is sought from a wide variety of sources: Government, UK and European Research
 Councils, industry, charities, philanthropy, grant awarding bodies and the University of
 Cambridge endowment. The strategic research themes, aligned with the UKRI priorities, have
 increased our focus on larger grants, crossing boundaries between research groups and
 involving cognate Cambridge Departments such as Chemistry, Material Science, DAMTP,
 Clinical Medicine and in partner Universities (see Section on Collaborative Use of Research
 Infrastructure).

 Some examples of major grants received during the REF 2021 period include the following.

    •   Government: A grant of £75M from HM Treasury for the completion of the
        reconstruction of the Cavendish Laboratory in the 2016 Government spending review,
        administered by the EPSRC; Cambridge Physics Education Project ISAAC
        (£3.55m)(Warner)

    •   EU/ERC Awards: eight Advanced grants (Clark, Fabian, Friend, Gilmore, Haehnelt,
        Maiolino, Reynolds, Terentjev); one Synergy grant (Sirringhaus), three Proof of
        Concept grants (Baumberg, Cicuta, Cowburn); six Consolidators Grants (Atature,
        Cicuta, Hadzibabic, Keyser, Mitov, Sebastian), eight Starter grants (Belokurov, Beri,
        Collepardo Guevera, Rao, Schneider, Sebastian, Sijacki, Wyatt) and five Future and
        Emerging Technologies grants (Atature, Baumberg, Dutton, Nunnenkamp, Thomson).
        The total grant award to the Departments from these 31 programmes was £41.2M.

    •   UK Research Councils: Large grants awarded included:

           •   EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Integrated Functional Nano (i4Nano)
               (£6M) (Baumberg);
           •   Control of spin and coherence in electronic excitations in organic and hybrid
               organic/inorganic semiconductor structures (£5.1M) (Friend);
           •   Peta-5: A National Facility for Petascale Data Intensive Computation and
               Analytics (£5M) (Alexander);
           •   EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Computational Methods for Materials
               Science (£4.5M) (Payne);
           •   STFC Dirac 2.5Y Facility (£3.1M) (McMahon).

        The HEP and AP themes and the IoA are leading large international projects including
        the LHC at CERN and the SKA with major investment in both projects by the STFC. The
        HEP and IoA research programmes are supported by large STFC consolidated grants,
        as is the HEP Theory Group jointly with DAMTP.

    •   Research Council Initiatives: The Energy Materials theme leads activities centred on
        the Royce Institute with £10M equipment funding. As part of the Faraday Institution
        project, the Cavendish leads on £3.2M of funding and collaborates on this and other
        awards with the Departments of Chemistry, Materials Science and Engineering and
        collaborators across the UK.



                                                                                          Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Industry and Defence: Both Hitachi and Toshiba have supported research in semi-
        conductor physics for over 25 years. The Hitachi Cambridge Laboratory (HCL) will move
        into the Ray Dolby Centre for its long-term programme. The Maxwell Centre has
        produced a flow of new industrial income from embedded companies, including
        sponsorship of studentships for CDTs. Parker leads our relationships with companies
        involving defence, denuclearisation and counterterrorism, which have been fostered by
        the Cavendish since the 1940s. These projects and which are funded by the MoD and its
        industrial contractors.

    •   Charities: We have benefitted greatly from grants from the Wolfson and Kavli
        Foundations. The Wolfson Foundation has made significant grants towards the
        construction of the Physics of Medicine Building, the Battcock Centre for Experimental
        Astrophysics and laboratories to support the construction astronomical and high energy
        physics instruments in the Ray Dolby Centre. The Kalvi and Simons Foundations provide
        ongoing fellowships for research in Cosmology and Exoplanets.

    •   Philanthropy: For major philanthropic gifts, both Departments work closely with the
        Cambridge University Development and Alumni Relations team (CUDAR). Examples of
        major gifts include:

    •   A £75M donation from the Dolby family towards the construction of the Ray Dolby
        Centre, as well as a £10M donation to establish a new research group led by an
        endowed Ray Dolby Professorship.
    •   The Winton programme for the Physics of Sustainability was funded by a £21M donation
        by David Harding.
    •   The £5M GAPSTI programme has led to three permanent appointments, as well as
        support for a Reader, postdocs and students.
    •   A donation of £3M from the Huo family foundation has established three permanently
        endowed research studentships.
    •   A £3M gift by Humphrey Battcock, supporting areas of the Ray Dolby Centre devoted to
        the EQP, AFCS and QDM themes, will be named the Battcock Laboratories for Quantum
        Nanoscience.
    •   A gift of £2.7M has come to fruition to endow a Professorship in the name of the late
        Harold Aspden.

 Other donations totalling £1.16M provide support for research and infrastructure projects, for
 student support and for outreach to the public and young people. This work is led by the
 Cavendish HoD, supported by a Development Director who together work closely with CUDAR.
 Since 2009, the Development Director has published the Laboratory’s Alumnus magazine
 CavMag twice a year. It is sent out to over 8000 undergraduate and postgraduate Cavendish
 alumni and contains a wide variety of science and news about the Laboratory. It has been
 successful in generating philanthropic gifts.

 In the Cavendish, support for doctoral students is obtained from the research councils as well as
 very significant contributions from the above sources. The IoA continues to be successful in
 winning STFC consolidated grants and UK Space Agency funding which enable the
 maintenance of a sizable cohort of funded PhD studentships.

 PHYSICAL, OPERATIONAL AND SCHOLARLY INFRASTRUCTURE
 FOR RESEARCH

 Personnel support for staff of both Departments was described in Section 2. In this section, the
 physical, operational and scholarly infrastructure supporting the programmes are described.




                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Operations and Infrastructure Support
 The Departments have independent teams providing infrastructure support, administration,
 finance, technical infrastructure support for the buildings, general services, workshops and IT
 services. There are over 115 technicians whose primary role is research support, including
 specialists in electrical and electronic equipment, mechanical instrument making, IT support,
 laboratory technical support and other specialist skills and trades. The central mechanical and
 electronics workshops in the Cavendish provide excellent facilities for all aspects of the design
 and construction of medium to large scientific instruments, such as the large astronomical
 cameras for the MOONs project and the delay lines for the optical interferometer at the
 Magdalena Ridge Observatory in New Mexico. Support staff are offered professional
 development opportunities to remain up to date with technological advances

 There is considerable interdepartmental collaboration in the use of our technical infrastructure
 facilities. For example, the SP Group provides semiconductor chips and devices for other
 Departments and Universities. Underpinning support is provided for cryogenics, micro- and
 nano-fabrication, cell cultures and electron microscopy. Likewise, we make use of specialist
 expertise in other Departments such as glass-blowing In Chemistry and microscope facilities in
 Materials Science. The Maxwell Centre provides facilities and services to the numerous
 companies which participate in joint projects.

 Buildings
 The Cavendish Laboratory comprises five main buildings in addition to the Maxwell Centre and
 the Physics of Medicine laboratories. Cavendish Astrophysics is housed in the Laboratory’s
 Battcock Centre for Experimental Astrophysics on the Madingley Road Site, co-located with the
 IoA and the KICC. The IoA’s premises include the historic Observatories complex and the more
 recent Hoyle Building and its extensions to house the expanding astronomy programme.

 The proposal to rebuild the Cavendish Laboratory began in 2002, the first fruits of that
 programme being reported in the REF2014 submission. By 2015, £80M had been raised to
 provide the Physics of Medicine (PoM) building, the KICC, the Battcock Centre for Experimental
 Astrophysics and the Maxwell Centre, largely funded by philanthropic and other external
 sources.

 The major current project is the Ray Dolby Centre which will house a large fraction of the
 Cavendish’s research and teaching. The new Centre will be a state-of-the-art facility, designed
 to the highest environmental and technical standards. This £303M project will be completed by
 2022/23. Capital funding has been raised from the Dolby family (£75M), the Government (£75M,
 matched by £75M from the University), other donors and resources (£6M) with the University
 capital fund underwriting the balance. The Ray Dolby Centre will include an Advanced
 Instrumentation Facility (AIF) sponsored by the Wolfson Foundation. The HEP and AP groups
 will use the AIF with dedicated areas for mechanical, electronic and detector activities. The
 Centre will also house the Battcock Laboratories for Quantum Nanoscience, described above.
 The basement of the Ray Dolby Centre has been designed for very high vibrational and
 temperature stability. This will meet the stringent requirements of the EQP Theme, which will
 also benefit from more general-purpose laser optics laboratories and an extensive hall for 20
 cryostats for low-temperature experiments, as well as a helium liquefier. The basement will
 support elements of the AFCS and EM themes where vibrational stability is vital, and an imaging
 suite including electron microscopy.

 The EM theme has a particular focus on organic materials which will be served by a dedicated
 clean room. The Maxwell Centre houses an ambient temperature cluster deposition tool for such
 materials. The QDM theme will also use the cryostat hall for low temperature experiments, and
 will have access to a large shared inorganic clean room for the construction of devices, an
 electron beam lithography suite and extensive MBE facilities. Crystal growth facilities and


                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 materials characterisation apparatus needed by the EQP theme are already available in the
 Maxwell/PoM complex. Specialist laboratories are included for particular industrial projects.

 Staff and doctoral students will be rehoused in new office space in the Ray Dolby Centre in
 addition to those members of both Departments already housed in the Maxwell/PoM, KICC and
 Battcock buildings. The Dolby Centre has been designed to facilitate collaborative interactions
 and to be welcoming to staff and visitors. It will include shared mechanical and electronic
 workshops, teaching laboratories, lecture theatres, meeting rooms, social spaces, a family room,
 library, common room and exhibition space for public events. It has been built to the BREAM
 Excellent environment standard and will have a zero carbon footprint when fully commissioned.

 Cavendish role as a National Facility
 The Cavendish has made a commitment to Government to operate as a National Facility
 allowing scientists from outside Cambridge access to state-of-the-art equipment. This will in turn
 create new opportunities for collaborative research projects and optimise the investment in
 equipment. The Laboratory has undertaken to make available up to 25% of the time on the
 national facilities for non-collaborative programmes by members of other universities, subject to
 any conditions set by the sponsors for use of particular pieces of equipment. Use of the facilities
 will include full support by specialist technical staff. The facilities available to the community will
 be operated as Small Research Facilities with transparent booking and charging procedures.
 Access and consumables will be charged at the same rates as for the Cavendish researchers.
 The Facilities Steering Committee is responsible for providing strategic direction and oversight of
 the national facility aspects of the project to ensure access by the whole UK physics community.
 It is monitored by external accountability mechanisms such as the BEIS Gateway Reviews. The
 Steering Group reports through the EPSRC to Government and includes wide representation of
 the Laboratory, senior representatives of the University community, the EPSRC and the NPL.
 In preparation for this new role, a review of professional services and support staff is being
 undertaken. This will involve organisational restructuring of the roles of laboratory technicians
 and related scientific support staff. It will build on our experience of running shared facilities,
 such as the Physics of Medicine building, the Royce equipment and our existing Small Research
 Facilities.

 Cross-HEI Shared or Collaborative Use of Research Infrastructure
 Many of the research programmes involve collaborations with other HEIs, both in the UK and
 abroad. Our long-standing practice has been to engage with other universities in collaborative
 research programmes which generally involve shared or collaborative use of research infra-
 structure. As an example, in the academic year 2015-16, in addition to our own Research
 Council funded programmes, the Laboratory was involved in 16 EPSRC and 2 STFC jointly
 funded projects and leading on four. These involved collaborations with one or more
 Universities; the numbers were: Bath (2), Bristol (1), Durham (1), Edinburgh (2), Heriot-Watt (1),
 Imperial (9), Lancaster (1), London Centre for Nanotechnology (1), Leeds (3), Liverpool (2),
 Loughborough (2), Manchester (1), Nottingham (1), Oxford (4), Royal Holloway (1), Sheffield (2),
 Southampton (3), Strathclyde (1), Sussex (1), UCL (2).

 Benefits in kind
 We have won major allocations of time and access to many national and international facilities,
 including CERN, ESA and NASA satellites, ESO observatories, the observing facilities in Hawaii,
 the ISIS neutron source, the US National High Magnetic Field Laboratory, the UK National
 Epitaxy Facility, and the UK quantum technology hubs. A measure of our success in exploiting
 these facilities is given in document REF4c which shows the values of the Benefits in Kind in
 which the UK is a paying partner - the total in-kind value amounts to £63.1M. Participation in
 major facilities such as the LHC at CERN and the Hubble Space Telescope contribute to the
 high esteem in which our colleagues are held. Other benefits in kind have been provided by the
 companies with which we have long-standing collaborations.


                                                                                                 Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 ARCHIVES AND COLLECTIONS

 The Cavendish Rayleigh Library has a very extensive collection of physics and physics-related
 books as well as access to all online literature, data handling, repositories and IT infrastructure.
 The IoA Library holds a large collection of about 35,000 books and 250 current periodical titles,
 including electronic publications, in astronomy, astrophysics, cosmology and cognate disciplines.
 Apart from a few special collections, all material is available on open shelves in both Libraries.

 The Cavendish curates and maintains the Cavendish Collection of Historic Scientific Instruments
 which contains artefacts linked to many major physics discoveries. The collection will be
 refreshed and enhanced when relocated in the Ray Dolby Centre. Many of the important
 instruments, pieces of apparatus, events and the personalities have been preserved
 photographically, providing a vivid picture of the Laboratory from the Maxwell era onwards. The
 most important 400 or more images constitute the Cavendish Digital Photo Archive which can be
 accessed in the University Library’s Cambridge Digital Library. Scholarly and research use of
 these images is allowed free of charge.




                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4: Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and
 Society

 COLLABORATIVE RESEARCH PROJECTS
 Research collaborations are essential in many of the most challenging projects being pursued by
 members of the Cavendish and the IoA, particularly in the use of major international facilities for
 ‘big-science’. The paragraphs below give an impression of the very many different types of
 collaboration taking place.
 Institute of Astronomy (IoA) Three key elements of the IoA’s success are: (1) programmatic
 agility focusing on competitive access to national and international facilities such as ESO, HST
 and Chandra, (2) leadership of major surveys involving ground-based and space facilities, for
 example, Gaia, VISTA, Spitzer, Planck, Herschel, and (3) strategic investments in intermediate-
 scale non-nationally funded projects and theoretical investigations, where a relatively small
 funding commitment can leverage a proportionally larger and high-impact scientific return. A
 recent example was participation in the Second and Third Sloan Digital Sky Sky Surveys
 (SDDS). The IoA aims to extend this approach through involvements in the Euclid, PLATO and
 IXO missions and in the UKIDSS survey. Two leading candidates for future private and private-
 public partnerships include the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST) and the Cerro
 Chajnantor Atacama Telescope (CCAT).
 Hitachi Cambridge Laboratory (HCL) employs an international team of researchers within an
 open research environment with collaborations over a wide range of research projects. Initially
 associated with the Microelectronics Group, collaboration now extends to the OE and SP groups
 with the aim of creating new concepts for advanced electronic and optoelectronic devices.
 Hitachi has begun a major programme in quantum computing with the Cavendish and other
 Departments as well as SMEs. Smith is Director of the HLC on a half-time basis.

 The Toshiba Cambridge Research Laboratory (CRL) is a vital part of Toshiba’s worldwide
 research and development network. It is responsible for a number of significant world-first
 developments in quantum technologies which find their way into new Toshiba products. Close
 collaborations take place with the SP Group.
 The Large Hadron Collider is our largest international project, with the ATLAS experiment
 involving 3000 scientists and the LHCb almost 1000. We have made major contributions to the
 detector systems in both cases, and are leading efforts on the current upgrade programmes,
 which will take data for at least a decade.
 DUNE, the Deep Underground Neutrino Experiment, involving almost 800 scientists and
 engineers from 145 institutions across 26 nations is a billion-dollar scale next-generation
 neutrino oscillation experiment, currently under review by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE).
 Global interest in the project is made possible with the combination of the DUNE near and far
 detectors and the proposed Long Baseline Neutrino Facility (LBNF) at the Fermilab. First
 operations of the neutrino beam are expected in 2025.
 HIRES is an optical/NIR high resolution spectrometer for the European Extremely Large
 Telescope (E-ELT). With ELT first light planned for 2024, the HIRES instrument is planned for
 delivery in 2028. Members of the IoA and Cavendish Astrophysics are carrying out a design
 study for mosaicing large gratings to make a single echelle grating over one metre long that
 operates at cryogenic temperatures for the near infrared arm of the spectrograph. The scientific
 motivations include exoplanets and cosmology.
 OPTICON is an EC-funded ‘Integrated Infrastructure Initiative’ consortium of about 35 partners
 including all major European astronomy funding agencies and ESO. Gilmore is scientific
 coordinator. The project supports technology R&D across Europe, especially in high-order
 adaptive optics and related technologies. It supports Europe-wide projects and operates an



                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 open-access telescope time allocation system. The project supports the IoA’s European Projects
 Manager.
 The Cavendish Laboratory for Scientific Computing is a federated initiative that
 encompasses high-level computing resources. The research is concerned with complex, multi-
 scale, multi-physics problems arising in science or technology that cannot be solved by current
 computational approaches or which involve mathematical formulations based on incomplete
 physical models. The research is predominately funded by industrial projects which include
 companies and organisations such as the AWE, BAE Systems, Boeing Research and
 Technology, BP Exploration Operating Company, Jaguar Land Rover, Orica Mining Services,
 QinetiQ and Schlumberger Cambridge Research.
 ECONOMY AND SOCIETY
 Our research programmes have a crucial role to play in contributing to the overall system of
 knowledge production and innovation nationally and internationally and in sharing these across
 academic communities and with industrial partners. The Cavendish and the IoA continue to
 deliver to the national labour force a supply of highly-trained and qualified workers who enter
 industry, commerce, the financial sector and banking, teaching and all the other major
 professions which value problem-solving skills. An analysis of the long-term career destinations
 of Cavendish physics alumni has shown that about 25% continue in academic university and
 research institution posts while over 50% end up in highly skilled employment in industry,
 commerce and finance. The most conspicuous example of the latter is Ray Dolby and his
 invention of the Dolby noise reduction audio system.
 The roles graduates play in contributing to society and the economy are emphasised from the
 beginning of their PhD courses. Training courses are designed to prepare them for such future
 employment opportunities.
 Public and Schools Outreach and Diverse Communities
 We have made major commitments to communicating the excitement of physics and astronomy
 research to all sections of the community, particularly to young people and disadvantaged
 sections of society.
 During the 2021 REF period, Cavendish staff members, Jardine-Wright and Butler have been
 employed full-time on outreach activities for schools and the general public. They lead
 educational programmes in physics for young people and their teachers. The very extensive
 schools programme also involves staff members who contribute popular lectures in Cambridge
 and throughout the country.
 The Physics at Work programme is an annual event which runs for three days. The 24 displays
 are a roughly equal mix of science activities from the Laboratory, cognate departments and
 industrial companies. Each year this event attracts about 2,200 students and is always highly
 oversubscribed.
 An annual Gatsby Physics Lecture Series is targeted at young people from disadvantaged
 backgrounds. For a week, a cohort of 20 students experience the full range of Cambridge
 college and University life, encouraging them to apply for entrance to the University. They pass
 on the message at their home locations urging their colleagues to aspire to excellence in higher
 education.
 The week-long Teacher Residential Courses and the Senior Physics Challenge involve typically
 30 teachers and about 70 of the brightest students from all over the country selected from over
 300 applicants. The students are exposed to a wide range of challenging problems in physics,
 illustrating the power of mathematics to articulate their physical content and to their solution. Ten
 Cambridge colleges support the programme by offering accommodation. Many doctoral students
 are involved as demonstrators and course tutors. The High Energy Physics Master Class for
 school pupils performs a similar role and is held over two days each year.
 Each year there is an influx of many young people and their families for our Open Days. The IoA
 hosts visitors as part of the Cambridge Science Festival. They browse displays and exhibits
 about astronomical research, typically attracting about 1500 people. In the Cavendish, the day

                                                                                              Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 involves hands-on physics experiments and model-building exercises as part of Cambridge
 Science and Technology Week with demonstrations and experiments carried out by doctoral
 students. Typically 2000 visitors take part each year.
 The IoA’s vibrant outreach programme consists of a tiered set of programmes previously
 coordinated by the Institute’s ‘Public Astronomer’ Crawford and now run by Outreach
 Astronomer Bothwell. The weekly public open evenings run for six months of the year, typically
 attracting 150–200 people. A 30-minute talk, often delivered by postdocs and doctoral students,
 is followed by observing through the16-inch, 12-inch and 8-inch telescopes. Approximately 80
 visits per year are hosted for community groups, schools groups, and amateur astronomical
 societies. These activities are supplemented by ‘one-offs’ including popular arts-science events
 and public viewing of special astronomical events.
 The IoA has also developed a Kavli-funded initiative, Project AstroEAST, specifically targeting
 underserved and under-privileged populations in the region to the north and east of Cambridge.
 It aims to attract more students to study A-level science, targeting young people before they take
 their GCSEs.
 The Cavendish and the IoA have supported five Royal Society Summer Exhibition stands during
 the REF2021 period, each visited by roughly 14,000 of the public over six days.


 Isaac Physics Project
 Warner and Jardine-Wright lead the Isaac Physics Project, a radical, mass-scale programme
 harnessing computer technology to help all students, especially those affected by the national
 shortage of physics teachers, enter STEM subjects at university. The team works collaboratively
 with teachers, schools and partner universities to deliver extension materials, on-line learning,
 workshops for students and support for physics teachers. The reach of the programme includes
 a world-wide audience of young people. Department of Education funding of £7M was recently
 renewed with substantial help from the Ogden Trust. With the assistance of the Institute of
 Physics, Isaac now operates across the UK.
 Students develop analysis skills and deeper understanding of physics through problem solving.
 Over 7,100 teachers and 185,000 14-19 year-old students have freely accessed the Isaac Open
 Platform for Active Learning (OPAL). More than 3,600 schools participate, many with over 50
 registered students. Monthly, 28,000 students and 1300 teachers use OPAL with daily peaks of
 145,000 problems answered. The 36% participation rate for women in Isaac compares with 21%
 in A-level physics
 Progress of registered students is monitored, guided and encouraged on a highly interactive and
 individual basis, including live video tuition to students and teachers participating in continuing
 professional development programmes each week. Isaac sets, marks and reports homework,
 saving thousands of teacher hours monthly.


 Other Inclusive Initiatives
 A number of innovations specifically targeted at the disabled and minorities have featured in the
 activities of both Departments.
    •   Laporte has used the IoA 3D printer to create tactile experiences for blind people.
    •   Padman, Chair of the Cavendish Personnel Committee, was awarded the Barbara
        Burford Excellence Award, the inaugural Gay Times honour given to individuals who live
        openly as LGBT+ and whose work has had a profound impact on the lives of LGBT+
        people.
    •   Patto developed WaterScope, a not-for-profit company spun out of research conducted
        within the NanoPhotonics Centre. Using an open source flexure microscope,
        WaterScope is developing rapid, automated water testing kits and affordable bacterial
        diagnostics to empower developing communities in Africa.
    •   Cavendish and COVID-19 In response to the coronavirus pandemic, members of the
        BSS Group have realigned their specialised technologies to study basic aspects of the

                                                                                             Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        virus infection. Cicuta collaborates with Bryant (Department of Veterinary Medicine) and
        Floto (Department of Medicine) making use of our facilities for cell handling, microfluidics,
        optical imaging and our experience of motile cilia in the lungs. With Mascolo in the
        Computer Laboratory, Cicuta has also launched a global project to record the sounds of
        breathing, cough and voice, and analysed these with the aim of providing a COVID-19
        diagnostic. Keyser is using his specialised nanopore sensing expertise to develop of a
        test for the RNA viral genome, avoiding the bottlenecks of existing technologies. These
        long-term projects provide insight into the detection, biology and medical treatment of the
        coronavirus infection.
 Wider Influence
 The wider influence of the Cavendish and IoA staff members comes in a variety of forms. Most
 important is their full participation in national and international science. Such activities include
 Research Council service, committee membership of learned societies and national bodies,
 such as such the Royal Society, Institute of Physics and the Royal Astronomical Society. On the
 international scene, many staff are members of international committees, for example, for
 projects and programmes of the European Space Agency, NASA, CERN, European Southern
 Observatory, as well as review panellists for university departments worldwide. It is significant
 that staff members are members of more international committees than they are of UK funding
 bodies and learned societies, testifying to their high international profiles. Many staff have been
 honoured by delivering plenary lectures at major international meetings.

 Other evidence of impact includes distinctions such as membership of prestigious academic
 institutions and prizes. Among the researchers submitted for REF2021, there are 12 FRSs and
 in addition 13 active Emeritus FRSs. Over the REF2021 period, the following were elected to
 prestigious fellowships:

        Hills, Queloz and Teichmann (Fellowship of the Royal Society)
        Teichmann (Fellowship of the Academy of Medical Sciences)
        Fabian (Foreign Associate of the US National Academy of Sciences)
        Simons, Sirringhaus (Royal Society Research Professor)
        Cole (Royal Academy of Engineering Research Professorship)

 Other marks of influence and distinction include:

        Maiolino: Knighthood of the Order of the Star of Italy, 2018
        Thomson: Executive Chair of the STFC, 2018
        Donald: Master of Churchill College, Cambridge
        Cooper: EPSRC Established Career Fellow, 2013

 Members of the departments have won many prestigious prizes:

 Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences:
         Queloz (Nobel Prize in Physics, shared with Mayor and Peebles, 2019)
 Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters:
         Fabian (Kavli Prize in Astrophysics 2020).
 Royal Society:
         Barnes (Brian Mercer, 2014); Baumberg (Rumford, 2014); Sirringhaus (Hughes, 2014);
         Efstathiou (Hughes 2015); Simons (Gabor Medal 2015); Cowburn (Clifford Patterson,
         2015); Gibson (Athena, 2016); Cole (Clifford Patterson, 2020)
 Institute of Physics (IoP):
         Bohndiek (Clifford Patterson, 2014); Payne (Swan, 2014); Sebastian (Brian Pippard,
         2014); Simons (Rosalind Franklin, 2014); Cliff (Science in Society, 2015); Sebastian
         (Philip Leverhulme Prize 2015); Sirringhaus (Michael Faraday, 2015); Hadzibabic
         (Holweck Medal and Prize 2016); Baumberg (Michael Faraday, 2017); Rao (Henry
         Moseley, 2017); Warner (Founders Prize, 2017); Di Michele (Liquids and Complex Fluids
         Group Early Career Award 2017); Palacios-Berraquero (Jocelyn Bell Burnell, 2018);

                                                                                              Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Cooper (Lord Rayleigh/Strutt, 2019); Jardine-Wright and Warner (Bragg, 2019); Atature
       (Thomas Young Medal and Prize 2020)
 Royal Astronomical Society:
       Clarke (Eddington, 2017); Parry (Jackson-Gwilt, 2017); Challinor and Efstathiou (Group
       Award Planck Collaboration, 2018); Kennicutt (Gold Medal, 2019)
 Other Notable Prizes:
       Bohndiek (EC MSCA prize 2014, WISE research award 2014, CRUK Future Leaders
       Prize, 2018 and SPIE Early Career Achievement Award 2019); Cooper (Simons
       Foundation Award and Prize 2017); Gibson (WISE Award 2013); Lonzarich (Kamerlingh
       Onnes Prize 2015); Donald (DBE) eight honorary degrees; Keyser and Bell (Helmholtz
       Prize for Applied Metrology, 2016); Longair (two honorary degrees); Padman (Gay
       Times Barbara Burford Award, 2017); Queloz (Wolf Prize 2017); Sijacki (Ada Lovelace
       Prize 2019); Teichmann (Biophysical Society Bárány Award 2014: EMBO Gold Medal
       2015), Stranks and Paddison (EPS Early Career Prizes, 2017); Scott (Thomson Reuters
       Citation Laureate 2014); Schneider (Rudolf-Kaiser Prize 2016); McMahon, Irwin,
       N.Walton (2015 Breakthrough Prize in Fundamental Physics).

 Our national and international impact is reflected in the high standing of the Departments in the
 various national and international reviews of Physics and Astronomy, Cambridge being
 consistently in the top five universities world-wide for Physics and Astronomy in QS rankings.




                                                                                            Page 28
