Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: Loughborough University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA C19 Politics and International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 This REF cycle has witnessed a transformation in Politics and International Studies at
 Loughborough. We have undergone a period of unprecedented investment and growth,
 enhanced the quality of our research and expanded our impact. Our achievements include a
 50% increase in our staff base, the establishment of the Institute for Diplomacy and Governance
 (IDIG) on Loughborough’s new London campus, and £1.1M investment in staff through the
 University’s ‘Excellence 100’ initiative. This is our first return to C-19 and a significant milestone
 in our building of the subject area.

 1.1. Unit context and Research Structure

 Our submission comprises 30FTE staff: 24 from the School of Social Sciences and Humanities
 (SSH) on the Midlands campus, and 6 from Loughborough University London (LUL). SSH and
 LUL are two of the nine Schools at Loughborough, each led by a Dean and (for research and
 impact) Associate Deans for Research (ADR) and Enterprise (ADE).

 The former Department of Politics, History, and International Relations was renamed Politics and
 International Studies (POLIS) in 2017 to reflect a new start. SSH (in which POLIS sits) was
 established a year later incorporating colleagues from the Humanities. This regrouping aligned
 researchers from English and Visual Culture, Geography, Communications and Media, Social
 Policy, and Sociology with those in POLIS, precisely to promote interdisciplinary opportunities.
 IDIG (which was established in 2017) is one of seven Institutes in LUL. Its London location
 enables our researchers to engage with policy makers, enterprise partners, and political actors
 and provides a location for events such as our 2019 NATO workshops. POLIS and IDIG have
 distinct but complementary identities and share strategic research and impact ambitions.

 Opening the London campus in 2015 represented the biggest single institutional investment
 since Loughborough became a University in 1966. LUL offers 9,000m2 of collaborative learning
 space on the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park, with a boardroom and facilities for international
 conferencing which are available to all Unit staff and students.

 1.1.1 Research Themes
 Our research is organised around three Themes.

 Democracy and its Challenges contains our groupings in Political Thought, populism, ethics in
 public life, and anarchism. We analyse the empirical and philosophical challenges facing
 democratic states including the rise of popular movements, democratic fragility, climate crises,
 and poverty (we work in this theme alongside our SSH colleagues in Social and Policy Studies).
 The art of political communication and the role of elites in framing public perceptions of politics
 provides opportunities to work with SSH colleagues in Communication and Media. Our agenda
 explores new developments in both the theory and practice of democracy including the role of
 interest groups but particularly the rise in social and protest movements, such as Occupy, Black
 Lives Matter, and Extinction Rebellion.

 Our approach is distinctive in incorporating conventional and radical theories of state authority
 and citizen rights. The study of anarchism remains a priority and we shape the study of anarchist
 theory and history through our leadership in the national and international research networks of
 BISA, the PSA, ISA and our own Anarchist Studies Network. Our more recently formed
 Populism Research Group has inspired and leads methodological innovation in the study of
 social movements.



                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Democracy and its Challenges comprises 11FTE: 1 Professor, 3 Readers, 2 Senior Lecturers
 and 5 Lecturers.

 Security Studies. The Centre for Security Studies investigates contemporary challenges such
 as how states remain resilient in a context of political, military and economic change, how
 communities recover after conflict, and how to manage the rocky transition from war to peace.
 We advise government on a range of defence matters such as environmental change in the
 Arctic, and on national issues such as Covid-19 and migration security. We shape policy
 debates on the national and international stage with a growing expertise around issues such as
 human trafficking, modern slavery and the gendered politics of militarism in places such as
 Afghanistan and the wider Middle East.

 Security Studies comprises 7FTE: 1 Professor, 1 Reader, and 5 Lecturers.

 Diplomacy and Global Politics extends our established European Studies expertise into
 regional politics, including the theory and practice of future EU/UK relations, the economic
 impacts of Brexit and, with colleagues in Geography and within the Security Theme, the practical
 implications of migration. Staff recruitment has enabled us to research the landscape of post
 1945 colonial politics and be productive in our area specialisms with colleagues working on the
 politics and history of Afghanistan, China, Colombia, France, Greece, India, Japan, Russia and
 the post-Soviet space, Spain, Sri Lanka, Turkey and the US.

 Diplomacy and Global Politics comprises 12FTE: 1 Professor, 1 Reader, 2 Senior Lecturers,7
 Lecturers and 1 Research Fellow.




 1.1.2 Interdisciplinarity
 Decisions about staff recruitment, investment, and research strategy are shaped by a
 commitment to the expansion of interdisciplinary opportunities. Through regular School
 meetings, interdisciplinary away-days and workshops, and funding support, we have enriched
 research culture generating collaborative projects. These include research on nationalism with
 colleagues in Communication and Media and on transgender and BAME identities with
 colleagues from English and Visual Arts. IDIG links with the Midlands campus and also with the
 other LUL Institutes. One of our IDIG-based Newton International Fellows, Ozduzen, conducted
 research on digital media and the politics of protest with colleagues drawn from LUL’s Institute
 for Media and Creative Industries.

 Interdisciplinarity is embedded through the Centre for Research in Communication and
 Culture (CRCC), which explores topics of mutual interest through its reading group, international


                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 seminar series, and outreach events. Our researchers in POLIS and IDIG are active across
 CRCC’s six themes, interrogating issues such as the ethics of political lobbying, the complexion
 of social movements, the controversies evoked by migration, political rhetoric, elections, and
 how art is politicised. Prof Kinna leads CRCC’s Social, Political, and Cultural Theory theme.

 Interdisciplinary research is further stimulated by the institutional CALIBRE framework, which is
 the research component of the University’s ‘Building Excellence’ strategy. CRCC links across
 Schools through CALIBRE’s ‘Communication and Culture’ Beacon, one of Loughborough’s five
 formally declared Research Beacons. CALIBRE also established the Institute of Advanced
 Studies (IAS) in 2017, which brings world-leading researchers to our campuses to participate in
 annual themed programmes. From 2020, Depledge has led on the ‘Polar’ theme, attracting five
 IAS Fellows from Canada, Hong Kong, and Denmark to work on the impact of Arctic melt on the
 politics of Northern Europe.

 1.2. Review of Objectives and Research and Impact Plans described in REF 2014

 Our research has changed gears since 2014. It is more visible, impactful, agenda-setting and
 wholly driven by a strategic focus on excellence. We are active in national and international
 networks, we provide visible disciplinary leadership through our Research Themes and we have
 developed areas of interrogation such as in populism and social movements. We contribute to
 the study of our subject through publishing and the wider dissemination of our research at
 workshops and conferences and to impact through our engagement with stakeholders and the
 enactment of public policy on the national and international stage.

 Unit staff have published 35 monographs, 254 peer-reviewed articles, 140 book chapters,
 and 24 edited books since 2014. Our theorists published in highly ranked sub-disciplinary
 journals including Contemporary Political Theory, Ethnicities, History of Political Thought,
 Journal of the History of Ideas, Journal of Political Ideologies and Political Theory. Our Global
 Politics and Security specialists published in journals including Cooperation and Conflict,
 International Journal of Migration and Border Studies, International Journal of Human Rights,
 International Peacekeeping, Journal of Contemporary European Research, Millennium, and
 Security Dialogue. Our regional expertise enabled us to produce work in the Journal of the
 Royal Asiatic Society, Mediterranean Politics, Pacific Review, and Third World Quarterly. Our
 international historical research appeared in Global Intellectual History, Historical Research,
 International Journal of Regional and Cultural Studies, as well as the International Journal for
 History, Culture, and Modernity. Our monographs were produced by university presses such as
 Bristol, Cambridge, Edinburgh, Georgetown, Manchester, Oxford, as well as with Bloomsbury,
 Brill, I.B.Tauris, Palgrave Macmillan, Penguin, Routledge, Rowman & Littlefield, and Zed Books.

 We have thus realised our aim to publish our work in peer reviewed journals and with highly
 respected presses while contributing to national and international scholarly debates.
 Furthermore, we achieved our three 2014 research objectives:

 1.2.1 Consolidate areas of existing strength
 We remain leaders in radical Political Thought and in European Studies. The latter area has
 been significantly strengthened by creation of IDIG and Drake’s chairing of the University
 Association for Contemporary European Studies (2012-18), which helped shape academic
 debate over the Brexit process. Radical Political thought remains robust and Loughborough
 remains the leading UK centre for the study of anarchist theory, its practice and its evolution
 throughout the Twentieth Century. Our theorists and historians ran events and workshops, took
 the lead role in coordinating the global Anarchist Studies Network (including organising its bi-
 annual conference) and edited the peer-reviewed journal Anarchist Studies.




                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.2.2 Broaden our research into new areas, building on our existing strengths to make a
 distinctive contribution
 Our enduring strengths in political thought shape our distinctive, ‘critical’ approach to political
 challenges and underpin our newer focus on social movements, populism and protest.
 Investment has been considerable; we established the Populism Research Group, increased our
 focus on social movements and activist politics as challenges to conventional democratic theory
 and practice, and grew our expertise in migration and gender politics. We established the Centre
 for Security Studies to facilitate interdisciplinary research into diplomacy, international
 governance, and international histories, with particular emphasis on migration, post-conflict
 societies, foreign policy, and defence. We built strength in the study of India and Africa with the
 appointment of Ankit, Cullen and Piccolino. We did this because Loughborough is a practical
 institution given to policy relevant work. Whilst colleagues have long studied the post-colonial
 world, the Cold War and the practice of diplomacy, we moved on to also address real-life policy
 issues in our work on UK defence after Brexit, post-colonial legacies in Africa and Asia, and the
 lived experiences of migrants in the UK and Europe. We embraced and continue to develop our
 distinctive critical and practical approach.

 1.2.3 Internationalisation
 In 2014, we committed to increasing our international reach. Researchers were supported to
 disseminate research internationally, and to foster networks through school funding streams,
 seed corn funding, research allowances and leave. Accordingly, we gave 37 keynotes in 15
 countries, and conference and workshop presentations in 38 countries. We hosted
 international scholars, including Silva Peterson from University Santa Catorina, Brazil and Zhang
 Ruu, Hangzhou Normal University, China, to work in Political Theory.

 Our research community now has a more cosmopolitan profile than in 2014. International
 colleagues now comprise over half of our staffing base. We attract increasing numbers of
 visiting scholars and postgraduate students from across the world, in addition to the Fellows
 working with the IAS and resident in IDIG. We increased our engagement with policy makers in
 Brussels and Washington as well as with a variety of NGOs. Under our IAS Arctic theme, we
 hosted visitors from international organisations, from Downing Street, as well as from the
 Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office. Our interactions were designed to promote
 our analysis of what may happen in the Arctic and the implications for the UK, to be taken into
 the heart of policy making. Our research on Arctic affairs also saw us host the President of
 Iceland in January 2019, when public discussion took place over the role of soft power in
 shaping international affairs in an era of dramatic climate change.

 Our work on post-Brexit politics benefitted from collaboration with Sciences-Po (France) and
 imagined the likely shape of Franco-Anglo relations after the UK’s exit. Our research on
 migration and security took advantage of our partnerships with the Universities of Bilkent
 (Turkey) and Rotterdam (Netherlands) to highlight the human rights of those escaping from war
 zones such as Syria into Western states. Our Populism Research Group’s evolving reputation
 was enhanced by its affiliation with Vrije Universiteit (Belgium).

 1.3 Enabling and Facilitating Impact

 Our research is a driver of social, political, and cultural transformation. We aim to make a
 difference to policy and debates beyond academia. A REF2014 objective was to increase the
 impact of our research and we have achieved this through a range of initiatives.

 Enterprise, which includes impact, is the third pillar of University activity. The University’s
 Research and Enterprise Office includes each School’s Partnership Development Manager,
 tasked with helping researchers connect with external audiences. Impact activity is supported by
 each School’s ADE in line with the University-wide strategy set by the PVCs for Research and
 Enterprise. School Research and Enterprise Committees, and specific School roles (Research
 Director in POLIS and Institute Directors in LUL) ensure a commitment to maximising impact.


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The profile of knowledge exchange and research impact are evident in, for example, SSH’s
 Annual Enterprise day and LUL’s annual Knowledge Exchange and Collaborate events, which
 bring together community and industry partners to share learning and expand impact. The
 University’s annual Enterprise Awards further raise the profile of impact activities.

 Creation of IDIG has been crucial to facilitating impact, providing a base to enable researchers
 to engage with stakeholders in politics, business, and the media. Since its inception, IDIG staff
 have established our presence and cemented strong networks in the capital, for example
 through Drake’s ESRC-funded Brexit work with Hackney Council and Depledge’s work with the
 House of Commons.

 A second significant initiative was the competitive appointment of an Enterprise Fellow in 2019.
 The Enterprise Fellow (with a designated budget) oversaw a series of events which welcomed
 policymakers and thought leaders to the University. In 2019, LUL hosted two expert workshops
 for the US-led NATO Allied Command Transformation (ACT). The first meeting discussed
 emerging issues for UK policy in a melting Arctic, and the second examined and developed the
 new NATO Arctic strategy for which Depledge and Kennedy-Pipe acted as advisors.

 As an interdisciplinary Centre, CRCC also plays a central role in supporting research impact, for
 example funding a seminar on the ‘Ethics of Political Participation’ which brought together
 political theorists, sociologists, and historians to discuss democratic challenges. This meeting
 facilitated the development of the Parvin ICS.

 To understand, plan, and deliver research impact, Unit staff are provided with training, funding,
 and time:

 Training. Support from SSH impact workshops and one to one mentoring support the
 identification of areas for impact. Staff are encouraged to work with more experienced
 colleagues on impact plans, and University Partnership Development Managers are also
 available to help identify pathways to impact. The Loughborough Enterprise Network offers PGR
 students opportunities for enterprise training, networking and development.

 Funding. Enterprise Projects Group (EPG) makes Higher Education Innovation Fund support
 available to Unit staff on a competitive basis to accelerate the translation of research outputs into
 social, economic and cultural impacts. EPG funds partnership building including secondments,
 feasibility studies, and public engagement, while Schools also award funding to support
 dissemination and stakeholders engagement. In total, the Unit received seven awards for impact
 projects.

 Time. Researchers need time to plan and deliver impact. We allocate 34% of workload for
 research and impact. ICS authors received an additional 12-25% workload allocation to build
 their networks, gather evidence, and follow impact pathways. Researchers can apply for leave,
 and teaching duties are timetabled with a view to preserving blocks of time for research and
 impact activity.

 This approach has delivered benefits for the development of partnerships. Our researchers
 work with a range of external stakeholders, explaining the political landscape and collaboratively
 shaping practice with McKinsey and Company, the Foreign Policy Institute, RUSI, Chatham
 House and the New Economics Foundation. Staff continue to work with grassroots associations
 and campaign groups including Occupy, as well as with international organisations including the
 International Red Cross and the Institute for Social Studies of the Erasmus University in
 Rotterdam.

 We also engage directly with policy makers through the All-Party Parliamentary Groups (APPG)
 for the Polar Regions, for Brexit, and the UK Parliament’s Covid-19 Horizon Scanning. Policy
 impact activities include Depledge’s role in the production of a first UK Arctic Framework,


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Kennedy-Pipe’s recommendations to the Integrated Defence Review, Zebrowski’s work with the
 Scottish government Strategic Research Programme on community resilience; Bilgic’s training of
 Dutch and European diplomats in the Hague on migration and security in Europe; Bilgic’s invited
 contributions to British foreign and security policy (Cabinet Office); McGarry’s advice to OSCE
 (Warsaw) on Roma participation; and Drake’s role as a member of the conseil scientifique
 (advisory board) ‘Rails et Histoire - Twenty Years under the Channel and Beyond’ project based
 in Paris.

 Our monthly ‘Geopolitics and International Affairs’ seminar series and our IDIG workshop series
 attract leading figures such as Jamie Shea (NATO’s former Deputy Assistant General Secretary
 for Emerging Security Challenges). We are the now preferred UK University partner of NATO on
 Arctic security, which is an indicator of our commitment to delivering impact.

 1.3.1. How the selected Impact Case Studies relate to our approach to impact
 Our Impact Case Studies demonstrate our engagement with partners and add to the
 achievements outlined in section 1.2, demonstrating our ambition to consolidate strength (1.2.1)
 and expand into novel areas of inquiry (1.2.2).

 Two of our three ICSs are authored by political theorists, one working in anarchist/radical
 thought (Kinna), a pre-existing area of distinction, and the other in analytic philosophy (Parvin),
 Our research is designed to have practical outcomes as in Kinna’s influence on community
 networks. The third (Depledge and Kennedy-Pipe) illustrates our commitment to
 internationalisation (1.2.3) and the ambition that our research shape, in a positive manner,
 aspects of national policy.

 ICS authors benefited from the targeted training, funding, and time, as outlined above. This
 ensured that our impact was people-driven as in Kinna’s work, impactful on the private sector as
 in Parvin’s work and of use to government as in the ICS produced by Depledge and Kennedy-
 Pipe. Our impact is relevant and keenly aware of social disruptions, as in populism, or in global
 disruptions such as the melting of the Arctic on UK foreign and defence politics.

 ICS authors received training (for example from Professor Mark Reed of Fast Track Impact),
 and from University Partnership Development Managers around how to best develop relations
 with external partners, and how to frame research for target audiences. University funding was
 made available to support evidence-gathering, events, and other initiatives, including Parvin’s
 conference ‘Participation in a Populist Age’, which brought together around 60 academics,
 politicians, and political organisations in Westminster, and a NATO workshop held at LUL to
 support Depledge and Kennedy-Pipe’s ICS.

 1.4. Research and Impact Objectives 2021-2027

 Our research and impact strategy in the period to 2027 is focused on strengthening the
 distinctive ‘critical’ approach to democratic challenges, growing our research into post-colonial
 politics, and deepening our study of national and international security concerns in post conflict
 communities. We will increase our engagement with policymakers and external partners. Our
 strategy is guided by three principles - Interdisciplinarity, Internationalisation, and Impact
 (the ‘three Is’) - and characterised by a proactive commitment to advancing equality and
 diversity.

 1.4.1 Interdisciplinarity
 We aim to extend our interdisciplinary research partnerships across our Research Themes, by
 developing new research collaborations with SSH colleagues in Humanities, Geography, and
 Communications and Media, and LUL colleagues in other Institutes.

 A key initiative will be the establishment of a major new interdisciplinary Centre in SSH with
 a remit to provide global, agenda-setting influence around energy and climate change. In


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 the new Centre, we will explore some of the most profound practical and theoretical challenges
 facing contemporary communities in relation to climate change, including Polar geopolitics and
 the effects of environmental change on migration. We will work ever more closely with our
 geographers on the politics of the built environment, democratic space, human trafficking, and
 migration. Security Studies researchers will also strengthen links with Geography, and enrich our
 expertise in regional politics, by becoming the new European home for the Mackinder
 Geopolitics Forum from 2021. This is a global network of foreign and defence policy experts
 working at the intersection between geography, international relations, and history.

 Collaboration with Communications and Media will include research on media framing of
 elections and changing political discourse in a ‘post-truth’ era. With Humanities, we will develop
 our work on transgender communities/identities and extend our contribution to postcolonial
 histories and legacies of empire. Beals’ ‘Oceanic Exchanges: Digging into the Data’ ESRC
 award will provide a foundation for further work in the digital humanities. Researchers across our
 Themes will work with LUL’s Institute for Digital Technologies on the challenges to democracy
 and individual privacy posed by new technologies.

 1.4.2 Internationalisation
 We will widen our international networks through collaborative research with partners drawn
 from a range of countries. This builds on current successes such as Oelgemoller’s International
 Organisation for Migration project on migration in West Africa and Piccolino’s ESRC projects on
 state-building in Colombia and Cote d’Ivoire, under the Security and Diplomacy and Global
 Politics Themes.

 We will also build on our emerging reputation on polar politics with the establishment of a new
 Arctic Research Group in collaboration with Trent University in Canada, the Norwegian
 Defence Community, University of Iceland and University of Southern Denmark. Drake will
 continue her work on Franco-British bi-lateral relations in a post-Brexit era with Professor
 Pauline Schnapper of the University of Sorbonne Nouvelle Paris III.

 In our Democracy and its Challenges Theme, the Populism Research Group will build on its
 association with Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and Vrije Universiteit to further grow its
 international network (c.50 researchers in seven countries) and operate as an open forum for
 exchange of research findings and ideas through its seminar series. Having built up a strong
 social media presence in almost 60 countries and its public seminar series, the Anarchism
 Research Group will grow its outreach, providing content in the form of video interviews and
 podcasts to (along with the PSA) enhance equality, diversity and inclusion in the field of
 anarchist studies.

 1.4.3 Impact
 We will increase the significance and reach of our impact by working more closely with current
 partners, and by building new relationships with policy makers and political actors in the UK such
 as the APPG on drones and the APPG for the Polar Regions. Impact will be augmented by the
 establishment of a new university-wide Policy Unit based at LUL dedicated to policy-relevant
 research on issues including foreign policy and governance

 We have developed new postgraduate programmes in Security and have begun to build
 bespoke packages for training mid-career professionals in Government particularly in
 Intelligence Studies and new areas of contestation such as cyber security (building on the
 expertise of Maddrell, aided by our new School Enterprise Fellow). Researchers across our
 Research Themes will continue working with leading think tanks and organisations. Security
 Studies will strengthen its collaboration with Chatham House, RUSI, the Konrad Adenauer
 Stiftung and the APPG for the Polar Regions, driving public debate about leading issues in the
 field of Arctic Studies.




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Democracy and its Challenges will strengthen networks among activist groups and grassroots
 movements, as well as national and international lobby groups in the public, private, and third
 sectors like McKinsey and Company and the newly formed Public Affairs Board to help
 organisational and policy change. Diplomacy and Global Politics will cultivate current project
 partners such as the US Agency for International Development (USAID) as future impact
 partners.

 1.4.4 Equality and diversity
 Over the next REF cycle, we are determined to ensure that a new generation of scholars fulfil
 their potential, completing the New Lecturers’ Programme, assuming research leadership
 positions, and securing promotion. The Athena Swan Bronze Award (2019) has raised the
 profile of gender issues but currently only a small number of our staff are from BAME groups.
 We have embedded EDI principles in all processes and practices to ensure involvement of all
 colleagues in strategic initiatives across the ‘three Is’. We are guided in this by a designated EDI
 lead (Armstrong).

 1.5 Open Research Environment

 The University has been a pioneer of the ‘Open Agenda’, actively supporting Repositories for
 text-based outputs (since 2005) and data (since 2015), working beyond funder (including
 REF2021) open access requirements. Our landmark Open Research Position Statement
 committed to depositing the full text of 100% of our primary research outputs in our now unified
 (2019) Research Repository from 2020. The unit has embraced this institutional commitment
 through our Repository and the UK Data Service. 100% of our submitted outputs (and 83% of all
 outputs) are openly available and we have met the target of 100% of 2020 journal articles to be
 deposited in the Repository.

 1.6 Culture of Research Integrity

 Our culture of research integrity is embedded in the institutional Ethical Policy Framework. The
 University Ethics Committee, whose membership includes a lay chair, senior officers, and
 several representatives from the academic and professional services staff, considers all ethical
 matters arising in the conduct of the University’s business. The Code of Practice for Research is
 underpinned by the five principles of the UK’s Concordat to Support Research Integrity and
 supports the mission and goals of the UK Research Integrity Office.

 A designated staff member evaluates Ethical Clearance Checklists for every research project for
 staff and PGR students, and serves as the first port of call for projects requiring full ethical
 clearance, which is ultimately granted by the relevant Ethical Approvals Committee. In POLIS,
 an enhanced three-step framework is in place for ethical clearance for those conducting
 fieldwork in post conflict zones such as Afghanistan.




                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing and Recruitment Policy

 All academic staff contribute to teaching, research and enterprise activities. We expect
 collegiality and, as careers develop, we expect broader leadership contributions. Academic staff
 have open-ended contracts, while research staff are on fixed-term contracts related to projects in
 line with sector norms.

 Since REF2014, our approach to recruiting staff has radically changed, driven by University
 Strategy. This originated with the ‘Excellence 100’ campaign which was initiated in 2017 to
 recruit 100 of the world’s best academics at all career stages, from postdoctoral and early career
 researchers (ECRs) through mid-career and senior roles. Building on Excellence 100,
 recruitment is now conducted through biannual recruitment rounds, managed centrally but with
 significant School input, rather than individual replacement hires.

 Renewal and growth in POLIS and start-up in IDIG (always with EDI issues to the fore) have
 been the main aims of our recruitment strategy. Of the 30 staff in this submission, almost 2/3 are
 new appointments. Given this unprecedented growth and generational change, employing
 outstanding people has been crucial but so too has been retaining and nurturing existing
 colleagues. In total, we have made seventeen new appointments: one Professor, two Readers
 and, fourteen Lecturers/Senior Lecturers. ‘Excellence 100’ appointments also included a
 Doctoral Prize Fellow (Baltag) and an innovative two-year Enterprise Fellow (Depledge).

 Recruitment was aligned with our three Research Themes, while also advancing
 internationalisation and impact. New appointments had an established record of engagement
 with external stakeholders: Depledge (All Party Parliamentary Group for Polar Regions),
 Kennedy-Pipe (NATO), Kourtelis (European Commission) and Piccolino (USAID). To promote
 vitality, we recruited an impressive cohort of ECRs, bolstering existing strength and extending
 our intellectual reach. Democracy and its Challenges now comprises researchers in anarchist
 and radical thought, but also analytic philosophy, social movements, and populism. Diplomacy
 and Global Politics is home to experts in European Studies and Foreign Policy, as well as
 scholars in the politics of India and South East Asia, North and West Africa, the Mediterranean,
 Central and Eastern Europe, Russia, and the Middle East. Our Security Studies Theme now
 includes experts on local and national resilience, migration, intelligence, war, terrorism, and
 post-conflict transition.

 We pay close attention to succession planning for research-related leadership roles, through
 an open management culture and on-site learning. All leadership posts are advertised internally
 and are competitive. Candidates are interviewed by senior staff and asked to set out their vision
 for and commitment to the role. Positions are fixed-term, subject to our EDI framework and
 approved by the Dean. To prepare colleagues for leadership roles, we direct them to targeted
 training and development opportunities and ensure on-the-job training through mentoring. We
 also encourage emerging leaders to apply for key positions, and to learn from incumbents to
 ensure best practice as we did, for example, when Oelgemoller took over from Bilgic as PGR
 Lead.

 2.2 Staff Development Strategy

 Loughborough’s Organisational Development offers a wide spectrum of training opportunities
 and support for staff at all career stages. Courses range from induction (e.g. Welcome to
 Loughborough) through essential training (e.g. Information security training, Unconscious Bias)
 to training for more experienced staff (e.g. Coaching Conversations for Managers, Recruitment
 & Selection). We operate an encouraging, supportive culture, which takes seriously the
 competing demands placed on staff.



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 All academics are expected to obtain Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy (HEA).
 For new lecturers, this is integral to their dedicated development programme. More experienced
 colleagues are supported through our `Recognition of Experienced Practitioners' scheme.

 Staff have a baseline workload allocation for research and impact of one-third of their time,
 with additional allocations for PGR supervision, management of research staff and responsibility
 for Impact Case Studies. Unit staff across all grades also receive an annual personal research
 allowance, minimum £750. In the start-up phase of LUL, IDIG staff received £1300 per year to
 facilitate research activities in and around the London campus in line with the ambition to make it
 a hub of international enterprise activity. Staff are also rewarded for bringing external funding
 with an addition to their allowance.

 2.2.1 Support for Postdoctoral Researchers
 Following the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers,
 the University provides structured support to postdoctoral researchers for career progression
 and development, including preparation of applications for funding. This was recognised by the
 European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research Award (since 2010, renewed after external
 review every 4 years). Postdoctoral researchers undertake a 6-month induction process that
 includes monthly mentoring meetings, tailored workplans to meet project and development
 objectives, and researcher training. Postdoctoral researchers attend relevant committees and
 can undertake modest teaching for career development after completing necessary training. All
 postdoctoral researchers receive a £300 annual research allowance and are eligible to apply for
 additional seed corn funding. Research staff are mentored and prepared for post project careers
 by academic staff. For example, Dr Emily Bell succeeded in gaining a position at Leeds
 University upon completion of a project with us in 2020, while Swann and Depledge were
 appointed to permanent lectureships in POLIS upon completion of their Fellowships.

 2.2.2 New Lecturers’ Programme (NLP)
 All new lecturers are guided by an experienced and trained academic colleague who acts as a
 mentor. NLP (formerly academic probation) was revised in 2017 and includes a range of
 research and impact activity (publication, funding applications, collaboration, public engagement,
 non-academic partnerships). New lecturers have a reduced workload in teaching and
 administration (33, 50 and 67% of departmental norms over three consecutive years). This
 facilitates development of an academic profile in research, teaching and impact but at a
 calibrated pace. In addition to a training programme leading to FHEA, staff meet four times
 annually with their mentor though more informal meetings are the norm. New lecturers are
 allocated a University-funded PhD student within their first two years alongside an experienced
 colleague. Supervision is a requirement, as are research output production and submission of a
 substantial grant application. During the assessment period, one-third of our staff have
 undertaken and successfully completed NLP.

 2.2.3 Performance and Development Review (PDR), reward and promotion
 All post-probationary staff, including those on fixed-term contracts, have an annual PDR. A
 supportive one-to-one discussion between the reviewee and a trained reviewer reflects on
 achievements over the past year and agrees performance and developmental objectives across
 the full range of activities, including CALIBRE-aligned goals for research and impact activity.
 PDR is a transparent way to recognise performance exceeding expectations with additional
 financial reward, overseen by a Senior Review Group. The scheme has particularly benefitted
 postdoctoral researchers for whom a rigorous developmental discussion was previously sporadic
 and consideration for reward a rarity.

 PDR also provides an effective means to identify candidates for promotion. In 2016, the
 University revised the criteria for academic promotion (Senior Lecturer and Reader /
 Professor), to ensure that the research components align with the University Strategy and
 CALIBRE. Evidence for cases can be based on research, teaching, enterprise (impact) or any
 combination to encourage balanced portfolios of work. Three staff have been promoted to


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Reader (Armstrong, Bilgic, Parvin). Promotion panels consider statements from applicants
 describing how personal circumstances, such as caring responsibilities, may have affected their
 profile.

 2.2.4 Research and impact leave
 Leave is available in the form of School and University Fellowships, providing up to 12 months
 outside regular workload to pursue agreed research objectives. Since 2014, our staff attracted a
 total of 11 Fellowships, totalling almost 90 months of additional time dedicated to research and
 impact. Fellowships are vital to delivering our research and impact strategy. Several major
 outputs, especially monographs, (e.g. Zebrowski’s 2016 Routledge book, ‘The Value of
 Resilience’) were produced under the Fellowship scheme and two of our ICS authors (Kinna and
 Parvin) held Fellowships.

 2.3. Support for Postgraduate Research (PGR) students

 A key objective during the assessment period was to create a thriving PGR community
 characterised by excellence and policy relevance, that could support us in our strategic
 objectives and align with our ambition to be critical and practical. Every PGR has desk space,
 access to shared social space, a computer and an annual allowance of £300. Our success in
 building the community is evident in the increase in ‘overall satisfaction’ from 82% to 91%
 between the 2017 and 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience Surveys.

 We have grown our numbers by competing for funding and attracting high-quality self-funded
 students. Primary funding sources are University scholarships and the private sector. Self-
 funded students and part time doctoral candidates with support from the private sector have
 doubled in number.

 Studentship recruitment begins with advertisement on our website and social media channels,
 and sites such as jobs.ac.uk and FindaPhD.com. Studentships are advertised early in the cycle
 to ensure high calibre candidates are attracted to fill the positions. Applicants work with potential
 supervisors to formulate their research proposals and submit formal applications. We arrange
 remote or in-person interviews of shortlisted candidates to ensure high quality students are
 recruited. Assessment by two members of staff is overseen and managed for consistency and
 transparency by the Schools’ Directors of Doctoral Programmes (DDP) and local Doctoral
 Programme Lead (DPL), with offers being made to the strongest candidates based on excellent
 research potential. Applicants with self-funding or holding a personal scholarship are
 encouraged to develop proposals with potential supervisors. A minimum upper second-class first
 degree in a relevant field is required but many incoming students have Master’s degrees.

 The Doctoral College runs an induction event for new starters, complemented by School
 specific inductions. All students have at least two supervisors. They meet at least monthly and
 usually more frequently, with minutes recorded in the University’s dedicated online Co-Tutor tool.
 Throughout the PhD, there are 6-monthly supportive reviews (lighter touch in months 18 and 30)
 and annual reviews, based on a report and viva with an independent assessor, determine
 student progression.

 Quality assurance of research degree programmes is provided by the ADR. Schools also have a
 DDP and disciplinary units have DPLs, who work together to monitor progression and arrange
 subject specific training. Further specialist support is available from the Student Advice Centre,
 the Careers Network, and the Student Wellbeing and Inclusivity Service. Schools have elected
 PGR student representatives who are members of the Staff-Student Liaison Committee.

 The Doctoral College (DC) offers over 200 skills development events annually. DC runs the
 Annual Conference, Summer Showcase, Three Minute Thesis competition and the ‘Diversity in
 Research’ workshops as well as funding to support travel for research and conferences via two
 schemes (Santander Travel Awards and International PGR exchanges).


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our students are integrated into our Research Themes and are active. Students in the Populism
 Research Group, the Centre for Security Studies, and the Anarchist Research Group attend all
 group events and seminars. Students are actively involved in running events, gaining crucial
 convening experience and extending their networks. They organise an annual conference at
 which all students present research and in 2019 they founded a lecture series to which they
 invite external speakers. After the onset of Covid-19, we moved activities online including a
 bespoke series of workshops on how to engage with stakeholders online. They have engaged in
 the POPULISMUS project and the postgraduate Populism Study Circle at the Aristotle University
 of Thessaloniki.

 Our students have opportunities to gain teaching experience, after completing the University’s
 Teaching Skills course, for example in taking first-year classes and providing guest lectures,
 usually alongside their supervisor.

 Our students are ambitious and productive. They have won high-profile awards such as the
 European University Institute’s Policy Leader Fellowship (Magara, 2020). We work with our
 students on professional development and research outputs, which has resulted in our students
 publishing 15 articles in academic journals, including Panayotu’s co-authored paper on
 transnational populism in Political Studies (2019) and Volaric’s in Journal of Croatian Studies
 (2017). We have had been successful in preparing students for academic careers: Donaghey to
 a research fellowship at University of Ulster and Stevens to a lectureship in Political Philosophy
 at Leicester De Montfort.

 2.4. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

 Alongside institutional engagement with nationally recognised schemes (Athena Swan, Race
 Equality Charter, Stonewall Diversity Champion), support for EDI is embedded in all of our
 policies and working practices. EDI training is mandatory for all staff, including unconscious bias
 training and recruitment and selection training for members of interview panels. In SSH,
 Armstrong is the School EDI lead. She attends all senior management meetings and sits on the
 School Research and Enterprise Committee where EDI data, for example on research funding,
 is reviewed and an Action Plan agreed on an annual basis.

 All three Professors and two of four Readers in the Unit self-identify as women. The Professors
 hold key leadership positions: Research Director (Kinna), Head of Subject (Kennedy-Pipe), IDIG
 Director & former Jean Monnet Chair in European Integration (Drake).

 Our public facing activities contribute to gender equality in practice. Bilgic succeeded Partis-
 Jennings in chairing the BISA Gender Working Group, Partis-Jennings has advised on the
 portrayal of women and rape at the Imperial War Museum, while Flesher-Fominaya was
 interviewed for a documentary on women in filmmaking and cinema by the Girls in Focus film
 academy in Los Angeles.

 Formal flexible working requests are submitted and approved by HR with support from Deans.
 Academic staff can work flexibly or remotely. Teaching commitments are also grouped at certain
 days / times to protect time for research. Approximately one third of staff take advantage of
 flexible working conditions. For other circumstances, such as caring duties, staff can request
 compassionate leave for immediate issues or arrange longer-term flexible working. Remote
 working is facilitated via the VPN (with secure multifactor authentication) that provides access
 to all University online resources. This infrastructure has eased the transition to effective home
 working during the COVID-19 pandemic.

 The University supports staff returning from parental or other long-term leave by providing
 phased workload reintroduction. More broadly, all staff are supported in work-related physical
 and mental health by the Occupational Health and Wellbeing Service.



                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Schools have trained Mental Health First Aiders, who provide immediate support to staff and
 research students. Wellbeing Advisors also support staff and research students. The
 University Counselling Service is available for emergency meetings and long-term treatment.
 The University also subscribes to the Employee Assistance Programme providing 24-hour
 telephone counselling and repeated sessions for staff with complex issues.

 2.5 EDI in submission construction

 Following the University's REF Code of Practice (CoP), we created a REF Submission Team
 (4F/2M) covering all Research Themes and staff from POLIS and IDIG. The submission team
 completed EDI and unconscious bias training. All colleagues were asked to nominate and self-
 assess potential outputs for inclusion. In line with our Responsible Metrics Policy, these were
 peer assessed for originality, significance and rigour by the REF Submission Team and an
 independent external advisor (male). Output and ICS selection was based solely on excellence.
 Throughout our REF preparations, equality impact assessments (EIAs) were carried out to
 assess both institutional processes and our draft return. EIAs confirmed no issues required
 attention. Attribution of selected outputs (31%F/69%M) is consistent with our staff profile
 (34%F/66%M).




                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income

 We apply for income to enable us to maximise our collective ambition to produce research that is
 of benefit to the discipline and to society. We use grant income to enable our colleagues to think,
 write and enact policy. We generate world class research and use our funding to facilitate
 meetings, workshops and networks to grow knowledge and mobilise interest from a multiplicity
 of stakeholders in our subject. Head of Subject, Institute Director, Research Directors, ADRs and
 ADEs have worked with staff to identify funding opportunities. New measures were introduced
 such as regular clinics with Research and Enterprise Office (REO) colleagues and an internal
 peer-review process in which experienced colleagues give constructive feedback to grant
 applicants. Schools provided seed corn funding on a competitive basis to enable preparatory
 work leading to grant applications. Support for grant capture was also provided through the NLP
 and PDR. The overhaul of the support researchers receive for funding has been successful in
 winning 29 awards with a total income of £665k.

 In Democracy and its Challenges, we attracted a Newton International Fellow, Ozduzen (BA,
 £82k, 2018-21), to work alongside McGarry, extending his AHRC-funded work on visual culture
 and political protest in Turkey, Leaman was awarded £63k for ‘Rebuilding an Inclusive, Value
 Based Europe of Solidarity and Trust through Social Investment’ (European Commission 2015-
 17), while Swann received a prestigious Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowship (£71k, 2017-
 20) for ‘Participatory Constitutionalism: Intercultural Communications and Political Consensus’.

 In Security, we won two ESRC awards: ‘Territorial Planning for Peace and State-Building in the
 Alto Cauca Region of Colombia (Piccolino, £23k on a £360k award, 2018-20); and in July 2020 a
 collaborative UKRI award (with Loughborough Business School) on resilience and the UK’s
 COVID-19 response (Zebrowski, £136k, 2020). This Theme also hosted a British Academy
 Visiting Fellow (Piccolino, £21k, 2019).

 In Diplomacy, we were awarded £241k for ‘28+ Perspectives on Brexit: a guide to the multi-
 stakeholder negotiations’ (Drake PI; Chelotti CI, ESRC, 2017-2019).

 Our portfolio includes grants awarded as part of Research Consortia, Prestigious Grant Awards
 and funding delivering high quality research outputs. For example:
  Consortia: The MIGCHOICE project (International Organisation for Migration, £1.4M total,
    £66k to Loughborough, 2019-21), co-led by Oelgemoller with University of Birmingham,
    brings together an international consortium of researchers to investigate the interaction
    between development interventions and migration in West Africa.
  Prestigious Award: Kinna’s ESRC award (£200k, 2016-18), ‘Anarchy as a Constitutional
    Principle: Constituting in Anarchist Politics’ sees Loughborough extend its expertise in
    anarchist political thought into a new and original areas. The grant has already enabled the
    publication of numerous outputs in peer reviewed journals, and a monograph with Penguin.
  Funding delivering high quality outputs: Lloyd’s Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship for
    ‘Who Counts? The Political Problem of the Human’ (£132k, 2013-16) enabled her to publish
    several peer-reviewed articles including ‘Naming the Dead and the Politics of the Human’
    which was judged to be the best article published in the Review of International Studies in
    2018.

 3.2 Organisational Infrastructure
 The Research and Enterprise Office (REO) supports researchers at all stages of the funding
 process, from identifying potential funders and supporting the application process, through to
 managing research projects and dissemination. As the holder of information on expertise and
 networks across the university, the REO plays a vital role in putting academics, external partners
 and funders together for the purposes of funding bids and wider engagement.



                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships.

 Increasing emphasis on interdisciplinarity, internationalisation and impact, enabled by strategic
 investment in staff, has prompted a significant increase in our networks and partnerships. Staff
 have engaged in over 100 national and international research collaborations, with deliverables
 including 40 co-authored/edited outputs (articles, books, and special editions), with partners
 in 9 different countries, and organisation of over 100 national and international conferences
 and workshops.

 Researchers collaborate in national and international research projects that contribute to our
 international research leadership and provide evidence and understanding that we use to drive
 scholarly debates and policy interventions. Notable are: Drake’s research on contemporary
 French politics (with Sciences Po, Princeton, and Hong Kong Baptist University); Oelgemoller’s
 ESRC MIGCHOICE award brings together researchers from the Universities of Bael,
 Birmingham, Bologna, Dakar, Essex, Guinea, Milan, and Royal Holloway to assess migration
 choice in West Africa; McGarry’s three projects funded by the AHRC, the British Academy, and
 the European Commission Marie Curie fund work on art and media activism with Bilgi University,
 Istanbul.

 Unit staff are encouraged to collaborate through visiting positions and appointments.
 Armstrong (2016) and Kennedy-Pipe (2018) both held Visiting Fellowships at the Rothermere
 Institute in Oxford, and Parvin held three visiting positions (2018) at the University of Oxford
 (Balliol College, Nuffield College and the Centre for the Study of Social Justice) researching the
 role of lobby groups in British democracy. Internationally, Bilgic was Prince Claus Chair in
 Development and Equity at the International Institute of Social Studies, Erasmus University in
 Rotterdam, a prestigious position afforded in recognition of his work on migration and human
 security; Flesher-Fominaya was Guest Faculty at the Harvard University Learning Innovation
 Laboratory; Kennedy-Pipe was Visiting Scholar at the University of Lille, building cooperation
 with the French Military academy; while McGarry held both a European Institutes for Advanced
 Studies Fellowship and a Marie Sklodowska Curie Fellowship at the Netherlands Institute for
 Advanced Study, Amsterdam. Drake has held numerous research positions including at
 Sciences-Po Lyon, and the European University Institute in Florence.

 We also coordinate global research networks for the benefit of academics, students and policy
 makers across the world. Kinna, Christoyannopoulos and Swann run the Anarchist Studies
 Network, a global community of anarchist theorists and historians (340 members and nearly
 6000 Facebook followers). Katsambekis, via the Populism Research Group, leads an
 international network of around 50 researchers in seven countries, supporting our growing
 international reputation in populism studies. Flesher-Fominaya is Founder and Co-Chair of the
 Council of European Studies Consortium Research Network on European Social Movements,
 which has 250 members in 23 countries. Fostering and coordinating these scholarly networks
 internationalises our research, encourages interdisciplinarity, and increases our impact.

 4.1.1 Engaging with Professionals and Policymakers
 In line with the REF2014 objective to increase the impact of our research, developing
 relationships with research users has been a key priority, particularly international
 organisations and national governments. Our growing reputation for research relevant to
 national and international policy debates has enabled us to strengthen and diversify our
 relationships with public bodies. By disseminating our research among politicians and political
 practitioners and building personal networks with institutional support, we have been able to
 build positive and enduring relations with, for example, the UK Arctic and Antarctic Partnership
 Steering Committee (Depledge), the APPG for the Polar Regions Advisory Council (Depledge),
 the APPG on Drones (Kennedy-Pipe), and the European Parliament (Drake, Oliver).



                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our expertise has been used by the UK government to formulate the first Arctic Framework
 (Depledge and Kennedy-Pipe), by the Spanish Government on popular movements (Flesher-
 Fominaya), the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Ukraine on democratisation (Chelotti), and the
 Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Moldova and the European Parliament on minority rights (Nitoiu).
 Bilgic, in association with the Clingendael Institute (Netherlands), has trained diplomats on the
 topic of migration, and has worked with the Cabinet Office to contribute to UK foreign and
 security policy (2019-2020). McGarry is an Advisory Board Member of VOLPOWER (Volunteer
 and Power) and has provided policy advice to OSCE Warsaw (Organisation for Security and
 Cooperation in Europe).

 Linked to their work with the APPG for the Polar Regions, Depledge and Kennedy-Pipe’s work
 came to the attention of the Ministry of Defence and thence the House of Commons Defence
 Committee. From there, NATO officials became aware of their work and approached them to
 contribute to strategic foresight planning events throughout 2019 and 2020. The relationship
 deepened through continued contacts and exchanges of ideas and papers. In February 2019,
 the Strategic Foresight Group from NATO HQ Virginia held a workshop to plan future Arctic
 strategy hosted by IDIG and in December 2019 the group returned to bring together
 stakeholders from Brussels, London and Washington.

 4.1.2. Wider Contribution to Society
 Because of our emphasis on anarchist practise we have sought to engage with grass roots
 politics and community groups. Kinna’s Constitutionalising Anarchy project involves work with
 the Industrial Workers of the World (trade union), Radical Routes (co-operatives network),
 Seeds for Change (facilitation training co-operative) and Common Weal (think tank). Swann
 works with Women for Independence (campaign group) and the Scottish National Party. We
 engage with a wide range of stakeholders that build on the commitment to our locality but also to
 national and international bodies as in our work with Leicestershire churches (Bilgic), trade
 unions (Kinna, Parvin), NGOs (Oelgemoller), the USAID (Piccolino), and the Imperial War
 Museum (Partis-Jennings).

 4.1.3 Engaging with Diverse Communities
 Through our Trans Lives East Mids project with colleagues in English, we have made
 connections to important local stakeholders in the trans community to co-create an archive of
 trans oral history in the East Midlands, an archive which, according to our scoping survey, will
 enable trans people to develop personal and community resilience through the sharing of
 experiences. We have held events in trans-safe spaces foregrounding the voices of important
 trans-people as well as collaborative workshops investigating academic perspectives of trans-
 issues.

 In collaboration with the Diocese of Leicester, Bilgic conducts research on inclusion and better
 integration of BAME Christians, with the objective of constructing intercultural worshipping
 communities in Leicestershire. IDIG’s work with Hackney local authority, gathering views of local
 residents about Brexit and analysing its impact is but one example of IDIG’s commitment to its
 position in local politics. The Anarchism Research Group’s ‘Essays’ podcast is designed to reach
 diverse stakeholders in both the UK and beyond. Thus far it has 2,599 downloads and been in
 the top 50 in the ‘society and culture’ category on Apple Podcasts in Guatemala and Romania. It
 has an audience in almost 60 countries, with the largest share being in the US. The ARG
 reaches 3600 Twitter followers and 1000 YouTube, subscribers, who watch 3000-4000 minutes
 of content each month.

 4.2 Contribution to the Sustainability of the Discipline

 We contribute significantly to the discipline within professional organisations and as peer
 reviewers and external examiners.




                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Unit staff are members of 33 professional and scholarly organisations, including the
 Association for Social and Political Philosophy, BISA, the International Political Science
 Association, ISA, the European International Studies Association, the Political Studies
 Association, the European Union Studies Association. We have held leadership positions in 9
 professional organisations:
  Britain and Ireland Association for Political Thought (Parvin, Elected Executive Committee
    member 2015–present).
  University Association for Contemporary European Studies (Drake, Chair 2012-18).
  Anarchism Research Network (Kinna, Christoyannopoulos).
  BISA specialist groups (‘Gendering International Relations Working Group’ (Bilgic, Section
    Chair and Partis-Jennings, Convenor, 2017-2019), and ‘IR as a Social Science Working
    Group’ (Tamaki, Vice-Chair 2016-2019).
  PSA Specialist Groups in Anarchism (Kinna) and Populism (Katsambekis).
  Drake was a Trustee Board Member of the James Madison Trust (2015-2019) and is a
    Board Member of the University of London Institute in Paris.

 We contribute as external examiners of research degrees for national institutions such as
 Sandhurst Military Academy and the Defence Academy at Shrivenham (Kennedy-Pipe). We act
 as external examiners beyond the UK - European University Institute (Florence), Montreal, and
 the Basque Country (Flesher-Fominaya), University of Rotterdam (Bilgic), Macquarie, Australia
 (Kennedy-Pipe), and Guelph and Monash, Canada and Australia (Kinna) – and within the UK, at
 12 different universities including Oxford, Kings College London, UCL, and Essex.

 4.3 Indicators of Wider Influence

 Unit staff have acted as peer reviewers for some of the world’s leading publishers, including the
 University Presses of Michigan, California, Oxford, Cambridge, Edinburgh, and Manchester.
 Staff have also supported funding bodies such as AHRC, British Academy, ESRC, ERC,
 Horizon 2020, the Wellcome Trust, and others from Netherlands, Ireland, Flanders, Hong Kong,
 Germany, Austria, and Spain.

 Unit staff have presented research on over 370 occasions in 38 countries, and given 37
 keynote lectures in 15 countries, including:
  Ali Bilgic, ‘A Compass for the Perfect Storm’, the Institute of Social Studies, Rotterdam. The
    Prince Claus Chair Inaugural, April 2018.
  Cristina Flesher Fominaya, ‘From Classical Syndicalism to the 15 M movement’ at the
    Invitation of the City Council of Fernan Nunez and the Department of the City of Cordoba on
    the Commemoration of the 100th Anniversary of the Bolshevik Triennium, November 2018.
  Helen Drake, 'The future of Franco-British relations: possible scenarios (or le Brexit dans
    tous ses états/states of Brexit)', Aix-Marseille Université, France, November 2018.
  Aidan McGarry, ‘Challenging Stigma Through Roma Pride: between Culture and Politics’,
    Harvard University, FXB Centre for Health and Human Rights, April 2017.

 We organised over 40 international conferences and workshops, including:
  Bi-annual meetings of the Anarchist Studies network: the largest and most prestigious
   international gathering of anarchist theorists and historians (2014, 2016, and 2018), each
   with over 100 delegates.
  The annual conference of the PSA’s Populism Specialist Group in 2019 and 2020.
  NERC funded National Scientific Conference on Arctic Affairs (2019), attracting 100 Arctic
   and social scientists.

 Unit staff are:
  Editors or Associate Editors of 14 peer reviewed journals. Flesher Fominaya is Editor in
    Chief of the Social Movement Studies Journal, the highest ranked journal in the field. Kinna
    and Adams edit the journal Anarchist Studies, the highest ranked global outlet for articles on


                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     anarchist theory. Others include: African Security, Anarchist Studies, Mediterranean Politics,
     Social Movement Studies, International Relations, Interface, Res Publica, European
     Research, Liberal History, Journal for the Study of Radicalism, and Journal of the William
     Morris Society.
    Editors or Associate Editors of 9 book series, including: the ‘Gender, Sexuality, and
     Global Politics’ series with Bristol University Press led by Bilgic; ‘Protest & Social Movement
     Studies’ series, Amsterdam University Press; ‘Radical Subjects in International Politics’
     series, Rowman & Littlefield; Anthem Anarchist Studies, Anthem; ‘Resilience: International
     Policies, Practices and Discourses’ series, Taylor & Francis; ‘Key Themes in History’ series,
     Brill; ‘Britain and the World’ series, Agenda; and ‘Collaborative Research Group on Africa,
     Africa Europe Group for Interdisciplinary Studies’ series, Brill.

 Our colleagues have also won awards for their research:
  Kevins won the 2019 Harrison Prize, for the best paper published in Political Studies.
  Lloyd’s article ‘Naming the Dead and the Politics of the Human’ was judged best article
    published in Review of International Studies,2018.
  Drake was awarded the Innovation in Academia Arts & Culture Award 2017, University of
    Kent.
  Oliver won the University Association for Contemporary European Studies Arena Prize 2015
    for policy-relevant research in European Studies.

 In this REF period and motivated by our realignment with C-19 Politics and International Studies,
 we have deepened our engagement with local, national and international communities through
 both our scholarship and our practical impact activities. Our role in writing and shaping the
 NATO Arctic Strategy and the UK Arctic Framework is a clear demonstration of the high level of
 influence that the Unit has attained since 2014.




                                                                                             Page 18
