Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Huddersfield

 Unit of Assessment: UoA3

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 (i) Unit context and structure.

 Overview
 The University of Huddersfield’s vision is to be an inspiring, innovative University of international
 renown. The University’s Research Strategy has a primary vision of excellent research with
 impact contributing to important advances in human knowledge and significant
 improvements to global quality of life. To achieve this, thematic Areas of Strategic Research
 Importance (ASRIs) have been identified, including Health and Wellbeing, the principal focus of
 our UoA3 submission. The University’s commitment to and confidence in this UoA is
 evidenced by its significant strategic investment during the current REF period and its
 ambitious plans for the next one.


 ASRIs embrace and promote interdisciplinary research and Huddersfield’s Unit of Assessment
 3 (UoA3) submission is joint between the Departments of Nursing & Midwifery and Allied Health
 Professions in the School of Human and Health Sciences (HHS) and the Departments of
 Pharmacy and Optometry in the School of Applied Sciences (AS). In our first submission to UoA3,
 in REF2014, 10.2 FTE staff were returned, most from the Department of Pharmacy. The current
 REF period has seen a significant step-change in the UoA’s research activity, particularly in
 applied health, resulting in a five-fold increase (to 51.5 FTE) in staff classified as having
 significant responsibility for research (including 2 FTE Independent Researchers).


 The hallmark of our research in UoA3 is its interdisciplinary nature, enabling us to address
 research problems from a truly bio-psycho-social perspective. Our research extends from
 ‘bench to bedside’ and beyond, into community and global health. Joint working was
 already present in REF2014 (especially regarding skin/wounds); this has since been
 consolidated and expanded. This REF cycle has seen marked growth in our applied health
 research (now representing approximately half the submitted outputs, compared with fewer than
 five papers in REF2014).


 Our mission and aims are to foster a spirit of (co-)enquiry and partnership for innovation and
 change in response to challenging health issues and related social problems, to make a real
 difference to peoples’ lives in organisations, services and communities internationally, nationally
 and locally. We are strongly committed to enhancing our research culture, fostering
 interdisciplinary research and engaging openly with relevant audiences.


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research strategy is collectively developed, in the context of a common mission and aims,
 culture of collaboration and world-class shared facilities. Structures to ensure co-ordination
 (within the UoA and across the wider university) include ASRIs, Research Centres and
 Institutes, Associate Deans for Research and Enterprise and University Research and
 Enterprise Committee.


 Organisation of Research in the UoA
 Our research is structurally organised into the organisation-wide Institute of Skin Infection and
 Infection Prevention (ISIaIP) and School-based, interdisciplinary Research Centres, with
 embedded Special Interest Groups (SIGs); centres contributing to this UoA are highlighted in bold:


  Research Centres (HHS)                            Research Centres (AS)
  Centre for Applied Research in Health             Pharmaceutics and Drug Delivery
  (CARH)
  Applied Psychological Research (CAPR)             Biopolymer Research Centre


  Centre for Cognition and Neuroscience             Pharmacology and Therapeutics
  Centre for Applied Childhood, Youth and           Pharmaceutical Policy and Practice
  Family Research (CACYFR)
  Centre for Citizenship, Identity and Diversity    Chemical Synthesis and Design
  (CCID)


  None in Three                                     Cellular and Molecular Models of Disease
  Applied Criminology and Policing Centre           Microbial Therapeutics and Infection
  (ACPC)                                            Control


 The Research Centres and Institute are ‘engines’ of research activity, promote research career
 development (e.g. all SIG leads in CARH are intentionally early or mid-career researchers) and
 provide a ‘research home’ for individuals (established researchers, early career researchers,
 ECRs and postgraduate research students (PGRs)) with common interests. The Department of
 Optometry was established in 2019 and, as critical mass through new academic appointments is
 achieved, establishment of an Optometry Research Centre is planned for the next REF cycle.
 Research Centres support each other, share ideas and collaborate. Establishing discrete
 Research    Centres    throughout   this   REF    cycle   has   facilitated   significant   growth   in
 activity/development of ‘critical mass’ in specialist areas (e.g. maternal and family health; mental
 health; public health; cancer; pharmacology and pharmaceutical policy), whilst promoting
 collaboration and interdisciplinary research. Individuals are primary members of a Research
 Centre/Institute related to their specialist area and can also affiliate with other Research Centres


                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 within the UoA and the wider University. Notable examples of how this promotes interdisciplinary
 research include:


        ISIaIP (co-led by Ousey [HHS] and Conway [AS]) includes staff from HHS, AS, and the
         Schools of Art, Design and Architecture, ADA (Technical Textiles Research Centre) and
         Computing and Engineering (C&E) (Centre for Engineering Materials), leading to
         interdisciplinary projects and outputs (e.g. with Goswami [ADA], Fleming [C&E], Walton
         [C&E]).
        Research within the Pharmacology and Therapeutics Research Centre typically involves
         other Research Centres not specifically returned to UoA3, including Chemical Synthesis
         and Design (UoA8) and Cellular and Molecular Models of Disease (UoA5), resulting in
         publications in leading interdisciplinary journals such as Angewandte Chemie.
        The Wellbeing ASRI is co-led by Caress (HHS) and Gorton (AS) and the Health ASRI by
         Babar (AS) and Roberts (HHS).
        Gorton (AS) and Rooke (HHS) co-lead the Mental Health Research Special Interest
         Group (SIG) in CARH. Developed during the current REF period, this SIG and the
         Wellbeing ASRI are bringing together researchers with interests in mental health from
         across the university, including ADA (Centres for Health Histories and Urban Design,
         Architecture and Sustainability) and C&E (Institute of Railway Research; Centre for
         Artificial Intelligence in Mental Health). This is yielding exciting new collaborations,
         building on the work of ECRs (e.g. dementia and the built environment [lead Rooke] and
         suicide prevention [leads Noonan and Gorton]), which will be developed in the next REF
         cycle.


 (ii) Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact.

 In REF2014, our UoA3 research strategy sought to enhance the breadth and quality of our
 research, key aims being:


 (A1) To develop a coherent group and to expand in areas with existing expertise and provide a
 coherent and critical mass of quality research activity
 (A2) Developing high profile interdisciplinary research
 (A3) To generate income from external funding sources to support substantive research
 (A4) To generate high quality outputs from existing and new staff




                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Main achievements A1 and A2 – development of coherent groups, expanding expertise and
 increasing interdisciplinarity
 The core component of (A1) was developing the UoA’s strategic themes. These included:
 materials science; pharmacology and pharmacogenomics; societal changes and associated
 growth in long-term conditions; development of the health and social care workforce; innovations
 (including technological) in care provision; participation and involvement; prevention and support
 for physical and mental well-being. Development of these areas required significant focus on
 growing interdisciplinary research (A2), a core theme throughout the pursuit of our strategy. To
 exemplify, research in the Skin Interface Sciences Group was identified in REF2014 as a key
 example of our interdisciplinary approach and, during this REF cycle, its activities have
 expanded, resulting in establishment of ISIaIP in 2015 (A1 and A2).


 Our applied science research has expanded and developed in new areas, basic and applied,
 including: biomarkers (for cancer, psychiatric disorders, neurological and neurodegenerative
 disorders), biopolymer research and its application to pharmaceutical and biomedical research,
 cancer biology and pharmacology, inflammation, pharmaceutics and drug delivery and
 pharmaceutical policy and practice


 Developing our applied health research has been a strategic focus during this REF cycle. We
 have achieved this through targeted appointments to support growth in agreed strategically
 important areas (e.g. maternal and family health [Stacey, Darwin, Keely] and mental health
 [Tolchard, Rooke, Noonan, Doyle]; supporting staff to undertake PhDs and restructuring
 CARH better to reflect current activity/areas of growth. This has led to a step-change in the
 volume and quality of applied health research generated in the UoA, as evidenced by the
 number of health-related staff and outputs returned and in our impact case studies.


 Main achievements A3 – generating income
 UoA3 research income (spend) in REF2014 was £1.2m. Our income (spend) in this REF
 cycle has more than doubled, to £2.85M. Key to this has been strategic development of our
 portfolio of sources of grant capture and reducing reliance on internal and local/regional funding
 streams. We have successfully achieved this, with funders during the current REF period
 including National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) (Lucock, Caress); EU (Hargreaves,
 Bland and Prescott), international government sources (Stephenson), UK Charities (Smith,
 McHugh) and industry (Ousey, Blackburn, McHugh).


 Main achievements A4 - increasing the number of high-quality outputs
 This aligns with Institutional strategic aims (UoH Strategy Map 2013-2018). We have actively
 sought within this REF cycle to better balance our portfolio of academic to professional journal


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 outputs. Additionally, we have made targeting top-quartile journals in specialist areas a strategic
 priority. Evidence of success is demonstrable, with staff publishing high quality outputs in
 journals such as Nature Chemistry, Angewandte Chemie, Chemical Science, BMJ Open, PLoS
 One, International Journal of Nursing Studies, Midwifery, Advanced Materials, Lancet Global
 Health, Lancet Oncology and Nature Microbiology.


 As described in the Institutional Environment Statement, the University’s Research Strategy
 commits to delivering excellent research with impact, providing direct economic and societal
 benefit for the communities we support. The UoA3 REF2014 impact strategy was to harness the
 interdisciplinary nature of our research to secure improvements in health and well-being and
 prevention of disease. Our impact strategy for the current REF cycle had four elements:


 (E1) continue to foster an impact focus
 (E2) maximise effectiveness of our collaborative network, further develop relationships and
 further invest in impact-enhancing advisory boards
 (E3) effectively communicate our research to the public
 (E4) recognise and reward staff excellence.


 Main achievements E1 – fostering an impact focus
 We have embedded impact training for all staff within each School through research away days,
 expert-led workshops and events run by R&E.


 We have fostered and established strong partnerships with stakeholders across public, non-
 profit and for-profit sectors to ensure relevance, with our strong focus on applied research
 enhancing impact. Notable examples form our REF2021 suite of impact case studies include:


       Astin’s work on optimising informed consent for patients undergoing coronary
        angioplasty, which has impacted on policy, healthcare professional awareness and
        clinical practice
       Lucock’s work on preventing relapse and supporting self-management after
        psychological treatment for depression, which has supported service users and a wide
        range of health professionals, enabling better self-management of common mental
        health problems
       Ousey and Conway’s work on management/prevention of wound site infections, which
        is transforming wound management in a wide range of settings
       Bland and Prescott’s work on increasing patient safety using simulation-based learning
        (NESTLED), which has enhanced practitioner confidence and yielded benefits for
        the commercial partner

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Ousey’s development of a national framework on tissue viability, which has improved
        patient care and transformed healthcare practitioner education in NHS wound care
        services.


 Main achievements E2 – maximising effectiveness of collaborative network and developing
 relationships
 During the current REF period, we have cemented well-established international research
 collaborations and invested strategically to further foster these, including through
 appointment of an Associate Dean International (Simkhada in HHS and Elliott in AS), thereby
 enhancing the global reach and relevance of our research. This is particularly well-illustrated by
 our wounds research. Work led by ISIaIP and involving academics in HHS (Ousey) and AS
 (Conway) has yielded greater understanding of the microbial properties of wound environments
 and subsequent development of effective antimicrobial wound dressings/therapies. This work is
 recognised internationally, for example through Ousey being elected in 2017 as Chair of the
 International Wound Infection Institute [IWII], an interdisciplinary inclusive society providing a
 global perspective on the latest developments in wound infection (See impact case study
 ‘Informing Standards and Improving Patient Outcomes in the Prevention and Management of
 Surgical Site Infections’). Ousey and Conway are also members of the International Surgical
 Wound Complications Advisory Panel (ISWCAP) that produced a consensus document on early
 detection and prevention of surgical wound complications.


 Strengthening our national and international research collaborations with leading academic
 institutions (QS300) and organisations has been a strategic goal, aligned with wider university
 Research Strategy, and has seen substantial growth during the current REF period (see
 Collaborations, section 4). Illustrative tangible outputs from our collaborations include:


       12 co-authored outputs arising from joint projects in wound care with Queensland
        University of Technology, Australia (Ousey)
       four joint projects/outputs in the areas of mental health, cardiology and critical care with
        Monash University, Australia (Stephenson)
       two joint public health projects/outputs with the Indian Council of Medical Research and
        Indian Institute of Public Health Gandhinagar (Simkhada)
        two joint projects in the area of medicines management with Harvard University, USA
        (Babar)




                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have succeeded in enhancing the national and international esteem of our research. Notable
 illustrations include:


          Phillips being invited to serve as an expert witness, e.g. in patent cases and for the
           Oncology Drug Advisory Committee meeting of the FDA.
          Regular invitations to contribute to development of national and international clinical
           guidelines in such areas as obstetric ultrasound (Stacey); asthma (Caress);device-
           related pressure ulcers – highly topical in the current pandemic (Ousey) and advanced
           practice nursing (Rogers)
          Invitations to hold executive roles with professional leadership bodies, e.g. European
           Organisation for the Research and Treatment of Cancer, EORTC (Phillips) and
           International Council of Nurses (Hardiker, Rogers) and recognition by these (e.g.
           Hardiker receiving a Fellowship of the American Academy of Nursing in 2020 and the
           2017 Virginia K. Saba Nursing Informatics Leadership Award).


 Other examples of international reach include antimicrobial stewardship programmes in the Middle
 East and membership of the THRESHOLDS study group (Al Deyab and Conway); appointment
 as an advisor on Pakistan’s National Medicines Policy, contributing to development/editing a
 National Medicines Policy (Babar) and membership of the International Association for Suicide
 Prevention (Gorton, Co-chair, Special Interest Group for ‘Suicide Prevention in Primary Care’).


 Nationally and locally, we have leveraged long-standing partnerships to grow research and have
 developed many new partnerships during this REF period, across public, non-profit and for-profit
 sectors: NHS partners (Calderdale and Huddersfield NHSFT [CHFT]; Mid-Yorks NHSFT [MYFT]),
 South West Yorkshire Partnership [SWYFT] and Sheffield Teaching Hospital [STHFT]; not-for-
 profit health providers, such as Locala; hospices (Kirklees, St Gemma’s, Prince of Wales,
 Overgate and the Forget Me Not Children’s hospice) and local authority (Kirklees Council).
 Research collaborations with charitable partners include Versus Arthritis (Burton); Cure Kids
 (Stacey); Asthma UK and British Lung Foundation Partnership (Caress) and Water Aid (Jones).
 We are a partner in the region’s Applied Research Collaboration (formerly CLAHRC). These
 enhance the relevance of our research, promote collaborative working and support
 knowledge exchange. Illustrating our ‘Civic University’ commitment, we are working with Kirklees
 Council on their ‘Current Living in Kirklees (CLiK) survey and exploring public health research
 opportunities arising from the ‘Huddersfield Blueprint’, a 10-year vision to modernise the town
 centre.


 We are also making important contributions to research capacity and capability building in our
 local partner organisations. During the current REF period, we have invested significantly in

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 joint appointments, including four at Reader/Professor level, with CHFT (Astin, Stacey) and
 SWYFT (Lucock, Doyle), with Lucock’s role as Associate Director of Research at SWYFT
 illustrating how well-embedded these are We also have research-active lecturer-practitioners (e.g.
 Atkin, MYFT; Bain, STHFT); internship arrangements with CHFT; are working with MYFT to
 develop clinical-academic posts within their ‘Future Nurse’ initiative and are academic partners of
 Kirkwood Hospice, which is working towards Teaching and Research Hospice status.


 We have developed strong research partnerships with businesses such as Laederal; Urgo
 Medical,   Perfectus     Biomed     and    Smith    and    Nephew,      involving   collaborative
 projects/publications, investment in our research and knowledge exchange. We have
 benefitted business development, e.g. through enhancing product end-user acceptability and
 efficacy. We now receive regular requests to consult from businesses, e.g. insurer Swiss Re
 (Burton) – now a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP); Molnylcke Health (Ousey);
 GlaxoSmithKline (Caress); Syngenta (Merchant) and from government (e.g. Department of Work
 and Pensions, Burton).


 We have affiliates and honorary appointees, who serve in an advisory capacity. Prof Peter
 Timmins, former Executive Director at Bristol-Myers Squibb produces primary research outputs,
 as well as a quarterly Industry Update in Therapeutic Delivery. Prof Frank Bowling (University of
 Manchester) and Dr Sarah Jarvis MBE have recently been appointed as Honorary Professors.
 The ISIaIP advisory panel includes prominent academics - Professors Fiona Wood (University of
 Western Australia), David Leaper (Surgeon and former Co-Director of ISIaIP), Ojan Assadian
 (Medical University of Vienna), and Amit Gefen (University of Tel Aviv). Advice is provided on a
 number of issues, including impact, with additional contributions to staff mentoring and outputs.


 Main achievements E3 – communicating our research to the public
 During the current REF period, we have built on existing strengths in stakeholder engagement
 and co-production to develop an active and vibrant public engagement programme.


 In alternate months, AS and HHS host a hugely popular public lecture/discussion forum series (up
 to 8 lectures each year); during the current pandemic, this has been maintained online,
 communicating our pandemic-related research contributions for example. We engage at university
 and UoA-level with the National Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement, NCCPE - Waters
 was an NCCPE National Engagement Ambassador - and participate in events including Café
 Scientifique and Pint of Science. In 2016 and 2017, the European Researchers Night ‘Full STEAM’
 (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Maths) Ahead’ event, funded by the European
 Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme, attracted over 3000 members of the
 public to the University for each event. Waters is a STEM ambassador. The University also


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 facilitates external promotion of research through public engagement events and publications such
 as Discover, Fields and The Conversation.


 Staff are encouraged to integrate strategies to maximise engagement with and use of research
 outputs by different audiences into their research. To support this we deliver training, for staff
 and PGRs, on writing lay abstracts and public engagement/involvement.


 Members of the HHS core-funded Public Partnership Group are increasingly involved in the
 UoA’s research, as advisors and collaborators. We have also created two 0.5 FTE Co-Director
 of External Engagement roles. Investment Business Development Officer and Director for
 Consultancy and Enterprise roles complement the centrally provided Research Development
 Manager role in facilitating partnership working and strategic research development.


 Main achievements E4 – recognise and reward staff performance
 Staff performance is recognised and rewarded through annual Personal Development and
 Performance Review (PDPR) meetings and internal conferment procedures. Assessment of
 impact features in PDPR and promotion processes; staff promotions during this REF cycle are
 detailed in Section 2. Institutional criteria for promotion have recently been revised (2019/20), to
 include a route specifically recognising excellence in knowledge exchange and enterprise. This
 facilitates recognition and reward of those whose research is more applied, with a focus on
 knowledge exchange leading to impact; this route has yielded two promotions to Professor in
 UoA3 – Waters (2019) and Garside (2020).


 In summary, we have successfully implemented our research and impact strategy over the current
 REF cycle, leading to significant expansion in both volume and quality of our research, thereby
 enhancing its reach and impact. Through consolidating research structures and links with external
 stakeholders, we are well-positioned to deliver our strategy to produce high quality research and
 impact in the future.


 (iii) Future strategic goals for research and impact

 The next REF period promises to be exciting and productive for the UoA, as we capitalise
 on the very substantial gains made since REF2014. Strategic research aims for UoA3 in the
 next REF cycle draw on the successful research and impact strategy for REF2014, and align
 closely with University strategic aims for research (per the 2018/25 strategy map):


 A1 Our Research Strategy will continue to focus on interdisciplinary research in areas of existing
    strength and new areas leading to impact upon patient welfare and society, with a strategic


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    goal of 15% of outputs being developed with research end-users by 2025 (in line with
    University strategy).
 A2 We will continue developing infrastructure, through substantial development of core facilities
    and research laboratories, to enhance the research environment and culture. This will be
    primarily driven by University investment of £45 million in a new building for the Health
    and Well-Being Academy, which will be fully functional by 2025.
 A3 Aligned with the University’s strategy map, our aim is to improve the quality of research
    outputs (with 75% or more staff with significant responsibility for research achieving 3*/4*
    publications by 2025), increase our research and knowledge exchange income and develop
    strategic research collaborations with other world class academic institutions year on year (in
    line with organisational targets).
 A4 We will continue to support and develop existing staff, alongside attracting new research
    active staff, with the aim of enhancing our ‘critical mass’ of research active academics and
    practitioners in mutually agreed strategic areas year on year.


 Three key elements underpin these strategic aims: (i) supporting people; (ii) supporting the
 research process and (iii) supporting engagement, evidence utilisation and impact.


 While we promote the channelling of our research activity through our established Research
 Centres and Institutes, we also support relevant curiosity-driven research that lays the
 foundations for future research foci. Consequently, in addition to our established research
 areas, new foci will feature prominently in our plans for the next REF cycle, particularly in the Allied
 Health Professions, notably Optometry (new Department established in 2018); Paramedic Science
 and Speech and Language therapy (new programme in development).


 A key feature of our plans for the next REF cycle is creation of a new National Health Innovation
 Campus, to be led by the University, which will be accompanied by organisationally unique
 strategic investment in infrastructure and facilities to support creation in 2020 of the Health
 and Wellbeing Academy (Strategic Director – Garside) – see section 3 for further details


 Whilst retaining our overall strategic approach to impact (E1-E4 above), we will adopt the following
 principles to further strengthen our enabling environment for impact:


    1. Engaging public stakeholders. Ensuring our research is accessible and understandable to
        our research users and beneficiaries;
    2. Building meaningful and mutually-beneficial research partnerships. Promoting responsible
        research, adapting to changing contexts, and supporting the translation and two-way



                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        transfer of knowledge and insight that comes from relationships built over time with our
        research users and beneficiaries;
    3. Co-production. Encouraging and enabling opportunities for impact to be built into the co-
        design and co-creation of all our research, engaging with our research users and
        beneficiaries from the start, and building on and extending our expertise in using different
        approaches and methods for achieving impact;
    4. Influencing. Building trusted relationships that maximise opportunities for change;
    5. Evidencing impact. Facilitating an accurate assessment of our impact activities so that we
        may nurture and increase our knowledge exchange relationships (and support activities
        such as REF);
    6. Recognition and reward. Nurturing colleagues by sharing good practice, and recognising
        and celebrating our impact achievements;
    7. Strengthening capacity for impact. Actively recruiting academic staff known for generating
        impact beyond academia, ensuring widespread understanding of the concept of impact,
        and supporting all staff to engage in activities that facilitate the positive impact of our
        research.


 Sustainable research with future impact is being fostered through both institutional support and
 the development of additional relationships established during this REF cycle. At the institutional
 level, support offered includes a centrally funded Impact Officer whose role is to advise
 academic researchers and school-based Impact Officers. As described in the Institutional
 environment statement, centrally funded impact training sessions have been provided to both
 staff and PGR students on a range of topics designed to embed impact into our research culture;
 this is augmented by additional School-level strategic investment in training from recognised
 impact experts (e.g. Fast-Track Impact’s Mark Reed).


 Looking to the future and the development of research projects with impact, we have established
 research collaborations and partnerships in such countries as Pakistan (Babar and Ghori);
 Jordan (Al Deyab); India (Marshall); Nepal (Simkhada); Zimbabwe (Rooke) and Sierra Leone
 (Jones). These activities are already informing policy and service provision in vital topics such
 as antibiotic stewardship, pharmaceutical pricing policy; water purification in South Punjab;
 development of maternal and child health services; care provision for people with dementia and
 disaster management, all of which have the potential to generate research with impact on global
 societies in the future. These relationships align with the UK Strategy for the Global Challenges
 Research Fund (equitable access to sustainable development of health and wellbeing), the
 University’s internationalisation strategy and the UoA’s strategic mission to contribute to
 improvement of health and well-being in developing and resource-poor countries.



                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (iv) Research Culture.

 Open Research: As an institution, the University supports the principles set out in the
 Concordat on Open Research Data and is committed to open research and Open Access
 publication of our research. It has invested in systems to facilitate Open Research, including the
 Elsevier PURE management information system and a University Data Repository and content
 management system (Box). Additional central support comes from appointments to Open
 Access Manager and Research Data Management Officer roles, focused on improving
 information; assisting in delivery of mandatory central training for staff and students; supporting
 the wider open research strategy and assisting academic staff in making data open and
 accessible.


 As a UoA that prides itself on its values in applied research that makes a difference, we seek to
 continually develop and nurture an open, collaborative research culture that embraces and
 engages partnerships with different external stakeholders, which in turn further nourishes and
 supports staff research interests. We achieve this through encouraging an open collaborative
 culture within and across research centres, through a vibrant public engagement
 programme and through a strong commitment to user/public involvement and
 coproduction. We actively pursue a policy of open access to our research where feasible and
 encourage staff to integrate strategies into research proposals to maximise engagement with
 and use of research outputs by research users and different audiences.


 In other areas, staff are encouraged to circulate research outputs within their fields through email
 and social media as well as through platforms such as ResearchGate, with core-funded support
 for such sharing of research provided in HHS by a Research Marketing Co-ordinator. We
 encourage registering of projects on publicly available research databases, such as Prospero or
 ISRCTN before study commencement and, where appropriate, publish study protocols.
 Illustrative of our commitment to Open Research, the British Journal of Pharmacy was launched
 in 2016, published by the University of Huddersfield Press. This is a gold open access journal
 (with no article processing charges) whose aim is to publish original research papers, critical
 reviews and rapid communications on the latest developments in pharmacy. Several members
 of academic staff serve on the editorial board including Conway (Editor in Chief), Merchant
 (Deputy Editor-in-Chief) and McHugh, Olajide, Ousey, Smith, Phillips, Ghori, Asare-Addo,
 Adeola, Babar, Hasan (Editorial Board members). The journal is listed in Google Scholar and
 registered with cross ref and our plans are to register with Scopus, Pubmed and DOAJ.




                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Integrity: In the development and conduct of our research, we maintain adherence to
 high standards of research integrity. As an institution, we adhere to the UKRI developed
 Concordat on Research Integrity and ensure research is conducted according to appropriate
 ethical, legal and professional frameworks, obligations and standards. The institutional Code of
 Practice for Research, research ethics and integrity policy and reporting statements are publicly
 available on the University website. Within AS and HHS, research and integrity matters are co-
 ordinated by School Research Ethics and Integrity Committees (SREIC), responsible for
 implementing University policies and procedures in relation to research governance. In addition,
 each School has a nominated Research Integrity Champion (Phillips, AS; McAuley, HHS)
 whose role is to promote good research practice, ensure that the principles and relevant
 standards are embedded and local guidance is available to staff and students regarding the
 issue of research misconduct and the reporting thereof. Research Ethics and Research Integrity
 training for staff and PGR students is embedded into the induction programme and assessment
 of research ethics is an integral part of all research and enterprise grant applications. For
 research involving health, social and community care, ethics approval through the Integrated
 Research Application System (IRAS) is essential and guidance/peer-review is provided to staff,
 primarily through CARH. Research involving human tissues is conducted under the terms and
 conditions of the Human Tissue Act (human tissue licence number 12641) and compliance with
 the HTA is maintained through the Corporate Licence holder (Professor Liz Towns-Andrews),
 the Designated Individual (DI) (Dr Nik Georgopoulos) and Persons Designate (PD). The DI and
 PDs are SREIC committee members and HTA matters are a standing item on the committee’s
 agenda. Research misconduct is taken seriously across the Institution and all matters pertaining
 to research misconduct for PGR students and research staff are pursued following Institutional
 guidelines.

 2. People

 (i) Staffing strategy and staff development:

 Our staffing strategies are directed by the University’s commitment to excellence in research,
 enterprise, knowledge exchange, teaching and learning. In order to support research and
 succession planning, recruitment and promotion of research staff at all levels is undertaken
 strategically to support the sustainability and growth of existing and agreed new priority areas of
 research excellence and in response to external policy and funding priorities. As well as
 ensuring teaching expertise across our curricula, we use new appointments and promotions, and
 visiting appointments as described in E2, to build critical mass in our Research Centres, to
 enhance interdisciplinarity, to develop research with impact and to strengthen our international
 networks. Underneath this overarching strategy, each of the Schools has specific and bespoke
 staffing requirements related to strategically identified areas of growth.


                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 We identify, recruit and retain established independent researchers at Lecturer and Senior
 Lecturer level and exceptional research leaders at Reader and Professorial level, with an
 emphasis on existing and agreed new priority areas. Through strategic investment we have
 created 10 professorial (Babar, Phillips, Siderov, Lucock, Astin, Tolchard, Hardiker, Caress,
 Simkhada, Doyle) and 3 readership (Turner, Stacey, Darwin) positions specific to UoA3 during
 this REF period, significantly strengthening research leadership as well as attracting a number of
 early career staff (including Adebisi, Al Deyab, Asare-Addo, Fulcher, Gorton, Mughal, Wu,
 Noonan, Rooke, Keely, Benham and Powrie), senior research fellows (Hasan, Ghori) and a
 research fellow (Manca). We have used our staffing strategy to strengthen existing areas
 of expertise and develop other areas to increase our research profile and enhance the
 engagement of existing staff with research. For example, the strategic appointment of a
 professor (Babar) and a senior research fellow (Hasan), together with central support from the
 University Research Fund, provided a nucleation point around which research into
 pharmaceutical policy and practice crystallised. These appointments led to the creation of the
 Pharmaceutical Policy and Practice research centre and a significant increase in research
 engagement from staff. Similarly, strategic appointments have enabled establishment of six new
 research Special Interest Groups (SIGs) in CARH during this REF period: Maternal and Family
 Health (leads Stacey and Marshall); Mental Health (leads Gorton and Rooke); Palliative and
 End of Life Care (leads Turner and Ellis [UoA20]), Public Health (leads Azevedo [UoA24] and
 Snowden [UoA20]), Advancing Practice (lead Rogers) and Managing Acute and Long-Term
 Conditions (leads Wu and Harris [UoA24]), whilst strengthening the pre-existing SIGs (Sports,
 Exercise and Nutrition [colleagues within UoA24] and Spirituality and Compassionate Practice
 (lead Rogers)). Our appointment of staff in strategically important areas of research has
 therefore significantly contributed to the growth of research across the UoA.


 Staff are required to hold or register for a Doctorate on appointment and REF-eligible
 appointments are made whenever possible. A total of 42 members of staff in UoA3 are currently
 studying for a PhD and 31 members of staff obtained their PhDs during this REF cycle. This
 represents a significant investment by the Schools in individual and research capability
 development. Furthermore, as many come from disciplines early in their development as
 research active professions (especially allied health professions), we are actively contributing
 to research capacity and capability building within these, by attracting talented clinicians
 and supporting them to develop as researchers. This strategic investment is yielding an
 emerging critical mass of doctorally prepared academic staff, thereby substantially increasing
 the number of research active staff in the next REF cycle.




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We provide a supportive environment for staff returning from career breaks; for example, during
 this REF cycle we appointed three Daphne Jackson Fellows within AS, to support individuals
 returning to academic life following career breaks for caring/health reasons.


 We seek to maintain a balance between senior staff and early- and mid-career researchers with
 high academic potential, which provides a supportive environment where ideas and
 encouragement can be given, resulting in the generation of outputs and ultimately impact. This
 also paves the way for succession planning within the UoA. Contract researchers at various
 grades (SRF, RF, RA) are appointed according to the needs of particular research projects and
 are supported in their career development. The University adheres to the principles of the UK
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and is committed, as recognised
 by the European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research Award, to implementation of the
 European Charter for Researchers and Code of Conduct for the Recruitment of Researchers.
 We support the development and career progression of ECRs and existing staff (mid-career
 researchers, emerging and established research leaders) through research training, mentoring
 (new policy recently developed) and coaching to support research career progression and by
 actively developing opportunities for staff.


 Research training is delivered both locally and centrally (and mapped to Vitae); there is a clear
 interface to ensure coordination, consistency and quality. Initiatives available to provide research
 training, mentoring and support for staff within the UoA include one to one meetings with newly
 appointed staff to discuss research interests and expectations; provision of ‘research buddies’;
 funding and supporting staff to undertake doctoral studies, one-to-one research career
 mentoring from a senior colleague, Research Away Days and peer support within the research
 SIGs/Centres/Institute (eg as ‘critical friends’ re publications / presentations / research proposals
 and via such activities as journal clubs). Internal peer review is mandatory prior to submission of
 all funding applications. Sabbaticals are used to support research productivity, notably Ousey’s
 sabbatical to Australia and Marshall’s sabbatical to pursue work in India. We also offer
 extensive provision of support for writing for publication, such as ‘Shut Up and Write’ sessions,
 facilitated ‘Writing Retreats’, writing skills training at different levels (‘Getting Off the Blocks’ and
 ‘Moving from 2* to 3*) and a structured group coaching programme (‘Write Your Paper in 12
 Weeks’). These initiatives have contributed to the very significant increase in the volume
 and quality of research outputs from the UoA in the current REF period.


 For newly appointed staff (and those who have recently completed a Doctorate) we offer a
 structured induction programme and we aspire to: one year of minimal teaching, tailored active
 research mentoring, plus a start-up financial package for consumables where applicable and
 priority over PhD scholarship student co-supervision. QR funding is used to provide PhD


                                                                                                   Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 studentships and strategically, these are awarded to (i) new staff typically within two years of
 appointment to help establish/support their research or (ii) established staff that have
 interdisciplinary research projects.


 Over the current REF period, there has been significant re-investment of QR funding used to
 seed projects (up to £5000/project), which must involve an ECR and to provide
 development opportunities, such as conference/course attendance – for example, HHS
 provided £308K, supporting 100 individuals/projects since 2014, with £280K for similar in AS.


 All staff are allocated time for research within the Workload Allocation Model and performance is
 monitored annually through the PDPR process. PDPR promotes, supports and celebrates
 excellence in research with an emphasis on researcher development and the establishment and
 monitoring of ambitious, but achievable performance targets around key research functions such
 as publishing. All academic and research staff in UoA3 are set research objectives within their
 annual PDPR.


 Career development forms part of the PDPR process and staff development is strongly
 supported through a variety of ways including an annual promotion exercise, which is
 undertaken following institutional guidelines. Staff can be promoted to Professor, Reader,
 Principal Research Fellow, Principal Enterprise Fellow or University Teaching Fellow, following a
 matrix with minimum threshold criteria applied to teaching, research, management and
 leadership and enterprise pertinent to each route. Promotion to Professor and Reader requires
 evidence of sustained internationally recognised research with an established track-record of
 high-quality publications, sustained ability to win external funding and a track record of research
 leadership. During this REF cycle staff in in the UoA have been promoted to Professor (Smith,
 Waters, Garside) and Reader (Javid, Olajide, McHugh) and Asare-Addo to SL. Adebisi and
 Ghori, who completed PhDs in 2014 are SL and SRF respectively.


 A strategic aim of the University is to become the world’s first institution led and managed by
 chartered managers. Therefore, to equip them with the knowledge and skills to become inspiring
 and effective leaders, staff in leadership roles are expected to work towards
 Membership/Fellowship of the Chartered Management Institute (CMI). In UoA3, we currently
 have 5 affiliates, 5 members and 4 fellows of the CMI. All eligible staff are encouraged to obtain
 teaching qualifications, particularly via the Higher Education Academy (HEA); in UoA3, we have
 1 Principal Fellow, 6 Senior Fellows and 101 Fellows of the HEA.


 We operate on the general principle that staff should retain autonomy over their research
 careers and should not feel compelled to pursue particular research agendas other than (i) to


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 generate high quality research outputs leading to impact upon society and (ii) train the next
 generation of research active scientists/clinicians to the highest standards. The University is
 committed to Vitae’s Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and the
 UoA provides a variety of mechanisms to ensure that staff are supported throughout their tenure.
 Our strategy is to create an inclusive research environment and culture where staff are able to
 achieve ambitious targets in a manner that is supportive. Looking beyond REF2021, strategic
 appointments in existing areas of strength and agreed new priority areas will continue to be
 made, reflecting the University’s continued commitment to excellence in research, enterprise,
 knowledge exchange, teaching and learning as described in the University’s (2018-25) strategy
 map.


 (ii) Support for postgraduate research (PGR) students:


 We foster a vibrant PGR community with close alignment to Research Centre themes and aspire
 to providing world-class PGR training and mentoring; the institutional Postgraduate Research
 Experience Survey (2019) data demonstrated a 86.3% PGR satisfaction with supervision (well
 above the national average). Research students are integral to our research activities and each
 School has invested heavily in this area. During this REF cycle, 68 PhD students have graduated
 (cf 4 in REF2014) with 88 students currently enrolled on PGR (PhD) studies in UoA3.


 Entry onto PGR courses is conditional on having a good first degree (at least an upper second-
 class honours) or good relevant Masters’ degree (typically at distinction or merit with good
 research project marks). The primary focus on quality (and secondary focus on relevance and fit)
 for PGR recruitment seeks to maximise the chances of timely and successful completion. All
 prospective PGR students are interviewed by at least two academic staff, one of whom has to be
 a senior academic and if successful, assigned a minimum of two supervisors. The main supervisor
 must (i) have a PhD and (ii) be publishing at an internationally recognised standard (co-supervisors
 will normally have a doctoral degree but maybe new to supervision). Supervisors undergo initial
 training, with refresher courses every 3 years, covering PGR regulations and processes and EDI
 training to ensure that PGRs have a supervisory team with the necessary research experience
 and expertise. All project proposals undergo review for significance, rigour, feasibility and fit. Each
 year we offer highly competitive fee waivers and scholarships for exceptional candidates,
 reviewing how these might best be deployed across the Schools. We are a member of the
 University Alliance Doctoral Training Alliance (DTA) for Applied Science for Health, a programme
 that was launched in 2015 with the aim of ‘understanding and promoting healthy ageing’ and offer
 scholarships under this scheme, with three contributing to this UoA, under the supervision of
 Ousey, Conway and Smith. As indicated previously, a proportion of QR monies are used to
 create fully funded studentships across the full spectrum of research activity. Funding covers fees


                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and a bursary together with a comprehensive consumables budget depending on the nature of
 the project with AS and HHS contributing approximately £450,000 each to support studentships
 over the current REF cycle.


 On enrolment, students undergo full induction, covering research culture, expectations of
 supervisors and students, PGR degree regulations, progression monitoring and research
 ethics/integrity. Training is predominantly delivered by each School, with additional support and
 on-line resources available at University level via the Graduate School. In common with training
 for staff, each element of the PGR training is mapped to the Vitae Researcher Development
 Framework to ensure coverage and to avoid duplication (with discipline-specific training at School
 level and transferable generic skills training at University level). Research Integrity and Research
 Ethics are fundamentally important and students are informed of the Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity and the consequences of non-compliance at induction. Additional information
 about support for students is available on our VLE and MS Teams (AS PGR and HHS PGR
 Teams) and peer support via the online PGR Student Common Room. There are dedicated PGR-
 only study areas across the campus (see infrastructure and facilities below).


 PGRs are members of Research Institutes, Centres and Special Interest Groups and are
 encouraged to fully engage with activities, in order to ensure strong support from active
 researchers and opportunities for peer mentoring. PGR students are also encouraged and
 expected to attend (and deliver) research seminars (noted at progression points). Many PGR
 activities are student-led, including the PGR seminar series, PGR Society and annual PGR
 conference. We maintain meaningful pathways to consultation with PGR students and have PGR
 student representation both on SREC and the PGR committee.


 With regards to development and progression, an ‘open door’ policy exists where students can
 discuss research informally, and formal meetings are held monthly with notes from both students
 and supervisors recorded in SkillsForge. PGR progress is monitored via the University
 Postgraduate Progressions Board and the management of PGR matters is overseen by the
 Director of Graduate Education (DoGE) in each School. Progression viva voce examinations are
 held after 9 and 21 months (full-time equivalent), requiring a report detailing progress and
 discussion of research plans with at least two other academic staff who are not formally involved
 in the project. For progression, the examiners must be satisfied that (i) the student has made
 sufficient progress intellectually (ii) data accrual is of sufficient quantity and quality to enable the
 thesis to be constructed and (iii) future plans for completing the research plan are realistic within
 the timescale of the studentship. Research training needs are also discussed at this stage together
 with any issues that the students may have with supervision. Three PGR Progression Boards are
 run each year to track PGR progression, viva outcomes, misconduct, suspensions and timeliness


                                                                                                 Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of events. With regards to pastoral care both AS and HHS have experienced senior staff that act
 as pastoral mentors for PGRs, overseen by the DoGE. Any cases requiring specialist support are
 referred to the University’s Wellbeing support service, which has dedicated PGR provision


 We also support students to develop their research and teaching careers through (i) attendance
 and presentation at conferences (ii) publishing their research and (iii) contributing to
 undergraduate teaching sessions. With regards to conference attendance, students are
 encouraged to attend and present their research at one national and one international
 conference during their studies. Within this REF cycle, a total of 72 PGR students in AS and 101
 students in HHS have received School funding to attend conferences. Prior to attending,
 students can gain experience either orally or via posters at the annual PGR conference and 3-
 minute thesis competition or in their research SIG. This gives PGRs an opportunity to showcase
 their research and receive feedback on the strengths and areas for improvement before they
 present their work externally. Intellectual property is also an important consideration;
 experienced supervisors guide students through this process and central University support is
 also available through Research and Enterprise to ensure that intellectual property is protected
 prior to disclosure.


 We encourage PhD students to see research and teaching as symbiotic and of mutual benefit
 and to this end, we provide students with opportunities to gain teaching experience. For School
 funded students, this is mandatory and Teaching Assistant Preparation Programmes are
 available to all students. Teaching does not typically involve lecturing, instead predominantly
 being practical class demonstration, small group workshops/tutorials (with academic staff) and
 supervision of undergraduate projects.


 Looking beyond REF2021, we have a number of initiatives to develop a pipeline for recruitment
 into Research Masters and PhD programmes. These include:
       new taught master’s programs in pharmacy practice, drug discovery and allied health
        professions, such as paramedic science
       internships for staff from our partner organisations (particularly supported by Astin and
        CHFT)
       student-led clinics (the volume of which will increase with the establishment of the HWA)
        – led by Tolchard and building on his previous research – which expose our students to
        research
       development by Garside of a ‘writing retreat’ model to bring postgraduate taught (PGT)
        students and their supervisors together with the aim of co-producing publications and
        widening participating in a community of scholarly practice.



                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (iii) Equality and Diversity:


 As described in the institutional environment statement, the University is passionate about
 equality, diversity and inclusion in all aspects of its business. The Institution has established the
 University Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity Enhancement Committee to oversee the
 implementation of University EDI related policies, Code of Practice, frameworks and schemes
 for staff and students. In 2020, the University signed the Race Equality Charter (REC) and is
 working towards equal representation of women at most senior levels. Other examples of
 equality work include enhanced support for Black Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) students
 across the Institution (and within UoA3 specifically, the position statement from PhSC in
 Pharmacy). Demonstrating its commitment to supporting LGBT+ and disabled staff and
 students, the University is a Stonewall Global Diversity Champion member, which permits the
 implementation of the Workplace Equality Index and a Disability Confident Employer at Level 2,
 which covers the themes ‘Getting the right people for your business’ and ‘Keeping and
 developing your people and was a signatory to the Mindful Employer Charter.


 These and other institutional level policies (described in the institutional ES) impact upon the
 composition of committee structures and policy within each School. EDI profiles for committees
 is considered at the annual review of committee membership; for example, the composition of
 the Schools of AS and HHS Research and Enterprise committees are currently 10 male / 7
 female in AS and 15 male and 19 female in HHS.


 The University participates in Vitae’s ‘Every Researcher Counts’ to improve equality and
 diversity for researchers within higher education and EDI is an important aspect of our
 commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and our HR
 Excellence in Research Action Plan. We constantly strive to create an inclusive and supportive
 environment for our researchers. In particular, we make considerable effort to maintain an
 excellent mentoring programme, abide by a Core Hours system, support career progression and
 applications for promotion, develop case-by-case enhanced maternity provision and support, in
 order to maintain research momentum, support flexible working, and provide access to women-
 only national initiatives such as the Advance HE Aurora scheme (12 staff have been on the
 Aurora programme since 2014).


 Both Schools in the UoA are committed to equality and to increasing diversity at all levels and
 we take positive action to maximise the chances of recruiting, promoting and allocating the best
 person for any particular role. All new staff recruits are required to undertake training on diversity
 and on unconscious bias and our staffing policies support flexible working, career breaks and
 part-time working and we seek to accommodate carers’ responsibilities whenever practicable.


                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The duties of those on parental leave are fully covered (also for some time after return, with
 accommodation of the needs of breastfeeding mothers).


 We have long been committed to promoting gender equality in science, as evidenced by AS
 achieving Silver Athena SWAN status in 2018. Some staff act as internal consultants or critical
 friends to other Schools in their gender work. Many initiatives related to gender equality have
 been developed and trialled in as this UoA and then either rolled out to the whole University or
 shared with other Schools. The School’s Athena SWAN committee expanded in 2018 to become
 the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee, widening its remit to include all aspects of
 equality work, an approach later mirrored by the University, evidenced by the formation of the
 University Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Enhancement Committee (UEDIEC) which reports
 directly to Senate. HHS has recently appointed a dedicated Director of Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion.


 All staff involved in the UoA’s REF2021 decision-making completed REF-specific Equality and
 Diversity training. Strictly following the University’s Code of Practice, output selection was based
 first and foremost on the quality of each output, determined by internal and external assessors;
 ensuring that fewer than 5% of outputs were non-OA compliant and alignment with the Research
 Strategy and Futures detailed above. Where multiple outputs of equal scores were identified,
 choosing outputs to ensure diversity of staff was employed. An Equality Impact Assessment
 identified that, although the departments in this UOA have more females than males, more
 males than females were returned. A substantial number of recent appointments of pre-doctoral
 individuals from female-dominated clinical professions accounts for this. Anticipated staff PhD
 completions will improve the gender balance in the next REF cycle.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income:
 As reported in Section 1, we have achieved our REF2014 strategic goals of increasing our
 research income (from £1.2M to £2.852M) and diversifying income sources. In the current REF
 cycle, health research funding bodies have been our main funders (£906K), with substantial
 contributions coming from UK Industry, Commerce and Public Corporations (£548K), UK Central
 Government Bodies/local Authorities, Health and Hospital Authorities (£507K), UK based
 charities (£241K) and Non-EU Industry Commerce and public corporations (£252K). Further
 increasing income generation is a key strategic goal for the next REF period. To achieve this,
 our strategy will be to target key funders (e.g. NIHR) – with appropriate support/training to
 maximise success; increase our number of research active academics (through strategic
 appointments and staff PhD completions); support the development of ECRs’ research, including
 through allocation of studentships and applications to the Academy of Medical Sciences


                                                                                                 Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Springboard Champion: Ousey); increase our focus on research that generates impact and
 capitalise on the research structures established during the current REF cycle (ISIaIP and
 Research Centres).


 Central bidding support is provided by Research and Enterprise (R&E). There is a clear,
 documented process in place to support grant applications, focused on maximising success.
 Central support for developing research grant applications and commercial contracts is available
 from dedicated Research Development Managers (RDM) and Business Development Managers
 (BDM) in both Schools. As indicated previously, all research grant applications led by UoA staff
 (that are not appropriately peer reviewed elsewhere) are subject to rigorous peer review (and
 budget setting) before submission to ensure that they reach a competitive standard.


 To support commercial ventures, BDMs oversee all contract development, NDAs, liaison with
 the Legal department and IP protection, as well as maintaining familiarity with all aspects of
 available commercial funding and government initiatives specifically aimed to develop
 academic/commercial collaboration.


 Through distribution of QR funding to Schools and via the University Research Fund (URF), the
 institution continues to invest in research through the provision of PhD studentships and funding
 to develop ASRIs. New ventures are supported internally by seed funding administered by
 central Research and Enterprise, the Collaborative Venture Fund. Promotion of international
 research partnerships is also key to the 2018-25 Strategy Map and central funding exists to
 support this.


 Infrastructure and facilities:
 Research facilities are located in both Schools. We currently have a broad range of dedicated
 research laboratories that house state-of-the-art equipment for pharmaceutics, pharmacology,
 cell biology, analytical sciences, physiology and biomechanics, as well as excellent research-
 ready clinical facilities, including a simulation suite and podiatry clinic/operating theatre


 PGRs have access to dedicated study areas, including the Elena Piscopia Suite, which contains
 dedicated computers, quiet areas, locked storage facilities, kitchen facilities and bookable
 interview rooms (for undertaking qualitative research interviews). PGR students can borrow
 encrypted laptops and audio-recording devices to facilitate data collection and analysis.


 The University has excellent library and IT facilities, giving staff and PGR students access to
 subject information specialists (including with specialist subject expertise) and research-specific
 software (e.g. SPSS and NVivo).


                                                                                                 Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We embrace information systems and processes that support research such as:
       the PURE research information management system and repository
       SkillsForge to support postgraduate research
       PRAMMS system for the (mandatory) internal peer review of research bids
       Microsoft Dynamics for contact management
       Dedicated pre- and post-award (PAPA) systems/functions
       Agresso for financial information.


 We are actively working with the central University on a systematic approach to the management
 of research data (storage and sharing), including any commitment to open research data (see
 section 1).


 The University provides central pre- and post-award functions and a named governance
 sponsorship signatory. This is augmented in the Schools, through provision of dedicated
 administrative support for research management and governance, including the PGR
 administrative and advisory function, performance monitoring, and event management.


 Both Schools have continued to invest and strengthen our research facilities and infrastructure,
 with £3.3M invested in refurbishment and £3.75M in new equipment since REF2014 in AS and
 comparable levels in HHS. The focus leading up to REF2014 was the establishment of
 pharmaceutics and this has been consolidated during this REF cycle with additional equipment
 and laboratory refurbishment. Since REF2014, further developments include the repurposing
 and renovation of teaching laboratories into pharmacology research laboratories and the
 expansion of our cell culture capability. This ‘core facility’ is supported by a dedicated URF-
 funded technician.


 Other significant developments include the establishment of a cell imaging suite housed in the
 3M Buckley Innovation Centre funded via a Local Growth Fund grant of £2.9M. These facilities
 are run by a dedicated research technician (Dr Jane Harmer). Our analytical and molecular
 biology capability has also increased and we now have excellent facilities for target identification,
 characterisation validation, pharmacogenomics, bioinformatics and metabolomics. In AS, we
 have also invested in novel technologies to support research in key areas including for example,
 the purchase of surface dissolution imaging (SDI2) and the Agilent seahorse XF metabolic
 analyser.


 Both Schools operate on the basis that, where they have committed funds to support research,
 equipment and facilities are available to all members and use is not restricted to individuals or
 small groups. Research projects in UoA3 utilise all these facilities as required, but major

                                                                                               Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 activities typically involve: NMR, X-ray diffraction and scanning electron microscopy, X-ray
 crystallography (the Diffractometer suite – containing 2 single crystal and 2 powder
 diffractometers as well as SAXS), analytical equipment (HPLC/MS, ICP/MS, thermal analysis,
 dynamic vapour sorption, Nanosight, Malvern ZS etc), automatic dissolution, surface dissolution
 imaging, the cell culture suite, flow cytometry and cellular analysis, real time PCR, confocal
 microscopy (as described above), infra-red imaging, fluorimetry, spectrophotometry, scanning
 electron microscopy, exercise physiology and gait analysis.


 In 2010, AS was awarded a £2.3M ERDF grant which, together with matched funding from the
 University of £1.3M, enabled the establishment of IPOS (http://ipos.hud.ac.uk), a GMP
 accredited facility (licence number UK GMP 43253) and Agilent Centre of Excellence. IPOS
 provides analytical expertise to both external businesses and academics within AS and across
 the University and is a focus for analytical research with facilities including LC/MS, GC and GC-
 MS, ICP-MS, GPC-MALLS and ion chromatography. Across the University, we have excellent
 access to equipment in the School of Computing and Engineering including atomic force
 microscopy and infinite focus microscopy.


 Looking beyond REF2021, the School of AS has substantially expanded its teaching laboratory
 space through the development of the Joseph Priestly East building. This includes an eye clinic
 to facilitate the training of optometrists and provide new opportunities for research. This work
 was completed in 2019 and as teaching moves to the new facility, this frees up space for the
 development of additional research facilities. This will include research space for Optometry as
 well as the expansion of research in pharmaceutics and pharmacology. Our strategic aim is to
 further develop the infrastructure and facilities to support high quality research through, for
 example, the continued development of core research facilities, repurposing of teaching facilities
 into research labs and the refurbishment of existing laboratory space.


 During the next REF cycle, the university will lead an ambitious project to establish a new
 National Health Innovation campus. Specific to this UoA, the University plans to invest
 £45m in a new building to house the new Health and Well-being Academy (HWA) – its
 largest ever such investment - with additional investment in facilities. This comes on the
 back of recent re-imagining of our simulation suite to create a state-of-the-art facility,
 accompanied by creation of dedicated strategic leadership (HWA Strategic Lead – Garside;
 Simulation Lead – Prescott; Clinical Skills Lead - Bland). The HWA will yield new, research-
 ready services, such as an expanded podiatry service and new physiotherapy and health
 assessment clinics, providing plentiful opportunities for impactful research, supporting our
 strategic goals for research and impact.



                                                                                                Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration:
 Collaboration with key stakeholders is at the heart of our working. It has been an essential
 strategic element of our success in increasing the interdisciplinarity, reach and impact of
 our research since REF2014, as illustrated in Section 1.


 Our collaborative links with healthcare providers and HEIs span the globe, including North
 America, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Australia and South Asia and South East Asia and
 include numerous QS300 top-quartile organisations (as illustrated in Section 1). The extent of our
 collaboration with international partners is amply reflected in the SciVal analysis of UoA3 outputs.
 Between 2014 and November 2020, 50.9% of our research outputs were co-authored with
 researchers in other countries. Notable examples of our collaborative work include:
       Publication in June 2019 (by Elsevier) of the Encyclopaedia of Pharmacy Practice and
        Clinical Pharmacy. This major contribution to the literature (4 volumes and 180 chapters),
        conceived and led by Babar (Editor-in-Chief), harnessed a series of articles from world
        leading scholars (over 300 authors from over 40 countries) in the field of pharmacy
        practice.
       Incorporation of ISIaIP as a sister organisation in the World Union of Wound Healing
        Societies (WUWHS), the aim of which is to improve patient-centred care by encouraging
        global cooperation in wound healing clinical practice, education, research and delivery of
        wound care. As the only University to be awarded this honour, it reflects the value placed
        on our research on the international stage.
       Development of a strategic partnership with the Pakistan government and other
        Universities in Pakistan to provide clean, affordable drinking water to the people of South
        Punjab.


 Expanding our international reach is an integral part of our 2018-25 strategy map and through
 central University support, finances are available to enable academics to travel to leading QS300
 institutions across the world with the aim of (i) promoting our expertise in Huddersfield to other
 Institutions and (ii) generating new research projects that will deliver high quality research outputs
 and impact.


 On the national and local stages, we pride ourselves on the strength and richness of our
 partnerships across the Yorkshire and Humber region and the UK, as described in Section 1.
 Notable examples of how these collaborations are yielding tangible outputs and concrete benefits
 include:




                                                                                               Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (i)     Research on stillbirth, led by Stacey, has contributed to the UK national stillbirth
         prevention initiative the ‘Saving Babies Lives Care Bundle’ and to a public health
         campaign on maternal sleep position led by the national charity Tommys
 (ii)    Research by Burton and Bartys regarding the work/health interface, has yielded several
         influential reports to government in the UK (including incorporation into HSE guidance on
         health problems in the workplace) and USA.
 (iii)   Astin’s recent work regarding noise reduction in hospitals has already impacted the
         design of two hospitals, whilst her work on informed consent has changed practice locally
         (at CHFT) and nationally (through the Department of Health), as well as being cited in
         international guidance (European Society of Cardiologists).


 Within UoA3, promotion of interdisciplinary research and collaboration between colleagues
 within and between Schools, including sandpits and away-days, will be a key strand of our
 strategic approach in the next REF cycle, recognising that to be able to generate research that
 has impact on the health and wellbeing of patients, teams of researchers with different expertise
 need to be assembled to form ‘wolf packs’ as opposed to ‘lone wolf’ operations. Continued
 strengthening and evolution of ISIaIP and our Research Centres will support this and Special
 Interest Groups within the Centres will be supported to independence as discrete Research
 Centres over the next REF period (e.g. Maternal and Family Health and Sports, Exercise and
 Nutrition).


 The University has an ambitious target of having 15% of outputs generated with end-users by
 2025 (see Strategy Map). This is already a key strategic focus for both Schools in UoA3 and a
 number of end users are already engaged in our research, as described in Section 1.
 Recognising the importance of these activities to enhancing the impact of our research, we aim
 to normalise patient and public involvement across our applied health research portfolio
 (including from the Public Partnership Group (PPG). Partly as a result of this, HHS has invested
 in additional capacity for the PPG, in the form of a Development Worker. We will build on the
 training and dissemination activities already offered to increase awareness of researchers of the
 support available for involving end-users, for example through closer working with the regional
 NIHR RDS.


 Contribution to the research base, economy and society:
 All staff in UoA3 are committed to providing service to the wider Health-related, Pharmacy,
 Pharmaceutics and Pharmacology research communities, economy and society. Section 1 (E1-
 E3) demonstrates our achievements and how these inform and direct our strategy. Staff with
 significant responsibility for research (and many who have yet to achieve this) are involved in
 such activities as peer reviewing for journals and grant awarding bodies, contributing to local,


                                                                                                Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 national and international conferences (as reviewers and through committee memberships), in
 advisory or executive roles for professional organisations and through consultancy, including for
 businesses and policy makers. Illustrative examples are given below:


 Editorial positions: Editorial board positions include: Journal of Biomaterials (Smith), Drug
 Delivery Letters (Smith), Research in Social and Administrative Pharmacy (Babar), Science
 Technology and Development (Babar), Journal of Pharmaceutical Policy and Practice (Gorton,
 Hasan, Babar is Editor-in-Chief), Neuroscience letters (McHugh), Sage Open Nursing
 (Caress), Evidence Based Complementary and Alternative Medicine (Olajide), Informatics for
 Health and Social Care (Hardiker, Editor-in-Chief 2010-2020); Health Care Sciences and
 Services (Merchant), British Journal of Pharmaceutical Research (Larhrib), British Journal of
 Pharmacology (Phillips until 2016), Cancer Drug Resistance (Phillips), Pharmaceutics, Journal
 of Microencapsulation (Conway). Additionally, members of UoA3 have edited special issues in
 journals, including Advances in Wound Dressings and Materials in Pharmaceutics (Conway).


 Plenaries and invited lectures: External recognition of our work is evident in the growing number
 of invitations to speak at national and international events. During the current REF period there
 have been 174 invited presentations across the UoA, of which eight were keynote or plenary
 lectures and five were invited public lectures.


 Committee/working group membership and expert advisory roles: Academic staff in UoA3 are
 active members of/hold executive roles in a wide-range of committees and working groups,
 including in field-leading organisations such as UK Society for Biomaterials (Smith), International
 Surgical Wounds Advisory Panel (Ousey, Elected Vice President, Sept 2019-present)
 International Medical Informatics Association Nursing Informatics Working Group (Hardiker, UK
 Representative, 2018-present). They are also active on grant awarding panels, for such bodies as
 the National Institute for Health Research (Caress, NIHR Research for Patient Benefit Programme
 Yorkshire and North East panel, 2019-present).


 Our contributions to specialist task forces and advisory groups include the International Task
 Force on Palliative Care for Prisoners, supported by the European Association for Palliative Care
 (EAPC) (Turner, Co-Chair, 2017-2021); International Think Tank on Gambling Policy, Research
 and Practice (Tolchard) and Industrial Injuries Advisory Council (IIAC) (Burton - public
 appointment by Secretary of State for Work and Pensions)

 UoA members are very active in provision of expert advice to policy makers and leading
 international organisations, notable examples being HM Government Department for Work and
 Pensions (Burton, Expert Advisor, 2014-present), World Health Organisation (Babar -


                                                                                             Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 independent    expert    on   commissioned      systematic    review/evidence     informed   guideline
 development re pharmaceutical pricing policy; Al Deyab - consultant on projects designed to
 strengthen antimicrobial stewardship and ‘hands on’ training for antimicrobial consumption in
 Jordan) and the World Bank (Babar – consultant on projects involving pharmaceutical system
 evaluation and medicines pricing policy in Bangladesh).


 Conference organisation: UoA staff have been actively involved in conference organisation,
 notable examples being: Organising committee member for Global Conference on
 Pharmaceutics and Drug Delivery Systems, 2017 onwards (Larhrib); European Association of
 Clinical Pharmacology and Therapy, 2019 (Javid); APS Industrial Insights conference (Waters);
 Joint Pharmaceutical Analysis Group annual conference (Waters); Phytochemical Society of
 Europe conference, 2018 and 2020 (Olajide); International Medical Education Conference,
 Malaysia 2016 and 2017 (Hasan); JoPPP conference on Pharmaceutical Policy and Practice
 Research, Malaysia since 2019 (Babar); Annual Winter Meeting of the Pharmacology and
 Molecular Mechanism Group of the EORTC throughout this REF cycle (Phillips); 1st through the
 4th UK Hydrocolloids Symposium (Smith); Conference Chair, International Conference in Skin
 Integrity and Tissue Viability, since 2016 (repurposed as Wounds Week in 2020 and 2021 to
 meet Covid restrictions) (Ousey and Conway).


 Response to the Covid-19 pandemic:
 SARS-CoV-2 has had a major impact on society and like other Universities in the UK, we have
 (i) supported our local health care providers (ii) supported national and local testing facilities and
 (iii) published and disseminated research and expert opinion via academic journals and social
 media. In the early stages of the pandemic, AS donated its entire stocks of PPE to Huddersfield
 Royal Infirmary. In HHS, many of our Health students have been out on placement since the
 beginning of the pandemic providing front line support to our local Trusts and patients. Similarly,
 podiatry students and HSS staffmaintained service provision throughout the pandemic to ensure
 that the most at-risk patients/public who use our campus facility received the care they needed.
 AS contributed a ThermoFisher 7500-Fast PCR machine towards the national Covid testing
 effort. Locally, we had a significant role in establishing a rapid Covid-19 testing facility. A diverse
 portfolio of pandemic-related research has been conducted across the University, with UoA3
 contributing the vast majority of this. Projects have included critically evaluating the effectiveness
 of corticosteroids and other medications for treating Covid patients (Merchant, Babar, Hasan),
 the role of pharmacists in the treatment of Covid-19 (Babar), impacts on those required to
 ‘shield’ (Caress, Stephenson, Powrie), BAME communities (Simkhada) and pregnant women
 (Keely); health professional resilience (Rogers, Hemingway, Garside, Jones); effects of Covid
 on work ability (Burton). Rogers’ work has been submitted in evidence to the Department of
 Health and Social Care, whilst Burton’s has underlined development of the Society of


                                                                                                Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Occupational Medicine’s post-Covid return to work toolkit. Caress is an invited member of a
 national policy advisory group and Hardiker of the Chief Nursing Officer’s Covid nursing
 research group. An International COVID-19 Research and Evidence Synthesis Group lead by
 Hasan, in collaboration with academics and practitioners globally, published over 50 papers
 between March 2020 and November 2020 with the mission of providing evidence-based data
 and analysis to inform practice and address the paucity, and often misleading, information
 around the virus and pandemic. A critical review of hand sanitisers (Merchant) published in
 June 2020, is the second highest downloaded paper in International Journal of Pharmaceutics
 (Jan, 2021 data).




                                                                                            Page 29
