Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Edinburgh

 Unit of Assessment: 33 Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The study of Music and Film at the University of Edinburgh (UoE) is a wide-ranging exploration
 of sound and the moving image, from historical and critical approaches through to scientific
 inquiry, technological innovation and creative practice. Our 22.9 FTE staff search for new ways
 in which music and film can be made, shared, understood, and used socially, culturally and
 politically. We capitalise on Edinburgh’s presence as a technology hub and global cultural
 centre to develop new work, from software to films and compositions, and harness the unique
 ability of music and film to enrich lives through screenings, performances, outreach
 programmes, and new technology for artists and industry.

 Research strategy

 Building on plans set out in REF2014, our strategy is geared towards extending the breadth of
 the work in our unit. As a large part of our research is interdisciplinary or emerging, we have
 striven to cultivate a vibrant, inclusive research culture, and to support all colleagues in
 taking risks to extend their horizons. Finally, we have sought to extend the range of our influence
 outside the academy by building relationships with new audiences and stakeholders, and
 through the fostering of an entrepreneurial culture.

 We have executed our strategy by:

 I)   Capitalising on our strengths in securing external research funding from diverse sources that
      reflect the breadth of activity in the unit.

 Total research grant expenditure was £3.54M for the unit, more than doubling the £1.67M from
 REF2014. Three large EU projects (two ERC and one HERA) held or awarded this cycle reflect
 the breadth of our unit, covering topics from virtual musical instruments to queer studies, film
 and music. Funding for technology-driven projects has been awarded this cycle by the AHRC
 and EPSRC, supporting innovations in virtual architectural acoustics and graphene-based
 cochlear microphones. Six fellowships from the Leverhulme Trust, British Academy and Royal
 Society have been held or awarded this cycle, covering topics from the history of electronic
 music to music and diplomacy during the Cold War.

 II) Engaging directly with wider publics, communities, and industries.

 Our research engages with a wide range of external stakeholders. Major film releases through
 the Scottish Documentary Institute reach audiences worldwide and spur dialogue on pertinent
 topics such as palliative care and the environment. Our research in music psychology addresses
 health and wellbeing among disadvantaged populations in Scotland and abroad, and we have
 developed new technology for musicians and architects, resulting in industrial start-ups. Such
 impact-focused work has been supported by the AHRC, the Royal Society of Edinburgh, the UK
 central government, the Carnegie Trust, and the ERC.

 III) Investing in people, including PGR students and new staff appointed strategically to build
      capacity across our research groupings.

 We have made ten new permanent appointments this cycle (seven in Music and three in Film)
 including two early career researchers (ECRs). Four staff members appointed during this or the
 previous cycle through the UoE’s prestigious 5-year tenure track Chancellor’s Fellow scheme,
 awarded for outstanding research, successfully converted their posts to open-ended lectureships
 in this cycle. We have seen a significant increase in the number of doctoral degrees awarded


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (90 this cycle vs 36 in 2014); 61 doctoral students have been supported by scholarships,
 compared with 31 in REF2014.

 IV) Developing the strength of our major research areas through enhancements to infrastructure.

 Research in the UoA has been supported by large investments in infrastructure. These include
 large estates redevelopments (£40.2M total), and a major renovation of our historic St Cecilia’s
 Musical Instrument Museum (£6.5M). Alongside this, the greater environment has been
 strengthened enormously by the £1.3B Edinburgh City Region Deal, which saw a total of £237M
 investment in Data Driven Innovation from the UK and Scottish Governments to UoE, enabling
 the establishment of the £6.5M AHRC Creative Informatics programme that has supported
 entrepreneurial technology ventures led by this UoA.

 Research Themes

 Our research addresses three themes:

       science and technology, encompassing acoustics, music technology, and music
        psychology;
       creative practice, including music composition and filmmaking; and
       critical approaches, including film theory and musicology.

 These themes build upon those proposed in UoA35 (Music) in 2014, now significantly enriched
 by the inclusion and integration of film theory and filmmaking, and serve as a strategic basis for
 funding bids as well as new appointments.

 Of our 26 staff, 25 work in the Edinburgh College of Art (ECA), and one in the School of
 Literatures Languages and Cultures (LLC). Both ECA and LLC are Schools within the larger
 College of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (CAHSS). Staff member names in bold below
 are REF1a; others mentioned are former staff or on extended leave.

 1. Science and Technology (5.5FTE)

 Research in the Acoustics and Audio Group (AAG) is highly mathematical and experimental,
 and research topics range from musical, architectural and computational acoustics to the
 auditory sciences. The AAG was a partner in the £3.18M ‘Basic Acoustics Training’ FP7 Marie
 Skłodowska-Curie Initial Training Network (2013-17, UoE share £240K), connecting it to 18
 academic and industrial partners throughout Europe, and has an increasing engagement with
 industry—see Section 4.

 The ‘Next Generation Sound Synthesis’ (NESS) project (Bilbao, ERC, 2012-16, £1.14M), with
 the majority of its activity and expenditure in the current REF period, was concerned with very
 large-scale physics-based audio rendering and sound synthesis, with a staff of ten PhD students
 and PDRAs within Music and the Edinburgh Parallel Computing Centre (EPCC). 84 peer-
 reviewed publications have resulted, and the world’s first large-scale physics-based sound
 synthesis system is now used by musicians worldwide. The NESS project was complemented by
 a further ERC Proof of Concept grant, ‘Wave-based Room Acoustics Modelling’ (Bilbao, ERC,
 2016-18, £107K), with the goal of developing the world’s first wave-based architectural acoustics
 simulation system, now operational. The NESS project yielded two spinout companies.

 Ducceschi joined the AAG as a Newton International Fellow (Royal Society/British Academy,
 2015-17, £99K), and later a Leverhulme Early Career Fellow (2017-20, £90K). He has
 broadened the scope of physics-based instrument emulation to include historical musical
 instruments, through a partnership with St Cecilia’s Hall, which holds one of the world’s finest
 instrument collections—see Section 3. His ERC-funded NEMUS Project (£1.35M) was awarded
 in July 2020. Newton was made a permanent lecturer (2016) as a strategic decision to expand

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 the research range of the AAG. The GMAAT project (Cheung, Newton et al., EPSRC, 2015-17,
 £631K), with the School of Engineering, pioneered the use of micromechanical graphene-based
 microphones in the quest for miniaturized cochlear implants.

 The Music in Human and Social Development (MHSD) Research Group was formed to
 further our understanding of music as a means of improving health and wellbeing across
 marginalised or disadvantaged populations. The group led the Scottish Music and Health
 Network (MacDonald and Overy, Carnegie Trust, 2014-16, £32K), which brought together
 experts in music education, music therapy and community music across Scotland.

 The use of music interventions targeted towards individuals with specific disabilities has been
 explored extensively by Overy, including through interactive music programmes for individuals
 with dementia (Overy and Wilson, UK central government, 2016, £23K). A new collaborative
 project addresses musical experience and ageing (Okely, Overy and Deary, ESRC, 2019-22,
 total award £235K). The funded projects ‘Community Music Workshops for Social Integration
 among Individuals with Impairments’ and ‘Music as Social Innovation’ (MacDonald, UK Central
 Government, 2017-19, £188K total) both involve extensive engagement with marginalised
 communities in Scotland and music charities such as Limelight. A major monograph has resulted
 (The Art of Becoming: How Group Improvisation Works, MacDonald and Wilson, OUP, 2020).
 Moran and MacDonald have taken psychological approaches to the study of interactions
 among performers and artists and group improvisation (Wilson and MacDonald, ‘Concurrent’,
 Royal Society of Edinburgh, 2015-17, £20K).

 Scientific and technological work is closely integrated with the other research themes. The
 MHSD group intersects with creative practice through Isaacs, a composer with extensive
 experience in community music projects in Scotland, the Gambia and with the refugee
 community in Greece, and MacDonald, strategically appointed in the last cycle as Chair of
 Improvisation and Music Psychology. The NESS project was aimed at developing new virtual
 musical instruments for creative practitioners. Technological approaches to early music research
 have been led by Cook, through two AHRC grants to develop virtual reality emulations of
 historical sites (£116K total).

 2. Creative Practice (7.1FTE)

 Filmmaking is a major strength of the UoA, and led by the Scottish Documentary Institute
 (SDI), founded by Mendelle in 2004. SDI has 17 staff members and academic collaborators
 drawn from the UoE and the larger community of filmmakers in Edinburgh, of which four (Davie,
 Hardie, Jansen, Mendelle) are submitted in this UoA. It has two primary objectives: to
 undertake research into documentary narrative approaches through the production of feature-
 length documentary films; and to nurture the development of filmmakers, locally and
 internationally, through its diverse training programmes. These programmes have produced
 short film series such as Mendelle’s Bridging the Gap (screened in 40 countries), This is
 Scotland for STV, Right Here for the BBC, the Stories project, and the annual Edinburgh Pitch
 filmmaker networking event.

 SDI’s feature films have garnered international attention for their explorations of documentary
 narrative form. Seven Songs for a Long Life (Hardie, BBC/Creative Scotland, 2015, £305K)
 documents the evolution of a musical collaboration with hospice patients. The film played on the
 BBC, nationally on PBS in the USA (1402 broadcasts), and has screened at 27 international
 festivals, such as SXSW and DOXA. Becoming Animal (Davie, Swiss Films/Creative Scotland,
 2018, £443K) is a feature-length nature documentary that has been nominated for awards at
 international festivals (CPH DOX, Munich Film Festival). Jansen’s practice straddles fiction and
 documentary; her film In Times of Rain (CONACULTA, 2018), a drama about family
 fragmentation caused by migration from an Indigenous community to Mexico City, has won five
 international awards, including at the Oaxaca FilmFest in 2018. See Figure 1.



                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




   Figure 1. Clockwise from top left: Still photographs from Hardie’s Seven Songs for a Long Life, Davie’s
   Becoming Animal and Jansen’s In Times of Rain.



 Composition at UoE has a long tradition of engagement with cutting-edge technology. Parker
 has introduced a dimension of live performance and sound design to the UoA; major
 performances include Scripts for computer and ensemble premiered in Montreal in 2017. The
 NESS project included ten funded residencies for visiting composers. Mudd was appointed in
 2019 to a permanent lectureship in computer music systems, as a practising composer
 researching questions surrounding electronic compositional processes.

 There is also a strong outreach dimension to composition at UoE. Community music projects led
 by Isaacs integrate work local to communities in Edinburgh and travel as far as the Gambia,
 where her compositions engage students and staff in vibrant musical exchange. Isaacs has also
 responded influentially to the refugee crisis, working in Athens since 2016 to train aid workers in
                                                     her community music and composition
                                                     practices. Isaacs was nominated for a British
                                                     Composer Award in 2018 for her reimagining of
                                                     The Rime of the Ancient Mariner. Williams’s
                                                     appointment in 2014 as a Chancellor’s Fellow
                                                     expanded our range to include opera and
                                                     musical theatre, while maintaining the strong
                                                     tradition of composition as a means of
                                                     increasing social awareness and outreach.
                                                     Now a permanent member of staff, he has
                                                     obtained a number of major commissions,
                                                     including for the large-scale work 306 Trilogy
                                                     (National Theatre of Scotland), written in
  Figure 2. Scene from 306 Trilogy, Gareth Williams, commemoration of the centenary of the First
  2018. Photograph: Marilyn Kingwill.                World War, with 72 performances to an
                                                     audience of over 6,000. See Figure 2.

 3. Critical Approaches (10.3FTE)

 Our research in film theory and musicology extends outwards to include technology, music and
 screen, queer studies, politics, popular music, and sociology. It has been complemented by six
 new permanent appointments in this cycle. In addition, two new appointments were made near
 the end of the last cycle, both as Chancellor’s Fellows who became permanent (Brennan and
 Davis).

 Film theory staff have been augmented by the appointment of film philosopher Sorfa and in
 2018 Chambers, an early-career theorist. Major outputs include monographs from Murray (The


                                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 New Scottish Cinema, I. B. Taurus, 2015), and Yacavone (Film Worlds: A Philosophical
 Aesthetics of Cinema, Columbia University Press, 2014). Yacavone was awarded two visiting
 fellowships (Netherlands Institute for Advanced Study, 2020, and Freie Universität Berlin, 2020).
 A large project in this area is Davis’s CRUSEV: ‘Cruising the 1970s: Unearthing Pre-HIV/AIDS
 Queer Sexual Cultures’ (EC-HERA, 2016-19, total award £1.05M, UoE share £435K) and
 evolved from Davis’s research as a historian and theorist of queer visual culture. 47 events,
 including workshops, exhibitions, conferences and film screenings took place. CRUSEV links
 UoE with four other HEIs and 18 museums, galleries, NGOs and activist groups throughout
 Europe.

 Critical approaches to music and film intersect in many ways. Musicologists Davison and Cook
 (convener of the Representations of Early Music on Stage and Screen network) work with the
 history and aesthetics of music on screen, including film, television, and video games, and
 linking with film theorists. Work in film theory often engages with the importance of sound and
 music in cinema, especially in Chambers’s concentration on folk cinema. Davis and Murray
 have organised three popular music symposia concentrating on pop singers and the moving
 image.

 The UoA has continued its rich tradition of musicological research in this cycle, spanning a
 diverse range of areas from music analysis through the politics of music to popular music and
 jazz. Significant fellowships have been awarded to Desler (‘Opera Performed: Nicola Gramaldi:
 Singer, Actor, Director, Promoter’, Leverhulme Research Fellowship, 2018-19, £43K), Kelly
 (‘Musical Diplomacy at the Peripheries: East Germany and the Postcolonial World’, Leverhulme
 Major Research Fellowship, 2020-23, £152K) and Taylor (‘Music and Subjectivity: Hearing the
 Self in 19th-Century Music’, Berlin Institute for Advanced Study fellowship, 2019-20, £43K).
 Major monographs have been written by Brennan (When Genres Collide, Bloomsbury
 Academic, 2017), Cook (The Early Mass Cycle in England and Europe, RMA Monographs,
 2019), Jago (Jazz in the Cellar, University of British Columbia Press, 2019), Kelly (Composing
 the Canon in the German Democratic Republic, OUP, 2014), and Taylor (The Melody of Time:
 Music and Temporality in the Romantic Era, OUP, 2016, Towards a Harmonic Grammar of
 Grieg’s Late Piano Music, RMA Monographs, 2017, and Arthur Sullivan: A Musical Reappraisal,
 Routledge, 2017).

 Popular music studies is a particularly high-impact area in this cluster. Brennan was PI in a
 succession of impact-focused AHRC grants, all concerned with timely sociological,
 environmental and policy questions surrounding live music and festivals: ‘The Cultural Value of
 Live Music’ (£38K, 2013-14); ‘From Pub to Stadium’ (£49K, 2014); ‘Fields of Green’ (£55K,
 2015-16); ‘The Great British Live Music Census’ (£231K, 2016-18); and ‘New Directions in Music
 and Sustainability Research’ (£144K, 2017-18).

 In addition, there is a body of work devoted to the critical and historical study of electroacoustic
 music, technology, and performance practice. Sean Williams held a Leverhulme Early Career
 Fellowship (‘Documenting the Recent History of Electronic Music Performance Practice’, 2012-
 15, £60K) and Valiquet holds a British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship (‘Phonopolis: The
 Ontological Politics of Experimental Music Research, 1958-1995’, 2017-20, £290K). A further
 new direction is the ‘Space, Place, Sound, and Memory’ project led by Cook (AHRC, 2018,
 £76K), which examines the virtual emulation of historical performance spaces for the study of
 early music. Cook received follow-on funding for impact-generating activities including public
 installations (‘Hearing History’, AHRC, 2019, £40K).

 Facilitating Impact

 Music and Film at UoE are outward-facing; our work is meant to be seen, heard and used. This
 is true of creative practice, where we excel in the production of socially relevant wide-release
 documentary films, and in engaging audiences with musical works and performances. It is also
 true of scientific and technological work centred around the development and commercialisation


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 of new tools for musicians and architects, and new musical intervention techniques for
 disadvantaged communities.

 UoE has developed a range of new infrastructures to foster the generation of impact from
 research at all levels in the institutional hierarchy. For successful external funding bids involving
 a high degree of knowledge exchange/IP generation/impact (such as Cook’s AHRC grants, and
 Bilbao’s ERC Proof of Concept grant), Edinburgh Innovation, the UoE’s commercialisation wing,
 takes an active role in clarifying IP positions and in fostering future commercial developments.

 Our staff have taken advantage of several internal impact-focused funding schemes:

    Knowledge Exchange and Impact (KEI) awards (up to £5K) target engagement with policy,
     practice, industry or community audiences to increase the impact of research through mutual
     exchange. 11 staff members have benefited from such awards over the current cycle,
     totalling £36K. Examples include Isaacs’s Big Boat project, exploring music and language
     development in West Africa, and Williams’s Breath Cycle, investigating the use of singing as
     a form of therapy for people living with cystic fibrosis. Some projects enhance major ongoing
     research efforts, including Davis’s Cruising Ground (extending the reach of the CRUSEV
     project).
    Overy was awarded an internal ESRC Impact Accelerator Account award (£15K) geared
     towards the development of musical activities for children with dyslexia.
    The £6.5M Creative Informatics project (2019-24), led by ECA, funded resident
     entrepreneurships (£24K total) for recent PhD graduates in Music to establish two new
     technology-focused companies.
    The UoE has a new Rapid Response Impact Funding scheme available (as of 2020)
     supporting new challenges under COVID-19 restrictions; Davie was awarded £5K to develop
     a new method of filming her documentary Black, Black Oil.

 The authors of our impact case studies in this UoA have benefited from these and other such
 pump-priming funds (see ‘Supporting Interdisciplinary Research’ below and Section 3). They
 work with widely differing groups of beneficiaries, reflecting the breadth of research in the UoA,
 in line with our strategy:

    Seven Songs for a Long Life: Using Documentary Film as Palliative Care (Hardie) is
     concerned with palliative care through music and film, and its impact on hospice care
     workers, policy, and the general public.
    Musical Improvisation for Improving Health and Wellbeing (MacDonald) demonstrates the
     application of theoretical work in music improvisation to improve the health and wellbeing of
     various disadvantaged cohorts.
    Physics-based Audio in Music Composition and Virtual Acoustics (Bilbao, Ducceschi) is
     concerned with physics-based sound synthesis and acoustics rendering, and its impact upon
     creative practice.

 Supporting Interdisciplinary Research

 A large proportion of the work in this UoA is interdisciplinary. Notable examples are work linking
 music with neuroscience, the physical sciences and engineering. Other intra-humanities links
 also feature strongly, including music and film studies, and music and the social sciences.

 The UoE has long taken a positive and unified approach to supporting such work, transcending
 any administrative boundaries. Grants from the CAHSS Challenge Investment Fund (up to
 £15K) engage with the institutional strategic objective to exploit existing synergies and cross-
 disciplinary expertise across the UoE. In the current cycle, £58K total was awarded to five UoA
 staff, including Brennan, to support an interdisciplinary musical instrument research network,
 and Jansen, for a project geared towards improving inclusivity and diversity in film production for
 the hearing or visually impaired.

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research Ethics and Open Research

 Good ethical practice is the foundation of all our research activity and a mark of our commitment
 to professionalism and duty of care to our researchers. This is particularly the case for research
 in sensitive areas involving human subjects (in, e.g., music psychology, through MacDonald’s
 work with disabled and disadvantaged groups, as well as documentary filmmaking through
 Hardie’s research into palliative care). The School has developed a three-tiered system for the
 ethical review of all research activities, compulsory for staff and students submitting research
 grant applications. The Director of Ethics (a newly created post in 2018) and School-level
 Research Ethics Committees are responsible for ensuring the adoption, implementation and
 review of ethical procedures, as well as raising awareness of ethical issues in research. These
 procedures have been developed in line with the CAHSS Ethics Working Party and Research
 Ethics Framework, and take into account the constraints of external collaborators and funders.
 All research staff and students undergo training in GDPR and good practice in the use, storage
 and security of research data.

 We have developed new approaches to supporting open research targeted at music and film
 research, and our staff have taken advantage of a wide range of possibilities for training in open
 research/open access, including a suite of online resources, workshops and one-to-one
 meetings. School-level Research Offices have staff members dedicated to monitoring open
 access for all research outputs, and providing advice on best practice with regard to open
 research for practice-based outputs. The open access compliance rate across our two Schools
 is greater than 97%. All external funding bids must be accompanied by a Data Management
 Plan.

 UoE has invested in developing specialised frameworks for supporting open research. These
 include the UoE’s open data sharing service DataShare (e.g., for Moran’s motion-capture
 datasets on improvisatory gesture, as well as audio and documentation for Parker’s Sonikebana
 installation), alongside the School’s hosting of a GitLab repository for publicly sharing computer
 code, and collaborative development (with EPCC) of a bespoke system allowing musicians
 worldwide free use of the NESS sound synthesis system running locally on three GPU servers.

 The University encourages new staff-led OA and open research initiatives. For example, Sorfa,
 with Edinburgh University Press, raised funds (£35K) to enable Platinum Open Access
 publication of the journal Film-Philosophy from 2016 to 2025. Within the AAG, research-related
 events such as seminars and conference keynote addresses have been professionally filmed
 and edited, and posted online. ECA funded (£5K) the professional production of eight 10-minute
 videos covering all aspects of the NESS project.

 Future Strategy

 Our plans for the future build on our great successes this cycle in increasing the volume, range
 and prestige of research funding we have obtained, reaching and influencing new audiences and
 stakeholders, and in building the wider research environment through our large international
 presence (see Section 4) and greatly increased number of PhD students and graduates (see
 Section 2). We will harness resources such as SGSAH, which received continuation AHRC
 funding in 2019 for a further four years, and the Chancellor’s Fellowships, through which we will
 appoint new staff to the UoA.

 We seek to integrate film and music further, through both theory- and practice-based research;
 this will be aided enormously by our Estates plans, which see Music relocated to the central
 ECA campus, alongside film and SDI staff, in the medium term. We will also increasingly exploit
 unique research resources at UoE such as St Cecilia’s Musical Instrument Museum and the
 high-performance computing expertise at EPCC.




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 COVID-19 has forced changes to some of our outward-facing research activities. We will build
 on our recent experience in engaging research stakeholders (through, e.g., the Medieval and
 Renaissance Music Conference, run by Cook virtually in July 2020 with a record attendance of
 475). Our practice-based research activities are necessarily pivoting as well; for example, the
 Dialogues festival of electronic music will run its inaugural hybrid edition in February 2021.

 The conjunction of technological research in the UoA and the surrounding industrial network we
 have helped to create, particularly within the context of the City Region Deal and Creative
 Informatics, will serve as the springboard for larger collaborative UKRI funding bids, and well as
 co-funded PhD studentships. We also seek further expansion into the larger international arena,
 in particular through international co-funding of documentary film productions, and through the
 expansion of our work in music therapy.


 2. People

 Staff

 Our vibrant, inclusive and well-supported research environment has led to great success in
 retaining staff and attracting new staff. Our approach to staffing follows naturally from our
 general research strategy: we appoint staff to expand the breadth of research across our three
 themes. To maintain vitality, nine of our ten new permanent appointments this cycle were made
 at an early career stage across all research areas. Two of our new permanent appointments are
 currently classified as ECRs, and their posts have been strategically positioned to enhance links
 between themes: Mudd’s research bridges the creative practice and science/technology areas,
 and Chambers is both a filmmaker and film theorist.

 Of 26 staff submitted, 18 are in Music, and eight (increased from five in REF2014) work in Film.
 The current staff profile of the UoA includes four professors, three readers, ten senior lecturers,
 seven lecturers, and two postdoctoral fellows. The small minority of advanced-career staff
 (three) means that we expect fully to realise our ambitions without disruption. The retention rate
 for the UoA is high; we have seen three retirals and two relocations, both on an upward
 trajectory: Edwards to a Chair at the University of Essen, and Brennan to a Readership at
 Glasgow.

 Our new appointments and postdoctoral fellows represent more than 50% of our submission by
 FTE. They have played a leading role in securing external funding (e.g. Ducceschi’s ERC
 award, Desler’s Leverhulme fellowship and Cook’s two AHRC grants), in bringing our work to
 wider audiences (e.g., Williams’s major international commissions, and Jansen’s award-
 winning films), leading large research events (Valiquet co-organised the international
 conference ‘Recursions: Music and Cybernetics in Historical Perspective’) and producing world-
 leading research (e.g. Taylor’s three monographs produced during the current cycle).

 Underpinning this success has been our approach to embedding new appointments and
 postdoctoral fellows as formal members within established research groupings, alongside senior
 researchers: Ducceschi, Mudd and Newton in the AAG, and Chambers and Jansen in SDI.
 New appointments are offered generous support, particularly through the Chancellor’s Fellow
 scheme, through which four staff became permanent in this cycle. New junior appointments are
 encouraged to join PhD supervisory teams, with first supervision permitted after a successful
 completion. Alongside research staff submitted here, we have employed 12 contracted
 postdoctoral researchers/software developers assigned to internally- and externally-funded
 projects. All have access to the same mentoring/training/development schemes as permanent
 appointments, reflecting UoE’s commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers.




                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 All staff benefit from an annual review, during which line managers raise issues around career
 development and training needs, supporting the aspirations of established, early career and
 contracted researchers alike. The academic promotions process is explicitly discussed in annual
 reviews, as well as at UoE-wide targeted events; since 2014, for the staff submitted here, there
 have been four promotions (two to Senior Lecturer, one to Reader and one to Professor). New
 junior appointments are mentored by senior staff, and staff at all career stages have access to a
 wide range of career development courses and seminars run through the UoE’s Institute for
 Academic Development (IAD), as well as additional mentoring through UoE-wide schemes such
 as ‘Mentoring Connections’.

 Sabbatical leave is encouraged for all research-active staff, at a rate of one semester for each
 six of service. Sabbatical leave is not an automatic entitlement, and applications are rigorously
 reviewed by School committees with regard to the quality of proposed outputs, and a formal
 research report is required upon completion of the sabbatical. The members of this UoA have
 benefitted from 15 such periods of sabbatical leave over the current cycle. Speculative projects,
 or those expected to bear fruit over a long time period are encouraged. For example, two
 Leverhulme Fellowships (Desler, Kelly) followed directly from groundwork undertaken during
 sabbaticals.

 Staff are eligible to receive up to £1K p/a in research funding support, subject to successful
 review of a yearly individual research plan by the relevant School Research Committee. Larger
 projects are funded competitively up to £2,500 (and prioritised according to early-career status);
 ECA has made more than 50 such awards to members of this UoA in the current cycle totalling
 £77K. In addition, there are various schemes operating through CAHSS, funding even larger
 projects (up to £15K), often of an impact-focussed or interdisciplinary character. See Section 1:
 ‘Facilitating Impact’ and ‘Supporting Interdisciplinary Research’.

 Research Students

 We have seen a substantial increase in the number of PhD graduates this cycle. Across the
 UoA, 90 doctoral degrees were awarded in the reporting period (73 Music, 17 Film), compared
 with 36 in REF2014 (34 Music, two Film). Beyond this increase in numbers, research students in
 Music and Film play an increasingly vital role in the UoA, in initiating their own conferences and
 concert series, and through direct embedding in externally-funded research projects and
 established research groups. We have sought to support them through increased opportunities
 for funding, career development, interdisciplinary initiatives, and specialised PhD programmes
 driven by staff research expertise, including the PhD in Music Composition (6 graduations) and
 PhD in Creative Music Practice (15 graduations).

 61 doctoral students have been supported by scholarships this cycle, compared with 31 in the
 previous cycle. Partly driving this increase in studentships has been the AHRC-funded Scottish
 Graduate School of Arts and Humanities (SGSAH) Doctoral Training Partnership, founded in
 2014, which funded 13 PhD students over the current cycle (7 students were funded under the
 preceding AHRC block grant in REF2014). Other students (26) have received funding either
 through internal School-level and College Research Awards, or UoE-wide funding schemes such
 as the Edinburgh Global Research Scholarship and Principal’s Career Development
 Scholarship. Further students have been supported by dedicated EU research project funding
 (six), and endowments (15).

 Each student is assigned two supervisors in accordance with UoE postgraduate supervision
 practice. In addition, seven students (five graduated) were co-supervised with foreign HEIs
 during this REF period, including Aalto University of Technology, the University of Melbourne,
 and Université Paris-Saclay. Rigorous annual reviews are carried out with two members of staff,
 including a reader not on the supervision team. We are committed to enhancing the future
 career prospects of our graduates with research degrees. Beyond the wide variety of
 opportunities for training provided centrally by the IAD, SGSAH offers extensive PhD training


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 and career development programmes tailored for research students. We believe students are
 best served by being given the same academic status and freedom as permanent members of
 staff. As such, they may apply for travel funds for research visits and to present at conferences.
 Students at UoE own the rights to their intellectual property by default.

 PhD students have played a leading role in the organisation of various concert series, including
 the long-running yearly Dialogues festival, supported in 2018 by a UoE Student Experience
 grant (£2,440). Postgraduate students in Music run their own annual conference, and have co-
 organised events such as Gender Thing, which explored gender-related topics in the academic
 world. An ECA-wide research group (SiREN) was cofounded by Music PhD students in 2016,
 and led workshops centred on music and interdisciplinarity, including international invited
 speakers. Five PhD students from the AAG formed the core of the organisational team for the
 20th International Conference on Digital Audio Effects in 2017, including the editing and
 production of a 511-page SCOPUS-indexed printed proceedings.

 Students who graduated this cycle have gone on to great successes across all research areas.
 Charlotte Desvages (PhD Music, 2018) won the Audio Engineering Society’s Emil Torick
 Fellowship, awarded to one student worldwide per year, with a bursary of US$10000). Michelle
 Devereaux (PhD Film Studies, 2017) was awarded a Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship
 (2020). Mei-Ling McNamara (PhD Film Studies, 2018) was Assistant Professor at University of
 Colorado before moving recently to Auburn University, Alabama, USA. Kirsteen Davidson Kelly
 (PhD Music, 2014) is the Creative Director of the Scottish Chamber Orchestra. PhD students
 who graduated in the current cycle have formed two start-up companies based on their own
 research (see Section 4).

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 We are committed to empowering all staff to realise fully their research ambitions. Beyond
 administrative measures detailed below, this commitment to EDI principles is deeply embedded
 in all three research themes, particularly in our extensive outreach activities that engage directly
 with diverse communities. For more detail, see Section 4: ‘Wider Engagement with the Economy
 and Society’ and ‘Engagement with Diverse Communities and Publics’.

 The constituent Schools for this submission have achieved Athena Swan Bronze certification
 during the current REF cycle, and both have appointed Equality and Diversity Directors who lead
 respective EDI Committees and work with staff to embed equality and diversity considerations
 across all administrative areas, including research management. All staff, whether full- or part-
 time, male, female or non-binary, however differently abled, are supported to the same level in
 developing research proposals, grant submissions or other research, KE and consultancy
 activities. Beyond their administrative role, the EDI committees actively promote awareness of
 EDI issues. For example, ECA’s EDI Committee oversees various working groups to which our
 UoA staff contribute, including the ‘Decolonising the Curriculum and Anti-Racism Working
 Group’ (Davis, Murray and co-chaired by Jago) in partnership with BAME students and staff.

 The composition of returned staff in this UoA reflects our ongoing commitment to improving staff
 gender balance. Staff in Film are exactly balanced at 50%/50%, and in Music the ratio has
 increased to 39%/61% F/M from 26%/74% F/M in REF2014. More striking in Music is the
 balance across senior-level staff, which is 50%/50% F/M, a significant change from REF2014,
 when the balance was 25%/75% F/M. Across the UoA as a whole, 47% of senior staff are
 female. This rebalancing has occurred partly through academic promotions; of the returned staff
 promoted in the current cycle, 50% were female, which is in line with the gender balance of the
 UoA as a whole. Eight staff out of 26 submitted are from outside the UK, and our PhD graduates
 this cycle are in majority international, with 62% from 29 foreign countries.

 Two staff members in the UoA took parental leave during this cycle, and both were granted a
 subsequent sabbatical. Staff returning from leave can request a phased return, a reduced


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 teaching load to increase their opportunities for development and research, and temporary or
 permanent changes to their working hours (availed of by one returnee). The UoE’s ‘Caring for
 Carers’ policy allows flexible working arrangements for staff with childcare or caring
 responsibilities. All ECA staff are entitled to apply for ‘Additional Caring Costs’ (up to £300) to
 cover costs involved in caring for dependants during travel for research purposes.

 Following the UoE’s REF2021 Code of Practice, we have adopted an inclusive approach to
 defining ‘independent researcher’, and have embraced the decision to return 100% of eligible
 academic staff. The output selection process took full account of EDI considerations and staff
 special circumstances, building in unconscious bias and EDI training. An independent oversight
 group reviewed the distribution of outputs across staff by gender and career stage (though we
 were unable to access accurate data on other protected characteristics because of the voluntary
 nature of this information). Special consideration was given to the disciplinary differences in
 modes/rates of research output in this submission that integrates Music and Film research.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income

 Total grant expenditure over the REF period was £3.54M for the UoA, compared with £1.67M for
 all Music and Film staff in REF2014. The funding portfolio for this UoA has widened considerably
 since 2014, building on our experience, and reflecting the different modes of work of creative
 practitioners, scientists, and critical theorists, and our commitment to core research alongside
 new impact-generating initiatives.

 We have targeted funding from the European Commission, and supported staff to design large
 interdisciplinary ‘blue skies’ research projects: the major HERA-funded ‘CRUSEV’ project was
 initiated and led by Davis during a Chancellor’s Fellowship. We have also built on and shared
 our expertise in order to multiply our success. The ERC-funded NESS project (Bilbao) led,
 through mentorship within the AAG, to the ERC-funded NEMUS project (Ducceschi). This
 widening of horizons carries over to personal fellowships. In the previous cycle, three fellowships
 were awarded in the UoA in total (all Leverhulme Early Career). In this cycle, we have again
 been awarded three Leverhulme fellowships, now including a Major Research Fellowship; and
 alongside these we have been awarded a BA Fellowship, a Newton International Fellowship,
 and a Berlin Institute for Advanced Study Fellowship.

 A new development this cycle has been a significant reorientation towards applied projects
 associated with knowledge exchange and impact generation. This was largely absent in the
 2014 submission, and our approach has been successful. Brennan was PI in a series of five
 impact-focused AHRC grants over the cycle, covering many dimensions of live music and
 festivals, totalling £517K. Edwards leveraged his extensive expertise in electronic composition to
 lead mNap (AHRC, £25K), a project focused on the use of noise abatement pods in India. Other
 grants have resulted from the extensive work in digital audio technology in the UoA—these
 include two AHRC projects led by Cook (£116K total) as well as an ERC Proof of Concept grant
 geared towards pre-commercialisation activities (Bilbao, £107K). Others have resulted from the
 outreach dimension of our work in music psychology (MacDonald, UK Central Government,
 £188K total).

 Beyond research funding bodies, numerous other sources have supported our research. SDI,
 which operates both as a production company and a research institute in the UoE, has raised
 £6.2M in this cycle to support filmmaking initiatives led by members of the UoA and the wider
 community of filmmakers in Edinburgh and abroad. Income comes through broadcasters, grants
 and charities, and is awarded through a rigorous period of development and pitching at
 international markets for feature documentaries. Commissions made to Williams totalled £73K



                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (BBC, National Theatre of Scotland, Scottish Opera and others). Industrial sponsorship funded a
 1-year PDRA in the AAG.

 Research Management and Infrastructure

 Our funding success has been enabled by an expansion in specialised support. At School level,
 all aspects of the development of funding proposals are handled by the School Research Offices
 (ROs) and KEI officers, including the management of internal peer review by at least two
 academic staff members. The size of ECA’s RO has increased significantly since the last REF
 period, from 2.8FTE to 6.9FTE. New team members have dedicated roles, including the
 monitoring of open access compliance and the facilitation of knowledge exchange/impact.
 Additionally, 2.4FTE of dedicated professional service support is available for large-scale
 research centres and projects. Large grant applications are afforded additional support through
 the University-wide Edinburgh Research Office (ERO), which manages a large database of
 successful grant applications, and has a dedicated EU funding team.

 To share good research practice, staff participate in ECA-level monthly ‘Research Success’
 forums that focus on case studies and strategies for public and industry engagement, publishing,
 applying for grants, data management and ethics. The ‘Funding Application Coaching Scheme’
 matches academics with staff who have experience of engaging research users in policy,
 practice and industry. ‘Aftercare’ for unsuccessful grant applications is provided via ‘Upcycling
 Unsuccessful Grants 1-1’ sessions. The ‘Research Development’ programme has supported the
 development of several funded projects, including Brennan’s AHRC Leadership Fellowship and
 Desler’s Leverhulme Fellowship.

 More widely in the University, the CAHSS KEI, Challenge Investment Fund and ESRC Impact
 Acceleration Grants provide additional resources targeted towards interdisciplinary work and
 impact generation (see Section 1 for examples). Innovative and in-depth media training
 programmes offered by UoE press teams assist with public engagement.

 Facilities

 St Cecilia’s Hall, the UK’s second-oldest concert hall, is the public face of the University’s world-
 renowned Musical Instrument Collection, comprising some 6,000 objects. The Collection
 benefits from a specialist Curator, a full-time Conservator and the wider Museums Engagement
 team, supporting the scientific study of musical instruments through, e.g., Ducceschi’s
 Leverhulme project and PhD research projects supervised by Music staff (Kelly, Desler,
 Newton). St Cecilia’s Hall underwent a £6.5M redevelopment partly funded by the Heritage
 Lottery this cycle and reopened in 2017. It is used as a public engagement space and as a
 venue for electroacoustic performances (including our yearly festival Dialogues). Several other
 large building works projects have either been completed or approved as part of the University
 Estates Strategy within the current reporting period. 50 George Square, housing Film staff, was
 refurbished and reopened in 2014 (£15M), including a specialist HD/surround film screening
 room seating 80 and a PGR suite. There is also a major ongoing redevelopment of the Lauriston
 Place campus, which houses SDI and film theory staff, Alison House, housing Music staff, and
 the Reid Concert Hall (£25.2M total).

 Music is supported by the large and well-stocked University library with a large number of
 academic texts (hard copy and electronic access). Various online databases are available,
 including the Naxos Music Library and the Entertainment Industry Magazine Archive. Alongside
 online streamable sources, the library stocks a large number of CDs, as well as 5,000 LPs and
 cassettes. Special collections include the Weiss Collection of Beethoven literature, the Scottish
 Jazz Archive, the Tovey Music Library, the Kenneth Leighton Archive, and a number of unique
 manuscript and print sources, such as the Wode Partbooks. There is a specialist film library
 including 9,000 titles on DVD/Blu-Ray, as well as a streaming service that now hosts over 2,000



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 films. In addition, the UoE’s Scottish Studies archive, including many music and film artefacts,
 underwent a £2M refurbishment in this cycle.

 A wide range of specialist technical facilities support diverse research strands within the UoA.

 Six studios are operated in Alison House, which houses Music, alongside a newly designed 14-
 channel multimedia ‘virtual reality’ space (2018). A full recording studio is operated from the Reid
 Concert Hall and used to support and document various research projects in Music, including
 improvisation workshops led by MacDonald. Music is supported by a full-time studio manager
 and, for the last five years, by yearly paid internship posts reserved for recent postgraduates. In
 2019, Music invested £431K in a set of 27 new Steinway pianos to become an ‘all Steinway
 School’. AAG research facilities include an anechoic chamber, reverberation chamber, a new
 musical acoustics research laboratory and a 16-channel listening space, suitable for residencies
 for visiting composers and spatial audio research. Three GPU-based supercomputers are
 maintained by ECA Computing Services and support a sound synthesis service for musicians
 worldwide. In addition, time on the UK supercomputer ARCHER, managed by EPCC, was made
 available for acoustics research using a Directors’ Time allocation.

 SDI office space can accommodate up to eight people. It benefits from access to the recently
 installed Cinemaspace, a custom-built screening room with the ability to connect to a Da Vinci
 grading suite. Avid Edit suites, including the Cinemaspace, are supported by a full-time
 technician. The Resource Centre at 50 George Square also has video, audio and editing
 equipment.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research Collaborations

 Collaboration with other HEIs is a strong dimension of this UoA; over the REF period, staff have
 produced research outputs in conjunction with 79 researchers from 46 HEIs and industrial
 partners from 18 countries. We are well-equipped to accommodate visitors, with additional office
 space available. In addition to the many visits supported by large EU projects, staff in the UoA
 have hosted staff and student research visits on a further 24 occasions. Research funds can be
 used to cover costs of research visits by staff or return visits.

 Major international collaborations follow from wide-ranging projects funded by the European
 Commission. Davis’s HERA-funded project CRUSEV had research teams in Germany, Poland,
 Spain and the UK, with 19 researchers in total, and 18 associated partners (including galleries,
 NGOs, and activist groups). Davis also secured a Royal Society of Edinburgh visiting fellowship
 for Prof. Agnieszka Kościańska, from the University of Warsaw (2017, £5K). The ERC-funded
 NESS project included co-supervision of PhDs in France and Finland, and collaborations with
 ten UK/international artists, including Hong Kong composer Samson Young, whose resulting
 work became an installation at the Guggenheim Museum in New York (2018), and the Talbot
 Rice Gallery at UoE (2019). See Figure 3.




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                                       Other international collaborations include:
                                                       the ‘Modelling of a Virtual Violin’ project
                                                       with the Sibelius Academy (Newton);
                                                       Overy’s visiting professorship at Western
                                                       University, Canada; the ‘Culture in the
                                                       Cold War’ Institute funded by the National
                                                       Endowment for the Humanities in the
                                                       USA (Kelly); the Leverhulme-funded
                                                       international network ‘Phantom on Film’
                                                       (Davison); and the ‘Theorizing Sonata
                                                       Form in European Concert Music’ project
                                                       funded by the Social Sciences and
                                                       Humanities Research Council of Canada
                                                       (Taylor, Co-I). Collaborations with UK
                                                       HEIs include the Scottish Music and
  Figure 3. Possible Music #2, Samson Young, 2019.     Health Network, led by MacDonald and
  Photograph: Talbot Rice Gallery.                     Overy, with Glasgow Caledonian. Eight
                                                       edited volumes have been produced by
 members of the UoA in collaboration with researchers in the UK and abroad.

 Wider Engagement with the Economy and Society

 Our general strategy exploits the range of our work in the creative arts, technology and the
 social sciences, extending our engagement naturally outwards to industry, the creative industries
 and to media exposure. For the impact of our work in music, health and wellbeing (MacDonald),
 and documentary film as palliative care (Hardie), see the accompanying case studies.

 Our staff have founded various outward-facing arts organisations: ‘Noise Opera’ was founded by
 Williams jointly with the University of East Anglia. The opera company has won awards from
 Arts and Business Scotland, and a recent production was nominated for the Sunday Herald
 Culture Awards; it has been commissioned by Scottish Opera, the National Theatre of Scotland,
 the BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra, and Tapestry, based in Toronto. MacDonald founded
 the ‘GIObabies’ yearly event with the Glasgow Improviser’s Orchestra, and ‘Jazz for Toddlers’
 with the London Jazz Festival; both explore music improvisation for young children. Chambers
 is the founder and director of the annual ‘Folk Film Gathering Festival’, in partnership with the
 Filmhouse Edinburgh.

 The intersection of Science, Technology and Creative Practice in Music has generated a number
 of Edinburgh-based technology-focused spinout companies in the area of electronic music,
 sound effects, virtual/augmented reality and building acoustics. Skoogmusic followed from a
 joint research effort (NESTA, £195K) between the MHSD group and the AAG in 2006. Krotos,
 led by a postgraduate in Sound Design was founded in 2013, and is a leading developer of
 sound effects, used most recently in ‘The Lion King’ and ‘Game of Thrones’. Two Big Ears, led
 by postgraduate students in the UoA was acquired by Facebook in 2016. Physical Audio and
 Roomerical, both founded by PhD graduates this cycle, are start-up companies that emerged
 from the ERC-funded NESS project. Roomerical’s virtual architectural acoustics system won an
 award from Scottish Edge. This entrepreneurial culture is sustainable, particularly through the
 additional regional support of the £6.5M AHRC-funded Creative Informatics hub that funded
 Physical Audio and Roomerical in 2019-20 (£24K total). Large industry networking events run by
 the AAG include the 20th International Conference on Digital Audio Effects in 2017, with 80
 industrial delegates and sponsored by 14 companies including Oculus and Yamaha.

 Our staff participate widely in major public-facing events. These include public talks at the V+A
 Museum through the Leverhulme-funded ‘Phantom on Film’ network (Davison), and various
 lectures and showcases led by the AAG (Audio Engineering Society Scotland and the Edinburgh
 Science Festival). Murray co-organised the second annual Scottish Film Summit with


                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Edinburgh’s Centre for the Moving Image, with 100 attendees across the wider Scottish film
 community. Cook’s working VR system was demonstrated on 12 occasions, including at South-
 by-Southwest (Austin, Texas) and The Manchester Science Festival. Our staff have appeared
 widely on national and international media to discuss research-related topics and to give expert
 opinions. These include Jago’s numerous appearances on BBC Radio Scotland (including a
 discussion of ‘Coronavirus music’ in 2020), Nelson on BBC Radio Scotland, Overy on BBC
 News Online and the BBC World Service, Sorfa in the Radio 4 programme ‘Film and
 Existentialism’, and interviews on foreign radio and television broadcasts (Taylor, TVR2,
 Romania, Kelly, SWR2, Germany, and Overy, CBC Radio, Canada). Parker has showcased his
 music on national media (Hear and Now, Radio 3). Our staff also contribute to national debate
 through authored opinion pieces (Davis, Sunday Times, Sorfa, The Scotsman, MacDonald,
 The Herald).

 Engagement with Diverse Communities and Publics

 Our work engages directly with diverse communities, locally and worldwide. Davis’s large
 international CRUSEV project involved close work with a number of activist groups in Europe,
 including the Berlin-based Deutsche AIDS-Hilfe, an organisation supporting people affected by
 HIV/AIDS and the Warsaw-based Trans-Fuzja, a grassroots organisation dedicated to trans and
 nonbinary politics. Davis and Murray ran the ‘Grace Jones’ conference in 2017, which focused
 on non-normative forms of black culture and identity, androgyny, sexuality and performativity
 within popular music. The practice-based community music work of Isaacs and MacDonald
 (see the accompanying case study) is aimed at improving health and wellbeing in many diverse
 groups from children to refugee communities to the socially disadvantaged. Our students
 engage with the wider debate on questions of inclusivity through, e.g., the Decolonising the
 Musical University conference (total attendance 479), co-organised by a recently graduated PhD
 student in Music in 2020 as a virtual event in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.

 SDI’s mission is to ‘explore the different ways in which originality and diversity can be achieved
 through restructuring – or “decentring” – production and distribution processes’. Films address
 palliative care (Hardie, Seven Songs for a Long Life; see the accompanying case study) and
 indigenous communities in Mexico (Jansen, Kii Nche Ndutsa). Larger filmmaking initiatives are
 led by Mendelle, who has collaborated with the British Council to develop the far-reaching short-
 film series Stories. Within this project, she conceived and produced a series of short films set in
 Libya and directed by Libyan filmmakers, and worked with the British Council and to help
 vulnerable and disabled filmmakers in Jordan, Syria, Yemen, Vietnam, Indonesia, China (£243K,
 2018-19). SDI launched the 50:50+ campaign (2019) to address gender imbalance in
 documentary filmmaking. A mentorship scheme New Voices (£49K, Edinburgh City Council &
 partners) was launched to support BAME women filmmakers. Phenomenal Women is a scheme
 that promotes female directors at the Edinburgh International Film Festival, and ran in online
 format in 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.

 Contribution to the Discipline and Research Base

 Members of the UoA serve in senior editorial positions for 23 international journals, including as
 editor-in-chief/general editor for Contemporary Music Review (Nelson), Film-Philosophy (Sorfa),
 Jazz Perspectives (Jago), the Journal of Musicology (Kelly), Music & Letters (Taylor), Visual
 Culture in Britain (Murray), and the Film Education Journal (Chambers, also founder). They
 have edited special issues of journals including 19th Century Music, Animation Journal and Third
 Text.

 Staff play a leading role in research stewardship worldwide. Davis, Davison, Kelly and Nelson
 were members of the AHRC Peer Review College in this cycle. Kelly was appointed vice
 president of the Royal Musical Association in 2019, was a panel member for the ERC in 2020,
 and an expert panel member of the AHRC/Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft funding scheme.
 Bilbao was elected as a Senior Member of the IEEE in 2015. Staff members have served on the


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 boards of many international conferences and festivals, including DOXBOX, the European Music
 Analysis Conference, the Sound and Music Computing Conference, and on juries for Music
 Nova, the Africa in Motion Film Festival and BAFTA Scotland. Davie and Mendelle were elected
 to the Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences (AMPAS) in this cycle.

 Staff have won a number of international prizes and awards for their research in this cycle,
 across all areas of the UoA. Jansen won best film awards on five occasions, including at
 Oaxaca FilmFest (2018), Mendelle at the Parnu International Film Festival (2017), and Williams
 won five Dora awards for Rocking Horse Winner in Toronto (2017). Bilbao has won three best
 paper awards at international conferences, including at the Sound and Music Computing
 Conference (2017).

 Staff in the UoA have given major keynote lectures at conferences, festivals and symposia on 33
 occasions, including: the International Computer Music Conference (Nelson, Athens, Greece,
 2014), Sound and Music Computing Conference (Bilbao, Maynooth, Ireland, 2015), GDR Today
 IV (Kelly, Newcastle, 2018), and the Philosophical Film Festival (Sorfa, Skopje, Macedonia,
 2019). An additional 376 lectures and talks have been invited at conferences, symposia,
 festivals and HEIs. Conference presentations include: the Conference on World Affairs (Parker,
 Boulder, USA, 2015), Media in the Arts (Valiquet, Birmingham, 2018), the Eleventh Music
 Theory and Analysis Conference, (Taylor, Belgrade, Serbia, 2015), and the NHS Research
 Scotland Conference (Overy, Perth, 2017). Talks at HEIs include: King’s College London,
 University of Oxford, University of Surrey, University of Cambridge, Harvard University, Aalto
 University, and Aalborg University Copenhagen.

 Members of the UoA serve as peer reviewers for a wide range of journals (58), including the
 Journal of the Royal Musical Association, the Proceedings of the Royal Society A, and Screen.
 They also review full conference proceedings articles for many international conferences,
 including the IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing, and
 the International Computer Music Conference. Members review book proposals for 12 academic
 publishers, including Cambridge University Press, Oxford University Press, and Ashgate. In
 addition, members review grant proposals through UKRI (EPSRC and AHRC), the ERC, and
 numerous foreign funding bodies including the Social Sciences and Humanities Research
 Council of Canada, DAAD, the Austrian Academy of Sciences and the Israel Science
 Foundation.

 Staff in the UoA have served as PhD external examiners on 46 occasions, including at: Royal
 Holloway, UCL, the Université de Paris VI, the University of Valencia and the University of
 Melbourne. Through the FP7-funded Marie Curie ITN BATWOMAN (2013-2017), AAG staff
 provided training in acoustics for PhD students at 11 HEIs across Europe.




                                                                                         Page 16
