Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of West London
 Unit of Assessment: 20 - Social Work and Social Policy
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context
 The University of West London (UWL) offers a broad range of courses; structurally it is divided
 into six Schools and three Colleges, each led by a Dean or Head of School. The University is
 submitting to UoA20 for the first time. Research in social policy was expanded by developing
 existing potential, and recruiting new talent, in line with the University’s strong emphasis on
 research in the last two strategic plans (Ambition 2013-2018; Achievement 2018-2023) (see
 institutional statement, section 2).
 This UoA is located in the School of Human and Social Sciences (SHSS); the 13 (12.4FTE) staff
 submitted in UoA20 are all based in SHSS, apart from 2 members (Khan and Ohl) who are in the
 Graduate School. Research in SHSS is multi-disciplinary within the areas of social policy (UoA20)
 and human sciences (submitted in UoA03).

 1.2 Structure of the unit
 This UoA is engaged in research that is addressing pressing existing social issues to bring novel
 understandings and solutions, in an interdisciplinary context. There is a strong focus on vulnerable
 and excluded groups – including young people (Harding, Ohl and Jayman), male sex crimes
 victims (Hine), the ageing populations (Khan), people living with mental health issues (Jayman
 and Milani), as well as ethnicity and communities (Bernstock and Murji).
 Members submitted to the UoA represent both senior and junior grades (eight Professors/
 Associate Professors, five Senior Lecturers / Lecturers), with a view to ensure dynamism and
 sustainability.
 Our research activities are underpinned by:
 The National Centre for Gang Research (NCGR): researching youth violence, street criminality
 and county lines drug networks.
 The Education Research Network (ERN): an interdisciplinary network focused on inclusivity and
 equality issues in diverse educational settings.
 The Criminology and Cybersecurity Centre (CCC): an interdisciplinary research centre
 focused on current and future criminal threats to individuals, organisations and national and
 international security. It brings together researchers in criminology (in UoA20), and in
 cybersecurity, information security and artificial intelligence (supporting UoA11).
 As well as vehicles for applied and academic research, these three research hubs act as loci for
 discussions between UoA members, PGRs and the wider School community. They also serve as
 vectors of dissemination through conferences and other research events held at UWL for and in
 collaboration with police, education and criminal justice professionals, policymakers, and
 academics. The ERN has a significant public engagement profile, based on a nationally
 recognised programme (Pyramid) of socio-emotional interventions in primary and secondary
 schools, underpinned by research carried out in this UoA (Ohl, Jayman).
 Our research themes are crime and policing, social exclusion, and contexts and populations,
 with the following specialisms:
 Crime and policing
 Police investigations of male and female rape (Hine)

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Integrating research on corruption and fraud in criminology (Brooks)
 The security industry and changing risks and insecurities in a global world (Wakefield)
 Policing, governance and policy (Murji)
 Police interviewing (Minhas)
 Social exclusion
 Drugs and gangs in county lines (Harding)
 Vulnerable children and young people (Ohl, Jayman)
 Urban regeneration and housing policy (Bernstock)
 Addiction and mental health (Milani)
 Contexts and populations
 Ageing populations across the world (Khan)
 Educational policy and BAME students (Mimirinis, Abedin)

 1.3 Research and impact strategies
 1.3.1 Our main objectives for the period 2015- 2020 were to:
 1) Establish an effective interdisciplinary unit, using existing and new expertise
 2) Develop sustainable research capacity – including through doctoral recruitment
 3) Promote impact and engagement with external stakeholders
 4) Create an environment mindful of developing staff research potential towards REF2021 and
 beyond
 5) Establish two research centres
 The outcomes of this strategy have produced the following:
 An effective interdisciplinary unit
 Over the period, the School has grown significantly (with the addition of criminology, sociology
 and education to the initial focus on psychology). This growth was realised through strategic
 external appointments, and internal promotions, in the areas of policing, criminology and inclusive
 education and social policy (see institutional statement, section 3.1). Interdisciplinarity has been
 fostered through research projects, School-based events, and external engagement with public
 sector and community-based organisations (see section 4). The environment was also greatly
 enriched by the creation of two doctoral programmes (ProfDoc) in criminology and in education,
 an interdisciplinary doctoral cohort of students, and the creation of research centres and an
 education network, all of which have strong external networks.
 Sustainable research capacity and an enriched environment
 Senior staff have worked with more junior colleagues to increase research capacity and activity,
 to enrich the research culture across the UoA and beyond. Research is firmly embedded across
 all areas of SHSS through shared research seminars and research events, and this supportive
 activity has significantly strengthened our research activities over the period. Strategic doctoral
 recruitment has produced a rise from 8 doctoral students in 2015 to 44 in 2020. We have
 undertaken a wide range of research since 2014, without substantial external income, except
 some small private sector investment. This has provided a solid base with more recent successful
 applications to national research funding bodies (ESRC, Murji).
 Impact and engagement with external stakeholders
 We have engaged with a range of external stakeholders, e.g.: the Metropolitan Police and
 numerous other police forces, the National Crime Agency and The Mayor's Office for Policing And

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Crime (see section 4 for more details). Our impact strategy has been to pro-actively engage with
 users of our research and community partners; this was facilitated by the University’s Impact
 Group which included an advisory role, and a platform to discuss strategies. We leveraged
 support from across the University to do this, including from our Communications service and
 Research and Enterprise Operations (REOps) (see section 2). Our two impact case studies for
 this unit, on rape investigation in London (Hine) and on county lines drug networks (Harding), both
 evidence the trusted relationships with have developed with major public agencies. Another
 example of impact refers to research on the housing legacy after the London 2012 Games
 (Bernstock) which was used by campaigners and local authorities to underpin their strategy for
 change; this ICS is submitted to UOA24. Research on the Pyramid After-School clubs (Ohl and
 Jayman) continues to impact on this nationwide programme, which is presently being taken
 forward as a UWL spin-out company.
 Developing staff research potential towards REF2021 and beyond
 This process was supported by incentives and support to grow research within the UoA described
 in section 2. All new members of staff with research responsibility or emerging interests in research
 are provided with time and mentors to accelerate their progress. Staff who were employed around
 or prior to REF14 (Milani, Ohl, Hine) have become SRRs over the period and are submitted to this
 unit.

 1.4 2020-2025 Research Strategy
 The main objectives for 2025 are to:
     1. Consolidate and enhance existing areas of research and further embed interdisciplinarity.
     2. Continue to expand the external reach of our research centres to generate income and
        impact.
     3. Significantly increase the number of doctoral students, especially through the professional
        doctorate route.
     4. Proactively seek partnerships with industry-based and policy-based organisations
     5. Increase income through sponsorships, commissioning, and collaborative partnerships
        from commercial and non-commercial sources.
     6. Focus on developing the next generation of independent researchers.
     7. Ensure we positively engage with the open research agenda.

 We will do this by further building capacity and engaging junior colleagues; ensuring exposure to
 media and strategic access to partners for impact. We will also further expand the reach of our
 research through public events, sector visibility, income generation, and research dissemination
 with policy bodies and sector partners. We will deploy focused research funding strategies to
 develop our existing research areas, building on recurrent success in securing income. We will
 expand the reach of our fraud research with the opening a research centre on healthcare fraud,
 having identified the National Health Service Counter Fraud Authority, the International Federation
 of Health Plans (representing the private insurance sector) and local councils as potential
 research users. We will build on the strong framework of support we have to ensure that all ‘next
 generation’ researchers have structured research plans, mentorship, and resources to support
 their development, positively fostering interdisciplinarity. We will capitalise on and develop further
 our doctoral education programmes to increase the number of doctoral students in the UoA, based
 on our existing successful ProfDoc model.




                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 1.5 Support for standards and ethics
 1.5.1 Academic research infrastructure to support standards
 The University Research, Scholarship and Enterprise Committee (URSEC) chaired by the Deputy
 Vice-Chancellor, receives reports on matters of University-wide interest, including regular updates
 and annual reports from schools on research, scholarship, and knowledge transfer activities.
 URSEC also advises on research governance within the individual Schools. It oversees key
 performance indicators and their fitness for purpose in the context of the University’s Strategic
 Plan. A University Research Degrees Sub-Committee oversees progression of postgraduate
 research students to registration to MPhil status, and onward to doctoral (PhD) completion.
 1.5.2 Ethics
 The University Research Ethics Committee (UREC) – also a subcommittee of The University
 Research, Scholarship and Enterprise Committee (URSEC) - has overall responsibility for ethics
 approval, and it scrutinises all staff and students’ approval applications. This UoA’s staff and
 students’ approvals are overseen by the School’s Research Ethics Panel (SCREP) panel which
 reports regularly to UREC. UREC subgroups are convened where ‘high risk’ applications are
 identified by any School/College SCREP.
 Our research facilities are serviced and inspected by our technicians to ensure they meet technical
 requirements. They are also regularly assessed for health and safety compliance.

 1.6 Interdisciplinary research
 Interdisciplinarity was a significant strategic objective for this REF cycle, and the UoA consists of
 researchers whose roles lie in the different disciplines within SHSS. As such there is an operational
 and structural foundation for collegiate interaction and collaboration, and an inherent
 interdisciplinary ethos. The two research centres play a significant role in this, with CCC running
 interdisciplinary events; NCGR is extensively working with sector and policy organisations, with
 strong research collaborations with national and international partners (e.g., Eurogang Network,
 National Gang Crime Research Centre, Chicago – the foremost agency in the USA on gang
 crime). Staff frequently work, research and supervise in contiguous fields, and engage in
 interdisciplinary supervisory roles (Murji, Ohl, Khan for example).

 1.7 Open Research Environment
 We fully observe the principles of open research, and promote inclusivity, integrity and
 accessibility. We share all aspects of our research and make it accessible to all, where possible.
 The dissemination of our research outputs and the underpinning research methodologies are
 available in the UWL repository. All members of the UoA have received training from the Library,
 including bespoke sessions on compliance. UoA20 has run its own seminars to discuss open
 access with its members. 25% of our repository outputs includes publications other than journal
 articles and conference proceedings. All researchers in this UoA are also ORCiD registered.
 Our open research practice has enabled us to attract a wide range of interest in our activities and
 has led into gaining the trust and confidence of a number of organisations, professional bodies
 communities (regional, national, and international) with which we have developed partnerships.
 Researchers in this UoA are further expanding open research through their UKRI data
 management plans (e.g., Murji’s ESRC project, Brooks ESRC and Daiwa projects) while Minhas’
 work on workplace harassment and chatbots is shared through the shared through the Open
 Science Framework.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy
 In 2015, the University introduced a new employment framework for the management,
 development and support of all staff, the Academic Employment Framework (AEF). In this
 framework all academic staff can focus (in addition to teaching) on research, scholarship and/ or
 knowledge exchange activities. Academic staff agree targets for these activities which form part
 of their annual appraisals. All academic staff are entitled to 5 annual days that are dedicated to
 CPD activities including research (see institutional statement, section 2.1).
 The AEF has enabled this UoA to achieve its strategic aim to recruit new senior and junior
 researchers in social policy and criminology, to build this new UoA and ensure a pipeline beyond
 REF21. All submitted members bar two (Ohl and Milani) were appointed after REF14. Since 2015,
 8 professors/associate professors (Bernstock, Brooks, Harding, Khan, Mimirinis, Murji, Ohl and
 Wakefield) were appointed/promoted; 3 senior lecturers/ lecturers appointed (Abedin, Jayman,
 and Minhas); with 2 existing colleagues – 1 appointed as a senior lecturer (Milani) and the other,
 appointed in 2014, was promoted to senior lecturer status in 2016 (Hine). The balance between
 senior and more junior staff in UoA20 reflects our approach to growth which has been to develop
 internal expertise, appoint external talent, and ensure a seniority mix so that the UoA is balanced
 and sustainable.
 At the same time, we have been mindful to ensure proportionate subject representation in the
 School, to reflect our course portfolio. As a result, the School works in a most interdisciplinary
 context. In the next period, as we mentor recently appointed junior staff who form part of our ‘next
 generation’ of researchers, our research will a minima include additional areas of research on
 antisemitism, inclusive education, youth justice, and new aspects of policing.

 2.2 Staff development relevant to research development
 Career development is shared between central services and Schools/Colleges’ specific activities
 (see institutional statement. section 3.2). Centrally, REOps runs seminars on research issues
 including knowledge exchange; impact; collaborative projects; commercialisation; managing
 research budgets; funding opportunities, industry and user engagement. REOps also support
 applications for research funding. This UoA has greatly benefited from training and support with
 all its funding applications. Staff on this UoA have also attended research-related sessions run by
 HR on equality and diversity, managing stress, appraisals, preparing for promotion, working with
 external collaborators, and leadership. HR hold a budget for conferences, sabbaticals, and other
 staff development programmes. Over the census period, colleagues in the UoA have attended
 150 conferences. The University also pays for internal and external courses, and for staff to study
 additional qualifications, including MAs and PhDs. Staff who register on a PhD, for example, are
 supported financially (no fees are paid) and through a 100-hour reduction in their teaching load.
 The Library has provided training and one-to-one support on open access; and has trained
 members of the UoA on compliance rules. The Graduate School provides a comprehensive
 programme of professional development for doctoral supervisors (see 2.3). The Communications
 department offers advice on media; public engagement; engaging with diverse audiences; social
 media; and lobbying. Its Research Communications Group meets monthly to strategize media
 exposure for its research; this UoA is represented on this group (Brooks). We are also engaged
 with their university-wide programme of stakeholder activities, which has included an annual public
 lectures series attended by local businesses, organisations, local government representatives,
 public sector employees from the police, local government and health service and members of the

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 public - Brooks, Harding and Khan have each given a UWL public lecture and a Metropolitan
 Police Commander from West London also gave a lecture attended by over 150 UWL staff and
 members of the public, on an invitation from Murji.
 This UoA has actively contributed to the three annual research days led by the PVC. Brooks and
 Harding were organisers of the 2018 edition, and colleagues have actively engaged as keynote –
 for example Brooks in 2019; Milani, Wakefield and Hine, in 2020. Discussions at these events
 have included themes related to impact, public engagement, interdisciplinarity, support,
 mentoring, next generation researchers, and ethics.
 Within the School, since 2016, we have a popular monthly research seminar programme, Twilight
 Tuesdays, with external and internal speakers. This platform is also used by doctoral students to
 share their research. We run monthly research surgeries aimed at colleagues to discuss research
 ideas, projects, publications; and bi-monthly writing retreats. We publish a bi-yearly research
 newsletter, and have a research community on Blackboard. We have run events related to impact,
 (e.g., policy consultation, commercialisation, stakeholder mapping, community engagement) and
 communicating research (e.g., appropriate language, relevant peer examples). Lessons learnt
 from the UoA’s ‘Stories of Impact’ (e.g., submitted ICSs) will provide a solid foundation for
 deploying future impact. For students, we also run journal clubs (where students receive feedback
 on drafts), and ‘movie clubs’ where a movie is followed up by an academic’s talk. The Education
 Research Network (over 80 members of staff across the university) has held two ‘interdisciplinary
 research showcases’ in the past year. We have maintained most of these activities online during
 COVID-19, including sessions involving external speakers. Both research centres have also run
 conferences and public events (see section 4).
 We have a mentoring scheme in which Murji, Harding, Brookes, Khan, Ohl and Wakefield mentor
 all junior researchers in the School. Mentors support junior colleagues in developing and
 sustaining research plans and provide advice on all aspects of developing a stronger research
 profile. They act as reviewers and oversee the handling of reviewers’ comments and bid
 submissions. In several cases, junior colleagues have submitted joint research bids with their
 mentors, e.g. consultancy project from Brooks with a more junior colleague as a co-applicant; one
 of Harding's project with an sector stakeholder includes two of his colleagues; Murji has assisted
 external funding applications by two PhD students, as well as draft publications other junior
 researchers; Ohl works closely with Jayman on projects and publications; Wakefield supports
 several Professional Doctorate students in developing their publications.

 2.3 Research students and supervisors
 Opportunity
 A significant priority for this UoA has been to grow our doctoral recruitment, preferably by providing
 access to individuals who might not otherwise have been able to access doctoral studies. We have
 done this by leveraging opportunities for students (see institutional Statement, section 3.2),
 including competing for the annual awards of ‘Vice Chancellor’s PhD Scholarships’ (10 were
 obtained over the period); offering fee waivers where relevant; and rolling out 2 ProfDoc
 programmes that enable students to combine work and study. Our students carry out research on
 rape, acid attacks, dangerous dogs, fraud and corruption, organ trafficking; other policy fields
 include education, health policy in developing countries, BAME attainment, and the Windrush
 generation, AI and criminal justice, gang crime, counter-terrorism, and policing and Covid-19. Our
 Professional Doctorates in Policing and Security, and in Education, are currently on their second
 intake. They are led by Wakefield, and Harding (Crime and Security) and by Mimirinis (Education)
 and have recruited 15 students in the first year of operations. Our students are also given the
                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 opportunity to develop their teaching skills, and contribute to mentored teaching (depending on
 experience) up to six hours per week (including preparation). We had ten contributing to teaching
 in the School at census date. Several former PhD students have joined the academic contingent
 on completion of their doctoral studies, and two are now SRRs and included in this submission.
 Community
 Our doctoral students are an integral part of the UoA’s research community. All students are
 supported by a principal supervisor (subject specialist), and a second supervisor. In case of
 multidisciplinary research projects, a third supervisor may also be assigned if relevant. Through
 the regular School seminars described above we engage PGRs in research discussions that help
 them articulate their own positions. We have recently established a Doctoral Research Community
 where students share their research at monthly lunchtime seminars. We also run specific
 workshops to support them with presentations they have to make as part of the ‘doctoral student
 journey’, or externally. Drawing on this support, and on the central annual conference fund,
 students have been able to attend conferences at very low or no cost. We also encourage them
 to publish in UWL University Open Press journal New Vistas (see institutional statement, section
 3.2). Six research students have published (some with their supervisors) in New Vistas since 2018.
 Where appropriate, doctoral candidates are offered the opportunity to work as graduate assistants
 on research bids and awarded contracts.
 The annual UWL doctoral conference, organized by the Graduate School, provides a forum for all
 PGR students to share their research, supported by their supervisors. It is attended by members
 of this UoA who all play significant role in supporting the event, as well as PhD students presenting
 their work. The doctoral competition from across all PGRs, has seen SHSS students win 2 prizes
 over the period (Corcoran and Lamontagne-Godwin).
 The intention of this UoA is to continue to increase and enhance our doctoral provision, and to
 support student employment. We will rely on our professional doctorates to do this. As shown
 previously, the School nurtures home-grown talent - two present members of staff are former Vice-
 Chancellor’s Scholars.
 Training
 All our doctoral students benefit from a formal centrally-run research training programme based
 on the VITAE Researcher Development Framework and delivered by the Graduate School, with
 contributions from senior academics from across the institution. On this programme PGRs
 complete a series of Research Development Units (RDU) throughout the entire period of their
 registration, with embedded Epigeum interactive online activities. Almost all staff submitted here
 have contributed to doctoral training on specific themes, e.g.: ethics and research integrity,
 research design, research methods (secondary, qualitative and quantitative), and publishing
 research. All ProfDoc students are trained within SHSS, on the same topics as the Graduate
 School programme. An emergency support plan was put in place in 2020 (under the conditions
 imposed by COVID-19) to support students who needed additional time, support or resources.
 The Graduate School runs a mandatory training course for all supervisors (see institutional
 statement, section 3.2) on topics including good supervision management, regulations, equality
 and diversity issues, student support, using the VITAE framework, and how to support students
 through the various progression stages and milestones. We also discuss in these sessions the
 University’s Code of Practice for Research Students and Supervisors which provides the
 philosophy underpinning our approach – scholarship and collegiality enabling students to
 complete their degrees timely (see institutional statement, section 3.2).


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Progression, Completion and Student feedback
 One of the University’s priorities (see institutional statement section 3.2) has been to support
 students to complete on time. We aim for completion within 3 to 3.5 years of enrolment, and this
 is supported through mechanisms that enable student progression – monthly supervision
 meetings, annual reports, milestone presentations, and opportunities to speak directly to the
 Graduate School for extra support. Progression is monitored by the Graduate School through the
 university-wide ‘doctoral journey’. On the professional doctorates, completion is within 4 to 4.5
 years, and this is supported through regular assessment and milestones at course level. We
 subscribe to Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) and results show a very high
 level of satisfaction of our graduate students with the support and opportunities they receive. In
 the 2020 survey, UWL was ranked 4th (out of 103) on the research skills measure, 5th on
 Responsibilities and 7th on Progression.
 Our students also provide feedback throughout the annual cycle. PGR representatives attend and
 make distinctive contributions to, the Course and School Committees and the University Research
 Scholarship and Enterprise Committee (URSEC).
 We have awarded eight doctorates over the period, including one research-based professional
 doctorate, as shown below:
                          PhDs              Research-based
                                            professional doctorates
  AY 2013/14              0                 0
  AY 2014/15              1                 0
  AY 2015/16              0                 1
  AY 2016/17              2                 0
  AY 2017/18              0                 0
  AY 2018/19              3                 0
  AY 2019/20              1                 0

 2.4 Equality and diversity
 In SHSS, diversity and equality are embedded in the culture of the School, which has a diverse
 staff and student make-up. Our UoA is well balanced in terms of gender (38.46% female staff) and
 ethnic (38.46% BAME staff) representation. Based on teaching programmes and our research
 interests, EDI themes are very prominent in our formal agenda of research seminars. The
 University has arrangements to support flexible and/or remote working and we can ensure that
 the duties of female or male colleagues taking parental or adoption leave are fully covered.
 Training
 Throughout the REF period we have been accessing EDI training on all aspects of research
 development. Members of the UoA have received training on recruitment, promotion, appraisal;
 and have been included in wider consultations on the code of practice for REF 2021; the UoA lead
 and reviewers have also received training unconscious bias to support them in their role.
 Research development opportunities
 The research development opportunities available to staff – including research funding,
 sabbaticals, and conference funding - always state the conditions and criteria that are applied.
 There is a transparent process for these applications. Academic staff in this UoA have attended


                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 briefing sessions on research funding opportunities and received advice when applying for funding
 and sabbaticals.
 Recruitment and progression of research students
 The recruitment of doctoral students is based on regulations that specify entry requirements, with
 applications supported by a written statement, and interviews by a panel including School/ College
 potential supervisors and a Graduate School representative to ensure fairness and consistency
 across the institution. Progression to PhD transfer is overseen by the University Research
 Degrees Sub-Committee.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 Staff in the UoA have been active in applying for and generating income to support their research
 programmes. The applications that have been successful in the REF 2021 period have mainly
 been in conjunction with public and third-sector bodies in London and neighbouring areas. This
 has built the expertise and experience of the group, which has translated recently into an increased
 number of applications to the major national funders. This is evidenced by recent successes in
 two new projects commencing in 2020:
    •   Murji (CCC) is a CI on an £1m ESRC-funded Open City project led by the University of
        Warwick (ES/T009454/1, 2020-2023; UWL income £33,000). This was due to start in AY
        19/20 but was delayed to the following year as consequence of the COVID-19 lockdown.
    •   Harding (National Centre for Gang Research) has been commissioned by MOPAC
        (Mayor’s Office for Policing and Crime) to research serious violence, gang criminality and
        exploitation involving children and young people (2020-21: £40,000) and has since also
        successfully won a further MOPAC contract for £35,000 to research the links between
        cannabis and violence; the latter is outside of the REF period and was won in February
        2021).
 Recently too, in AY 19/20, Bernstock, Brooks, Harding, Hine, Mimirinis and Wakefield separately
 led or contributed to consortia in bids to funders including UKRI, ESRC, Home Office, British
 Academy, Leverhulme and the Nuffield Foundation, including the COVID-19 special grant
 programmes.
 Earlier in the cycle, Milani was commissioned as the main consultant by the Berkshire NHS Trust
 for substance misuse training (2015-16: £17, 000). She then won two tranches of funding from
 the Sir Halley Stewart Trust to evaluate the Dual Diagnosis Anonymous programme for
 individuals with co-morbid mental and substance use disorders (2017: £17,700 from the Trust;
 supported by matching sum from UWL 2019: £26,300 from UWL). More recently, she won a small
 award of £3860 from the Sir Halley Stewart Trust to explore the online delivery of mutual aid for
 people with co-existing mental and substance use disorders during the COVID-19 pandemic.
 Brooks won a grant from the Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation for four reciprocal UK-Japan
 visits by academics aimed at increasing awareness of victims of violent crime and their treatment
 by the UK and Japanese justice systems (2018: £7,000). Brooks (with Stiernstedt) was
 commissioned by the International Federation of Healthcare Providers to analyse data on
 healthcare fraud (2019: £11,500). Brooks (with Stiernstedt) also secured a small grant from GB
 Sasakawa in November 2020 to research into the impact of Art and Manga as a medium to
 communicate to students the notions of crime, justice, and punishment (£3,200). Very recently,
 early in 2021, Brooks was commissioned by the International Federation of Healthcare


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Providers to design a 5- day Foundation Course for international healthcare employees to prevent
 Fraud, Abuse, Waste and Error in the healthcare system (£18,250).
 Hine (with Murphy) was commissioned by the Metropolitan Police Service to deliver training on
 support for victims of rape (2015/16; £8,500); this was one of the initial steps of his work with the
 MPS described in one of the UoA’s impact case studies.
 Worrell (now deceased) was PI, on a Home Office and London Borough of Hounslow funding
 call - CADA (Children Affected by Domestic Abuse) £57,000 (2019-20).
 Murji and Harding also separately won small grants earlier in the cycle: Murji as CI on a Nuffield
 Trust seed corn grant ‘Scoping algorithms and equalities’ (2019: £5000); and Harding as expert
 research consultant to Hollingsworth Solicitors (£11,000) (2018-19). Harding was also
 commissioned in December 2020 to undertake research on gang crime by an east London
 borough (£40,000 – funders’ identity redacted).

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 This UoA, like others at UWL, has been supported by a significant investment programme on
 campus that has created social and open learning spaces; advanced simulation spaces for
 research; a library without boundaries; and a large flexible performance auditorium for
 conferences. In the assessment period, the University has also built a Sports Centre and a
 postgraduate building for doctoral students, the Rami Ranger House. This is a postgraduate
 research facility that was built for doctoral students as a learning and social space. The house
 over 3 floors, with space for collaborative working, socialising, supervision and mentoring on the
 ground floor; and individual workspaces on the first floor. The second floor provides teaching and
 learning spaces. Students meet there for social events, meetings with the Graduate School, their
 supervisors, and to work on their research.
 The University has also built a number of laboratories and specialist facilities. This UoA has
 benefitted from this via the development of new research laboratories available to students and
 researchers related to this UoA,
    •   Eye tracking is used for non-invasive experimental measures in psychology (e.g.,
        cognitive, social, neuroscience, visual perception, substance use and misuse), and is
        presently used for substance research.
    •   The Virtual Reality (VR) Research Laboratory is used to provide precise control of
        experimental conditions, recording of user experiences and interactions between
        biophysical and psychometric batteries in response to several stimulus, and is used in
        mental health research.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research Collaborations
 Our approach to creating a thriving environment within the School has been to provide individuals
 and groups with opportunities to pursue research, and engage with collaborators within the
 University and externally; thus generating events that engage the wider School community. We
 collaborate with many UK academic institutions, and international universities. These
 collaborations have generally initiated or yielded funding successes, publications, impact and
 engagement, and platforms for future projects. These collaborations with HEIs often have user
 engagement built into them (for examples, see entries for Brooks, Khan, Hine and Murji below),
 and engagement with policy stakeholders (see Minhas, Harding, Bernstock, Ohl).


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Crime and policing
 Our research on gang culture (Harding) has led to collaborations with Eurogang Network – a
 collaborative network of EU and US universities; and with the University of Minnesota and the
 University of West of Scotland; and the University of Utrecht (on dangerous dogs). The National
 Gang Crime Research Centre in Chicago is also a collaborator; and Harding has delivered gang
 training to US police officers on several occasions over the period. Our fraud research includes
 collaborations with University of Portsmouth, De Montfort University, Newcastle University,
 University of Winchester, Kansei Gakuin University (Japan, Osaka) University of Southampton,
 Ritsumeikan University (Japan, Osaka), at NSCR (Netherlands, Amsterdam), Meji University,
 Tokyo. We have also collaborated with the University of East London and BRAP – a Birmingham
 based human rights and equalities charities (Murji); the University of Cumbria, University of Central
 Lancashire and Nottingham Trent University and University of Birmingham on male rape (Hine).
 Contexts and populations
 We have research partners in strategic nations for research on the care burden and support need
 of older people in developing countries (Khan) – in Bangladesh, Brazil and Nigeria where Khan’s
 expertise on ageing is recognised as crucial to the needs of developing nations.
 Social exclusion
 Our work on addiction (Milani) includes a collaboration with Imperial College and the University of
 Surrey on a systematic review on dual diagnosis; and a paper on alcohol use disorders after
 bariatric surgery with the Pacific University, USA. We are also working with UCL and Sussex
 University on a chatbot (Spot) based on memory science and artificial intelligence, in the context
 of workplace harassment (Minhas). Spot is being used by a number of organization (Monzo, Davita
 and more) to monitor their anti-harassment policies. We have collaborators at the University of
 Texas at Austin and the University of Oxford on BAME students (Mimirinis); the Learning About
 Science and Religion, WISE (World Innovation Summit for Education), and Qatar Foundation
 (Abedin). We have also held annual symposia on the History of Crime with the University of North
 Texas and Rennes 2 University, France (in 2017, 2018 and 2019).

 4.2 Networks
 The applied nature of research in this UoA means permeability between the research we can carry
 out within academia, and its applications to police, crime and policy sectors. It also means that
 research in this unit is developed and carried out in close collaboration with users and other
 stakeholders who can both inform the work and benefit from it.
 Crime and policing
 The UoA also has advisory roles with HM Inspectorate of Constabulary, Fire and Rescue Services
 (HMICFRS), Serious Organised Crime Expert Reference Group, Metropolitan Police and other
 police forces, the Alzheimer Society of Bangladesh, the Henry Jackson Society, and the Centre
 for the Response to Terrorism and Radicalisation.
 Research on gangs, knives and county lines drugs networks has led to Harding giving evidence
 to the Home Affairs Select Committee (March 2019), with evidence being clearly cited in the
 Committee report. Presentation on this research were also made to the Home Office (Nov 2019),
 the DfE (June 2020), the Local Government Association, (Feb 2020), and the Liberal Democrats
 policy working group on Crime and Policing (April 2020). This research led to a commission for
 professional development for several police forces across the country, including the Independent
 Office for Police Conduct; Derbyshire Safeguarding Network; West Midlands Police; the Met
 Police Service; the East London BCU Serious violence summit; Northamptonshire Constabulary;
 Kent Constabulary; MPS Violent Crime Task Force; Derbyshire Police and Crime Commissioner
                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 and the Chief Constable. The research has also underpinned the work of voluntary organisations
 working on gangs such as Resilience Unlimited, the Osmani Trust, We Can Work It Out Ltd.,
 Growing Against Violence. It has impacted the work of HMICFRS; the National Crime Agency;
 MOPAC and the Children’s Society, whilst similarly influencing local authorities such as Medway
 Community Safety Partnership, the L. B. of Newham’s Crime and Disorder Scrutiny Commission,
 and other London boroughs – Barking and Dagenham, Redbridge, Tower Hamlets, Barnet and
 Brent.
 We have also collaborated with Derby Constabulary and the Crime Commissioner Office on
 barriers to BAME recruitment (Minhas), and have produced reports to inform their practice
 (through the policy think tank and charity Diversity Watch). Murji works closely with charities in the
 race and equality sector that produce and sponsor applied research through Trustee and Board
 roles at ‘Race on the Agenda’ and ‘the Equality and Diversity Forum’. Wakefield has served on
 the National Counter-Terrorism Business Independent Advisory Group (2018 to date) and was
 recently invited to become a member of the new National Preparedness Commission.
 The London Rape Review: A review of cases from 2016 (July 2019), compiled by Hine with the
 Mayor’s Office for Policing and Crime (MOPAC) was unveiled at an event at City Hall. It received
 national and international media attention and several of the recommendations are currently being
 explored by the Metropolitan Police Service and City Hall: stronger focus on trauma-led
 investigation and on victim vulnerability. The complementary review on male victims led to a
 review of training on male victims of domestic violence and abuse at Mankind Initiative, and
 presentations to the Avon and Somerset Constabulary Annual Conference, the Mankind Annual
 Conference and the Men’s Advisory Network Conference in Northern Ireland. Hine is also Trustee
 of Mankind Initiative (Male Domestic Abuse Charity) and co-founder and trustee of the Men and
 Boys Coalition).
 Our fraud prevention research group have links with the South Korean Police where Brooks has
 advised, and the Japanese Police through his Daiwa Foundation Grant mentioned earlier. This
 project has held workshops at UWL, University of Portsmouth, the University of Kwansei, Osaka,
 and in Seoul, South Korea. Brooks was member of the Group of Experts for European Healthcare
 Fraud and Corruption Network (EHFCN) between 2018 and 2020; and has run two workshops on
 corruption at the Royal United Services Institute (RUSI) in 2019.
 Contexts and populations
 We have close links with Young Power in Social Action - a large NGO in Bangladesh. Khan has
 led awareness activities based on a new ageing model (“YPSA elderly care and support activities:
 Sitakund Model”) in Chittagong, Bangladesh. This work is linked to voluntary roles with Age UK
 Oxfordshire, where Khan is a special advisor since May 2017. Khan has links with HEPIQ-C, an
 initiative of the Nigerian Government since 2015 to improve healthcare for the elderly. He was
 Public Governor at Oxford Health NHS Foundation Trust (2014-2017) and is an Academic Adviser
 of The Commonwealth Scholarship Commission in the UK, (December 2016 - November 2023)
 Social exclusion
 We have produced ongoing training to Mental Health Services, Berkshire Healthcare NHS
 Foundation Trust and Slough Borough Council based on research on dual diagnosis in mental
 health and addiction (Milani). The Sir Halley Stewart Trust funded the evaluation of the first Dual
 Diagnosis Anonymous (DDA) in the UK, a mutual aid program to support people with dual
 diagnosis. Findings from this research informed the development of the program in UK as well as
 in Oregon, USA. Milani also worked with the Metropolitan Police on their Drug and Alcohol Policy;
 and has contributed to the development of NICE (National Institute for Health and Care
 Excellence) Guidelines in the field of dual diagnosis and mental health (in 2016 on coexisting
                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 severe mental illness and substance misuse; in 2018 by contributing to the writing of the manual;
 and in 2020, on rehabilitation in adults with complex psychosis).
 Research (started in 2013) on children’s socio-emotional wellbeing (Ohl, Jayman) has showed the
 efficacy of the Pyramid primary and secondary school interventions. The framework they have
 proposed is now used in 415 primary school clubs and 76 secondary clubs since 2013, it has
 reached almost 2500 children across schemes delivered in England, Wales and Northern Ireland,
 with a proven improvement for 70% of the children involved. This project has been recognized by
 the Early Intervention Foundation (EIF) – a national body supporting the use of effective early
 intervention to improve the lives of children and young people at risk of experiencing poor
 outcomes.
 Bernstock’s leading work on London’s Olympic Housing legacy through her role as Co-chair of
 TELCO’s Olympic Strategy Committee has led to international TV media exposure on issues of
 urban inequality and regeneration. Her studies of policy impact on housing and development build
 on her role as part of a third sector body, as well as her leading role in the campaigns London First
 and London Looks East.

 4.3 Wider contributions to the research base
 Editorships and membership of editorial boards
 Harding (2020) Guest editor of Youth Justice Journal Special issue: Serious Youth Violence in
 the UK
 Harding (1999 – 2021) Associate Editor Safer Communities Journal
 Khan (2017-) Academic Editor, Plos One, USA
 Khan (2020-) Associate Editor, BMC Public Health, UK
 Milani (2017-) Editorial Board Member, Psychological Research International Journal
 Murji, (2017-) Editor, Current Sociology
 Murji, (2018-) Editorial Board, Encyclopaedia of Race and Racism, Routledge
 Murji, (2014-) Editorial Board, Journal of Dialogue Studies
 Murji, (2019-) Editorial Board, New Directions in Sociology
 Murji, (2020) Guest Editor, The International Journal of Sociology and Social Policy
 Murji, (2020) Guest Editor, Social Identities
 Wakefield (2006-) Editorial Board member, Security Journal
 Wakefield (2015-) Editorial Board member, The Journal of Criminological Research, Policy and
 Practice
 Wakefield (2017-) International Advisory Board member, Australian and New Zealand Journal of
 Criminology
 Wakefield (2018-) Editorial Board member, Internet Journal of Restorative Justice.
 Peer-review activities
 In this REF period researchers submitted in this UoA have contributed to the research base in the
 UK and internationally by reviewing papers for more than 40 academic journals as well as
 assessing research funding applications for the ESRC, MRC, DfID, Leverhulme, and the British
 Academy. The most significant review activities include the following journals: Addictive
 Behaviours, Archives of Gerontology and Geriatrics, BMJ Open, British Journal of Educational
 Research, British Journal of Guidance and Counselling, Current Sociology, Ethnic and Racial
 Studies, European Journal on Criminal Policy and Research, International Journal for Crime,
                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Justice and Social Democracy, International Journal of Urban and Regional Research, Journal of
 Youth Studies, Substance Use and Misuse, Youth Justice.
 Reviewing for Research Councils
 Brooks (05/01/2018) Reviewer for British Academy
 Brooks (14/02/2019) Reviewer for Economic and Social Research Council
 Milani (2018, 2019) Reviewer of Grant Applications for Medical Research Council (MRC)
 Milani (2019) Reviewer of Grant Applications Scottish Government
 Murji (2019) ERSC Research Centres Competition reviewer
 Murji (2018) British Academy/Leverhulme grant reviewer
 Murji (2020) UKRI.MRC Future Leaders reviewer
 Murji (2018) ERC Consolidator grant reviewer.
 Convenors of conferences; Programme Chairs
 Brooks (2019) Chair ‘Look Back – Going Forward’ at From ‘Old Corruption’ to the New
 Corruption? Public Life and Public Service in Britain. C. 1970-1940, Oxford Brookes University
 Brooks (2018) Chair of University of West London Symposium (funded by Daiwa Foundation)
 Key Issue: Criminal Injuries Compensation Scheme in England and &Wales. London
 Jayman (2018-) Creator of BERA Special Interest Group: Mental health, Wellbeing and
 Education, now grown to 200 members.
 Milani (2020) Chair “Coexisting Severe Mental Illness and Substance Misuse: Meeting New NICE
 Quality Standard”. Healthcare Conferences UK, London.
 Milani (2019) Chair “Ensuring Adherence to the NICE Guideline for severe mental illness and
 substance misuse (Dual Diagnosis)”. Healthcare Conferences UK, London.
 Milani (2017) Chair “Improving the Management of severe mental illness and substance misuse
 Dual Diagnosis Implementing the NICE Guidance” Healthcare Conferences UK, London.
 Milani (2018) Chair Working in Partnership to Tackle Drug Misuse”. Inside Government, London.
 Worrell (now deceased) (2019), with funding from the British Council, London Policing College
 and UWL International Policing Conference. University of West London.UK.
 Leadership of advisory boards, industry, commerce, research councils, learned societies
 or professional bodies
 Murji (2017-) Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences.
 Wakefield (2018-2020) Chair of the Security Institute.
 Members of learned societies or industry boards
 Abedin (2015-) Member of British Association of International Comparative Education
 Abedin (2016-) Fellow of the Cambridge Philosophical Society
 Abedin (2016-) Member of Educational Leadership Special Interest Group, British Educational
 Research Association.
 Abedin (2018-) Member of British Association of Applied Linguistics
 Brooks (2018) Member of Expert Group for European Healthcare Fraud and Corruption Network
 (EHFCN)
 Jayman (2019-) Lead of Education and Wellbeing SIG of the British Educational Research
 Association


                                                                                         Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Khan (2017-) Chartered Statistician (CStat) of the Royal Statistical Society
 Milani (2014-) Chartered membership, British Psychological Society (BPS), (2017 to date)
 member of the Society for the Studies of Addiction (SSA)
 Milani (2014) Member of group developing Occupational standards for professionals and services
 working in the Addiction Field
 Milani (2014) Member of the All-Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) network for Drug Policy and
 Complex Needs
 Milani (2014) Substance Misuse Skills Consortium group, development of the Peer Support
 Toolkit
 Milani (2017-) Member of the board for the Federation of Drug and Alcohol Professionals (FDAP),
 developing Occupational Standards and accrediting courses for professionals and services
 working in the Addiction Field
 Milani (2017-) member of the Society for the Studies of Addiction (SSA)
 Milani (2019-) Individual Partner for the Concurrent Disorders Society
 Minhas (2016-) Member European Association of Psychology and Law
 Minhas (2018-) Member British Society of Criminology
 Wakefield (1997-) Member British Society of Criminology
 Wakefield (2010-2021) Board member, Security Institute
 Wakefield (2011-) Academic Adviser, Chartered Security Professionals Registration Authority.
 Wakefield (2018-) Associate Fellow, Royal United Services Institute
 Wakefield (2018-2021) Member of NCTPHQ/Metropolitan Police National Counter Terrorism
 Business Independent Advisory Group.
 Wakefield (2020-) Member of the National Preparedness Commission.
 Awards, prizes, distinctions
 Harding (9th March 2019) gave evidence on violent crime, Home Affairs Select Committee
 Wakefield (2019-21) Ranked as one of the UK’s leading Women in Cyber (SC Media 2019, 2021;
 IT Security Guru, 2020) and one of the Most Influential People in Security and Fire by IFSEC
 Global (2019, 2020).
 Recent invited keynotes
 Brooks (2018) ‘Protecting those in need: Reducing error, fraud and corruption’. European
 Healthcare Fraud and Corruption Network, Athens
 Brooks, Kyo, Ellis, and Kursawa, (2020) Criminal Compensation: The Cost of Victimization at
 Tackling Serious and Organised Crime: Reducing the Risk, Threat and Harm' A Public Policy
 Exchange Symposium' (United Kingdom and Japan)
 Harding (2018) Building a Zero Tolerance approach to Acid and Corrosive Substances Attacks:
 Working in Partnership. Public Policy Exchange, London.
 Harding (2019) Gangs, Knives and Youth violence: why the Rise? House of Commons. London
 Harding (2019) Tackling County Lines and Vulnerability in Partnership. Derbyshire PCC
 Harding (2019) Why the Rise in Gangs, Knife crime and Acid attacks, National Conference on
 Gangs, Weapons, Violence. Lords Cricket Ground, London
 Harding (2020) Knife Crime. National Police Chiefs Council (NPCC) and Association of Police
 and Crime Commissioners, (APCC) Conference, Queen Elisabeth II Centre, London

                                                                                         Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Harding (2020) Street Gangs and violent crime. East BCU Serious Violence Summit, London East
 Harding (2020) Latest Research findings on County Lines Drug Networks. West Midlands Police
 Conference
 Hine (2020) 'Male victims of domestic violence and abuse: new research', Mankind Initiative
 National Conference, online.
 Kahn (2019) Elderly Persons in Humanitarian Emergencies in Bangladesh: Qualitative
 Experiment on Dreams and Reality. International Conference on the Rohingya Crisis in
 Comparative Perspective UCL.
 Khan (2019) Older consumers in an ageing society. 5th International Conference on Economic
 Sciences and Business Administration (ICESBA 2019): The Future of Business, Bucharest,
 Romania
 Khan (2019) Financial preparedness in later life: An investigation of Hong Kong and the UK
 employees survey. International Symposium on the Application of Big Data in Social Security,
 Centre for Social Security Studies, Wuhan University, China.
 Khan (2019) The unequal distribution of risks and opportunities in later life. Department of
 Population Studies, University of Botswana
 Khan (2020) Overview of mortality risk of COVID-19 in older people: global perspective. The effect
 of COVID-19 on the health and care management of older adults in West-Africa, Nigeria
 Milani (2019). Substance Misuse and Mental health: the role of pharmacists. British
 Pharmaceutical Student Association. Brighton
 Milani (2020) Improving the Management of people with Severe Mental Illness and Substance
 Misuse. Healthcare Conference. Stigma can kill: can training/education change negative attitude
 towards people with cooccurring disorders? London.
 Murji (2018) Reading yardie tales, AHRC Network, Representations of Jamaican Organised
 Crime (online)
 Murji (2018) Stuart Hall as a theorist-activist. Race and Criminology Symposium, London School
 of Economics, London
 Murji (2020) Race and the public intellectual, Sciences Politiques Global Race Conference
 (online)
 Wakefield (2019) ‘Security for the Fourth Industrial Revolution’, Future of Security Theatre, IFSEC
 expo, ExCel, London.
 Visiting professorships
 Khan (2020) Associate Professorial Fellow at Oxford Institute of Population Ageing, University of
 Oxford, UK.




                                                                                            Page 16
