Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University College London (UCL)

 Unit of Assessment: 31 – Theology and Religious Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 The UCL Department of Hebrew and Jewish Studies is noted for its world-leading expertise and
 innovative research. Drawing on UCL’s tradition of secularism and open-mindedness, it
 integrates all aspects of Jewish Studies, from antiquity to modernity, through the prisms of
 history, literature, and languages, and a wide range of disciplines including history of science
 and medicine, international relations, and sociolinguistics.

 The Department goes back to the foundation of UCL and the appointment of a Jewish professor
 of Hebrew, the first ever in England, in 1826. Hebrew and Jewish Studies have been
 continuously taught at UCL since its inception. The Department of Hebrew was re-established as
 the Department of Hebrew and Jewish Studies in 1967. Ours is the smallest department in
 UCL’s Faculty of Arts and Humanities (A&H), allowing for an intimate and research-intensive
 environment. We have many research collaborations with colleagues across UCL, as well as at
 other universities in London, the UK, and internationally in Europe, Israel, and the USA.

 We host major research projects funded by the ERC, AHRC, Leverhulme Trust, and other
 funders. With only 8.2 FTE academic staff, we have raised in this period close to £4,000,000 in
 research grants. We have published 25 authored books (of which five have been subsequently
 translated), 16 edited books, 49 journal articles, and 63 book chapters. Book prizes were
 awarded to Anziska (OUP Dissertation Prize in International History; BAJS book prize 2019) and
 Stern (BAJS prize 2020).

 We are the only UK university department specifically dedicated to Hebrew and Jewish Studies,
 and as such see ourselves in a position of leadership, training future generations of scholars and
 engaging dynamically with the wider community.


 Research leadership and innovation

 As the largest and most important research centre in Hebrew and Jewish Studies in the UK, we
 lead the field on a national level, within Europe, and around the world, in line with UCL’s
 institutional research strategy ‘to inspire and empower research leadership’. Our research is
 internationally noted and acclaimed in the disciplines and fields of Hebrew, Aramaic, Yiddish,
 Judeo-Arabic, and other Jewish languages (Kahn, Smelik, Vidro, Yampolskaya), Assyriology
 (Geller), rabbinic literature (Smelik, Stern), Cairo Genizah studies (Stern, Vidro), Polish and east
 European Jewish history (Guesnet), Holocaust studies (Berkowitz, Gilbert), English and
 American Jewish history (Berkowitz), Israeli, Palestinian, and Mediterranean politics and
 international relations (Anziska, Lochery).

 Our vision is to develop and promote new areas of research in Jewish Studies and related fields,
 by conducting pioneering research in new or neglected areas, and drawing attention to their
 wider, contextual significance. All our research staff are engaged in innovative, emerging areas
 of research. Geller has worked on large corpora of unedited cuneiform medical texts from
 ancient Mesopotamia, and has discovered their historical continuity with medical texts in late
 antique Talmudic, Syriac, and Mandaic literature. Smelik has carried out a completely pioneering
 linguistic study of Hebrew and Aramaic in the Palestinian and Babylonian Talmuds, drawing on
 socio-linguistic theories of code-switching. Stern has researched the development of ancient and
 medieval calendars in many cultures, and is uncovering the early medieval origins of the rabbinic
 calendar through new discoveries in the Cairo Genizah. Guesnet has investigated a pseudo-
 medical condition known in early modern Europe as plica polonica, raising awareness of the
 intersection between history of the body, history of medicine, and cultural and transregional

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 history. As a result of research on early modern Hebrew, Kahn has discovered Hasidic Hebrew
 and subjected it for the first time to serious linguistic analysis. Berkowitz has uncovered the
 contribution and creative role of Jews in the history of photography, film, and visual culture, in
 Britain and other parts of the world. Lochery has carried out original research on the role of
 Portugal and Brazil in WWII and its aftermath, in relation to diplomacy, the treatment of Jews,
 and the restitution of ‘Nazi gold’. Anziska studies archives and oral history from Israel, Palestine,
 and Lebanon, to analyse conflict and political deadlock in the region from a uniquely trans-
 border perspective. Gilbert’s original research on Jews in South Africa challenges existing
 scholarship and communal memory, which have been shaped hitherto by apartheid politics and
 the agenda of the communal Jewish leadership.


 Research projects

 The promotion of pioneering, collaborative, and interdisciplinary research through grant-funded
 projects is at the core of our strategy. Our marked success in raising research grants enabled
 us to run the following projects:

       ‘Calendars in Antiquity and the Middle Ages: standardization and fixation’, a five-year
        ERC Advanced Grant project, with Stern as PI, a team of five full-time researchers, and
        several international collaborations.
       ‘Contemporary Hasidic Yiddish’, a three-year AHRC standard grant project, with Kahn as
        Co-I, Kriszta Szendroi (UCL Linguistics) as PI, two full-time researchers, and three part-
        time research associates.
       ‘Qaraite and Rabbanite calendars’, a three-year Fritz Thyssen project, with Stern as PI,
        one researcher and Ronny Vollandt (LMU, Munich) as Co-I.
       ‘Enlightenment Hebrew grammar’, a two-year project funded by a Philip Leverhulme
        Prize, with Kahn as PI.
       ‘Medieval Christian and Jewish calendar texts from England and Franco-Germany’, a
        two-year Leverhulme research project with Stern as PI and two researchers (ended
        30/09/2013).

 These projects have significantly increased the scope and productivity of research in the
 Department and have attracted early career researchers (ECRs), thus supporting our mission to
 lead and nurture the next generation of researchers in Jewish Studies. They have provided
 resources for convening international workshops and conferences at UCL, and panels at
 international conferences abroad. These projects have established the Department as a world-
 leading research centre on ancient and medieval calendars (in particular the Jewish calendar)
 and on early modern Hebrew and contemporary Yiddish.

 The diversity and interdisciplinarity of our research project teams have been highly conducive to
 innovation and exploration. The ERC project team, in particular, included a Classicist
 (Bultrighini), an Arabist and Iranologist (de Blois), a historian of science (Wartenberg), and
 Hebrew medievalists (Vidro, Sandman). Conversations within such diverse teams through
 regular meetings, collaborative working sessions, and email exchanges, created a unique
 environment which had a transformative effect on our research, often leading to unexpected
 discoveries and results. Thus, Stern’s discovery of ‘primitive rabbinic calendars’, a hitherto
 unknown eighth-century precursor of the present-day Jewish calendar, only came about through
 teamwork with Vidro, whose research in the ERC project involved a systematic search of mainly
 later calendar texts in the Cairo Genizah. Similarly, Kahn’s discovery that present-day Stamford
 Hill Hasidic Yiddish has completely lost grammatical case and gender, with concomitant
 syntactic effects, could not have occurred without the multi-disciplinary collaboration of a
 historical linguist and theoretical syntacticians within the AHRC project. Project teams have also
 provided a framework for large undertakings that individual researchers could not have managed
 alone, such as the edition of Isaac Israeli’s monumental 14th-century scientific work, Yesod Olam
 (in the ERC project), and the global study of Hasidic Yiddish (encompassing north America,
 London, Antwerp, Israel).

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Frameworks for collaboration

 The Department’s strong research ethos and its interest in interdisciplinary collaboration and
 creativity was actively promoted in 2014 with a new strategic initiative, our research clusters.
 Their primary purpose is to foster dialogue between researchers from different disciplines,
 periods, languages, etc. who happen to be working on similar research themes. Clusters that
 were initially identified included: visual culture (Berkowitz, Guesnet, Lochery, Stern); the social
 history of medicine, science, and technology (Berkowitz, Geller, Guesnet, Stern); Jewish
 languages and translation studies (Aramaic, Hebrew, Yiddish – Geller, Kahn, Smelik); World
 War II and the Holocaust (from historical, political, and literary perspectives – Beer, Berkowitz,
 Lochery, Ratner, later joined by Gilbert). In the spring of 2015, for example, our departmental
 research seminars were presented by two staff at a time, representing different disciplines but
 sharing common thematic interests; this brought their research into productive dialogue and
 exchange. Clusters have inspired collaborative research and impact activities (e.g. through the
 Litvak Days – see Section 4), and contribute more generally to the strategic cohesiveness of the
 Department’s research.

 Interdisciplinarity and collaboration are further supported through weekly staff research
 seminars (instituted in 2015) and graduate seminars, with papers ranging from Antiquity to the
 present-day in a wide variety of disciplines. They provide opportunities to bring together staff and
 students, exchange knowledge, learn from our very different perspectives, provide support and
 feedback, and generate discussion.

 A further strategic move was the launch in spring 2020 – in the midst of the Covid-19 lockdown –
 of the Middle East Research Centre, initiated by Anziska and hosted at the UCL Institute of
 Advanced Studies. This Centre, still in formation, will facilitate cross-disciplinary research and
 collaboration in all areas of Middle Eastern and North African studies, from Antiquity to the
 present day. It brings together the majority of research staff and students in the Department,
 whose focus of research is the Middle East, with colleagues from the departments of
 Archaeology, History, Geography, Education, Architecture, Political Science, and Law. The
 Centre will serve as a research hub as well as forum for public consultancy and engagement.
 The Centre illustrates the strategic value of collaboration with other departments at UCL, which
 has enables us to draw on the research strengths of the institution to broaden the range, reach,
 and interdisciplinarity of our research.

 Specific research collaborations within UCL, the UK and internationally, are described in detail in
 Section 4.


 Public engagement

 Our research is driven by a clear understanding of its societal significance, and for this reason,
 we are fundamentally committed to communicating our research to the broader public. Research
 in Hebrew and Jewish Studies plays, in our view, a pivotal societal role in: (1) promoting
 knowledge and understanding of the Jews, their history, and their culture and heritage; (2)
 improving relations between Jews and others in Britain and other parts of the world; and (3)
 contributing towards peace, equity and justice, and well-being in Israel/Palestine and the Middle
 East. To achieve these aims, we engage wide audiences through public lectures and community
 education, summer schools, public academic conferences (many in collaboration with cultural
 centres and national embassies), theatre and musical performances, events at museums and
 exhibitions, and a range of consultative and other impact-generating activities – described in
 detail in Section 4.

 Anziska and Gilbert were appointed to the Department in 2015 and 2019 with the strategic
 purpose of developing public engagement and community education in Jewish-Muslim

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Relations, Palestinian and Israeli culture and politics (Anziska), and in Holocaust Studies
 (Gilbert). Anziska and Lochery are prominent voices in public debates on Israel, Palestine, and
 the Middle East; the impact of Anziska’s research and book, Preventing Palestine, is elaborated
 upon in his Impact Case Study. Gilbert runs an intellectually robust programme of short courses
 on modern Jewish history and Holocaust studies at the Sir Martin Gilbert Learning Centre
 (London).

 Other staff are similarly dedicated to deploying their research for the benefit of the broader
 public. Since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic, Kahn’s AHRC team took the initiative of
 producing Yiddish translations of Covid-19 official communications for Hasidic communities in
 London, Manchester, and Quebec (see Section 4). More generally, Kahn’s work on Hasidic
 Yiddish and Hebrew contributes to the popular recognition, from within and from without, of the
 legitimacy of Hasidic languages. Geller, Stern, and Smelik’s Talmudic research and
 dissemination activities feed into the increasing international popularity of the study of Talmud in
 Jewish and other faith communities. Lochery engages with local government and commercial
 organizations in Lisbon and Porto to disseminate his research on 20th-century Portugal. The
 public activities of Berkowitz and Guesnet, with opera productions and collaborative events with
 the Polish and Lithuanian embassies, are driven by a responsibility to disseminate their research
 on relations between Jews and others in early modern and contemporary Europe and north
 America, and make their research societally impactful.

 A strategic medium for public dissemination of our research is the Institute of Jewish Studies
 (IJS). The IJS, an independent charity, is based within the Department and directed by a
 member of our staff (Geller), with the mission of disseminating our research to the wider public.
 The IJS runs regular lecture series (on average 18 lectures per annum, with average audiences
 of 45, which have expanded to over 100 with the move to online delivery during the pandemic),
 and annual conferences for academic audiences but also open to the general public, in the
 range of 50-100 participants. All IJS events operate by free admission and the IJS has a mailing
 list of 1200+. The IJS programmes include UCL speakers and distinguished UK and international
 guests. In recent years, the Department’s contribution to the IJS lecture series has become more
 formalized, as its academic and research staff are now expected to deliver one public IJS lecture
 per annum. IJS conferences are similarly convened by members of the Department, on subjects
 close to their areas of research (e.g. Jewish medicine – Geller, 2014; Jewish languages – Kahn,
 2016; ancient and medieval calendars – Stern, 2017; Aramaic dialects – Smelik, 2018).
 Proceedings of IJS conferences are published in Brill’s IJS Studies in Judaica series.


 Looking ahead

 Our research strategy for the future is largely focused on developing research projects through
 further grant applications, which the Department has been particularly successful at in the last
 ten years. This strategy remains most promising for our future sustainability as a research unit.
 Funded projects will enable us to undertake substantial research, recruit ECRs, promote
 interdisciplinary teamwork, fund workshops and conferences, and expand our international
 collaborations. We will also recruit ECRs through doctoral and post-doctoral fellowships. At all
 times, we remain actively engaged in applying for large external research grants from the ERC,
 UKRI, Leverhulme, and other funders. Already now, we are submitting applications for projects
 to run in the next REF period. Through a recently awarded grant of £120,000 from the
 Rothschild Foundation, we are appointing a new Lecturer in Yiddish for September 2021.

 The recent creation of the Middle East Research Centre (see above) will open up new
 collaborative research opportunities for the future. MERC will be instrumental in promoting
 Assyriology at UCL (in our Department, led by Geller) especially after the recent discontinuation
 of this research field at SOAS.

 The move to online delivery in the Covid-19 pandemic has had the benefit of attracting
 significantly larger audiences to the IJS lecture series, with greater international reach. New

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 online seminar series have recently been launched, on ‘Ancient and Medieval Near Eastern
 Texts’ (in collaboration with KCL, and well over 100 participants), and ‘Contemporary Hasidic
 Yiddish’. We will build on the new opportunities that the pandemic has opened for the
 dissemination of our research and engagement with the broader public.

 2. People

 Academic staff

 The Department is small but nevertheless needs to offer a wide range of expertise across the
 many fields and disciplines of Jewish Studies, in order to support the provision of comprehensive
 BA and MA degrees and the supervision of a diversity of doctoral students. Our people are
 consequently very diverse, whilst sufficiently versatile and knowledgeable in Hebrew and Jewish
 Studies to support the Department as a whole.

 At the point of the REF census date, our staff counted eight full-time and one part-time (0.2 FTE)
 academics and two full-time Research Fellows. Our small size facilitates a mutually supportive,
 research-intensive environment. We have been very successful in recruiting additional research
 staff through funded research projects, and additional academic staff through fundraising in the
 private sector. Two new academic appointments were made in this period on the basis of
 fundraising: Gilbert (part-time, professorial) and Anziska. The latter was appointed in 2015 to a
 new position in the emerging field of Jewish-Muslim Relations, funded by a consortium of the
 Mohamed S. Farsi and the Polonsky Foundations, in fulfilment of one of our explicitly stated
 strategic aims in REF2014.

 Academic staff are expected to devote around 40% of their time to research (with 40% teaching
 and 20% administration, enabling, and impact-related activities). Newly appointed staff are given
 a reduced administrative load in their first year. From 2014/15, a new policy was adopted
 whereby the teaching load of academic staff was reduced from three to two modules per annum.
 This had the effect of providing more time for staff to undertake research, and of enhancing
 research-driven teaching.

 Academics are supported in their research by UCL’s sabbatical leave policy (one term after nine
 taught). Early in the Covid-19 pandemic, UCL committed itself not to cancel or postpone any
 sabbatical research leave. In the Department, sabbatical entitlement is flexibly used, to best
 enable staff to time leave with fellowships and other research opportunities awarded at other
 universities (mainly in USA and Israel), or to enhance productivity by holding two terms of
 entitled leave consecutively. Some staff have been able to take additional leave through paid
 fellowships (Kahn, Smelik, Anziska, Guesnet) or project funding (Stern). Academic staff also
 receive an annual allowance of £1,000 for research expenses, which can be used for research
 trips (to libraries, archives, fieldwork), conference attendance, publication costs, small projects,
 equipment, etc., at the individual’s discretion. In future, the Faculty will also support research-
 active Teaching Fellows.

 Promotions at various levels were made during this period: Stern, Geller (Professor 2, October
 2013 and 2019), Smelik, Guesnet (Professor, 2015 and 2020), Kahn (Reader, 2016; Professor,
 2020), Anziska (Associate Professor, 2019). Professors are appraised once a year; other staff
 were previously appraised every two years, and since 2018 on an annual basis. Appraisals are
 an opportunity to discuss general progress, set objectives, and consider promotion prospects.

 Retention is high in the Department, which contributes to our sustainability. This reflects a high
 level of staff satisfaction and a collegial working environment. Academics at UCL are employed
 on permanent contracts (as required by UCL’s Statutes), which is a further factor towards
 retention. Only two academics have left, through retirement, during this period (Ratner, Beer).
 Some of our professorial staff (Geller, Smelik, Lochery) began their careers as lecturers at UCL
 (Kahn as MA student), which demonstrates the ability of our research environment to support
 academics over the full career cycle.

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Research staff - ECRs

 We encourage ECRs world-wide to apply through the Department to post-doctoral fellowships;
 consequently, in 2014-16 Lior Libman joined us as an Israel Institute post-doctoral fellow. ECRs
 are assigned a dedicated mentor who assists them already at the stage of applying for the
 fellowship. Most ECRs have been employed in the Department in the framework of research
 projects: thus, our successful award of an ERC grant enabled us to employ five full-time
 research fellows through 2013-18.

 In order to support their career development, ECRs working within projects are given the
 freedom to develop and publish their own, solely authored research. Several were promoted to
 Senior Research Fellow (Sanders 2015, Wartenberg 2016, Vidro 2019) or awarded accelerated
 increments, in most cases through the initiative and encouragement of the PI. The
 precariousness of ECR short-term contracts, limited to the lifetime of the grants, is an issue that
 concerns us; we therefore offer advice and support towards their career development and
 assistance in seeking more permanent employment, for example by giving them honorary
 research fellowships after the projects end. Among our ECRs, Vidro has remained in the
 Department within another research project (Fritz Thyssen); most others have found
 academic/research employment elsewhere: Libman at Binghamton University, NY; Nothaft at the
 Warburg Institute and Oxford University; Wartenberg at Bern and Tel-Aviv Universities;
 Bultrighini at the Institute of Classical Studies, London, and Freie Universität Berlin. After the
 current AHRC project ends, Yampolskaya will take up the position of Head of Jewish Studies at
 St. Petersburg State University.


 Visiting scholars

 The Department has hosted a diversity of visiting scholars (e.g. Yehudit Henshke, Haifa
 University, Israel, 2016; Hongmei Chen, Nanjing Forestry University, China, 2017-18) and
 honorary research fellows (HRFs) (Simo Muir, based in the Department since 2017) who have
 made significant contributions to research, seminars, and other activities in the Department.

 In 2018, we tightened our policy on awards of honorary research fellowships, restricting the title
 to former PhD students and post-doctoral researchers, emeritus academic staff, and visiting
 scholars and researchers actively engaged in research within the Department. The purpose of
 this policy was to protect the title from dilution, to enhance the accountability of appointments, to
 reduce the administrative burden, and to maximize the contribution of HRFs to the Department.


 Research students

 Research student numbers remain robust, with (at census date) 22 active research students,
 half of which are part-time. Five are international (from China, USA, Australia, and Israel; one as
 non-resident), which highlights the global reach of our research degree programme. A sizeable
 proportion of our research students are recruited from among our MA graduates (25% of MA
 graduates in 2015/16 progressed to the MPhil/PhD in the Department), but many have no prior
 association with us. Three research students have been supported with an AHRC London Arts
 and Humanities Partnership grant, and two with UCL Wolfson Scholarships. A total of 12 PhD
 degrees were awarded in this period.

 Research students are supported by the Graduate Tutor, alongside their primary and secondary
 academic supervisors. The Graduate Tutor advises PGR students on all the stages of their
 studies, from initial application to graduation and career advice. S/he convenes the fortnightly
 Graduate Seminar, where PGRs present their research in progress to academic staff and peers;
 these presentations form part of the upgrade procedure from MPhil to PhD and, more

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 holistically, help the students’ scholarly development. Presentations are also made, for instance,
 by UCL Library, UCL Careers, and UCL Press. PGR students also receive training from the UCL
 Doctoral School, through a wide range of elective short training courses. PGRs gain career-
 enhancing teaching experience as Post-Graduate Teaching Assistants (PGTAs). In this
 capacity, they variously contribute to taught BA and MA courses by delivering a limited number
 of lectures, managing seminars, and marking coursework and exams. PGTAs are recruited fairly
 through the normal recruitment procedure of advertisement, applications, shortlisting and
 interview. There are also PGTA opportunities outside the Department, e.g. in History and in the
 BASc degree programme (Arts and Sciences).

 PGRs are encouraged to participate at international conferences (we offer travel grants to
 support this), and to organize graduate conferences at UCL (thus Pimlott: a conference on non-
 English-language literatures written in Britain, June 2018). They are also encouraged to apply for
 fellowships: Birnbaum was awarded a Silver Fellowship at Harvard University in 2017/18. The
 Department has a student and staff exchange agreement with the Hebrew University of
 Jerusalem, supported with renewable Erasmus+ grants. This enables the exchange of two PhD
 students between the institutions for three months per annum.

 Testament to our success in this area, PhD graduates have published their theses, won
 postdoctoral fellowships (University of Mainz; Freie Universität Berlin; Fritz Thyssen
 Foundation), and/or taken up academic positions (Brown University; University of Wroslaw; Bar-
 Ilan University; Kingston University, London; University of Exeter; Leo Baeck College, London)
 or academic-related positions (British Library, Bodleian Library). Sima Beeri and Alinda Damsma
 were appointed Teaching Fellows in our Department in 2017 and 2019.


 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

 Our commitment to EDI is inherently linked to our research in Hebrew and Jewish Studies.
 Antisemitism and other forms of racism are a central research concern for Berkowitz, Gilbert,
 and Guesnet. Their research informed seminars that were held in the summer of 2020 in
 response to the Black Lives Matter demonstrations and towards decolonisation of our research
 and teaching (we resolved to make this the theme of our research seminars in 2020/21). Anziska
 and Guesnet have played leading roles in UCL’s Academic Board Working Group on Racism
 and Prejudice. Guesnet is founding member of the International Consortium for Research on
 Antisemitism and Racism, London. As an academic unit composed of individuals from many
 different academic disciplines (history, language and linguistics, politics, etc.) and many different
 cultural backgrounds, we positively encourage diverse perspectives on Jewish Studies in our
 research and teaching.

 The Department’s people are diverse with a wide range of ages (30s-80s), ethnicities,
 nationalities, religious and other beliefs, sexual orientations and domestic responsibilities.
 Women have represented two-thirds of research fellows (junior and senior) through the period.
 Following the retirement of three female academics in the last ten years, our percentage of
 female academic staff dropped to 25%. All female academics are currently professors. We aim
 to improve gender balance as we make new appointments. The majority of PGR intake last year
 was female, and did not identify as white.

 In line with UCL’s fair recruitment policies, we recruit academically excellent research staff and
 students whilst encouraging equality, diversity and inclusion by offering, for example,
 accessibility and other adjustments for those who identify as disabled or have mobility issues.
 Gender equality is actively promoted through our preparation of an Athena SWAN application, in
 support of UCL’s institutional silver award. UCL regularly analyses staff data with respect to
 protected characteristics, and results of this analysis are regularly conveyed to us, to prevent
 any characteristic being at a disadvantage and to mitigate against discrimination. All new staff
 undertake UCL’s mandatory induction modules, including training on health and safety, GDPR,
 diversity and unconscious bias. UCL’s flexible EDI policies ensure that staff and research

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students are not disadvantaged by bereavement, illness, and other personal circumstances. For
 example, a number of research students in our Department have been allowed on these
 grounds to interrupt or change to part-time.

 The Department operates on equality principles, involving all staff in consultation and in policy
 making. Decisions, for example, about staff workloads, postdoctoral applications, and honorary
 research fellowships, are regularly made at the Departmental Research Committee (DRC), of
 which all academic staff and research fellows are members. PGR students are represented on
 the Staff-Student Consultative Committee.

 All our HESA2 and HESA3 staff have been submitted to REF2021 and are equally represented.
 Our output selection was managed by a small committee appointed by the DRC and diverse in
 gender, age, and academic field (Stern and Kahn); the selection was partially informed by the
 authors’ expression of their own preferred outputs. We have reviewed the impact of protected
 characteristics and intersectionality on our output selection, and this has shown that women
 were twice as likely to have their outputs selected than men. Data on ethnicity is less
 informative, as although we asked HR for a more fine-grained analysis, the available categories
 do not reflect the ethnic identities of many of our staff.

 The Department will continue working towards promoting EDI, for instance in the context of its
 appointment of a new Lecturer in Yiddish for 2021.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 Research income and other funding

 Our greatest success has been the award of substantial research project grants, with the highest
 ratio of grant income per staff in the Faculty (annual average £31,444.38 per FTE). Research
 income has had a transformative impact on the Department: it has expanded our research
 through recruitment of new research fellows and the development of international research
 collaborations, and has been a major contributor to the vitality and sustainability of our research.

 Research projects awarded
     ERC Advanced Grant: Stern, ‘Calendars in Antiquity and the Middle Ages’ (2013-18),
       €2,500,000.
     AHRC standard project: Kahn (shared with UCL Linguistics), ‘Contemporary Hasidic
       Yiddish’ (2019-2022), £681,756.
     Fritz Thyssen Foundation: Stern, ‘Qaraite and Rabbanite calendars’ (2018-21),
       €290,000.
     Leverhulme Trust project: Stern, ‘Medieval Christian and Jewish calendar texts’ (ended
       30/09/2013), £134,338.
     Philip Leverhulme Prize: Kahn, ‘Enlightenment Hebrew grammar’ (2017-19), £100,000.
     Gerda Henkel Foundation: Guesnet, ‘Jewish self-government in Poland from its
       inception to the present’ (2010-19), £44,360.

 Fellowships awarded
      British Academy Post-Doctoral Fellowship, Kahn, ‘The grammar of the Hasidic Hebrew
        tale 1864-1914’ (2010-14), £258,187 and £2,988.
      AHRC Leadership Fellowship (Early Career Route), Kahn, ‘The First Hebrew
        Shakespeare translations’ (2015-16), £97,424.
      Harry Starr Fellowship, Harvard University, Smelik, ‘Bilingualism in early rabbinic
        literature’ (2017-18), $60,000.
      Israel Institute Fellowship, Libman, £60,343.
      Taub Postdoctoral Fellowship, New York University, Anziska (2016-17) $54,000



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Leverhulme Trust Fellowship, Smelik, ‘Code-switching in the Talmud Yerushalmi’ (2018-
        19), £23,190.
       Fulbright Research Scholarship, Anziska, 'The Camp David accords and the Egyptian-
        Israeli peace process 1977-1979’, Nobel Institute, Oslo (2019), £8,325.

 Staff also held prestigious fellowships and visiting professorships in Jerusalem (Yad Vashem;
 Israel Institute of Advanced Studies), Vilnius, Washington D.C., New York, Dartmouth, Arizona,
 and Philadelphia (Herbert Katz Center for Jewish Studies).

 Smaller grants up to £10,000 from the British Academy/Leverhulme and other, private sources
 enabled initial research towards what later developed into larger projects (e.g. the 1982 Israel-
 Lebanon war, Anziska; the Jews and photography, Berkowitz). Similar-size grants were awarded
 by the European Association for Jewish Studies (EAJS), Salo Baron Foundation, and Wellcome
 Trust, for convening conferences.

 Applicants for research funding are given a high level of assistance at all stages, from advice on
 grant capture to detailed feedback on draft applications, by the Faculty Research Development
 Manager and its expert, three-person Research Facilitation team (and for ERC applications, also
 by UCL’s European Research and Innovation Office), as well as by a peer-review system
 operating within the Faculty.


 Infrastructure and Facilities

 Research is supported and driven by the Departmental Research Committee and the Faculty
 Research Committee. Both meet termly to shape future research strategy and to monitor
 research-related issues such as ethics and integrity, ECR recruitment, funding and collaboration
 opportunities, open access, and REF management.

 The location of Department staff along a single corridor on main UCL campus impacts directly
 and positively on our research culture. This space includes the departmental office, two seminar
 rooms, and the John Klier Library and Study Space (a reference library and workspace for
 PGRs). Being together encourages collegial interaction and fruitful exchange of ideas.
 Conferences, workshops and other events are held in UCL centrally bookable rooms and lecture
 theatres, and (for small-scale events) within the Department. The UCL Bloomsbury Theatre and
 Studio (first opened in 1968, and re-opened in 2019 after a major renovation of its 500-seat
 auditorium), was the site of several productions by Berkowitz and Kahn (see Section 4); use of
 the theatre was awarded through internal competition within UCL.

 The diversity of our research is supported by UCL’s strongly interdisciplinary environment. UCL’s
 Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS), co-founded in 2015 by the Faculties of A&H and Social and
 Historical Sciences, was conceived to promote interdisciplinary exchange; we have convened
 IAS workshops (e.g. Guesnet 2017), and colleagues regularly contribute to IAS seminars,
 conferences, and events. Other UCL schemes have provided infrastructure and grants of up to
 £10,000 towards research activities and publications, including UCL’s Global Engagement
 Office, the Higher Education Innovation Fund, Research Impact Curation and Support and the
 Dean's Strategic Fund, from which we have won pump-priming awards to support a Yiddish
 Literary Journal, a cultural visit to Israel, and dissemination of research relating to Berkowitz’s
 ICS (2017-19). As part of a UCL collaboration with the Institut Français, Geller ran workshops
 (2017; 2019) with the Sorbonne and other Paris research institutes on ‘Women in the Bible and
 Ancient Near East’. Guesnet ran a project funded by the UCL ‘Grand Challenges’ programme
 with colleagues from the UCL School of Public Policy, leading to publication of a co-edited book,
 Negotiating Religion (2017).

 UCL Press, founded in 2015 and the UK’s first fully Open Access university press (all its
 publications are freely available online), has published Kahn’s The First Hebrew Shakespeare


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Translations (2017, c.10,000 free downloads), and the journal Jewish Historical Studies edited
 by Berkowitz since 2015.

 The UCL Library has an exceptionally large collection in Hebrew and Jewish Studies (including,
 notably, Yiddish), and a range of online resources with subscriptions to subject-specialist
 databases, journals, and other publications (e.g. the Encyclopaedia of Hebrew Language and
 Linguistics, and the Bar-Ilan Responsa project), curated by a part-time specialist librarian. Its
 annual expenditure on books supporting our research directly is c.£9,000. UCL Library also
 advises on copyright and licensing, and supports Open Access engagement. We are served by
 other excellent libraries in close proximity to UCL, whose collections and resources are often
 essential for our research (SOAS, British Library, Warburg Institute, Wiener Library, Institute of
 Classical Studies, Senate House Library). The British Library holds many Hebrew manuscripts,
 and the British Museum holds the world’s most important cuneiform collections.

 UCL’s Information Services Division (ISD) provides a wide range of essential resources and
 support. Specialist software such as NVivo, with bespoke training, has been provided by ISD for
 our researchers (Bultrighini and Stern). UCL’s Research Data Services provide safe storage for
 manuscript images that we purchased for our research projects from libraries world-wide. Our
 departmental website was re-written and re-branded in 2016 by all staff collectively at an away
 day, to project a new, forward-looking image of our Department and of its many research
 activities.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations

 We have forged strong connections with researchers within UCL, London, the UK, and above all
 internationally, robustly reflecting the international character of Jewish Studies and our world-
 leading position within this field. Some collaborations have been underpinned by our funded
 research projects: Stern with Ronny Vollandt (LMU, Munich) in the Fritz Thyssen project, and
 with Marina Rustow (Princeton) in the ERC project; Kahn with Kriszta Szendroi (UCL Linguistics)
 in the AHRC project; and Guesnet with a network of colleagues from Germany, Poland, and the
 USA in the Gerda Henkel project.

 Within UCL, we have collaborated on small research projects, grant applications, seminars and
 conferences with numerous Departments within A&H and beyond, such as History, History of
 Art, and the School of Slavonic and East European Studies. We work regularly with London
 partners: Kahn convened a conference with Andrea Schatz (King’s College London) on ‘Hebrew
 in Europe’ (2014); Berkowitz and Guesnet convene a regular seminar on ‘Modern Jewish history’
 in conjunction with KCL and the Institute of Historical Research (University of London). Other
 London partners are the British Museum, where Geller is academic advisor to a Wellcome-
 funded project on cuneiform medical texts, and the British Library, where Stern was advisor for
 the exhibition ‘Hebrew Manuscripts: Journeys of the Written Word’ (2020-21).

 Most international collaborations, besides our research projects, have come about through
 networking and international reputation. This led to Geller’s participation in many research
 projects and workshops in Berlin (Freie Universität, Humboldt University, and Max Planck Institut
 für Wissenschaftsgeschichte), where he was seconded by UCL from 2010 to 2018. Similarly,
 Stern co-led with Jonathan Ben-Dov (Haifa) an international team at the Israel Institute of
 Advanced Studies (Jerusalem) on ‘the Day Unit in Antiquity and the Middle Ages’ (2018), and
 has participated in a research group in Paris led by Nicole Belayche (EPHE) and Anne-Valerie
 Pont (Sorbonne) on ‘Civic Participation in the Roman Empire’ (2016). Anziska collaborates with
 the Institute for Palestine Studies and Jadaliyya Magazine (Beirut) towards the creation of open
 access archives for research related to the 1982 Lebanon War.

 Tangible evidence of a collaborative research culture is provided by our many joint publications.
 With colleagues from UCL, other UK universities, Europe, Israel, and the USA, we have co-

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 authored in total five monographs (e.g. Kahn with Rubin, Jewish Languages from A to Z,
 Routledge 2020), four edited books, one journal issue, and three substantial journal articles.


 Enabling the profession

 Our editorial positions testify to our academic leadership and international scholarly recognition.
 Three of our staff are editors of world-leading journals: Journal of Jewish Studies (Stern, with
 Alison Salvesen, University of Oxford), Journal of Aramaic Studies (Smelik), and Jewish
 Historical Studies: Transactions of the Jewish Historical Society of England (Berkowitz; a UCL
 Press open access publication). We are founding editors of several book series: IJS Studies in
 Judaica, Brill (Geller, with Guesnet, Kahn), Time, Astronomy, and Calendars, Brill (Stern with
 Charles Burnett, Warburg Institute), and Textbooks of World and Minority Languages and
 Grammars of World and Minority Languages, UCL Press, open access (Kahn with Riitta-Liisa
 Valijärvi, UCL). Geller is also co-editor of Cuneiform Monographs (Brill) and STMAC (de
 Gruyter), and Guesnet is editorial board co-chair of Polin: Studies in Polish Jewry. Most of us are
 members of at least one journal editorial board.

 Executive positions in professional associations were held during this period by Guesnet,
 Secretary and Director of the European Association for Jewish Studies, EAJS (2014-18), and
 Smelik, President of International Organization for Targumic Studies, IOTS (until 2018). Many
 staff are or have been on the executive committees of professional associations. Since 2019,
 Guesnet is Chairman of the Institute for Polish-Jewish Studies.

 We contribute to our disciplines through international peer review for institutions, funders and
 publishers. We have reviewed c.65 promotions, appointments, and institutional evaluations,
 mostly for Israeli and US universities, and c.65 grant applications to research councils (notably
 the Israel Science Foundation, and many others in Europe and the USA), private funders, and
 academic institutions. Geller and Stern were on review panels of the ERC and the Deutsche
 Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG). For publishers, we have peer reviewed c.75 book manuscripts
 and proposals, and c.180 articles for leading journals in Jewish Studies and a wide range of
 other disciplines, reflecting our interdisciplinary expertise and wide research interests.

 We have examined doctorates for UK universities and worldwide, e.g. KCL, SOAS, Oxford,
 Paris, Berlin, Utrecht, Haifa, Stellenbosch, and Sydney.

 Knowledge exchange: conferences and workshops

 So as to generate knowledge exchange with audiences as diverse as possible and extend the
 reach of our impact, conferences and workshops that we convene are mostly free and open to
 the public. Nearly all, at UCL and elsewhere, involve the participation of international colleagues,
 and many are mounted in partnership with academic and non-academic bodies. They have been
 held under the auspices of the IJS (see Section 1) and of our research projects. The ERC
 ‘Calendars’ project hosted an international conference at UCL (2017); convened a panel at an
 AJS conference (Boston, 2013); and through 2014-16, ran seven international workshops at
 UCL on multidisciplinary themes including medieval mathematics and geometry, tables and
 diagrams in medieval manuscripts, the Muslim polymath al-Biruni, and the origins of the seven-
 day week. Within the Fritz Thyssen project, Vidro and Stern organized a workshop on ‘Calendar
 polemics in medieval Judaism and Islam’ at the LMU in Munich (2019). The AHRC Leadership
 Fellowship (Kahn) hosted a conference on ‘Shakespeare and the Jews’ at UCL (2017). The
 Montefiore Endowment project, led by Guesnet, organised a conference on Moses Montefiore
 (2013). A conference in Stellenbosch (South Africa) was convened by Smelik as IOTS
 President, and in various places in Europe by Guesnet as EAJS Secretary.

 Other symposia have been facilitated by our long-standing collaborations with external, non-
 academic organizations around London. Our key partners include the Lithuanian Embassy, with
 whom Beeri, Berkowitz, Gilbert, and Kahn run collaboratively the ‘Litvak Days’, an annual public

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 event (since 2015) hosted at both the Embassy and at UCL, combining academic conference
 presentations and musical performances. At the Polish Embassy and the Institute for Polish-
 Jewish Studies, Guesnet and the IJS run the annual conference ‘Polin’. Both annual events
 involve contributions of international colleagues, and attract audiences of over 100 (several
 hundreds on 3 June 2020, when Litvak Days ran as a webinar). Our partnership with these
 embassies is politically important, and also gives us access to new audiences for dissemination
 of our research. Events have also been held with JW3 (the leading Jewish cultural centre in
 London and key constituency for our Department) and the Polish Cultural Institute (London).

 Further knowledge exchange is achieved through the presentation of individual papers at other
 institutions and academic events. Invited papers, including keynote and prestigious lectures,
 were delivered in the UK (c.50), Europe (c.50), Israel (c.25), the USA (c.60), ex-Soviet states,
 South Africa, Australia, and South Korea. Berkowitz regularly lectures across a wide range of
 universities in the USA. We also participate regularly at the conferences of international
 professional associations, e.g. British Association of Jewish Studies (BAJS – annual), EAJS
 (quadrennial), Association of Jewish Studies (American, annual), and World Union of Jewish
 Studies (quadrennial), and of more subject-specific associations, e.g. Society of Biblical
 Literature, National Association of Professors of Hebrew, European Association of Israel
 Studies.


 Dissemination to non-academic audiences

 Dissemination to non-academic audiences is of reciprocal benefit: public events speak to and
 engage communities while conversely enriching our own research. Targeted societal impact is
 generated through public lectures to specifically non-academic audiences from London
 synagogues, Jewish societies and community centres, museums and libraries, and Jewish and
 other secondary schools. We actively contribute to significant, annual Jewish educational
 events, such as Jewish Book Week, the Jewish Film Festival, and Limmud Conferences (in the
 UK, South Africa, and Australia). Public lectures have been given at UCL’s annual Festival of
 Culture, UCL’s Lunch Hour Lecture series, and the UCL Petrie Museum. Other, notable venues
 have been the House of Commons (Guesnet), the Institute for Ismaili Studies, Israeli Stage
 Boston (Anziska), Sielecki Castle, Sosnowiec, Poland, and 92nd Street Y, New York
 (Berkowitz). Lochery has lectured in Porto to the YPO Gold Business Leaders, to the NATO
 Joint Command, to the Lisbon Poppy Ball, and on the cruise ship ‘The World’.

 Beer and Kahn direct courses at the annual Yiddish Summer Schools in London (‘Ot Azoy’, in
 partnership with the Jewish Music Institute and SOAS, c.80 participants), and contribute
 teaching to Yiddish summer schools in Paris, Brussels, and Weimar. Short courses in Yiddish
 were also given by Beer and Beeri at the Jewish Museum (London) and the Oxford Synagogue.
 Together with a PhD student, Kahn has contributed Hebrew teaching to the London Summer
 School in Classics. Kahn has written a textbook, The Routledge Introductory Course in Biblical
 Hebrew (2014).

 We have long-standing commitments in community education, Gilbert running short courses on
 her research in modern Jewish history at the Sir Martin Gilbert Learning Centre (see Section 1),
 and Stern running a weekly Talmud class at HGS synagogue (since 2003). Engagement with
 non-academic audiences informs directly our research: thus, two Talmud-related articles of
 Stern (2013 and 2014) were researched and published as a direct outcome of his weekly
 Talmud classes at HGSS.

 ‘Popular’ publications offer another way of disseminating our research. Several staff have
 contributed research-based articles to the press and popular journals, including the New York
 Times, New York Review of Books, Wall Street Journal, National Post (Canada), Politco, History
 Today, BBC World Histories Magazine, The Conversationalist, Jewish Chronicle, Jerusalem
 Post, Der Spiegel, Spektrum der Wissenschaft. Stern has contributed online popular articles to
 the SBL website Bible Odyssey and the British Library’s website. Berkowitz contributes blogs to

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the UCL European Institute. In collaboration with students and staff of UCL Computer Science,
 Berkowitz produced two apps for visitors to the East End, both awarded by the British
 Computing Society (2014).


 Theatre and opera performances

 Most outstanding of all our public engagement activities have been the frequently sold-out
 research-based theatre and opera performances produced by Kahn and by Berkowitz, which
 have engaged students and a range of diverse professionals and colleagues across England
 and introduced new audiences to neglected works.

 Kahn produced, as AHRC Leadership Fellow, the world premiere of the late 19th-century first
 Hebrew translation of Romeo and Juliet, performed at the UCL Bloomsbury Studio Theatre, 28
 March 2017, with a cast of students to a capacity audience of 57. This was followed by a
 performance of the Hebrew version (by the same translator) of Othello, which Kahn produced
 with PhD student Paul Moore, at the Bloomsbury, 19-20 June 2018 (near sell-out both nights).

 Berkowitz produced (again to near-capacity audiences) the sadly overlooked opera The Tsar
 wants his photograph taken by Kurt Weill and Georg Kaiser at the Bloomsbury, 4-5 February
 2016, with an academic presentation. The opera was reprised at the Bloomsbury Main Theatre,
 with an audience of 400, on 4 May 2019. He then created and produced his own research-based
 musical, Man and God, at the Bloomsbury, 18 May 2019 (sold out), followed by a virtual, online
 performance of a seminar and musical on 6 August 2020. Berkowitz also co-produced with Lisa
 Peschel (University of York) plays from the Theresienstadt Ghetto, with an introductory lecture,
 at the Bloomsbury Theatre, 7-8 February 2015. All these productions drew explicitly on
 Berkowitz’s research on the role of Jews in 20th-century photography, and are elaborated upon
 in his Impact Case Study.


 Media appearances, interviews, consultancies

 We engage with non-academic publics through frequent media appearances. Lochery was
 featured as a speaking character in David Hare’s cartoon film Wall (on the West Bank separation
 fence). Stern appeared in a televised debate on BBC4 (3 November 2013), and in a
 documentary on Ahlulbayt TV, SKY channel 831 I am a non-Muslim, and I wear Hijab (2016).
 Berkowitz was interviewed for Canadian Television National News, BBC World Television
 Service, and Sunrise TV, on the liberation of Auschwitz commemoration in 2015. He was also
 interviewed for a documentary film about Picture Post by Rob West, Ship of Life Films (2019),
 and for the 'Soho Bites' podcast (2019). Radio interviews are given by staff on world-wide
 channels, such as Voice of Islam, Radio Sefarad, Radio Orlando, Sputnik News Agency, etc.
 Press interviews are given by staff to international news distributors, such as The Guardian, New
 York Times, Washington Post, Time Magazine, National Geographic Magazine, Jewish
 Chronicle; Times of Israel, etc.

 Berkowitz gave transformative advice to the National Theatre for its production of The Lehman
 Brothers Trilogy (cf. his Impact Case Study) and also collaborated with filmmaker Luke Holland
 with research for Final Account: Third Reich testimonies. Anziska advised France 3 Via Stella for
 its documentary series The Price of Peace, and Lebanese film producer Mazen Khaled for two
 films on the 1982 war, Aliyah and Sabra and Shatila. Stern acted as consultant for a
 documentary film on the Jewish calendar by TruthTable Ministries (Arizona). Staff have given
 expert advice to television and radio channels such as Al-Jazeera and the BBC (e.g. for the
 series Who Do You Think You Are?).


 Consultancies for exhibitions


                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We work closely with museums and exhibitions, locally and internationally. Lochery has led tours
 abroad for the United States National WWII Museum, and is actively contributing to the Museum
 PRATA, Porto, and to the forthcoming 'World of Wine' exhibition in Porto, Portugal, for which he
 has already published two books in 2020. He also played a leading role in an exhibition at the
 Hotel Palacio (Estoril, Lisbon) in 2014 on espionage in WWII.

 Other staff members have been collaborating with museums in preparation of exhibitions on
 their areas of research: Stern, for a forthcoming exhibition at the Yeshiva University Museum
 (New York) on the Jewish calendar, and for the British Library’s exhibition on ‘Hebrew
 Manuscripts: Journeys of the Written Word’ (now open); Berkowitz, for several exhibitions at the
 Wiener Library, the Ben Uri Gallery, and the Insiders/Outsiders Festival, 2019-20; Beer, for the
 UNESCO Exhibition at the Paris Yiddish Centre; Anziska, for the Sursok Museum (Beirut) and
 Palestinian Museum (Ramallah). Collaborative activity with the Jewish Museum (London) is
 frequent.


 Policy and public consultancies

 Anziska, Guesnet and Lochery have advised members of the House of Lords, the UK the
 Foreign and Commonwealth Office, and the German Bundestag. Berkowitz serves as expert-
 witness on the situation of the Jews in Ukraine for an asylum case (for Duncan Lewis Solicitors,
 London, since 2017). Stern advised the Metropolitan Police about looted archaeological material
 (2016). Anziska is non-resident fellow of the US-Middle East Project, advising policymakers on
 Israeli-Palestinian relations, and also advisor for Makan; the impact of his consultancies is
 elaborated upon in his Impact Case Study.

 Kahn with Kriszta Szendroi are Yiddish consultants to Interlink, Stamford Hill, London. On 23-5
 March 2020, their AHRC research team produced Hasidic Yiddish translations of time-sensitive
 NHS Covid-19 communications for London's Hasidic community. These were used by the NHS,
 the Metropolitan Police, and Hackney Council, and were distributed through local charities
 (Shomrim, Bikur Cholim), bloggers, and a local Yiddish newsletter. Further translations have
 since been made by the AHRC team and disseminated among Hasidic communities in
 Manchester and Boisbriand, Quebec. This resourceful initiative has been commended for its
 international contribution to public health in the early stages of the pandemic.

 Our multiple research collaborations, our contributions to the research base in the form of peer
 review and editorial work, and our rich contributions to society and culture through public
 engagement, conferences and events, theatre and opera performances, media contributions,
 and a wide range of public consultancies, effectively promote our mission by enabling our
 research in Hebrew and Jewish Studies to achieve productive impact and the widest reach.




                                                                                            Page 14
