Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Bath Spa University

 Unit of assessment: UoA 27 - English Language and Literature

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Context and structure
 As a thriving, innovative, internationally engaged and highly successful research community of
 scholars and practitioners, Creative Writing and English Literature together constitute one of
 BSU’s oldest, strongest, and largest UoAs. The achievements of these 2 subject areas derive
 in large part from the deep and meaningful interdisciplinary relationship they have maintained
 with each other from their origins as a single department to their current positions as separate
 departments in the School of Creative Industries and the School of Humanities respectively:
 much of the originality, vitality, and sustainability of staff research and impact activity is
 underpinned by this shared ethos of critical and creative practice.

 The UoA hosts several ‘School-level’ research centres and groups (the latter have a narrower
 focus or represent emerging research clusters that are not yet sufficiently established): the
 Bath Spa Creative Writing Research Centre (led by English); the Making Books Research
 Centre (co-led by Gadd); Research Centre for Mental Health, Wellbeing and Creativity (Walton
 and Filer); and the Empathy and Writing Research Group (co-led by Gee).

 The UoA is submitting 44 members of staff (equivalent to 32.35 FTE), who comprise 17
 Professors, 5 Readers, and 1 Early Stage Researcher, alongside 2 additional Professors who
 left during the REF period. Given the UoA’s scope, there are 2 REF leads: Gadd, based wholly
 in English, and Kerridge, based primarily in Creative Writing.


 Research and impact strategy (2014–20)
 In fulfilling the goals set out in REF2014, the UoA’s achievements have been both wide-ranging
 and transformative. Strategic support at departmental, school, and institutional levels has
 enabled it to become more co-ordinated, more supportive, more engaged, and more effective
 in its research and impact activities (see sections 2, 3 and 4). The separation of Creative
 Writing and English into two distinct Schools was prompted by a shift in the University’s
 pedagogic priorities (e.g. Creative Writing’s close ties with publishing and journalism) but the
 underlying research relationship - individual, conceptual, and structural - have endured. This
 symbiosis between creative and critical practice remains a distinctive feature of individual
 outputs, research environment, and impact case studies, as does the UoA’s commitment to
 producing innovative, rigorous, and socially engaged research.

 Since 2014 the UoA has:

    increased external research income 24-fold (from GBP162,400 to GBP2,534,000),
     including grants for innovative research projects with strong interdisciplinary and socially
     engaged goals (see section 3 and impact case studies UoA27-2 LLC and UoA27-3
     NWB);
    increased the number of staff submitted to the REF by over 50% (from 30 to 46);
    consolidated and extended its position as a research leader in areas such as creative
     writing, ecocriticism, and Gothic studies, while also enabling new areas of research
     excellence as identified in 2014—notably writing for young people, history of the book, and
     digital writing and criticism—to become part of the UoA’s core strengths (see sections 2
     and 4 and impact case studies UoA27-1 WYP and UoA27-3 NWB);
    transitioned the UoA’s Centre for Contemporary Writing into the Bath Spa Creative Writing
     Research Centre to encompass the full breadth of creative writing activity across the
     University (all Creative Writing staff and PhD students are members);

Page 1
    transformed the Writing and the Environment Research Centre into a strategic university-
     wide Research Centre for Environmental Humanities;
    reconstituted the relatively small Book Text Place, 1500-1750 Research Centre with its
     interest in the material and situated nature of textual production into a much larger
     interdisciplinary Making Books Research Centre, hosted within the UoA;
    identified an emerging interdisciplinary strength around mental health which it has bolstered
     through the establishment of a new UoA research centre and a new UoA research group:
     Research Centre for Mental Health, Wellbeing and Creativity, and the Empathy and Writing
     Research Group;
    enabled English staff to strengthen their research specialisms and to secure significant
     external awards (Hill, AHRC Leadership Fellowship; Morrison, British Academy Global
     Professorship; Stenning, Wellcome Research Fellow in Humanities and Social Sciences)
     despite specific challenges in light of changing student recruitment patterns;
    facilitated collaborative research, both across the University and with academic and non-
     academic partners in the UK and beyond (see sections 2 and 4);
    diversified its impact activities through UoA staff participation in large-scale strategic
     funding (‘Paper Nations’, ‘Literary Platform’, ‘South West Creative Technology Network’ and
     ‘Bristol and Bath Creative Research and Development Project’) as well as through public
     exhibitions (‘The City Celebrates’, ‘Show of Hands’) and podcasts (‘Living with Poets’, ‘This
     Podcast will Change Your Mind about Mental Health’);
    contributed directly to the establishment of the two other strategic university-wide research
     centres—the Centre for Transnational Creativity and Education and the Centre for Cultural
     and Creative Industries—through Creative Writing’s pioneering work in the field of
     transnational writing and the UoA’s ongoing engagement with the cultural and creative
     industries and with digital technologies respectively, with staff across the UoA being
     actively involved with both research centres;
    seen UoA staff appointed to key strategic leadership roles across the University, notably
     the directorship of two of the three strategic university-wide research centres (Centre for
     Cultural and Creative Industries led by Pullinger; Research Centre for Environmental
     Humanities led by Rigby) and the Pro-Vice Chancellorship for Research and Enterprise
     (Strachan).
    supported flourishing communities of PhD students and early stage researchers in both
     subject areas (see section 2);
    strengthened the international profile of its research, particularly through strategic
     engagement with the Global Academy of Liberal Arts (GALA), an international network
     established by BSU in 2014, and through the award of a British Academy Global
     Professorship.

 The UoA’s approach to impact builds on its extensive and substantial track record of public
 outreach but extends well beyond readings, lectures, and performances to demonstrate how
 creative writers and literary scholars are uniquely placed to shape how individuals apprehend
 and articulate the complexities of their own lived experience. The shared commitment to the
 interrelationships between creative and critical practice has enabled UoA staff to develop
 distinctive and nuanced dialogues with communities outside the University. These qualities
 were evidenced in the 2014 impact submission but the case studies highlighted here
 demonstrate how the UoA’s understanding and management of impact has improved in
 sophistication and effect.

 As the climate change and biodiversity loss crises have deepened, so the social and policy
 impact of UoA research into ecocriticism has become an increased priority. Drawing on the
 research of Walton into the relationships between nature, wellbeing and health, ICS UoA27-3
 NWB explores the value of nature for individuals and communities through engagement not
 only with major national organisations (e.g. BBC, RSPB, The Wildlife Trusts) and scientific and
 civic stakeholders, but also with local groups (e.g. festivals, environmental and protest groups):
 this led to renewed public interest in the writings of Nan Shepherd as well as a reconsideration


Page 2
 among policymakers and practitioners of the value of arts and humanities perspectives in
 environmental policy and research contexts.

 As an academic centre for pioneering creative writing, the UoA has made considerable
 economic, social, and cultural contributions to the UK’s creative industries and has helped to
 shape the literary marketplace (see section 4). ICS UoA27-1 WYP focuses specifically on the
 impact of a team of creative writers for young people (Almond, Christopher, Green, Nadin,
 Skuse, and Voake) who, through their writing and public engagement activities, have shaped
 young people’s reading practices, inspired new writers (especially among young people), and
 had a significant impact on the publishing industry in the UK and internationally.

 Early modern studies was identified as a research strength in 2014, with a particular focus on
 material culture, identity and place. In ICS UoA27-2 LLC Hill and Gadd draw on their
 longstanding research into the pre-modern livery companies of London to help the modern
 companies to reflect on their past histories, to inform their cultural activities and strategies, and
 to shape attitudes about the value of companies, both past and present, as agents of ‘civic
 impact’.

 Ensuring vitality and sustainability in research and impact
 The university-wide Strategic Research Centres - the Research Centre for Environmental
 Humanities (RCEH) and the Centre for Cultural and Creative Industries (CCCI) - support and
 facilitate UoA research in multiple ways. In addition to the directors, UoA staff sit on the
 steering groups (Kerridge and Walton, RCEH; Brain and Gadd, CCCI), shaping priorities,
 organising activities, and developing projects. These research centres organise seminars,
 lectures, and conferences to showcase UoA research beyond the University: e.g. RCEH’s
 ongoing public lecture series and the Marine Transgressions Conference (2018), in
 collaboration with the University of Bristol; CCCI’s hosting of MIX, a biennial international
 conference focused on creative writing and new technologies. They also provide university-
 wide opportunities to share and develop research ideas through presentations and workshops,
 and to identify collaborative partners outside of the UoA. CCCI in particular organises training
 activities to support practice-based research and interdisciplinarity that is of particular
 relevance to UoA staff: e.g. ‘Interdisciplinarity and Creative Research’, ‘Creative methodologies
 workshop: exploring practise-based research’, ‘When does Creative Practice become
 research?’ and monthly online ‘Creative Conversations’.

 The research centres’ involvement in major externally-funded projects provide valuable new
 research and impact-focused opportunities for UoA staff. For example, Alderman, Almond,
 Filer, Forna, Pullinger, and Weldon act as ‘Associate Authors’ for ‘Paper Nations’, a project
 funded by the Arts Council England and led by the Centre for Transnational Creativity and
 Education. RCEH, in collaboration with the University’s research support team, fosters
 individual UoA researchers through seed funding, mentoring, peer review, and mock
 interviews, leading to success with the AHRC (Walton: Early Career Leadership Fellowship,
 2016-18) and the Wellcome Trust (Stenning: Research Fellowships in Humanities and Social
 Science, 2019-22).

 The UoA-hosted research centres support research in different ways. Through regular events
 and newsletters, the Bath Spa Creative Writing Research Centre facilitates research
 collaboration and discussions, the sharing of academic and industry perspectives, and the
 exchange of ideas among creative writing staff and PhD students, both within and beyond
 individuals’ specialist forms or genres. It is also directly involved in the organisation of the MIX
 conferences. The Making Books Research Centre explores the concept of the book as both a
 created artefact and an object of study from interdisciplinary perspectives: it has organised
 internal ‘Ideas Hacks’ to facilitate collaboration across the University and worked with CCCI
 and external research centres (including the Centre for the Comparative History of Print at the
 University of Leeds and the Centre for Printing History and Culture in Birmingham) as part of
 the ‘Letterpress: Past, Present, and Future’ AHRC-funded network. It has appointed 2 visiting

Page 3
 research fellows, organised seminars and symposia, curated a successful public exhibition
 (‘Show of Hands’) that toured York and London (the latter postponed because of the
 pandemic), and hosted artist and printers residencies. Gadd and Pullinger’s involvement in
 the AHRC-funded ‘Ambient Literature’ project (2016–18) drew directly on research
 collaborations fostered through the research centre, and the centre also co-hosted research
 events related to that project’s research outcomes.

 The UoA’s emerging interdisciplinary interest in mental health, wellbeing, and medicine is
 reflected in a research group and a very new research centre, as well as Stenning’s Wellcome
 Fellowship, which focuses on autistic life and nature writing. The Empathy and Writing research
 group, co-founded by Gee in late 2014, explores the emerging field of ‘creative empathy’,
 bringing UoA staff (e.g. Brain, Christopher, Filer, Rigby, and Woodward) together with other
 researchers in the University, especially in Psychology, to consider the uses and limits
 of empathy in different professional practices. By sharing insights and perspectives through
 regular meetings, it has informed research projects in Creative Writing and Psychology. The
 Research Centre for Mental Health, Wellbeing, and Creativity (co-founded by Filer and
 Walton) was established in March 2020 to explore the affective, personal, political, and
 spiritual dimensions of mental wellbeing and ill-health, and to demonstrate how the arts and
 humanities are crucial to ensuring equitable, just, and empathetic mental health practice. It also
 aims to engage directly with the University’s commitment to creating an inclusive culture that
 supports staff and student wellbeing. Its membership is currently drawn primarily from Creative
 Writing and English (Brayfield, Christopher, Gee, Peters, and Stenning) but also includes
 colleagues from Education, Psychology, Criminology, Sociology, and Drama.

 The UoA has strengthened its international profile through both individual and institutional
 connections. These connections include international fellowships (Gadd, Walton, Rigby), an
 international professorship (Morrison), visiting professorships (Peters), international research
 funding (Gadd), and also strategic funding from the University. Of particular importance is the
 Global Academy of Liberal Arts (GALA), a community of 19 diverse, innovative, and socially
 responsible universities and colleges across 14 countries, whose aims are to transform lives
 and to enhance global understanding through interdisciplinary collaboration in teaching and
 research. GALA was founded by Bath Spa in 2014 and the University continues to manage the
 network’s activities and events. Internal BSU funding has supported UoA staff and PGR
 collaborations with GALA partners in the USA, Canada, the Netherlands, Sweden, Ethiopia,
 South Africa, India, and Australia.

 Supporting interdisciplinarity
 UoA staff continue to be among the most collaborative and interdisciplinary researchers in the
 University. Many actively produce both critical and creative works (e.g. Borodale, Brain,
 Brayfield, Gee, Hensher, Hooper, Kerridge, Pullinger, Strachan, Walton, and Wright) while
 Creative Writing and English staff regularly co-supervise PGR students in both subject areas,
 with over a third of the 28 PhD completions in the UoA since 2014 involving mixed supervisory
 teams. The collaborations between Gadd (English) and Pullinger (Creative Writing) exemplify
 this: over the REF period, they have co-founded and co-directed the Making Books Research
 Centre, co-supervised a PhD student, and been Co-Is on the AHRC-funded Ambient Literature
 project. Much of the research activity in English is interdisciplinary, engaging with, for example,
 social, cultural, and political history (Hill on early modern London and Ivic on early modern
 nation-building), history of the book (Gadd on copyright and reading practices), history of
 science (Hadjiafxendi on Victorian natural history, Hughes on phrenology, Stenning on
 autism), history of medicine (Walton on mental health; Morrison on addiction) philosophy and
 religion (Rigby on ecocriticism), and biodiversity conservation and climate research (Kerridge
 and Rigby).

 Research centres and research groups are key incubators for interdisciplinary research within
 the UoA and beyond. The roles that UoA staff played in the establishment of the university-
 wide research centres speaks to the UoA’s success in modelling dynamic and meaningful

Page 4
 interdisciplinarity. Although each of the research centres has developed its own mechanisms
 for facilitating and supporting interdisciplinary research across the University, the interplay
 between critical and creative practice that has long underpinned the relationship between
 Creative Writing and English is central to each, enabling ‘poiesis’ and ‘praxis’ to combine in
 significantly impactful ways. For example, the co-founders of the Research Centre for Mental
 Health, Wellbeing, and Creativity come from English (Walton) and Creative Writing (Filer), a
 combination that, to quote the Centre’s brief, will ‘bridg[e] the gap between our academic and
 practical endeavours’ by, amongst other things, encouraging staff across the University to build
 wellbeing into their research bids. Interdisciplinarity is also at the core of the Empathy and
 Writing Research Group (primarily Creative Writing and Psychology) and the Making Books
 Research Centre, whose directors are drawn from English (Gadd), Design, and Publishing.
 This reflects its goal of bringing together scholars, creative practitioners, and cultural
 professionals from across the University, for example, by recently identifying an
 interdisciplinary research cluster around book-making and artists’ books.

 Future research and impact strategy
 The UoA’s goal for the next 5 years is to become an internationally recognised model for
 engaged and interdisciplinary research and practice across the subject areas of English
 Literature and Creative Writing. The UoA will support existing and emerging research
 strengths (creative writing, ecocriticism, writing for young people, Gothic studies, history of the
 book and digital studies, and crime fiction) through mentoring and the strategic use of QR
 funding. The UoA leads will also work with the UoA research centres and groups as well as
 research leaders across the University to establish new opportunities for collaboration and
 creative and critical interchange, and to ensure that the UoA remains integral to the University’s
 success as a research institution. The UoA will embed the UN’s Sustainable Development
 Goals into its impact strategy, focusing particularly on health and wellbeing, inclusive and
 equitable education, social resilience and sustainability, and climate change. It will also further
 strengthen international research ties through the strategic use of the University’s staff mobility
 programmes, its Global Challenges Research Funding seed funding, and the GALA network.

 Shared interests in the value of fostering creativity and the urgency of tackling the
 environmental crisis will strengthen the UoA’s continuing, existing relationships with the
 Strategic Research Centres, (the Centre for Transnational Creativity and Education, and the
 Research Centre for Environmental Humanities), and the UoA will also encourage its staff to
 work more closely with the Centre for Cultural and Creative Industries to explore the challenges
 and opportunities of digital technologies for creative writing, literary analysis (including
 computational approaches), and the history of the book. The Bath Spa Creative Writing
 Research Centre will develop a programme of impact-focused talks alongside its existing
 activities. The Making Books Research Centre will develop its interest in book-making and
 artists’ books to enhance collaboration across the University and to engage with the public
 through practice-based workshops. The Research Centre for Mental Health, Wellbeing, and
 Creativity and the Empathy and Writing Research Group will grow, enabling mental and
 emotional health to become distinctive cross-UoA research strengths.

 The UoA leads will work with the University’s Research Support Office (RSO) to coordinate
 mentoring of early stage researchers and staff development across the UoA, to distribute QR
 and other internal funding opportunities more strategically, and to improve the timeliness and
 efficacy of bid-writing. Given the extraordinary growth in external funding within the UoA and
 the likelihood of an increasingly competitive funding landscape, the UoA’s priority for the next 5
 years is to maintain the current high level of income while also increasing the proportion of UoA
 staff who are involved in externally-funded research and diversifying the sources of income,
 including strengthening the UoA’s consultancy work, particularly in Creative Writing. It will
 consolidate its position as an internationally recognised university for Creative Writing PhDs,
 while continuing to build the PGR community in English Literature, particularly in history of the
 book, early modern studies, modernism, ecocriticism, and crime fiction.


Page 5
 Open research and integrity
 The UoA’s strategy is guided by the institutional strategy, policies, and processes as described
 in the REF5a Institutional Environment statement (IES 2.8.1). The University’s REF Code of
 Practice gives the UoA leads responsibility for ensuring that UoA colleagues ‘keep their details
 on ResearchSPAce [the institutional open access repository] up-to-date’. Visibility of the UoA’s
 outputs allows the Library repository team to gather full text and datasets, as appropriate, for
 open publication. The UoA leads are able to monitor open research compliance via metrics
 provided through the University’s annual quality review.

 The UoA works closely with the Library repository team to ensure that all SRR staff have a
 clear understanding of open-research requirements and opportunities. The Library team
 provides progress reports at bimonthly UoA lead meetings and offers refresher sessions to the
 UoA’s SRR staff who have not logged into the repositories for more than 12 months. The UoA’s
 online staff profiles are automatically populated with publication data from the open access
 repository, incentivising academic engagement. The University’s annual reviews of output
 quality and REF SRR status will only consider outputs that have been recorded in the
 University’s open access repositories. To facilitate this, the Library team proactively monitor the
 open-access status of the UoA’s outputs, requesting full-text content where publisher policies
 allow. The BathSPA data repository is available to host accompanying research data from the
 UoA outputs, in keeping with the UK Concordat on Open Research Data.

 Within the institutional strategy there is scope for the UoA to develop its own approach to open
 research, going beyond the minimum requirements of REF2021. Several UoA staff (Gregg,
 Lloyd, Rigby, and Walton) have published in peer-reviewed open-access online journals;
 Rigby also sits on the editorial board for the open-access Humanities. For English Literature,
 where the monograph remains central to the discipline's scholarly culture, this has led the UoA
 to consider the challenges for open-access monographs. The UoA supports the principle that
 scholarly monographs developed with public funds should be made publicly available, to the
 practical extent that open access funds allow. Within resource limitations, the UoA is taking
 practical steps to realise this principle, most notably by securing Gold Open Access for
 Gregg’s study of how a major digital resource (Eighteenth Century Collections Online) has
 profoundly shaped humanities scholarship: the breadth of its scope and conclusions, including
 reflections on the politics of digital access, made it an ideal candidate for full public access. In
 addition, the UoA has increased the number of book chapters by UoA authors that have been
 made openly available, making use of 'green' open-access publisher policies alongside library
 investment in the development of sustainable funding models for open access
 monographs. Hill’s 2010 monograph and a chapter by Rigby in a collection of essays have
 both been made freely available under MUP’s Open Access content programme during this
 REF period. The library has pledged funds to the Knowledge Unlatched project, a consortial
 initiative to ‘unlock’ monographs for open access publication, including a collection of literature
 titles. The Library also supports the Open Library of Humanities (OLH), a publishing model
 intended to drive the transition to full and immediate open access for scholarly journals (‘Plan
 S’). This includes titles in which UoA staff have published such as the Journal of British and
 Irish Innovative Poetry (Walton). The UoA is able to monitor progress towards making its
 monographs openly accessible through the University’s annual quality review.

 The UoA supports a culture of research integrity through a research ethics procedure,
 overseen by the University’s Research and Ethics Committee. The University’s Ethics Peer
 Review College, which comprises representatives from each School (e.g. Kerridge on behalf
 of the School of Creative Industries), supports researchers in developing ethically robust
 research projects, and formally reviews ethics applications that consider responsibilities to:
 participants, sponsors, clients and stakeholders in research, the community of educational
 researchers, publication and dissemination, and researchers’ wellbeing and development.
 Kerridge co-drafted the University’s revised ethics policy, ensuring particular attention was
 paid to creative works.

Page 6
 Section 2. People
 Staffing strategy
 The UoA has implemented a deliberate and sustained policy of growth over the last decade. In
 2008 it returned 18.7 FTE category A staff (23 people); by 2014, the FTE (21.05) had grown
 modestly (by 13%) while the headcount (30) had increased by almost 25%. In the current
 round, it is entering 32.35 FTE (an increase of 54%), with a headcount of 46 (53% increase). In
 part, this reflects underlying growth in Category A staff but it also signals a significant
 strengthening of the UoA’s research profile.

 The appointment in 2012 of 11 new professorships across Creative Writing and English
 Literature as part of a major university-wide programme of research investment was designed
 to immediately stimulate the UoA’s research profile, but they have also had an enduring
 impact. They played active roles in the development of university-wide and UoA research
 centres (most notably, Pullinger became the founding Director of CCCI). Strachan is now the
 University’s Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Research and Enterprise. 9 of the 2012 cohort are
 providing submissions for REF 2021, and 8 remain in post.

 The UoA staffing strategy has built on these key appointments in two distinct ways. First, there
 have been two further external professorial appointments: the appointment of Rigby as
 professor in 2016 to lead the newly formed Research Centre for Environmental Humanities
 provided vital research leadership in the field of environmental humanities, while Morrison’s
 recent appointment as a British Academy Global Professorship (with a particular focus on the
 literary representations of addiction) significantly enhances the UoA’s vitality in nineteenth-
 century literature and the medical humanities more broadly. There have also been several
 strategic appointments of early stage researchers specifically to bolster existing research
 strengths, especially in interdisciplinary research e.g. creative writing and medical humanities
 (Filer), creative writing and journalism (Glaser), nineteenth-century literature and digital studies
 (Lloyd), creative writing and environmental humanities (Moss), TV adaptation and crossover
 between young adult and adult fiction (Nadin), and ecocriticism and medical humanities
 (Walton). Wherever possible, the UoA makes permanent appointments rather than offering
 short-term positions, except to replace colleagues on externally funded research projects (all
 but 4 UoA staff submitted here have permanent contracts).

 Staff Development
 The UoA is committed to supporting and developing staff at all stages of their careers, through
 mentoring, promotional opportunities, workload management, research training, and
 engagement with the research centres.

 UoA staff actively mentor early stage researchers, with senior professors (Gadd, Hughes, Hill,
 Pullinger, Strachan) participating in BSU’s Early Stage Researcher mentoring programme;
 the UoA also provides additional mentoring to support ESRs in developing external research
 bids with notable successes (AHRC and Wellcome). There has also been focused mentoring
 by the relevant UoA lead of established colleagues in need of research guidance: for example,
 this has allowed the UoA to revitalise early modern studies by supporting Ivic, who was not
 entered to REF2014, to make a strong submission to REF for the first time. Senior researchers
 with expertise and experience in publishing and editing (e.g. Kerridge, Liardet, Hughes,
 Hensher, Gadd, and others) mentor ESRs and other researchers in the skills needed for
 finding a publisher and preparing work for submission. More broadly the UoA leads have
 focused on encouraging internal promotions through the annual application rounds for research
 professorships and readerships, by assisting colleagues with applications to ensure due
 recognition for their research success: since 2014 there have been 6 UoA successful
 applications for readership (Brain, Christopher, Glaser, Harvey, Hooper, and Walton) and 4
 UoA successful applications for professorships (Brain, Green, Hill, and Peters).



Page 7
 The introduction of a university-wide workload planning model in 2017 enabled the
 formalisation of practices across the institution. The UoA complies with the terms of the BSU
 Code of Conduct for REF, namely that staff designated as having ‘significant responsibility for
 research’ have a minimum annual allocation of 180 hours (pro-rata) for research activity (the
 equivalent of one day per teaching week), with a further allocation expected for research
 readers and professors. Research leaders and those working on specific research projects
 may also seek additional time in consultation with their line manager. Research and scholarly
 activity is also a specific part of the annual staff appraisal process. In practice, the flexibility of
 line managers in timetabling and the strategic distribution of QR funds by UoA leads has
 enabled staff to secure additional allocations to help meet key deadlines or fulfil important
 research responsibilities.

 UoA staff participate actively in contributing to a wide range of research training workshops,
 programmes, online materials, and other activities organised by the University’s Research
 Development Manager in line with the Vitae RDF. These cover broad topics such as research
 leadership, international funding opportunities, bid-writing, impact and public engagement,
 writing for journals, research integrity and ethics, and also focus on methodologies,
 approaches, and techniques of specific relevance to the UoA (e.g. practice-based research,
 research collaboration between humanities and social sciences, and data visualisation). All
 early career researchers are given the opportunity to be allocated a mentor from across the
 University’s wider research leadership community, with professional external coaches brought
 onto campus to offer colleagues one-on-one coaching for the development of their careers,
 publications, and research profiles. All staff are encouraged to apply for internal HEQR and
 public engagement seed funding schemes to support their research, impact, and engagement
 activities. The tangible benefits of these opportunities can be seen both in internal funding
 awarded to UoA staff (GBP193,60 over the REF period) and in the accomplishments of
 individual researchers. For example, Walton, a ‘graduate’ of the dedicated ESR training and
 mentoring programme, secured 2 major external research awards and was promoted to
 Reader.

 PGR Students
 The UoA is highly experienced in recruiting and supervising to completion PGR students in
 both English and Creative Writing, and is a leading exemplar in successful practice-based PhD
 provision. PGR numbers have remained relatively constant since 2014, with currently 36 PhD
 students across the UoA. Completions, though, have increased markedly: 28 completions
 since 2014, up 100% on the previous period, and an additional 7 students through the
 international low residency programme (not eligible to be included in HESA data).

 The doctoral programme in Creative Writing continues to be one of the largest and most
 successful in the UK, and supplies a high proportion of the UoA’s PGR completions (21) and
 enrolments (28). BSU has pioneered the teaching of the subject at this level, both as a
 conventionally-supervised programme and a distance-learning programme that has proved
 particularly attractive to international students (typically 6 students are enrolled into this
 programme). Creative Writing PhD students are now automatically integrated into the Bath Spa
 Creative Writing Research Centre (this was not the case previously), and are supported
 through regular masterclasses featuring guest speakers from the national and international
 creative writing research community, including industry representatives such as literary agents
 and publishers. Distance-learning students attend short residential programmes each year, in
 which they work with conventional students and the full creative writing research community.

 PhD completions in English Literature have been modest but we have made a concerted effort
 to increase PGR enrolments. Early modern studies (including the history of the book) and
 modernism have continued to attract PhD students while the success of the recently
 established MA in Crime and Gothic Fictions has led to a cluster of crime fiction PhD students.
 PGR students are regularly included in departmental research and social activities.


Page 8
 Bath Spa University has been an active partner in the AHRC-funded South West and Wales
 Doctoral Training Partnership (SWW1, 8 partners) which has supported 270 students between
 2014/15 to 2018/19, and its successor programme (SWW2, 10 partners) which began in
 2019/20. Successful students are supervised across two institutions; they receive fee-waivers,
 full bursaries, and targeted support for research activities such as archival work. They also
 participate in a bespoke programme of research training events across the partnership. The
 UoA recruited 11 DTP students as part of SWW1: 9 in Creative Writing (BSU as the lead
 institution for 3), 2 in English Literature (BSU as the lead institution for both), and 1 in
 Environmental Humanities. Several UoA staff (Binckes, Brain, Hensher, Hill, Ivic, Kerridge,
 Strachan, and Walton) have served on the subject panels, with Brain chairing the SWW1
 Critical and Creative Panel for 2016/17 and 2017/18.

 The UoA offered targeted fee-waiver PhD scholarships from 2013/14 onwards to build strength
 in the area of Digital Writing (4 PhDs, all completed) and in Environmental Humanities (2 PhDs,
 completed) as well as a Collaborative Doctoral Partnership with the British Library, awarded in
 2015/16 (GBP68,648). In addition, 7 members of UoA staff have been funded internally to
 undertake PhDs (of whom 6 have completed thus far).

 Beyond the SWWDTP and CDP programmes, UoA students are co-supervised by a Director of
 Studies, a second supervisor, and on occasion a third external supervisor, with monthly
 supervisory meetings the norm for full-time students. Students are required to complete a
 series of doctoral training workshops organised by the Graduate College and the Researcher
 Development Team, guiding them from the earliest stages of their research project through to
 the viva and beyond. In addition, they are encouraged to participate in the wider programme of
 researcher training events run by the Researcher Development Team and other doctoral
 activities, such as the annual ‘3-Minute Thesis’ competition.

 High quality supervision is crucial to the success and vitality of the UoA’s PGR community.
 Supervisory training is mandatory, with staff encouraged to attend regular ‘refresher’
 workshops and to share best practice with junior staff; here the experiences of both seasoned
 Creative Writing and English Literature PhD supervisors are especially valuable.

 Equality and Diversity
 All new colleagues are enrolled in the UK’s Professional Standards Framework for teaching in
 higher education (FHEA), to ensure their engagement in ‘continuing professional development
 in subjects/disciplines and their pedagogy, incorporating research, scholarship and the
 evaluation of professional practices.’ The University complies with the Universities UUK
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity and seeks to foster a diverse and inclusive
 environment through regular workshops run by the Diversity Trust and other external partners
 on issues of diversity, equality and inclusivity, as well as requiring all staff to complete a range
 of online learning modules, such as ‘Diversity in the Workplace’ and ‘Unconscious Bias’. The
 University is also a formal partner on Fika, an R&D-informed app inspired by Scandinavian
 culture that aims to mainstream emotional fitness and wellbeing by bringing a daily emotional
 workout to universities and schools around the world through digital media technology.

 Following the process set out in BSU’s Code of Practice for the REF, the UoA established a
 Unit of Assessment Advisory Group, made up of colleagues (Harvey, Liardet, Lloyd,
 Pullinger, and Rigby) from across both subject areas at different levels of seniority. This group
 had responsibility for reviewing and approving the selection of outputs for submission in
 REF2021, ensuring transparency, consistency, accountability, and inclusivity.

 Further information on equality and diversity, and data related to protected characteristics can
 be found in the Equality & Diversity section of the Institutional Environment Statement (section
 3.5).



Page 9
 Section 3: Income, Infrastructure, and Facilities
 The UoA has substantially grown its external research income year-on-year since REF 2014,
 from GBP162,400 to GBP2,534,000 (a 24-fold increase). Major funders included the AHRC,
 British Academy, Research England, Wellcome, the Arts Council England, and Erasmus+.

 Funding strategy
 The UoA’s exceptional success in securing external research income reflects its ability to foster
 genuine collaborative links with researchers and organisations outside the University
 (regionally, nationally, and internationally), the eagerness of UoA staff to engage with
 innovative and interdisciplinary research, and the seriousness with which it treats impact, both
 as a process and as a research outcome. This is a testament not only to the UoA’s growing
 strengths and ambitions, and the success of UoA staff as researchers, but also to the
 effectiveness of mentoring, guidance, and support from UoA research leaders and from the
 RSO, including the Researcher Development Manager. All bids to UK or international research
 funding bodies are submitted to the RSO at an early stage, and are shared with relevant
 research leads and line managers to ensure that support is coordinated effectively. Bids in
 near-final form are submitted to the University’s internal peer review college for scrutiny; 4 UoA
 staff are registered as internal peer reviewers.

 The UoA has been particularly successful in securing funding for early career colleagues:
 Walton, British Academy Rising Star Engagement Awards (‘Landscaping Change’,
 GBP15,000); Walton, AHRC Early Leadership Fellowship (‘Cultures of Nature and Wellbeing’,
 GBP129,000); Stenning, Wellcome Research Fellowships in Humanities and Social Science,
 aimed at postdoctoral researchers who do not hold established academic posts (‘Nature,
 Culture, and Autism’, GBP181,200). In Creative Writing, Filer was recently awarded
 GBP15,000 from the Arts Council England to develop a podcast affiliated with the Research
 Centre for Mental Health, Wellbeing, and Creativity.

 Walton’s experience also demonstrates the UoA’s adeptness in receiving successive funding:
 she received GBP5,000 from the British Academy in follow-on funding, and GBP24,400 from
 the Rachel Carson Centre in Germany for a writing fellowship alongside her AHRC project.
 Hill, too, secured support from the Canadian SSHRC and a fellowship with the Malone Society
 (GBP1,000) for her work on civic drama in early modern London before being awarded an
 AHRC Leadership Fellowship (‘Civic London 1559-1642’, GBP202,048).

 The UoA also has the distinction of hosting a British Academy Global Professorship
 (GBP529,000), with a focus on literature and medical humanities, making Bath Spa University
 the first ‘new’ university to receive such an award.

 Other significant successes include:
     Pullinger (Creative Writing) and Gadd (English) acted as Co-Is for ‘Ambient Literature’
        (AHRC, GBP630,000, BSU: GBP240,000), an innovative and interdisciplinary project
        that brought together creative practice, digital technology, media studies, and history of
        the book: it exemplifies the UoA’s distinctive interdisciplinary strengths, here manifested
        in the work of the Making Books Research Centre;
     Gadd leveraged connections with African universities through the GALA network to
        secure a British Academy Writing Workshop grant (GBP19,000) to foster research
        collaborations with the Global South;
     UoA staff have been PIs and Co-Is in major cross-disciplinary projects, most notably
        Pullinger (‘South and West Creative Technology Network’, HEFCE Connecting
        Capability Fund, GBP552,000; ‘Bristol + Bath Creative Industries Clusters’, AHRC
        Creative Industries Clusters Programme, GBP642,000).

 The UoA makes strategic use of its HEQR funding to provide targeted research support:
 meaningful teaching relief for researchers working on outputs and research bids (usually either

Page 10
 a semester-long reduction or a full respite for an intensive period) and to support impact activity
 and networking at external events. These internal grants have considerably strengthened the
 UoA’s outputs, whether kickstarting projects at an early stage or enabling the completion of a
 research project. The grants are linked to external grant success, e.g. through QR funding, a
 GALA Outreach award and a Public Engagement award. BSU supported Walton’s research
 and impact which subsequently led to an AHRC grant. HEQR funding has also been used to
 enhance the vitality of the research environment through small grants to the UoA research
 centres and groups. The distribution of QR funding has for the most part been devolved to the
 Schools rather than held centrally. The exact procedure has varied over the REF period with
 the departments’ positions within the University. When the UoA was part of the large College of
 Liberal Arts, distribution was managed by an Assistant Dean for Research and Innovation
 through a series of application rounds and assessed by a cross-College panel of research
 leads. The UoA leads assisted staff in preparing applications and provided the panel with
 reports on the relationship of the application to the University’s strategic objectives. The
 restructuring into multiple Schools has enabled a more granular and responsive approach in
 the immediate run-up to the REF deadline: QR funding for the UoA is allocated on an FTE
 basis across the two Schools, and its distribution is now managed by the relevant UoA in
 conjunction with the Heads of School, e.g. reducing Gregg’s teaching load at short notice to
 enable him to meet a submission deadline successfully. Overall, the UoA benefited from
 GBP173,200 of devolved QR funds, with UoA staff securing an additional GBP11,400 from
 periodic university-wide QR and engagement seed fund opportunities.

 The UoA has also been successful in securing funding for international research activity
 through other internal funding schemes: Kerridge, Peters, and Walton were all recipients of
 Santander Pioneer Awards (GBP9000 in total) to support research visits to South America,
 while BSU’s lead role in the GALA network has enabled BSU to provide over GBP8,500 in
 funding to support 8 UoA staff and 2 PGR in developing international links with GALA partners
 in Australia, Canada, Italy, Russia, and the USA. GALA connections have also underpinned
 research bid development, including the successful British Academy Writing Workshop grant
 cited above as well as multiple successful Erasmus+ staff mobilities.

 Infrastructure and facilities
 Library collections directly relevant to the UoA include more than 900 journal subscriptions,
 22,000 books, and 4,000 e-books, with specialist strengths in contemporary writing,
 environmental writing and ecocriticism, the history of the book, early modern studies, and
 modernism. The Library subscriptions range from broad-based internationally excellent journals
 such as English Literary History, Modern Language Quarterly, New Literary History, New
 Writing (co-founded by Kerridge), the Review of English Studies, Studies in English Literature,
 and Textual Practice (all ranked as Q1 by the SCImago Journal and Country Rank) to those
 that focus on specific authors, periods, genres, languages, and cultures, including many that
 consider global and non-western literatures, and marginalised groups, including African
 American Review, the Journal of Commonwealth Literature, Manoa: A Pacific Journal of
 International Writing, Research in African Literatures, and Studies in American Indian
 Literatures. The Library’s extensive digital collections include historical periodical collections
 (16th to 19th Century British Newspapers, British Periodicals Online, the Burney Collection,
 Eighteenth Century Journals), archives and manuscripts resources (Beckett Digital
 Manuscripts, Eighteenth Century Drama, Leeds Literary Manuscripts, and Perdita
 Manuscripts), literary resources (Eighteenth Century Drama, Gale Literary Sources, and
 Poetry, and the Short Story Reference Centre), historical print repositories (JISC Historical
 Texts and the John Johnson Collection), thematic resources (Defining Gender and Empire
 Online), and key reference tools (the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography and the Oxford
 English Dictionary). In addition, the physical Library holds special collections of artists’ books,
 early printed books, and the Shirley Toulson Poetry Collection.

 Library resources for the UoA are underpinned by a team of Subject Librarians, who provide
 subject-specific support and a defined point of contact for research enquiries. The University
 has heavily invested in its infrastructure for open research, with both an institutional repository
Page 11
 (ResearchSPAce) and a research data repository (BathSPAdata). The repositories are
 supported by two Research Publications Librarians, who work proactively with the UoA to
 develop its open research profile. The Library’s Writing and Learning Centre supports an
 inclusive research culture through one-to-one writing support, social media workshops (within
 the Researcher Developer Programme), 'Journal Club' workshops in scholarly writing for early
 stage PG researchers, and research methods training with software such as Nvivo, R, and
 SPSS.

 Section 4: Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy, and Society
 Collaboration
 The UoA maintains many individual international scholarly and creative practice connections.
 Through targeted internal funding, it has also sought to develop new and to consolidate
 existing institutional ties, especially abroad. As recipients of Santander Pioneer Awards,
 Kerridge, Peters, and Walton visited universities in Brazil, Argentina, and Chile as part of
 individual research trips, while GALA funding has:

         enabled PhD students and ESRs to establish international links for their own research
          (e.g. a visit to the University of Adelaide to collaborate with other environmental writers
          and to attend a conference; a week spent at the University of Stockholm's Tree Ring
          laboratory as a poet in residence);
         supported research workshops at BSU led by visiting Creative Writing faculty from
          Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane;
         strengthened the international profile of the Making Books Research Centre by hosting
          a residency by a book artist from Columbia College, Chicago.

 Combined GALA and GCRF funding has also been used to strengthen collaborations with 4
 key African partners: Addis Ababa University, Ethiopia; the Catholic University of Eastern
 Africa, Kenya; the University of Namibia; and Wits University, South Africa). Gadd secured
 British Academy funding to mentor 16 ESRs at those partners and to support their travel to
 Nairobi for a 3-day writing workshop linked to GALA’s annual conference.

 The UoA has also used Visiting Research Fellow appointments via relevant UoA and University
 research centres to enhance and extend existing research strengths, particularly in
 Environmental Humanities and ecocriticism, Creative Writing, and book-making. Over the
 current REF period, UoA staff have sponsored 26 Visiting Research Fellows from the UK (12),
 China (4), Turkey (2), Japan, Chile, Australia, USA, Spain, Germany, Poland, and Italy.

 Contribution
 The UoA’s extensive engagement with key creative industry organisations has enabled it to
 make a distinctive contribution to the development of Creative Writing across the UK, as well
 as informing the quality and strength of the UoA’s internationally recognised MA and PhD
 programmes. Several UoA staff have served in senior leadership roles. Professor Emeritus
 May was Chair of the National Association of Writers in Education (NAWE) for 2011–14, and
 Brayfield became Deputy Chair in 2018; Gee is the current Vice-President of the Royal
 Society of Literature (RSL); and Bennett is the current Treasurer of the Historical Writers'
 Association. UoA staff have also been active as directors, council members, and committee
 members for organisations such as NAWE (May, Brayfield and Etter), RSL (Forna), the
 Society of Authors (Gee and Weldon), the Welsh Academy (Christopher), the Authors’
 Licensing and Collecting Society, and the Public Lending Right committee (both Gee). The
 UoA maintains longstanding and close connections with leading trade publishers and literary
 agents, the latter leading to the establishment of the annual Janklow & Nesbit Bath Spa Prize,
 awarded to a student on the MA in Creative Writing. UoA staff have sat as judges and juries for
 UK and international industry awards and prizes e.g. Alderman (BAFTA, Somerset Maugham
 Prize, Orange Award for New Writers, and National Short Story Award), Etter (Forward Prizes),
 Forna (Sunday Times Short Story Award, Baileys Women's Prize for Fiction, Giller Prize, and
Page 12
 Caine Prize for African Writing), Hadley (O. Henry Prize and Wellcome Book Prize), Harvey
 (Giller Prize), Hensher (Giller Prize, Somerset Maugham Prize, and V. S. Pritchett Prize),
 Liardet (Poetry Book Society), and Mukherjee (BAFTA). The UoA has also fostered a wider
 public appreciation of Creative Writing, not least through Paper Nations, ‘a creative writing
 incubator’ that received Arts Council England funding and involves many UoA staff, established
 to provide Creative Writing opportunities for young people. It has now launched a ‘Writing for
 All’ programme for people of all ages and backgrounds.

 Creative Writing as an academic subject has been significantly shaped by UoA staff. 2 of the
 UK’s leading academic Creative Writing journals were founded by UoA staff (Brayfield for
 Writing in Practice and Kerridge for New Writing) and UoA staff sit on advisory and editorial
 boards of journals and magazines, e.g. Writing in Practice (Etter), Wasafiri Magazine (Gee),
 Soundings (Glaser), and New Welsh Review (Hadley). UoA staff have served as external
 evaluators of university Creative Writing programmes and external examiners for Creative
 Writing PhDs, and Brayfield was a member of the QAA Benchmark Group that wrote the
 Creative Writing benchmark statement in 2015/16. May is a member of the REF 2021 English
 Language and Literature Panel.

 Reflecting the UoA’s strengths in ecocriticism, the history of the book, and Gothic studies, staff
 have held leadership roles in related national and international scholarly organisations:
 Hughes, past President of the International Gothic Association; Kerridge, founding Chair of
 the Association for the Study of Literature and Environment, UK and Ireland; and Gadd, past
 President of Society for the History for Authorship, Reading, and Publishing. Hughes was also
 founding Editor for Gothic Studies. UoA staff have served on the councils, boards, and
 executive committees of national organisations such as the Institute of English Studies (Gadd),
 the Association for the Study of Literature and Environment, UK and Ireland (Kerridge and
 Walton), the Ted Hughes Society (Presley), the Charles Lamb Society (Strachan; as Chair)
 and the Defoe Society (Gregg). In addition, the UoA co-hosts Green Letters: Studies in
 Ecocriticism (Walton is Co-Editor) and hosts the Q1-ranked Irish Studies Review (Presley is
 Associate Editor). Peters is founding editor of a new journal, Crime Fiction Studies, which
 launched in March 2020.

 UoA staff sit on the editorial boards of journals and book series, and act as peer reviewers for
 funding bodies in the UK and abroad, e.g. Binckes (European Science Foundation),
 Christopher (NAWE), Forna (Royal Literary Fund), Gadd (PRIN: Research Projects of
 National Relevance, Italy; Libricolae history of the book series, Italy; Swift and His
 Contemporaries series, University of Delaware Press; and Mémoires du livre / Studies in Book
 Culture), Glaser (Op. Cit., the journal of the Portuguese Association for Anglo-American
 Studies), Gregg (18thConnect), Hill (AHRC; London Journal; and Map of Early Modern
 London), Hughes (Companions series, Edinburgh University Press, and International Gothic
 series, Manchester University Press), Ivic (Irish Research Council Laureate Awards Scheme
 and Government of Ireland Postdoctoral Fellowship Programme), Kerridge (Green Letters:
 Studies in Ecocriticism; Environmental Cultures series, Bloomsbury Academic), Morrison
 (European Romantic Review), Rigby (European Science Foundation; AHRC; Rachel Carson
 Advisory Board; Alexander von Humboldt Foundation; Ecozona: European Journal of
 Literature, Culture, and Environment; Environmental Humanities; Green Letters: Studies in
 Ecocriticism; Humanities; and the Under the Sign of Nature book series, University of Virginia
 Press), Strachan (PRIN: Research Projects of National Relevance, Italy and the Charles Lamb
 Bulletin), Walton (AHRC; Gothic Natures; and Mean Streets). Gadd is a General Editor of the
 Cambridge Edition of the Works of Jonathan Swift and an Associate Editor for the Oxford
 Dictionary of National Biography, Strachan is Associate Editor of the Oxford Companion to
 English Literature, and Hill is one of the Editors in Chief for Records of Early English Drama;
 Gadd also sits on the Curators of University Libraries, University of Oxford, and on the advisory
 board for the Bodleian Library’s FAMOUS project (funded by Mellon). Hill has also served as
 judge for the Curriers' Company London History Essay Prize and the Medieval and
 Renaissance Drama Society’s Martin Stevens Award for Best New Essay.


Page 13
 UoA staff contribute to the work of many regional, national, and international groups and
 bodies. For example, Alderman is a member of BAFTA and the XPRIZE Sci-Fi Advisory
 Council; Almond is patron of Seven Stories: The National Centre for Children’s Book, Action
 for Children's Arts, lovemybooks, and Tall Tales; Forna has served on the Board of the
 National Theatre; Gadd is a director of the Bath Royal Literary and Scientific Institution; Gee is
 on the Authors’ Advisory Committee of the National Life Stories, British Library, and FEMRITE:
 the Uganda Women Writers' Association; Glaser served on the management committee of the
 think tank Compass and is a board member of Independent Jewish Voices; Moss is an RSPB
 Council member and is President of the Somerset Wildlife Trust and the Somerset
 Ornithological Society; Mukherjee is a member of BAFTA; Strachan chairs the GuildHE
 Research consortium; Walton is a member of the West of England Nature Partnership Green
 Care Strategy Group which works to coordinate and strengthen wellbeing provision and policy
 in the West of England, and the Bristol Literature Development Group to support for Bristol’s
 application as a reading capital in the UNESCO 2021 bid; and Weldon is patron of the Bridport
 Prize.

 UoA staff make regular contributions to local, national, and international media, including:
     Newspapers: The Guardian (Alderman, Gee, Harvey, Hensher), The Observer (Gee,
       Harvey), The Times (Alderman), The Independent (Hensher), The Telegraph
       (Alderman, Gee, Harvey, Hensher), The Spectator (Hensher), London Review of
       Books (Hadley), Irish Times (Gee), New York Times (Alderman), Shanghai Daily
       (Woodward), China Youth Daily (Woodward), and Times Higher Education
       Supplement (Hill);
     UK Radio: ‘Free Thinking’ (Alderman, Gee, Glaser, Harvey), ‘First Folio Road Trip’
       (Gadd), ‘Front Row’ (Alderman, Almond, Brayfield, Harvey, Hensher), ‘A Good
       Read’ (Gee), ‘Loose Ends’ (Almond), ‘Night Waves’ (Alderman), ‘Open Book’
       (Bennett, Harvey), ‘Saturday Review’ (Alderman, Hensher), ‘Science Stories’
       (Alderman, as presenter), ‘Start the Week’ (Gee), ‘Today’ (Hensher), ‘The Verb’ (Gee),
       and ‘Woman’s Hour’ (Gee, Glaser);
     UK TV: ‘Britain’s Ancient Pathways with Tony Robinson’ (Gregg on Daniel Defoe), and
       ‘Winterwatch’ (Walton on Nan Shepherd);
     International radio: NPR (Alderman, Glaser), CBC (Harvey), ABC (Australia) (Gadd),
       and BBC World Service (Glaser);
     International TV: Sky News (Glaser), Canadian TV (Alderman), PBS (Alderman), and
       Al Jazeera (Glaser).


 Literary awards and fellowships
 The quality of the creative work produced by UoA staff is reflected in the profusion of
 nominations, longlisting, shortlisting, and awards of regional, national, and international literary
 prizes. UoA staff have been nominated for the Astrid Lindgren Memorial Award (Almond,
 every year from 2014-20), the Carnegie Medal (including Almond, Christopher, and Nadin,
 who have all been nominated twice), the European Prize for Fiction, the International Dublin
 IMPAC Award, the Kate Greenaway Medal, the Pushcart Prize, and the Sakura Medal (Japan),
 and longlisted for the Authors' Club Best First Novel Award, the Baileys Women’s Prize for
 Fiction, the Desmond Elliott Prize, the Dublin Prize, The Guardian’s Not the Booker, the HWA
 Crown Awards, the Jerwood Fiction Uncovered Prize, the Orwell Prize, the Shrewsbury Award,
 the UKLA Book Award, and the Royal Bank of Canada Taylor Prize.

 Shortlisting for prizes includes: Almond for the Bookseller Young Adult Book Prize (2015),
 the IBW Children’s Book Award (2015), the Costa Award (2019), and the Kate Greenaway
 Medal (2019); Bennet for the New Angle Prize for Literature (2015); Christopher for the Leeds
 Book Award (2014) and Worcestershire Teen Book Award (2015); English for the New Media
 Writing Prize (2018) and Hombres Video Poetry Award in Italy (2019); Etter for the Ted
 Hughes Award for New Work in Poetry (2015); Filer for the Mind Media Award (2017); Forna
 for the Neustadt Prize (2016), Ondaatje Prize (2019), and Jhalak Prize (2019); Harvey for the

Page 14
 James Tait Black Prize (2015) and the Walter Scott Prize (2019); Liardet for the T.S. Eliot
 Prize (2015); Nadin for the Hounslow Teen Read (2019), the Hull Book Award (2015/16,
 2017), the Leeds Book Award (2015/16), 2017), the Leicester Book Award (2015/16), the
 Salford Book Award (2015/16), the Sheffield Prize (2015/16), the Shropshire Teen Book of the
 Year (2015/16), the Stockport Book Award (2015/16), the Tower Hamlets Book Award
 (2015/16), the UKLA Book Award (2016), the Brilliant Book Awards (2018), the James Reckitt
 Book Award (2018), The Telegraph Sports Book of the Year (2019), and the Hearst Big Book
 Awards (2018); and Woodward for the Edge Hill Short Story Prize (2016).

 National and international prizes include:
     2014: Windham Campbell Award (Forna) and Jerwood Fiction Uncovered Prize
        (Woodward);
     2015: Guardian Children's Fiction Prize (Almond), Peters’ Book of the Year (Teen
        Fiction) (Almond), and Flying Turtle Award, Iran (Almond);
     2016: Hawthornden Prize (Hadley) and Windham-Campbell Prize for lifetime literary
        achievement (Hadley);
     2017: Baileys Women’s Prize for Fiction (Alderman), Foyles’ Book of the Year: Fiction
        (Alderman), the Prix Litteraire des Etudiants de l’universite de Jean Monnet (Skuse),
        and the O. Henry Prize (Woodward);
     2018: Atticus Review Video Poetry Competition (English) and Edge Hill Prize for short
        stories (Hadley);
     2019: Andersen Prize, Italy (Almond), Premio Letteratura Ragazzi, Italy (Almond),
        ‘Best Silent Film’ at the Near Nazereth Film Festival, Israel (English), University of New
        South Wales 'Big Anxiety Prize' (Filer), Staunch Book Prize winner (Harvey), and
        Society of Authors Authors’ Foundation work-in-progress award (Liardet).

 Other distinctions include: BBC Radio 4 Book of the Week (Kerridge, 2014), Barnes and
 Noble’s 'Discover New Writers' (Bennett, 2015), Richard & Judy Book Club (Brain, 2015), an
 invitation by Andrew Motion to contribute 30 poems to the Poetry Archive (Liardet, 2015), New
 York Times 10 Books of the Year (Alderman, 2017), President Obama’s Best Books
 (Alderman, 2017), and Waterstones Book of the Month (Harvey, 2019).

 English’s ‘Books of Hours’ was screened at The Wrong Bienalle, Filmfest Bremen, Wales
 International Film Festival, Another Ideal in Manchester, Zebra Poetry Film Festival, Berlin, and
 REEL Houston, Texas. The TV adaptation of Nadin’s ‘Joe All Alone’ won the Children's BAFTA
 for Best Drama (2018) and the Royal Television Society Northern Ireland Children’s Award
 (2018), and was nominated for an International Emmy (2019). Alderman is the lead writer,
 executive producer and showrunner on ‘The Power’, an Amazon TV adaptation of her novel.

 The UoA includes 8 fellows of the Royal Society of Literature (Alderman, Almond, Forna,
 Gee, Hadley, Hensher, Weldon, and Woodward), 4 Fellows of the English Association
 (Etter, Gee, and Hadley), and 4 members of the Folio Academy (Forna, Harvey, Hensher,
 and Woodward). Harvey and Gee have held the Hawthornden Fellowship, English is a
 Consultant Fellow for the Royal Literary Fund, and Alderman is an honorary fellow of Lincoln
 College Oxford. Almond, Filer, Hensher, and Woodward have received honorary degrees
 from University of East Anglia, Abertay University and University of West of England, Sheffield
 University, and Middlesex University respectively. International roles include: Christopher as
 Writer in Residence for The Literature Centre in Perth, Australia in 2014 and 2018; Forna as
 the Lannan Visiting Chair of Poetics, Georgetown University (2015-18) and Director of the
 Lannan Center, Georgetown University (2018-present); and Woodward as Shanghai’s Writer
 in Residence for 2019. Finally, 3 UoA staff have received national honours: OBE (Forna and
 Gee) and CBE (Weldon).

 Academic prizes, fellowships, and visiting professorships
 UoA staff in English have been awarded the following prizes and fellowships:
     Muriel McCarthy Research Fellowship, Marsh’s Library, Dublin (Gadd)

Page 15
         AHRC Leadership Fellowship (Hill)
         Colin Baldwin Fellowship, Malone Society (Hill)
         ‘Early Theatre’ Essay Prize (Hill)
         Visiting Professor, Humanities Research Centre, Sheffield Hallam University (Hill)
         Gordon Duff Prize in Bibliographic Studies, University of Oxford (Kaznowska)
         Chancellor’s English Essay Prize, University of Oxford (Kaznowska)
         Visiting Professor, G. d’Annunzio University of Chieti-Pescara, Italy (Peters)
         Fellows of the Rachel Carson Center, Germany (Rigby and Walton)
         Fellow of the Royal Asiatic Society (Strachan)
         Fellow of the Royal Historical Society (Strachan)
         Senior Research Fellow, British Academy (Strachan)
         AHRC Early Career Leadership Fellowship (Walton)
         Visiting Research Fellow in Environmental Humanities, Institute for Advanced Study in
          the Humanities, University of Edinburgh (Walton)
         Special Collections Centre Visiting Scholar, University of Aberdeen (Walton)




Page 16
