Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: Durham University
 Unit of assessment: 22, Anthropology and Development Studies
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview:

 COVID-19 has caused significant disruption to the department and University. The plans
 outlined in this document are accurate at the time of writing and are expected to be
 realised unless the duration or effects of the pandemic exceed current assumptions.
 Further details are available in the 'Institutional-level statement on COVID-19'.

 Durham Anthropology is a broad-based department anchored in three thematic
 subject groups from which academics work within, across and beyond the
 traditional breadth of the discipline. We aim to foster an intellectually inclusive
 environment, where staff have the freedom to work across traditional disciplinary and sub-
 disciplinary boundaries and produce research that is both academically innovative and
 beneficial for wider society. At the intersection of these approaches our work speaks to a
 range of audiences and disciplines beyond anthropology and reinvigorates the conceptual
 core of the discipline.

 The following three thematic subject groups are forums for development and
 exchange of knowledge and expertise. Staff and postgraduate students belong to one
 or more of these groups, as suited to their academic interests.

 Anthropology of Health: this group applies the distinctive theories and methods of
 social, biological and evolutionary anthropology to conceptual debates relating to health
 and health-care, with the aim of improving population health and wellbeing. Members of
 the group often conduct inter-disciplinary work with collaborators across the humanities,
 social and medical sciences, focusing in particular on: the anthropology of global health;
 the anthropology of public health; evolutionary medicine; critical medical humanities.
 Evolutionary Anthropology: underpinned by evolutionary theory, this subject group uses
 experimental, observational, modelling and comparative techniques to advance
 understanding of the human condition through a focus on the following research areas,
 and intersections between these: primatology; evolutionary modelling, and cultural
 evolution. Beyond anthropology, group members have diverse collaborations including
 biologists, psychologists, archaeologists, earth scientists and mathematicians.
 Social Anthropology: building on established anthropological theories and methods,
 characterised by a particular commitment to sustained ethnographic fieldwork, this subject
 group is a forum for the development of novel contributions to key conceptual debates and
 to pressing applied problems. The group focuses on the following research areas, and
 intersections between these: expertise and knowledge; energy and environment; political
 and economic anthropology; aesthetics and materiality.

 Governance structure for research: comprising of the Director of Research, Head of
 Department, Impact Lead, Director of Postgraduate Research, Subject Group Leads, and
 a representative from postdoctoral research fellows and associates, the departmental
 Research Committee (RC) coordinates research strategy, monitors its implementation,
 and maintains oversight of the recruitment and care of research students and postdoctoral
 researchers. RC works closely with Durham University (DU) Research and Innovation
 Service (RIS) who, in coordination with the Social Sciences and Health (SSH) Faculty and
 the office of the Vice-Provost for Research, support pre- and post-award grant capture
 activity, including the development of major bids and fellowships. All research activity is




                                                                                               1
subject to departmental, and where appropriate, Animal Welfare Ethical Review Board,
National Health Service (NHS) and General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
requirements. RC decisions are ratified by the Department Board of Studies.

Research Objectives 2014-2021:

Durham Anthropology’s distinctive research profile and the vibrancy of its research
environment derives from the principal aim to significantly influence the field of
anthropology and make a meaningful societal impact, as reflected in high quality
outputs and outcomes.

To achieve our strategic aims, the following five REF2014 strategic objectives were
identified:

   i.      Enhance research in the cross-cutting areas of Energy, Cultural Evolution, and
           Conservation;
   ii.     Deliver top quality research of social and environmental concern with societal
           impact;
   iii.    Raise our profile as a centre for collaborations;
   iv.     Ensure a healthy grant application profile;
   v.      Respond to emergent research opportunities.

To meet these objectives, Durham Anthropology implemented three key strategic
initiatives (SI) over the REF2021 period:

   SI1. A sustained programme of recruitment, detailed in Section 2, to deliver
   expertise across the three research areas and delivering on all five of our strategic
   objectives.
   SI2. Restructuring research support, detailed in Section 3, delivering:
    (i)     time: enhancing Durham’s one-term-in-seven-terms policy with a framework
            for one-year-in-five-years period of research leave
    (ii)    expertise: improved coordination with RIS to provide expert administrative
            and grant-writing assistance, co-ordination of cross-disciplinary applications,
            and rigorous application planning; introduction of a separate post of
            postgraduate research administrator in addition to the post of senior research
            administrator, with high level strategic support through the departmental
            manager
    (iii)   funds: new departmental, low-bureaucracy RC-run funding streams to invest
            in all stages of research and impact-generating cycles.
   SI3. Infrastructural investment, detailed in section 3,
   (i)     building a cutting edge Behavioural and Ecological Physiology laboratory in
           Durham and associated field-site sample storage facilities,
   (ii)    relocating and upgrading the Infancy and Sleep Centre to Durham.

These strategic initiatives have allowed the unit to deliver the REF2014 strategic
aims and objectives (whilst responding to new opportunities that have arisen during the
REF period); pushing at the boundaries of anthropology to strengthen its core while
impacting other disciplines and non-academic partners. What follows summarises the
department’s research and impact achievements, discusses strategic initiatives to
facilitate impact, and outlines future strategy for the coming REF period before evidencing
sub-disciplinary subject group expertise and activity, elaborated in sections 2-4.

Durham Anthropology has invested in people (SI1). The unit has made 9 strategic
hires over the period (see Section 2), including investing in 5 Early Career Researchers
(ECR) in all three subject groups. In 2020 it also made 6 strategic hires to start at the



                                                                                              2
beginning of the new REF cycle, detailed at the end of this section under Research Vision
beyond 2021. The number of postdoctoral fellowships hosted in the department has more
than doubled (to 18) compared to REF2014. The department has hosted 12 Senior
Research Fellows, and co-produced research and impact with business partnerships,
public and third sector organisations such as: the NHS; governments and councils; NGOs;
energy companies; museums and science centres; marginalized and disadvantaged
groups. Restructured research support (SI2) has led to a 60% increase in grant
income from £4.8 million in REF2014 to over £8 million, with awards of new grants
since the REF census date already exceeding £5.9 million. Infrastructural
investment (SI3) includes £329k secured to build the new Behavioural and Ecological
Physiology laboratory and relocate/upgrade the Infancy and Sleep Centre.

Consistent with these initiatives, our UoA has delivered on its principal aim to
influence the field of anthropology and make a meaningful societal impact,
generating a high volume of quality outputs and other outcomes. By way of an
overview, this is evidenced over the REF period by the publication of 9 sole-authored and
2 co-authored monographs with publishers including Cornell University Press, Duke
University Press, Oxford University Press, Cambridge University Press, Bloomsbury; 18
edited collections; 19 edited whole-journal issues; over 140 book chapters; and over 450
articles in international peer-reviewed journals. International collaborations extend over 40
countries.

This overview is contextualized by highlighting areas of research expertise anchored
within each subject group:

The Anthropology of Health Subject Group brings together social and evolutionary, and
qualitative and quantitative approaches to research on health. The group has grown
during this REF cycle with five new members (Akhter, Kasim, Macnaughton, Stevenson,
and Widger, who is also a member of the Social Anthropology Subject Group) and new
collaborations underpinning an expansion of research activity within four subgroupings:
public health; global health; critical medical humanities, evolutionary medicine. Within the
anthropology of public health, Ball’s Sleep Lab was awarded the Queen’s Anniversary
Prize for Higher and Further Education in 2018, and is now established as the Durham
Infant Sleep Centre. Kasim has attracted £454,880 from the National Institute for Health
Research (NIHR) (with Newcastle) and made an increasingly important contribution to our
quantitative research. Pollard’s new collaborations around physical activity have attracted
funding from the NIHR on Social Prescribing (with Newcastle) and from the School for
Public Health Research on Active Travel (with Durham Sports Sciences and Cambridge).
Russell’s work on smoking, supported by a Leverhulme Research Fellowship and the
Wellcome Trust funded ‘Life of Breath’ project, culminated in the publication in 2019 of
The Anthropology of Tobacco with Routledge. Global health has a strong research cluster
focusing on the anthropology of health in Africa and includes Hampshire’s work on
Community Health Workers’ Use of Mobile Phones (with Kasim and partners in Ghana,
Malawi and Ethiopia, funded by the Medical Research Council (MRC)) and on Trust in
Medicines (with Oxford, Newcastle and the University of Cape Coast, Ghana, funded by
The Wellcome Trust), Brown’s Anthro-Zoonoses network funded by the Economic and
Social Research Council (ESRC) and German Research Foundation, and Stevenson’s
Omo-Turkana Research Network funded through an ESRC/Department for International
Development (DFID) grant. Within critical medical humanities, the Centre for Medical
Humanities, supported by £2.5 million Wellcome Trust funding (with Bristol) and accorded
the status of a DU Research Institute due to its strategic role at University level, has
acquired international recognition as a centre of excellence in interdisciplinary research.
Within evolutionary medicine, Bentley’s ESRC-funded collaboration with epigeneticists
(from Nottingham and Israel) is leading to new insights into the developmental origins of
health and disease.



                                                                                                3
The Evolutionary Anthropology Subject Group focuses on the following three
overlapping areas: primatology; cultural evolution; evolutionary modelling. Primatology
expanded with two new members (MacLarnon, Tan) bringing strengths in ecological
physiology, primate archaeology and human-primate interactions, and includes the current
President of the Primate Society of Great Britain (Setchell). High profile research includes
primate behaviour and conservation, including Science Advances articles on observer
effects on behaviour (Hill) and the primate extinction crisis (Setchell), and high-profile
documentary appearances of Setchell (BBC Nature’s Weirdest Events; Colour: The
Spectrum of Science) and Tan (BBC Primates). Cultural evolution increased in strength
with the arrival of Street and Tan bringing strengths in phylogenetic comparative
approaches and wild animal culture, respectively, and includes the 2019 President of the
International Cultural Evolution Society (R. Kendal). The focus is on interdisciplinary
research, including Tehrani’s Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences article on
folk tale evolution with population geneticists; Tan’s eLife article on archaeological
methods to investigate primate tool use, R. Kendal’s Trends in Cognitive Sciences paper
‘bridge building between fields’ (anthropology and psychology), and a large Leverhulme
grant (£1.5 million, with Bristol) on Scientific properties of complex knots involving
mathematicians, physicists and chemists (Tehrani, J. Kendal). The research has received
prestigious society/journal awards (Tan, Journal of Comparative Psychology; R. Kendal,
Human Behaviour and Evolution Society). Evolutionary modelling has increased in
strength with the arrival of Street. This research focus includes the application of
evolutionary models to large behavioural, morphological and ecological datasets to
understand the evolutionary past of humans (Tehrani) and animals (Elton, Barton, Street,
J. Kendal, Kovarovic), including high profile papers on the coevolution of innovation and
technical intelligence (Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B, Street), and
rapid evolution of the cerebellum in ape brains (Current Biology, Barton). The subject
group boasts two Editors in Chief of leading evolutionary anthropology journals (Journal of
Human Evolution, formerly, Elton; International Journal of Primatology, Setchell).

The Social Anthropology Subject Group develops novel contributions to key conceptual
debates and to pressing applied problems, focusing on the following topics, and the
intersections between these: expertise and knowledge; energy and environment; political
and economic anthropology; aesthetics and materiality. Our research in these areas has
resulted in the publication of major monographs and edited volumes that have significantly
shaped their fields. Anthropology of expertise and knowledge is represented in Simpson’s
Research as Development (Cornell UP); Yarrow’s Architects (Cornell UP), and Brown and
Yarrow’s Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute (JRAI) volume on Meetings.
Outputs in energy and environment have included Abram’s Electrifying Anthropology
(Bloomsbury), Alexander’s Ethnos co-edited special issue on Waste and Its Disguises,
and Widger’s Suicide in Sri Lanka (Routledge). The political and economic anthropology
cluster saw the publication of Mookherjee’s The Spectral Wound (Duke UP); Egorova’s
Jews and Muslims of South Asia (OUP); and Alexander’s Critique of Anthropology special
issue on ‘Housing’. High profile research in anthropology of aesthetics and materiality
includes Washington Association of Professional Anthropologists Praxis award winning
work by Mookherjee (graphic novel Birangona), Fortis’s J.B. Donner Essay Prize winning
paper ‘The aesthetics of ‘time-reckoning’, and Ungprateeb Flynn’s research on Cartonera
publishing, which in 2019 won DU Impact and Engagement Award in the Art and Culture
category. In all four areas staff have also contributed to research in anthropology of time
and temporality (Abram, Fortis, Kirtsoglou, Knight, Ringel, Simpson). Our research is
supported by a series of grants of varying scales and kinds as appropriate to our methods
and aims: from prestigious fellowships (Alexander’s Leverhulme Fellowship on Failure;
Yarrow’s Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) Early Career Fellowship on
Energy in Historic Buildings; Widger’s Wellcome Trust Fellowship on the Social Life of
Pesticides); to major collaborative projects (e.g. Porter’s two youth-focused projects with



                                                                                               4
over £1.2million from ESRC/DFID, and a series of inter-linked projects in energy-research,
which since 2014 have attracted over £1.27 million funding (shared with DU units of Earth
Sciences, Economics, Engineering and Mathematics), generating novel insights about the
‘social life’ of energy production and use. The subject group includes Abram and Strang,
current and former Chairs of the Association of Social Anthropologists of the UK, and
Yarrow, co-editor of the Journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute (from October
2020).

The department is committed to supporting the Open Access (OA) framework.
Consistent with DU’s support for OA through the green route, Research Committee
ensures that accepted versions of journal publications and conference proceedings are
made publicly available on Durham Research Online repository.

The department’s approach to achieving impact is to encourage and support both
those whose research lends itself to creating impact within the scope of REF2021 and
those engaged in a broader range of activities pertaining to outreach, knowledge
exchange and collaboration. We aim to maintain a research environment that allows staff
to develop impact broadly defined by the following mechanisms:
     Workshops building capacity with respect to understanding impact and ways to
       achieve it.
     Designation of an Impact Officer (IO) who oversees impact-related activities in the
       department, sits on RC, and has time attributed to their workload allocation.
     Individual conversations between the IO and all staff working on impact arising
       from their research.
     Peer review of applications to the ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) and to
       DU Research Impact Fund (RIF), resulting in successful applications to the sums
       of £211,002 (ESRC/Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) IAA) and £72,172
       (RIF).
     Supporting impact activities through the Departmental research fund.
     Departmental workload credit for ICS leads.
     Presentations at the University/ESRC Impact Showcase event.
     Supporting impact-related activities as part of research leave.

This approach allowed us to develop a wide range of impact related activities, including
five potential Impact Case Studies. Although only 3 case studies were submitted under
REF3 (Infant Sleep Safety, Postnatal Care and Survivor-Led Guidelines) due to the size of
our UoA, the 2 reserves were fully developed and had supporting evidence collected.

ICS Infant Sleep Safety (Ball) has contributed to infant health by changing discourse
around co-sleeping safety guidance issued to parents in UK and overseas. ICS Postnatal
Care (Ball) has contributed to mother-infant health through the introduction of the use of
side-car cribs during hospital post-partum care. ICS Survivor-Led Guidelines
(Mookherjee) has resulted in change to ethical guidelines and practice concerning public
memories of sexual violence during conflict in Bangladesh and the UK, improved
understandings of the survivors’ experiences, and the survivors’ welfare. Proposed ICS
Mobile Phone Impacts in Africa (Porter and Hampshire) has helped alert the
international development community and national governments to the significant role of
mobile phones in supporting economic and social wellbeing among vulnerable populations
by pointing out the connections between mobile phones and transport. Proposed ICS
Affordable Energy Strategy (Bell) explored the complexity of energy vulnerability in
Haringey and informed the design of the Haringey Council’s energy strategy. The holistic
system map created by Bell and collaborators, organised within a framework of different
forms of justice, was used to diagnose problems, make recommendations and test them
through further dialogue.



                                                                                             5
In addition, our staff contributed to ICSs submitted in other UoAs at DU. Macnaughton is a
co-author on an ICS stemming from The Life of Breath project, submitted through
English Studies. Macnaughton’s research both furthers understanding of breath and
breathlessness, and informs medical approaches to preventing and treating diseases for
which breathlessness is the primary symptom. Hill was co-author of the proposed ICS in
Biosciences, MammalWeb, a citizen science platform to engage the public in mammal
monitoring to inform policy, management and ecological science. A wider range of our
public engagement and impact related activities is detailed in Section 4.

Research vision beyond REF 2021:

Our distinctive research profile is built upon excellence at the core of Anthropology and
across our three sub-disciplinary areas. We expect that our commitment to inter- and
intra-disciplinary research and developing novel areas of enquiry will allow us to continue
to deliver high quality outputs and outcomes and to lead and play a critical role in
collaborative projects that engage with a wide range of emerging issues.

We aim to foster cross disciplinary interaction and expand the potential for impact
through attracting world class researchers in our three research areas. Our strategic
recruitment plans include seeking early career scholars at the forefront of anthropological
research who will offer wide-ranging expertise and research plans that will allow them to
respond to opportunities for collaboration and grant income generation and to produce
impact outside academia. In order to enhance capacity of Anthropology of Health and
Social Anthropology and despite the challenges of the pandemic, we have already made
6 strategic appointments of permanent full-time Assistant Professors starting in
academic year 2020-2021. The appointments both strengthen and diversify our current
research profile. More specifically, the anthropology of energy area will be strengthened
with the permanent appointment of Ringel. Anthropology of Health will be enhanced with
the appointment of Chase, whose expertise will both strengthen the area of global health
and bring in the focus on mental health, and Malcolm, who will contribute her expertise on
human-animal interactions. The area of political anthropology will be enhanced with the
appointment of Stefanelli, who also brings us a new focus on the Middle East. The
appointment of Crawley will allow us to develop the intersection between anthropology of
energy and anthropology of health and to bring in expertise in anthropology of sport. The
appointment of Heywood will contribute to the general anthropological theory research
which has the potential to engage will all three subject groups in the department.

In the new REF cycle we also aim to enhance support for all ECR staff by providing extra
mentoring opportunities and individualised assistance in developing capacity in relation to
impact related activities and applications for funding, mobilising the expertise of relevant
subject groups and RIS, and embedding a culture of generating public engagement and
impact.

Section 2. People

Staffing Strategy and staff development:

Our return comprises 33.6 FTEs. Since REF2014, Durham Anthropology has strategically
committed to a sustained programme of recruitment (section 1, SI1) attracting
energetic, world class researchers to strengthen expertise in each of the three subject
groups and to foster cross-disciplinary interaction and expand the department’s potential
for impact. Besides seeking candidates demonstrating academic excellence and




                                                                                               6
engaging teaching, the department selects new hires that will thrive in a diverse and
collegial research environment that spans a variety of epistemological approaches.

The hires described include responses to all five strategic objectives of REF 2014. All the
hires brought with them collaborations and research networks that raise the department’s
profile (objective iii) in each of the three core sub-disciplinary research areas (social,
health and evolutionary), and also raise the profile of Durham Anthropology in other
disciplines, thus enhancing the department’s potential to take advantage of emergent
research opportunities (objective v). In line with our strategy to support development at all
research career stages, we brought in a mixture of ECRs, whose careers we continue to
foster, and mid to senior researchers with an established track record for grant capture.
This balance feeds into strategic objective iv to maintain a healthy grant application profile
of small to medium and medium to large grants (also see section 3).

In response to our strategic objective to enhance Energy research (objective i) and to
bolster the department’s core expertise in social anthropology, the department brought in
Abram and enabled Ringel to move from a Junior Research Fellowship to a three-year
Assistant Professorship and then in August 2020 to a permanent Assistant Professorship.
To enhance both social anthropology and the anthropology of health, and in further
evidence of the department’s support for ECR development, we enabled Widger to move
from a Wellcome Research Fellowship to Assistant Professorship and subsequently be
promoted to Associate Professor, bringing expertise in social, health and environmental
challenges in South Asia (objective ii), and international-level collaborations from the
University of Sussex, Colombo University and Peradeniya University (Sri Lanka). To
enhance research in conservation and to support core research in the anthropology of
health, we brought in Stevenson to build capacity in Global Health, bolstering expertise in
socio-environmental challenges including water conservation (objectives I & ii) and inter-
disciplinary research through his founding of the Omo-Turkana Research Network,
focused on hydrology, agriculture and social change. To respond to emergent research
opportunities (objective v) following the relocation of DU’s School for Medicine, Pharmacy
and Health to Newcastle University, the department attracted three new academic staff –
Macnaughton, Kasim and Akhter, who represented an excellent strategic fit with the
anthropology of health subject group. Macnaughton, Director of the Institute for Medical
Humanities, facilitates anthropological research in this interdisciplinary area, drawing on
her expertise in health through an understanding of human experience, focusing
particularly on the embodied symptom. Kasim and ECR Akhter enhance the
department’s potential for cutting edge quantitative analysis, with expertise in statistical
analysis and study design applied to health and social research, bringing international
collaborations from Bangladesh, Belgium, Ethiopia, Ghana, Japan, Malawi, Nepal, and
South Africa. In evolutionary anthropology, the department hired ECR Street, providing
expertise in cognitive and cultural evolution, with a focus on technical intelligence in a
broad taxonomic context, phylogenetic comparative statistical methods, and developing a
strand of research on cultural evolution in music. We also hired ECR Tan whose work in
primatology research on macaque technical intelligence, culture, coastal adaptation and
dispersal is of broad significance to human origins research across primatology,
paleoanthropology and archaeology, as well as the cognitive sciences and evolutionary
biology. With facilitating her appointment as Master of Hatfield College (DU), the
department brought in MacLarnon to enhance our expertise in ecological physiology,
adaptation, sociality and stress. Bringing in Tan and MacLarnon also allowed the
department to enhance research in wildlife conservation (objective i).

The Unit holds staff development as a key strategic priority. To carry out the Unit’s
strategy to support the development of ECRs, Assistant Professors have a one-year
probation period which includes an additional 20% research time to give extra capacity to
develop research projects. Additionally, a start-up research fund is negotiated on a case-



                                                                                                 7
by-case basis and Assistant Professors retain a 10% special allocation of additional
research time to develop projects until promoted to Associate Professor. New staff are
offered a full range of Durham’s professional skills development training, including
capacity building, training and mentoring in relation to impact through the ESRC-IAA, and
academic/teaching staff are required to obtain a Postgraduate Certificate in Academic
Practise (HE accredited programme).

Consistent with University EDI policy, mechanisms for staff progress and promotion
have been developed over the period, from a self-selecting application process to an
annual progression and promotion process applied to all staff in the Unit, delivered by the
Departmental Promotion and Progression Committee. Each staff member also holds an
annual discussion of future career development with our Heads of Department, and
regular consultation with both the Director of Research and the Director of Education.
Additionally, all staff meet with a mentor whenever necessary, and at least once per term,
to gain confidential and practical career advice that is independent of staff-
progress/promotion reporting mechanisms. The success of staff progress and promotion
strategy is evidenced by an increase in the number of promotions from REF2014 (up
from 7 to 24) resulting in a shift from a junior-heavy department demographic in REF2014
towards seniority, with promotion of 9 Assistant Professors to Associate Professors
(Brown, Campbell, Fortis, J. Kendal, R. Kendal, Kirtsoglou, Kovarovic, Merli, Yarrow) and
15 Associate Professors to full Professors (Abram, Bell, Egorova, Elton, Hampshire, Hill,
Kasim, R. Kendal, Mookherjee, Pollard, Porter, Russell, Setchell, Tehrani, Yarrow). In
accordance with DU policy, titles have switched from Lecturer/Senior Lecturer/Reader to
Assistant/Associate Professor. Accounting for retirees and departures, the department
size has increased to 33.6 FTE from REF2014 (30.9 FTE), with a shift over the period
from 10.5 to 5 FTE Assistant Professors, from 7.4 to 7 FTE Associate Professors, and
from 6.7 to 21.6 FTE full Professors. This change distribution is commensurate with a
healthy process of succession to senior roles in the department, with excellent
provision of career development, mentoring by senior and mid-career staff including
mentoring around particular challenges, such as grant writing and project management.
Looking beyond REF 2021, the 6 new Assistant Professors who have started in the
academic year 2020-2021 will underpin the next phase of our progression cycle.

The department recognises and rewards staff for carrying out research and for
achieving impact. To allow time for development of substantive research projects
and to make efficient the running of teaching and administrative duties, the department
has switched research leave over the period from a 1-term-in-7-terms University policy of
entitlement to support a 1-year-in-5-years departmental rota. A 1-year-in-5-years rota
embeds flexibility to respond to research requirements (including the timing of fieldwork
and impact-related activities) and commitments of staff to significant administrative and
secondment activities. The department also prioritises research leave for staff returning
from parental leave. Staff with significant administrative responsibilities (e.g. Head of
Department) also gain additional research leave following their time in post. When not on
research leave, each staff’s teaching and administrative workload is clustered where
preferred to leave a light term for research activities. The distribution of work is allocated
using a workload model, which assumes 30% time protected for research (when not on
research leave), with additional time allocated for postgraduate research (PGR)
supervision and time on awarded grants.

A key staff development strategy is to facilitate the career development of
Postdoctoral Research Fellows, as they have more than doubled in number (18)
compared with the REF2014. The department ensures Postdoctoral Research Fellows
(PDRF) and Postdoctoral Research Associates (PDRA) are ensconced in the research
environment. A postdoctoral representative plays an active role in the decision-making
processes of the Research Committee, and postdoctoral scholars often organise research



                                                                                                 8
group seminar series, benefitting from research networking opportunities with visiting
speakers. The Director of Research provides additional mentoring for PDRFs, PDRAs and
Teaching Fellows with a view to their career development.

Research Students:
PGR funding is available through competitive Doctoral Training Partnership awards,
Durham Doctoral Studentships, and studentships built into research grants. Durham
Anthropology secured 46 competitively awarded PhD studentships (35% increase over
REF2014) from 9 funding sources, including 27 RCUK-funded studentships across three
research councils (ESRC, NERC, AHRC) and over double the number of prestigious
Durham Doctoral Studentships compared to REF2014 (9, up from 4 in REF2014). In 2018,
we also welcomed international students funded through Durham’s new GCRF Centre for
Doctoral Training – 3 based in Anthropology and 7 co-supervised in other Departments –
and 2 students secured funding through the new Durham Arctic Research Centre for
Training and Interdisciplinary Collaboration. Other sources of support for our PhD students
over the REF period include the Leverhulme Trust, the Wellcome Trust, Commonwealth
Scholarships, Durham partnership with the Mexican Government’s Science and
Technology Council (CONACyT) to support Mexican students, Wenner-Gren Foundation,
the RAI/Radcliffe-Brown Trust, government scholarships and research grants provided by
individual Colleges in Durham. Compared to REF2014, the unit had a 58% increase in
PhDs awarded, from 44 to 75. PhD students have authored and co-authored over 160
international peer-reviewed journal articles in the current REF cycle.

Durham Anthropology offers rigorous and comprehensive postgraduate training. Upon
arrival, new students complete a Training Needs Analysis in consultation with their
supervisory team to identify appropriate courses provided by the University’s
Postgraduate Research Training Programme or by the department. Many students audit
taught module classes to help with training needs. Students holding a 3.5 or a 1+3
studentship attend specific Research Methods modules offered both within the department
and elsewhere in the Faculty via the newly formed Durham Research Methods Centre.
The Department offers training across the Northern Ireland and North East Doctoral
Training Partnership (NINE DTP) for pathways in social anthropology, health and well-
being, cultural evolution, and in ethnographic methods. We have opened up departmental
events to the NINE DTP as a training opportunity for all students in the DTP including an
advanced workshop for anthropological research on health, medicine and wellbeing,
partnered with Centre for Medical Anthropology (University of Edinburgh), and a workshop
on Systematic Data Collection in Anthropology.

Each PGR student has at least 2 supervisors, sometimes across different Departments
and Faculties. Some PGRs have a third supervisor based at a different institution. Each
PGR undergoes a progression viva with 2 non-supervising examiners at the end of year
one, they remain the students’ review team for the duration of the PhD and are involved in
subsequent progress reviews each year. PGRs are fully integrated in one (sometimes two
if the project is interdisciplinary) of the three Subject Groups, where they participate in
fortnightly seminars, as well as additional research clusters, centres and groups across
the University. Each writing up student has the chance to present their ongoing work and
receive feedback in such forums. This complements the 1st and 3rd year workshops
assisting students respectively in the writing of the proposal and the dissertation. Finally,
PGRs have the opportunity to gain experience in teaching through being Postgraduate
Teaching Assistants (PGTAs) in 1st and 2nd year UG modules for which they are selected
on the basis of their expertise.

Our internal processes to support PGR and supervisor training needs are re-assessed
each year through our Annual Review of Provision for Postgraduate Research



                                                                                                9
Programmes. Support and training for supervisors and PGRs is offered by the Faculty via
specially designed training courses and workshops. PGRs also organize their own
student-led seminars and an annual postgraduate conference. This provides an
opportunity to develop organisational and presentation skills. The PG Conference is open
to students from other Universities in the NINE DTP network. The 2017 PG Conference,
People in Context: Anthropological Reflections in a ‘Post Truth’ World, was co-organised
with the RAI Student Conference and was attended by 79 delegates from 20 institutions,
mainly from the UK but also Singapore and Brazil. The department has also developed an
innovative Writing Across Boundaries PhD workshop open to all.

Equality and Diversity:

Durham Anthropology promotes and celebrates equality, diversity and inclusion
(EDI), and oversees a robust procedural framework to promote equal opportunities
for recruitment and career development. The Department implements the DU Equality,
Diversity and Inclusion Policy and develops and implements its own policies through its
EDI Committee, which meets once a term, and consists of representatives championing
issues pertaining to gender, LGBTQ+, BAME network, staff and students with disabilities,
staff and students with caring responsibilities. The Department’s EDI Lead sits on the
departmental Senior Management Group and on the Department Progression and
Promotion Committee to ensure that EDI is prioritised in key departmental decisions. All
promotion, search and selection committees are gender balanced and are required to
report on EDI issues throughout the process, and all relevant staff are trained in avoiding
unconscious bias. All research seminar series are gender balanced.

We have become among the most diverse Departments at Durham University, with a
sizeable proportion of BAME academics, including at full professor level. Mookherjee is
one of the founding co-chairs of DU BAME network. In 2020 the Department was awarded
an Athena Swan bronze award. Out of 23 category A staff at full Professor level at the
end of this REF cycle, 16 (69.5%) were women (against 61% category A women
overall). Women have played important research leadership roles in the department over
the 2021 REF cycle and have been strongly represented in research leadership as Head
of Department (Ball), Directors of Research (Setchell, Mookherjee, Egorova), Impact
Officers (Ball, Mookherjee), Subject Leads (R. Kendal, Pollard), Directors of Postgraduate
Research (Kirtsoglou) and Admissions (R. Kendal). Egorova serves as a representative of
the Faculty of Social Sciences and Health on the University Research Committee.

All staff can apply for a change to the hours of work after parental leave and accrual of
terms towards research leave continues during parental leave. The department was an
early adopter of 50-week shared parental leave, and Kovarovic runs the DU parent
support network. In accordance with DU policy, staff taking at least 26 weeks leave can
apply for one term research leave upon return to re-invigorate their research. To ensure
staff wellbeing, all are encouraged to participate in extensive, free university courses that
address issues like staff mental health and coping strategies. In addition, the Department
has weekly, informal social coffee mornings and weekly runs and other activities to
enhance both physical and mental wellbeing. We encourage staff to limit e-mail
correspondence to working hours and ensure that whenever possible research seminars
and public and inaugural lectures take place from 10 am to 4 pm. When appropriate, the
department ensures staff are supported with emergency leave, bereavement leave, and
leave of absence, which are carried out in accordance with DU policy.




                                                                                            10
Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research Funding Portfolio:

The department expects grant applications across the three main sub-disciplines to
facilitate the principal aim, which is to generate high quality outputs and outcomes.
Following the department’s strategic recruitment initiative and restructuring of research
support (section 1, strategic initiatives 1 & 2), the overall grant award value has
increased by 60% from £4.8 million in REF2014 to £8,251,468.64 million. The 106
competitively awarded grants are commensurate with department strategy to encourage a
broad distribution of small (46 under £30k), small to medium (34 £30k - 100k) and a
healthy number of medium to large grants (26 in the range £100k-768k) contributing to
Anthropology. Key examples are detailed in this Section and in Section 4 under
Collaborations and Contribution to Research Base. The department facilitates large
grant applications and quick responses to meet short grant deadlines by (i) releasing
department research funding for travel to work with collaborators, and (ii) flexible teaching
replacement by colleagues. During this REF cycle the department has also instituted a
practice of enhanced peer review, which includes ‘mock’ interviews, for PIs working on
large grant applications. The success of these practices is evidenced in Brown’s
£1,577,152 awarded ERC grant for the ALIVEAfrica: Animals, Livelihood and Wellbeing in
Africa starting in 2021, R. Kendal’s £ 2,847,410 awarded Templeton Foundation grant for
the project Transforming the Field of Cultural Evolution and its Application to Human
Futures and £975,813 (£621,527.97 to Anthropology) Wellcome Trust extension grant for
the Institute for Medical Humanities, starting on 1 October 2022. This funding will support
research going beyond REF2021 and is indicative of our upward trajectory in grant income
generation.

As an academically diverse unit, Durham Anthropology keeps track of a wide range of
UKRI and charitable funding opportunities by implementing the strategic initiative to
improve access to research support expertise in RIS (Section 1, SI2), and improve
dissemination of academics’ funding knowledge across the department. Consistent with
this strategy, the department has won research funding from 41 different bodies, including
33 grants funded by UKRI (from 5 research councils), 6 by the EU Government, and the
remainder largely from charitable institutions, including 2 Leverhulme and 10 Wellcome
Trust funded projects.

All staff receive an annual personal staff research fund (£1k) to contribute to
international conference attendance and/or developing research networks. To incentivise
grant capture and further develop successful projects, PIs who have won grants are
rewarded with a 10% net contribution to overheads on awarded grants, which is paid into
the staff personal research fund. Staff may request additional funding to support research
leave activities. Staff can also apply to receive additional Research Committee funds to
support research activities, impact activities and Article Processing Charges (APCs). This
fund is resourced from the department’s annual budget and a fund of 10% net contribution
to overheads on grants awarded to the department. The latter is used to fund seedcorn
research activities, PhD studentship research costs, post-PhD submission journal article
writing bursaries and equipment costs. In this REF cycle staff have also actively used
access to DU research incentivisation and seedcorn funds aimed to support the
development of larger grants, research engagement with policy-making initiatives and
wider impact generating activities.

The re-structured DU Research and Innovation Service (RIS) provides
administrative expertise to work closely with department staff on the development of
grant applications. This includes expertise in (i) funding institutions and funding




                                                                                           11
accountancy, (ii) knowledge of cross-disciplinary research development across the
University, and (iii) grant writing and interview techniques. Staff working on medium to
large grants receive individualised support from the Research Development Manager
(Social Sciences and Health) in RIS. Academics’ expert knowledge of particular funding
schemes/bodies is collated to be used as a collective resource through RC.

Space and IT Facilities:

All academic staff are accommodated across 32 offices within the same building (Dawson
Building, shared with the Department of Archaeology). All full-time academic staff are
accommodated in a single-occupancy office, with private, bookable, consultation rooms
available for part-time or fixed-term staff in shared offices. Junior Research Fellows and
PDRAs are housed in multiple occupancy offices or use desk space in facilities (e.g.
Physical Activity lab, Durham Infant Sleep Centre). A teaching laboratory in the Dawson
Building houses the Osteology Collection and accommodates 30 students. The Dawson
Building also houses the Ethnographic collection, which consists of over 2500 objects and
is museum registered (DURAN) with an open access online database.

Laboratories and field station facilities:

The department has strategically invested in laboratories and equipment over the
REF period (Section 1, SI3). In particular, the University has invested over £89k to move
and upgrade equipment in the Parent Infant Sleep Laboratory from the University’s
Queens Campus 40 miles away in Stockton to a new convenient location near the
department (now renamed the Durham Infant Sleep Centre). The University has also
invested £284k to build a new Behavioural and Ecological Physiology Laboratory within
the Dawson Building. Details of these and other facilities are laid out below:

The Durham Infancy & Sleep Centre (DISC, formerly the Parent-Infant Sleep
Laboratory). DISC is located half a mile from the main Department at Hilton Cottage and
houses facilities for videosomnography and cardiorespiratory monitoring of babies and
their parents during sleep. It has a dedicated bedroom and monitoring room equipped with
state-of-the-art video and physiology coding-hardware and software, portable
videosomnography equipment, and actigraphs suitable for use with parents and babies.
The facility is used by a group of medical anthropologists and collaborators (clinicians,
practitioners, psychologists, statisticians) whose research focuses on night-time infant
care, infant sleep development, and parental wellbeing during early-infant life. DISC core
staff comprise 1 permanent academic staff (Ball, founder), a permanent manager, and a
project-funded PDRA. Five PhD, three MSc by research students, one FT RA, and 6
interns have been attached to the Centre since 2014. During the current REF period the
Centre has produced 42 publications, received a prestigious national award (Queen’s
Anniversary Prize), generated £230k in external income, and was awarded 3 externally
funded PhD studentships (2x ESRC, 1x CONACyT). DISC is heavily involved in impact
creation and runs as its outreach and engagement arm the Baby Sleep Information
Source – a digital resource encompassing website, social media, app and video-based
information for parents and practitioners on a range of aspects of infant sleep and night-
time infant care including infant sleep safety, infant sleep development, bed-sharing and
co-sleeping, infant-related sleep disruption, including discussion tools and information
sheets, workshops and webinars. From within the Department, Pollard, Bentley, Kasim,
and Akhter are affiliated with DISC as collaborators and Co-Is on grant applications.
Beyond the University, DISC has 10 UK academic affiliates/collaborators, 12 UK clinical
affiliates/collaborators, 15 international academic affiliates/collaborators and 4
international clinical affiliates/collaborators. The external collaboration network of the
Centre has grown substantially since 2014. The department’s continued investment in



                                                                                            12
DISC has been used to support the development of two ICSs in the current period,
following one for REF2014. The research of DISC was Durham’s ESRC-IAA flagship
project for the academic year 2019-2020.

The Behavioural and Ecological Physiology Laboratory (BEP) located in the Dawson
Building, was completed in 2020 with £240,000 University investment with the aim of
making Durham Anthropology an international focus for both human and non-invasive
non-human primate physiology. The BEP Lab is led by MacLarnon and Bentley, and
supports the work of Ball, Setchell and Hill, producing hormone analysis as well as other
physiological assessments such as odour analysis. The facility is co-directed by Bentley
and MacLarnon as it combines and extends capabilities previously housed at the Wolfson
Laboratory, run by Bentley, and at MacLarnon’s previous institution. Two current PhD
students also use the facilities. External collaborations are ongoing with Bournemouth,
Nottingham and Oxford Universities as well as the Israel Institute of Technology. Key
facilities include a serviced Biotek plate reader and washer for performing enzyme-linked
immunosorbent assays (ELISA), fridge and freezers including one at -80C with an
electronic temperature logging system and remote messaging, deionised water, small
bench and liquid handling apparatus, a high capacity, multi-use refrigerated centrifuge,
and incubator. BEP is a Human Tissue Authority (HTA) approved facility and listed by
Durham University’s Analytical Services. During the REF period, the Laboratory has been
supported by the ESRC (£600k, Bentley Co-I) as well as ongoing support provided by
Durham University.

Established in 2012, the Physical Activity Lab run by Pollard is well-equipped for the
assessment of physical activity in everyday life, and contains specialist accelerometer
based physical activity monitors, including monitors to assess sedentary time, GPS
monitors and equipment to support ethnographic methods. The lab has grown over the
REF period and has been used by 8 PhD students, a Durham International Senior Fellow,
and three PDRAs (one jointly with the Newcastle University). Studentships have been
funded by the ESRC (x4), the Wellcome Trust, a Durham Doctoral Studentship and a
Commonwealth Studentship. Grant income has come from two projects funded by the
National Institute for Health Research and one by the School of Public Health Research
(of which £69,009 was to Pollard as Co-I). These projects are in collaboration with
Newcastle University, University of Cambridge and City University. The lab also has
strong links with the Department of Sport and Exercise Sciences at DU. In this REF cycle
the lab has supported work leading to 12 publications.

In line with the strategic objective to enhance research in the area of conservation, in 2012
the Department established the Anthropology Field Station at the Lajuma Research
Centre in the Soutpansberg Mountains, Limpopo Province, South Africa, with a £42k
University investment and Earthwatch Institute funding. The field station includes a
permanent office, storage and laboratory space including a freezer for hormone sample
storage. It provides accommodation for up to 12 researchers and hosts the department’s
Primate & Predator Project (PI: Hill). Over the period, research based at the field station
has attracted over £466k in funding, with a further $146k in charitable donations from
private foundations and individuals. In the REF period, the site has supported 6
postdoctoral research staff, 7 PhD students and 3 MSc by research students have
completed, with 6 ongoing PhD students (with 3 PhD and 1 MSc by research student
funded through collaborating universities). It employs a field station manager, a research
manager and community engagement officer. Since 2014, 22 papers and 1 book chapter
based on field station data have been published (including authors Hill, Bell, Barton,
Setchell) with 4 papers in press and others in review. Partners include the UNESCO
Vhembe Biosphere Reserve, Wildlife and Environment Society of South Africa (WESSA)
Eco-schools, the Greater Mapungubwe Network, Endangered Wildlife Trust, Green Dogs
Conservation, Panthera and the University of Venda. The Anthropology Field Station also



                                                                                           13
hosts the department’s Anthropology Field Course providing a unique opportunity within
UK Anthropology to embed students within a departmental research facility overseas.

The Gabonese Mandrill Field project (PI: Setchell) holds a dedicated -80C freezer for
sample storage used in collaboration with the Primate Centre at the Centre International
de Recherches Medicales, Franceville (CIRMF), Gabon. In the current period, Setchell
has trained one PhD student (passed 2018) funded by a Leverhulme Project grant
(£61,561), and one research fellow (EU Marie Skłodowska-Curie Action) as a part of this
collaboration. Benefits in kind are access to the resources of the Centre International de
Recherches Medicales and the primate centre, including expert collaboration, lodging, and
access to the primates and laboratory facilities. This facility supports Setchell’s ongoing
national (Hull, Stirling, Wolverhampton) and international collaborations (Brno - Czech
Republic, Agence Nationale des Parcs Nationaux, CIRMF - Gabon, Albany NY, Boulder
Colorado, Georgia Southern University – USA. Freezers at both the South African and
Gabonese field sites allow storage before shipping for analysis at Durham’s BEP lab. The
facility has supported work resulting in 5 publications on mandrills.

Administrative and Technical support:

The Department is supported by a dedicated Senior Research Administrator who works
closely with RIS providing hands-on support and guidance in areas including securing
research funding, working with research partners, undertaking knowledge exchange,
demonstrating impact and commercialising outputs. The new Behavioural and Ecological
Physiology Laboratory is supported by a full-time technician.

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and
society

Durham Anthropology is a diverse department that encourages staff to work across and
beyond the traditional breadth of the discipline, making contributions to research across
different faculties of DU, as well as nationally and internationally. The research
environment is enriched by timetabled seminar series and research conversations
attended by staff and students: the regular departmental seminar hosts external speakers,
talks from new staff and a re-instigation of Inaugural Professorial lectures (7 Inaugural
Lectures thus far). Research group meetings include training sessions, peer review of
manuscripts and grant applications, and research seminars from internal and external
speakers. In addition, the Layton Dialogue is a high profile annual public event inviting
two external speakers to discuss a common theme from differing epistemological
perspectives. Special interest groups arrange regular journal-club meetings, for instance
in primatology, and in cultural evolution.

In this REF period, staff gave 135 keynote and 365 high-profile named public
lectures/lecture series, including Ball’s plenary lecture at the International Society for
Evolution, Macnaughton’s Frances Ivens Memorial Lecture to the Royal Medicine Institute,
Mookherjee’s keynote lecture at the annual meeting of the Postcolonial Studies
Association, and Setchell’s plenary lecture to the European Federation for Primatology.
Staff held 24 visiting fellowships and professorships at 24 different institutions. Honours
and awards included Ball, 2018 Queen’s Anniversary Prize for Higher and Further
Education, Royal Anniversary Trust; Macnaughton and Russell, 2018 AHRC/Wellcome
‘Most Inspiring Research’ category (for project ‘Life of Breath’) Health Humanities awards;
Carrithers, 2015 Fellow of the British Academy; Barton, 2018 Osman Hill Memorial Medal
from Primate Society of Great Britain. The department boasts over 40 editorships
(journals/books including associate/sub-editor or editorial board memberships) including
Advisory Editor, Social Science and Medicine (Hampshire); Editor-in-Chief International




                                                                                         14
Journal of Primatology (Setchell), and Co-Editor-in-Chief of Journal of Human Evolution
(Elton, 2013-2016). The Unit has run over 140 conferences, workshops, public
lectures and lecture series, including: ASA 2016: Footprints and Futures: The Time of
Anthropology (£12k from Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research).

Collaboration and contribution to research base at DU:
Anthropology has made a major contribution to Durham’s capacities to support
interdisciplinary research across all the University’s Faculties. Department staff are
directors in 3 of the 10 DU Institutes (the largest form of University-funded multi-
disciplinary organisation), and are also directors and co-directors of 5 DU Centres (in
addition to DISC described in Section 3).

The Institute of Advanced Study (IAS), in particular has benefited from anthropological
expertise in its leadership through Executive Director Strang and Co-Director Barton. The
Anthropology Department’s global reach has been enhanced during the REF cycle by
collaboration with the IAS’s distinguished international Fellows who normally take up
residence at Durham for the duration of a term, including world-leading anthropologists
such as Dominic Boyer, Cymene Howe, Frances Morphy, Howard Morphy, Nigel Rapport,
and Ida Susser.

The Institute for Medical Humanities (IMH), directed by Macnaughton (Russell and J.
Kendal are on the IMH Steering Group), was established in 2018 with a £1million
Wellcome Trust grant (£768k to Anthropology) and is one of only two Medical Humanities
institutes in the world. IMH’s mission is to develop a nexus of world class medical
humanities research that aims to improve human health through an enhanced
understanding of human experience and currently holds two major project grants from
Wellcome including £1.5 million Life of Breath (PI: Macnaughton, Co-I: Russell, with
Bristol University), which during the pandemic developed a publicly accessible resource to
support patients with COVID-19 related breathlessness. IMH also hosts ECR training
programmes (e.g. AHRC/Wellcome-funded 14 ECRs trained in 2014-16) including
engagement with anthropology and other disciplines.

The Durham Energy Institute (DEI), co-directed by Abram and including Alexander, Bell,
Campbell, Knight, Ringel and Yarrow, is focused on the role of social sciences and
humanities in energy research and teaching. Abram has opened up opportunities for
interdisciplinary cooperation across faculties and departments resulting in Durham
Anthropology’s inclusion in the National Centre for Energy Systems Integration. DEI
support has also been crucial for bringing international conferences and workshops to
Durham Anthropology, including the European Association of Social Anthropologists
(EASA) annual event ’Why the World Needs Anthropology’, which had its UK debut in
Durham in 2018, and the Wenner-Gren funded international workshop ‘Electrifying
Anthropology’ in 2016.

The Behaviour, Ecology and Evolution Research (BEER) Centre, directed by Setchell,
unites a large number of academic and research staff and students studying behaviour,
ecology and evolution in five departments (Anthropology, Archaeology, Psychology,
Education and Biosciences) in two faculties (Social Sciences and Health, Science), to
facilitate interactions and improve visibility outside the University. BEER facilitates the
development of interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary research programmes, including
cross-faculty PhD studentships.

The Durham Cultural Evolution Research Centre (DCERC), directed by Street, serves
as the focal point for cultural evolution and gene-culture coevolution research at Durham
University. The centre consists of 41 members from the fields of anthropology,




                                                                                            15
archaeology, biological sciences, business, education, mathematics, psychology and
theology.
Durham Research Methods Centre (DRMC), directed and co-directed by Kasim and J.
Kendal, respectively, was established in 2018 to promote the understanding and
application of research methods by academics and PGRs, with a primary focus on
quantitative methods in the Faculty of Social Sciences and Health. Kasim and Kendal
have shaped the strategy of the Centre and, along with the DRMC fellow, Street, have run
5 statistics workshops for 150 staff and PG students.

Anthropology hosts the Centre for the Study of Jewish Culture, Society and Politics,
which is the only Centre for Jewish Studies in the UK focusing on contemporary Jewish
life and culture. The Centre, directed by Egorova, brings together a group of leading
scholars representing nine departments. In 2018, the Centre hosted the annual
conference of the British Association for Jewish Studies featuring an invited panel on
anthropology of Judaism and Jewish communities, which raised the profile of social
anthropology research at the intersection with Jewish Studies.

Russell is Co-Director of the Centre for Social Justice and Community Action - an
interdisciplinary research centre spanning across the Faculty of Social Sciences and
Health, with an international reputation for ethics, methodology and methods of
participatory action research (PAR) and its research in partnership with experts by
experience.

Wider contribution to economy and society:
In addition to the submitted and reserve Impact Case Studies outlined in Section 1
and in line with our strategic objective ii, in this REF cycle the department has
delivered a wide range of research of societal significance.

Important work in Durham Anthropology was conducted in response to international
crises. Kirtsoglou won a £140k funding from the ESRC Urgent Grants Scheme (2015) to
lead a project on ‘Transitory Lives: An Anthropological Research of the Migration Crisis in
the Mediterranean’. The study brought together a network of academics with long term
regional expertise and NGO practitioners involved in humanitarian aid and addressed the
social effects of high-risk crossings on asylum-seekers and receiving communities,
documenting the shortcomings and strengths of existing policies and structures. Schwartz-
Marin’s ESRC transformative research grant (£198k) ran a citizen-led forensics project
with relatives of the 27,000 disappeared in Mexico to govern and manage the only non-
state-run forensic/DNA database in the world (over 899 families registered), resulting in
123 media pieces and lobbying in the Mexican congress for new legislation. Merli and
Buck have published on the forensic identification and identity politics in 2004 post-
tsunami Thailand. Mookherjee’s research on sexual violence during conflict in Bangladesh
was noted in Section 1 and is part of our REF3 submission.

Many of the department’s health projects have strong societal significance.
Hampshire has led two international projects in sub-Saharan Africa both with international,
multidisciplinary teams, the first MRC-funded (£197k) project with Kasim included building
an evidence base to support and enhance community health workers’ use of mobile
phones in Ghana, Malawi and Ethiopia. The second is Wellcome-funded (£50k, 2015-16)
project concerning vulnerabilities in supply chains of essential medicines in Ghana and
Tanzania that result in penetration by substandard and falsified medicines. Brown won a
£83k ESRC grant to study the ‘Anthropology of Ebola: Transmission Dynamics and
Outbreak Socialities’. Widger is working with corporations in Sri Lanka whose pesticides
are being used as poison and as a means of suicide. Kasim was a Co-I on a research
project with the Institute of Health and Society, Newcastle University, which has resulted



                                                                                          16
in re-branding and re-launch of the Think Pharmacy First Minor Illness scheme, and is well
cited by reference to the ‘positive pharmacy care law’ in NHS, government and Royal
Pharmaceutical Society policy documents. R. Kendal has applied cultural evolution to
enhancing public health communication products endorsed by Pan American Health
Organisation and World Health Organization as part of the ‘HIVE: Health Interventions in
Volcanic Eruptions’.

Hill, R. Kendal and Fortis each run projects affecting public engagement with sciences
and humanities. The department has won ESRC IAA funding for Hill’s MammalWeb
project, a citizen-science project to monitor the UK’s mammals, and developed
engagement from Durham Wildlife Trust and collaboration with Newcastle’s Great North
Museum Hancock to develop their Natural Northumbria exhibit as part of ‘Dippy on Tour’
from 18 May to 6 October 2019. The museum welcomed 304,117 visitors during the
period, an increase of 51% over previous decade average attendance. The project also
has links to Scottish Wildcat Action, British Trust for Ornithology (one of the largest and
longest-running citizen science initiatives in the UK) as well as smaller projects and nature
reserves and over 60 schools. R. Kendal's project with the Centre for Life (CfL) science
centre, Newcastle, developed a new type of exhibit (part of the Brain Zone Gallery from
March 2016) that has enhanced visitor engagement in the scientific method, while
simultaneously recording behavioural data with automated consent for research in
creativity, social learning and cooperation. Fortis was guest curator for an exhibition ‘Mola:
Crafting Beauty and Layering the World in Panama’ at the Völkerkunde Museum,
University of Zurich, from 26 November 2015 to 13 November 2016, attracting 4,700
visitors and receiving excellent media coverage and reviews in 21 newspapers,
magazines and blogs.

Durham Anthropology wildlife conservation research is developing impact via a number
of projects. Setchell co-authored a publication in Science Advances, arguing for urgent
action regarding the extinction crisis of the world’s primates (BBC Online top story in
science on 18 January 2017). Relatedly, the impacts of tourism on primate health have
been investigated by MacLarnon and Setchell. Setchell is a member of a Primate
Specialist Group of the International Union for Conservation of Nature, R. Kendal is a
participant in the UN Convention for Conservation of Migratory Species working group
related to animal culture, and Hill’s work on leopards fed into assessments of quotas and
the hunting embargo in South Africa. Hill and R. Kendal supported a scientific study of a
vervet monkey reintroductions in association with The Colobus Trust. This resulted in a
positive impact on vervet monkey survival rate and, following the adoption of
reintroduction procedures created in light of the research, allowed colleagues at Lilongwe
Wildlife Centre (Malawi) to improve survivorship of reintroduced baboons.

National institutional policy has been affected by work led by J. Kendal, whose
interdisciplinary collaboration with the Durham Business School (Gill) on leadership and
informal prestige in the Royal Navy (RN) has resulted in RN reports that have had impact
on RN leadership selection policy. Abram reviewed the methodology of the Ofgem
Customer Complaints Survey, while Alexander has co-authored the opening chapter for
the Government Chief Scientific Advisor’s Annual Report for 2016/17.

These rich and productive intersections between research, impact and public engagement
put us in a strong position not only to develop Impact Case Studies for the next REF cycle,
but also to meet our broader strategic objectives to influence significantly the field of
anthropology, play leading roles in intra- and inter-disciplinary collaborations, and to
generate transformative impact outside academia in all three research areas.




                                                                                             17
