Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Strathclyde

 Unit of Assessment: 27

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The relationship between literature, culture, history and language has long been at the heart of
 research in English Literature and Language at Strathclyde. Our REF2014 submission reflected
 on a period of transition following the restructuring of the School and Faculty. Since then, we have
 focused on maximising the interdisciplinary opportunities created by the formation of the School
 of Humanities, securing the continued success and expansion of this unit at a challenging time for
 Humanities nationally. Investments in staffing (Section 2), research infrastructure and environment
 (Section 3) have been designed to enable us to maximise the benefits of interdisciplinarity whilst
 retaining core strengths in traditional areas of literary scholarship. UoA27 is thus comprised four
 interconnected subject areas within Humanities: English; Creative Writing; Journalism, Media and
 Communication; Modern Languages and Cultures. The UOA is overseen by the Head of School
 and UOA Research Director, with support from a UOA Impact Coordinator and Postgraduate
 Research Coordinator.

 History (UOA28) also sits within the School of Humanities. Teaching and research collaborations
 with History are embedded as standard practice and the School Management structure ensures
 the Research Directors, Impact Coordinators and Postgraduate Research Directors in both units
 work closely on strategic and operational matters. The School sits within the Faculty of Humanities
 and Social Sciences. This is a fundamentally interdisciplinary unit and its structure and
 management is designed to foster connections and collaborations across and beyond our subject
 areas.

 As a relatively small and diverse UOA, the core element of our research strategy in the census
 period – which remains integral to future planning - is to encourage colleagues’ independent
 research and support the development of cross-disciplinary and cross-institutional collaborations.
 In this way, we aim to retain and promote intellectual independence within supportive networks,
 recognising that our diversity makes alignment of all colleagues within specified research clusters
 impractical and undesirable. This represents a shift since REF2014, when the School and Faculty
 structure were relatively new and our research activities had a more literary emphasis, under the
 umbrella of a central research theme in Literature, Culture and Place. The University’s promotion
 of cross-cutting Strategic Research Themes has supported the ambition to diversify our research
 offering, allowing us to develop meaningful collaborative research and teaching relationships
 within the wider University. Underpinning this approach is our commitment to the University’s
 mission to be “a place of useful learning”, with knowledge exchange embedded in our research
 management structures.

 Our research is concentrated in three key sub-themes within the University’s Society & Policy
 strategic research theme: Heritage & Culture; Communication, Language and Translation; and
 Gender. The involvement of staff in each sub-theme is given in the table below. Heritage & Culture
 (led by Mahn) is the most obvious successor to Literature, Culture and Place (our main research
 cluster in 2014). This speaks to our continuing strengths in Scottish, Victorian and Neo-Victorian
 Studies, complemented by a growing profile in Postcolonial literatures, Animal Studies, Industrial
 Heritage and Working-class Literature. Communication, Language and Translation (led by
 Mitchell) represents emerging strengths in translation, social media and health communication,
 alongside historic and continuing strengths in literary linguistics, journalism, political
 communication and European languages and cultures. To the Gender subtheme, we contribute
 strengths in media and literature.

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The strategic alignment of our research with interdisciplinary research groupings is underpinned
 by the development of taught postgraduate programmes and research masters which feed into
 the subthemes as demonstrated below. This has been a significant area of growth: in 2019-20 the
 UOA had 77 students on taught postgraduate courses (compared to 31 in 2017-2018). This has
 enabled the development of more research-led teaching and resulted in a far clearer offering to
 potential PhD students including through the development of new named PhDs in Gender Studies
 and Journalism, Media and Communication. This has been important to the expansion of our PhD
 numbers (Section 2).

                    Heritage & Culture             Gender                Communication,
                                                                     Language & Translation
  Staff      Scottish: Goldie, Bell,        Media: Boyle,           Translation: Li, Deane-
             Blair, Kinloch, Higgins,       Higgins, Eckler,        Cox
             Glass                          Duncan, Miyake.         European: Rodriguez,
             Victorian & Neo                Gender, sexuality       Rodero, Murphy, Mitchell,
             Victorian: Blair,              and literature:         Verdier, Morris
             Kistler, Edwards, Colin,       Jones, Rodriguez,       Literary linguistics: Fabb,
             Meehan.                        Verdier, Mitchell,      Jajdelska
             Postcolonial: Mahn,            Edwards, Mahn.          Health: Eckler, Miyake.
             Murphy.                                                Trauma: Duncan, Boyle,
             Animal: Fudge.                                         Verdier, Rodriguez.
             Museums: Kistler,                                      Social media: Eckler,
             Deane-Cox, Li, Blair.                                  Rathnayake, Miyake.
  PGT        MLitt Interdisciplinary        MSc Applied             MLitt Digital Journalism
  Programmes English Studies (from          Gender Studies/         (from 2012)
             2019)                          Applied Gender          MLitt Media &
                                            Studies (Research       Communication (from
                                            Methods) (from          2017)
                                            2018)                   MSc Business
                                                                    Translating &
                                                                    interpreting (from 2016)
                                                                    MSc TESOL &
                                                                    Intercultural
                                                                    Communication (from
                                                                    2018)


 Working with colleagues from other Schools and Faculties enables smaller units to reach
 interdisciplinary critical mass. Within the School, strategic appointments in History (Richardson,
 Telepneva) have expanded our reach in Animal and Postcolonial Studies, for instance. Within the
 Faculty, the development of interdisciplinary Gender Studies (led by Boyle) has drawn on
 expertise from colleagues in Education, Politics and Social Policy, as well as subjects within our
 own School, and additionally provides a critical mass of scholars working in queer theory. Looking
 beyond Faculty, the Strathclyde Feminist Research Network runs a seminar series, a blog
 showcasing the work of staff and postgraduate students, and work-in-progress workshops
 providing a forum for colleagues and PhD students to get feedback on interdisciplinary work. Other
 cross-disciplinary connections forged under the Strategic Research Themes include:
 Measurement Science and Enabling Technologies, which connects Rathnayake with colleagues
 in Computing and Information Science; Energy, where Blair is working with Civil Engineering and
 the Centre for Energy Policy to connect mining heritage with developments in minewater
 geothermal energy for post-industrial communities; and the Health & Wellbeing subtheme where

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 connections with Marketing and Psychology enhance Eckler and Miyake’s work on health
 communications.

 This strategic approach to building critical mass through strategic partnerships is further evidenced
 in the generous support we offer international visiting scholars: the School does not charge bench
 fees, but provides visiting scholars with desk space, library access and senior mentoring. This has
 enabled colleagues to build international networks and collaborations, hosting scholars from
 Finland, Sweden, Spain and, in particular, China. Support for outward travel comes from
 International Strategic Partnership funding, which funds visits to partner universities. In 2018 and
 2019, strategic priority was accorded to visits linking with Women’s, Gender and Queer Studies,
 with Boyle visiting the Universities of Waterloo, Wilfrid Laurier and Guelph (2018), and Mahn
 visiting City University of New York (CUNY) and the Centre for LGBTQ Studies (2019). This
 resulted in a return visit from CUNY-based scholar Matt Brim in 2020 to deliver a workshop on
 class and queer theory at Glasgow Women’s Library.

 At School level, our well-attended research seminar programme (around 12 seminars annually)
 provides opportunities for inter and cross-disciplinary conversation. Seminars jointly organised
 with the Strathclyde University Feminist Research Network, the Animal Studies Reading Group,
 the Scottish Oral History Centre, and the Centre for the Social History of Health and Healthcare
 bring the activities of these key networks and centres to a School-wide audience.

 Impact strategy
 Enabling impact has always been integral to research at Strathclyde. Since our foundation we
 have aimed to be “a place of useful learning” and our ambition to harness research for socially
 progressive purposes has meant continued investment in the Humanities and Social Sciences.
 Through the Faculty Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee (which feeds into the
 University’s strategic research planning), we ensure that the partnerships central to impact in the
 Humanities (in particular, those involving third-sector organisations, museums, libraries and
 cultural institutions) remain integral to the University’s strategic aims. Indeed, the recently
 launched Vision2025 (see Institutional Statement) recognises our role in the cultural life of our city.

 The importance of externally-facing research collaborations is acknowledged in the research
 management structure, which places Research and Knowledge Exchange together from the
 earliest stage of project development. As detailed in Section 2, our annual review and promotions
 processes highlight knowledge exchange so this is integral to the way we think about research
 and (as discussed in Section 4) our relationship to the community in which we are located. As a
 Unit, we completely subscribe to this ethos and have embedded impact in all aspects of our
 research, from credit-bearing research placements for taught postgraduate students, to the
 development of major, collaborative grant applications.

 At Unit level, Impact Coordinators are responsible for the strategic development of impact
 activities. This includes, but is not limited to, working with colleagues to identify support needs
 which are then fed into School and Faculty planning. This has allowed us to provide individuals
 with targeted support, for instance through teaching buy-out, or the time of a dedicated research
 assistant, to develop impact activities. At Faculty level, infrastructural investment in impact has
 included:
     • a dedicated Faculty-specific Research and Knowledge Exchange Team: we are the only
          Faculty in the University to have this specific support;
     • the appointment (in 2018) of a Faculty Editor, with expertise in impact, to assist with grant-
          writing and presenting research findings to diverse audiences;
     • investment in Community Bursaries for the MSc Applied Gender Studies, to support the
          continuing professional development of colleagues in key partner organisations;

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      • investment in infrastructure to support the development of massive open online courses.
 These investments demonstrate the evolving and responsive nature of support for impact. The
 Faculty also produce the People & Society bulletin which disseminates research news and
 initiatives internally as well as to external partners, and has invested in an Impact Prize (since
 2019) to highlight the range and quality of our impact activities. Mahn was the winner of the
 inaugural Prize for Outstanding International Impact, and Eckler was runner-up in the Impact on
 Society category in 2020.

 At University level, Engage with Strathclyde is a centrally-funded and administratively-supported
 week-long annual programme of events providing opportunities for internal and external
 networking and knowledge exchange. The impact and external-funding flowing from these events
 are detailed in our Impact Case Studies and in Section 4. The University invests in an annual
 Images of Research competition which provides internal-recognition of research and additional
 resources to promote research externally through the touring exhibition: both Eckler’s and Mahn’s
 work has achieved recognition through this scheme.

 At Unit level, our activities generate impact in three key areas - heritage, media and education -
 each explored in more detail in our Impact Case Studies, which demonstrate the local, national
 and international impact of our research. However, colleagues from across the Unit contribute to
 activities under each of these headings (Section 4).

 Open Access and Research Integrity
 All staff are made aware of, and subscribe to, open access policies related to REF, uploading all
 necessary publications to the institutional repository (Strathprints & PURE) within the mandated
 timeframe. Research Directors receive quarterly briefings from the Open Access Advocacy
 Librarian, and funding is available (at School and University level) to support Open Access
 publications. For instance, Jajdelska received funding from the School Strategic Research Fund
 to support an open access publication of a co-authored conceptual article which is both a key
 output from funded activity (her RSE grant) and proof-of-concept for a larger project.

 The School attaches great importance to research ethics and integrity and has developed rigorous
 procedures for ensuring proper ethical review and accountability, consistent with the UUK
 Concordat. The University promotes research integrity through training, support and recognition.
 Our research ethics policies include the Research Code of Practice, Policy and Code of Practice
 for Postgraduate Research Study and Code of Practice on Investigations Involving Human Beings.
 All research carried out by members of the School, including undergraduate and postgraduate
 dissertation projects, are subject to these procedures. The ethical review process is designed to
 support researchers in managing risks associated with their research, and to ensure the highest
 professional standards in designing, conducting and disseminating research.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy & staff development
 Since 2014, our staffing strategy has had the twin aims of consolidating existing strengths and
 diversifying our research base. Staff turnover has allowed for some recalibration of priorities; this
 has not always meant replacing posts like-for-like, but rather using vacancies to drive the research
 agenda and enhance the interdisciplinary research groupings detailed above. Appointments in
 digital humanities (Rathnayake), translation (Li, Deane-Cox), creative writing (Meehan, Glass),
 gender studies (Jones) and Victorian literature and museum studies (Kistler) are the outcome of
 this strategy. The University has invested in the Unit through interdisciplinary appointments in its
 two signature schemes – the Global Talent Programme (GTP) and Chancellor’s Fellowship
 Scheme (CFS). This has resulted in a modest growth in the Unit, from 20.2 FTEs returned in 2014

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to 25 in 2020. As described below, our work on Equality, Diversity and Inclusion is largely at
 School-level. However, it is worth noting that the shift towards gender parity at senior level
 documented in REF2014 has been maintained (60% Professors, 67% Senior Lecturers/Readers,
 and 75% of Lecturers/Chancellor’s Fellows are women). The Unit is comprised of 5 Professors, 1
 Reader, 11 Senior Lecturers, 7 Lecturers and a Chancellor’s Fellow. The overall mix of staff (17
 women and 9 men), reflects the fields nationally.

 The CFS has allowed us to attract mid-career (Mahn) and early-career (Miyake) researchers, and
 the Unit has also benefitted from History’s success in this scheme with appointments in gender
 and cultural history (Richardson, Newlands, Olszynko-Gryn). The research-orientation of the
 Chancellor’s Fellow scheme is reflected in the extended programme of support it offers ECRs
 (over five years), including a 50% reduction in teaching for the first three years to enable Fellows
 to develop their research programme. Fellows contribute to the research-led development of
 teaching, particularly through postgraduate provision (such as Mahn’s Global Queers course) and
 supervising PhD students. At the end of their Chancellor’s Fellow contract, Fellows move onto
 standard teaching and research contracts within their subject.

 GTP focuses on appointments at Professorial level and, within the Unit, we have secured 3 GTP
 appointments (Blair in 2016, Boyle in 2018, Murphy in 2019). GTP appointments are funded
 centrally by the University for three years, and include a New Professor’s research fund of £25,000
 for each appointee to develop research, with an emphasis on knowledge exchange and impact.

 These investments have long-term rewards for the Unit. For instance, Fudge (appointed in the last
 REF cycle) used her New Professor Fund to establish the British Animal Studies Network (BASN).
 The network continues to hold themed-symposia twice annually, attracting leading scholars from
 across Europe, the Americas and South Africa. Strathclyde has hosted six of these events in this
 census period, offering an opportunity to place research in the humanities in conversation with
 natural and social sciences, as well as connecting with creative practitioners and colleagues
 working in wildlife and conservation charities. The BASN’s funded Writer in Residence programme
 provides an additional link with Creative Writing at Strathclyde. Strathclyde’s investment in Animal
 Studies has been extended with the appointment of Richardson (History) as well as internal
 funding for PhD students working in this area (Jones, Ryland, McDougall). The Animal Studies
 grouping has also benefited from externally-funded PhDs (Logan, Cumming - both AHRC funded)
 and the context provided by the monthly Glasgow Animal Studies Reading Group (run by Fudge)
 which attracts researchers from other Scottish universities. This demonstrates a core tenet of
 Strathclyde’s approach to supporting Humanities research, where, through investment in
 interdisciplinary, cross-university networking activities, we are able to support the diverse range
 of research taking place within the Unit.

 Recent GTP appointments are achieving similar results. Blair established and leads the Scottish
 Centre for Victorian and Neo-Victorian Studies, a collaborative venture with the Universities of
 Glasgow and Stirling designed to build partnerships with external stakeholders such as museums,
 libraries and archives. This has provided a wider intellectual context for existing scholars at
 Strathclyde (Edwards, Goldie, Colin); has been further enhanced by new appointments in English
 (Kistler), Creative Writing (Meehan) and History (Richardson); and allowed us to consolidate links
 with colleagues in History (Whelehan, Barton). Despite being a relatively new collaboration, it is
 already yielding notable success having, for instance, sponsored events which informed the
 development of Blair’s AHRC-funded project Piston, Pen and Press (Section 3), and successfully
 bid to hold two major international society conferences – the British Association for Victorian
 Studies (2019) and Research Society for Victorian Periodicals (now delayed to 2022 as a result
 of COVID). This context has also supported PhD recruitment and funding success in the AHRC


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 DTP scheme (Logan, Daskalova, and McHale), and three Collaborative AHRC-funded PhDs
 (Farley, Adams, Lauder: see Research Students subsection).

 Likewise, and building on her RSE-project, Tackling Gendered Inequalities in Scottish News
 (2018), Boyle has used the New Professor’s Fund to found and develop Gender Equal Media
 Scotland (GEMS), a network of researchers, journalists and the feminist third-sector working on
 gender, equality and media issues in Scotland. In its first two years, GEMS has informed the
 recommendations of the First Minister’s National Advisory Council on Women and Girls (NACWG)
 (2019). Also, in her GEMS-capacity Boyle has been an invited expert at the NACGW
 Accountability Day (2019, 2020), and been consulted by Women Against Violence Europe, the
 MaLisa Foundation (Germany) and the European Broadcasting Union. With GEMS, Boyle has
 organised a number of public engagement events (see Impact Case Study) and the GEMS blog
 has showcased the research of Strathclyde Masters and PhD students. Indeed, PhD student
 Jenkin’s sports media monitoring was cited in the UK Parliament by MP Hannah Bardell. This
 builds on a long tradition in Strathclyde’s media provision of informing policy debate and formation:
 for example, Higgins submitted written evidence to the Cultural and Media Sport Committee on
 Reality TV (2019).

 This investment in research staff has been accompanied by an investment in our teaching base.
 The University now has a Teaching and Scholarship track which extends to Professorial level.
 This has allowed us to make new appointments in journalism practice. In 2014, Journalism had 3
 research-active staff; in 2020 Journalism, Media and Communication has 6.5 research-active staff,
 with a further 1.5 FTE devoted to teaching. This has been accompanied by a re-orientation of our
 teaching at undergraduate level with the 2019 launch of new programmes in Journalism, Media
 and Communications and a new BA in English and Creative Writing. This provides clearer
 pathways through to Masters and PhD recruitment, and enhances opportunities for research-led
 teaching, all of which are essential to the sustainability of our research ambitions.

 A central focus for staff development activities is the annual Accountability and Development
 Review (ADR). All senior colleagues in the School receive training to act as reviewers, and the
 Head of School oversees the process, ensuring that needs and opportunities identified through
 the ADRs are acted upon. Reflecting Strathclyde’s commitment to useful learning (Section 1), the
 ADR allows colleagues to reflect on their Knowledge Exchange activities, as well as standard
 areas of Research, Teaching and Citizenship. Academic staff applying for promotion have to
 demonstrate strength in two of these areas (one of which must be Research), meaning Knowledge
 Exchange is fully recognised within career trajectories. When merited, the Head of School
 nominates staff for reward through salary increments or promotion, in recognition of successes in
 achieving impact from their research activity.

 One of the functions of the ADR is to enable colleagues to plan for research leave. We retain the
 one-semester-in-seven research leave entitlement detailed in our REF2014 submission but have
 applied this flexibly. For instance, staff can opt to take two-semesters-in-fourteen or can choose
 to spread their research leave across two semesters whilst retaining some additional teaching or
 administrative responsibilities where this is helpful for staff development needs and research
 ambition. Research leave opportunities have been further enhanced by schemes at Faculty level:
 colleagues returning from maternity leave are encouraged to take Faculty-supported leave
 immediately upon their return to work (something Bell benefitted from during the census period);
 and, from early 2020, Faculty funding has been made available for additional research-leave for
 colleagues working on large grant applications.

 During the census period, we have brought in a new workload model which has allowed for greater
 transparency and parity in workload allocations. For staff on research and teaching contracts, 40%

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of time is protected for research: for early career staff, this is reviewed with the Head of School
 and additional research time can be allocated if appropriate. All colleagues have one-to-one
 research meetings with the Director of Research at least annually, and these meetings are used
 to identify research training, support and mentoring needs as well as to hone research plans and
 discuss funding opportunities (internal and external).

 Early Career Researchers (ECRs) are supported through the Academic Career Development
 Framework, through which they access structured support and training for the first three years of
 appointment. This includes being allocated a senior mentor with whom ECRs work closely in
 setting and reviewing targets and achievements. ECRs also have one-on-one meetings annually
 with both the Head of School and the Dean: in a highly interdisciplinary unit, these meetings are
 useful in enabling more senior colleagues to suggest possibilities for research and teaching
 synergies with colleagues in other parts of the Faculty or University. These opportunities are
 enhanced by the Faculty’s investment in the New Leaders Academy (founded 2018) which
 provides support, mentoring and networking for ECRs. Within the Research and Knowledge
 Exchange Team, there is a dedicated staff member who works on ECR-specific external funding
 applications. Since 2018, the Faculty has employed an Editor who works with colleagues on grant
 applications and publications: this has been particularly valuable for early career colleagues and
 those for whom English is a second language. Additional opportunities are provided through the
 credit-bearing Strathclyde’s Programme for Academic Practice, Researcher Development and
 Knowledge Exchange (SPARK).

 Colleagues are encouraged to think about promotion opportunities through the ADR and, where
 appropriate, are provided with additional mentoring in the years leading up to promotion. In the
 census period, a number of colleagues have secured internal promotion to Senior Lecturer
 (Duncan, Jajdelska, Colin, Eckler, Caballero Rodriguez) and Reader (Mahn). Since REF2014, the
 University has initiated Professorial Zoning and all professorial staff participate in the Senior
 Academic Review and Development (SARD) process annually, providing scope for professorial
 advancement within zones. We have also supported colleagues in changing the nature of their
 contracts. For instance, following successful completion of her PhD, Verdier moved onto a
 teaching and research contract, with research mentoring provided beyond the probation period to
 ease this transition.

 Equality, Diversity & Inclusion
 The University’s investment in the Aurora Programme has been mirrored at Unit level, where we
 have supported the participation of three female colleagues (Rodriguez, Verdier, Mitchell) through
 workload allocation and mentoring provision. In 2019 we contributed to an internal evaluation of
 the scheme, supported by an Applied Gender Studies research placement. In recognition of the
 need for continued development on equalities issues, Equality, Diversity & Inclusion is a standing
 item on our School Meeting Agenda, and we regularly invite colleagues from Professional and
 Support services to update us on initiatives, including those around staff wellbeing and mental
 health, as well as supporting international and disabled students. The School supports flexible
 working arrangements, including dedicated working-from-home days and compressed hours; all
 School meetings are held within core hours (10-4); and research seminars are concentrated within
 these hours. As our office space is primarily open plan, the Head of School considers equality
 issues in the allocation of individual offices to ensure that colleagues with health needs are
 prioritised.

 The School of Humanities applied (successfully) for Bronze Athena Swan status in May 2020: six
 colleagues from UoA27 were on the self-assessment team, led by Fabb. This followed on from
 unsuccessful applications in April and November 2017 through which we were able to initiate
 changes in the School including: better support for parental leave; more inclusive timing of

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research seminars; gender-balancing of appointment committees; and a more diversity-aware
 curriculum. In developing our 2020 application, we undertook our most extensive survey to date
 on staff and student experiences. The data we gathered has underpinned the development of our
 equalities action plan, including the formation of the School’s Gender Equality, Diversity &
 Inclusion (GEDI) sub-committee. GEDI has broadened the scope of equalities planning beyond
 that required for Athena Swan and is committed to taking an intersectional approach as well as
 undertaking the monitoring of issues for trans and non-binary staff and students.

 As part of the Athena Swan process, we reviewed REF2014/RAE2008 submissions and found no
 evidence of gender-bias in selection. However, in planning beyond REF2021, GEDI has taken the
 lead in advancing Faculty-level discussions about the differential impacts of COVID-19 on the
 impact of research careers and opportunities. At a local level, we have begun to explore
 appropriate mitigations and adjustments including, for instance, enabling staff to delay research
 leave where appropriate or necessary (e.g. due to caring responsibilities, health issues, or
 temporary closure of key archives). This is in keeping with our flexible approach to research leave
 detailed above.

 Development opportunities for researchers at all levels are provided through the CPD-focused
 Strathclyde Programme in Research and Leadership (SPIRAL) and the Strathclyde Supervisor
 Development Programme. The External Review progress report produced for the EU HR
 Excellence in Research Award, indicated that, every year since 2015/16, approximately 50% of
 the research staff population have engaged with development activities. Identification of
 appropriate development opportunities is part of the ADR process. The University has also
 invested in Professorial training, which launched in 2019 and has benefitted newly appointed
 Professorial colleagues (Boyle took part in the first iteration).

 The Unit has supported a number of non-research staff to undertake further study, including at
 PhD level. This is in recognition of the scholarship aspect of the teaching track promotions
 scheme, and allows us to enhance research-led teaching in units with fewer research-track staff.
 Colleagues who have enrolled in programmes of study or research include: Jollet (MSc Business
 Translating & Interpreting), Roberts (PGDE), Marlow (PhD, English), and Martinez Martin (PhD,
 Spanish).

 Research Students
 Growing our PhD community is a key component of University Strategy (see Institutional
 Statement). Since 2014, we have had 30 PhD completions, with an additional completion of a
 jointly-supervised project on which Stirling was the lead HEI. This compares to 19 in REF2014
 with 13 of these completions in 2018-19. At the census date, we had 32 enrolled PhD students,
 including some co-supervised with subject areas in the University (e.g. History, Marketing), and 6
 co-supervised across other Scottish HEIs (Glasgow, Stirling, Edinburgh). Our 2020 Athena Swan
 application included a survey of PGR students and an analysis of data on applications, offers and
 completion. There were no consistent patterns of gender inequality emerging from this research
 and, encouragingly, our pipeline data (showing proportions of female/male students at
 undergraduate, PGT and PGR levels) showed improvement over the census period such that the
 ratios are now comparable across all levels.

 We recognise that growth in PhD recruitment is supported by the development of specialist
 Masters provision and since 2014, we have launched 5 new PGT programmes linked to research
 strengths (Section 1) and continue to provide a research route at Masters level through our MRes
 programmes (with 3 students enrolled in 2019-20; and 11 MRes completions in the census period),
 as well as through the development of research training Masters programmes (see below).


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The major change to our PGR profile since 2014 has been our involvement in the Scottish
 Graduate School for Arts & Humanities (SGSAH) which provides doctoral funding, training and
 opportunities for PhD students across Scotland. Our involvement in Block Grant Partnership 1
 (BGP1) (concluding 2014) centred on a capacity-building partnership with University of Stirling.
 Whilst this did not yield external funding for studentships, this strategic work enabled us to enter
 BGP2 as full partners in the Doctoral Training Partnership for Scotland. This has entailed
 significant University investment in the form of our SGSAH membership contribution (c.£10,000
 annually, since 2014), supplemented by co-funding of studentships (one FTE per year, 2014-2018;
 one-third of every studentship we win, 2019-2024), and staff time to contribute to the strategic
 development of SGSAH, including the successful BGP3 bid. Whereas in 2014 the majority of our
 PhD-funding was internal, in this census period 14 students have received AHRC DTP funding.
 We have been successful in developing cross-institutional supervision with key local partners
 within the AHRC DTP in line with our strategy of developing critical mass in minority subject areas
 by working across departments and institutions. These collaborations ensure that students are
 able to work with the leading authorities across Scotland and generate new collaborations (e.g.
 Higgins’ links with Hames at Stirling on literary and media representations of Scottish
 independence).

 All our PhD students (whether AHRC funded or not) now have access to doctoral training,
 internships and networking opportunities through SGSAH. Our students have worked
 collaboratively with SGSAH partners to develop cross-institutional training and development days,
 including Researching Trauma in the Arts and Humanities (2018, Andreasen & McKeown), and
 have secured paid internships, including with the Scottish Parliament Information Centre (R.
 Murphy).

 Internal funding has been strategically aligned with our SGSAH involvement. The University has
 invested in Masters funding to act as a pipeline to AHRC awards, most notably with the launch of
 the AHRC-aligned MRes Interdisciplinary Excellence Awards in 2018-19. In the first two years of
 operation, three of these awards have been won by students wholly or jointly supervised in
 UOA27, with a further award for 2020-21. This has also been part of our strategy to support career-
 development, enabling colleagues in smaller subject areas to engage with research supervision
 through interdisciplinary and cross-institutional opportunities. For instance, in 2019-20 Verdier and
 Mitchell (Languages) are jointly supervising an AHRC-aligned MRes which will lead to a future
 PhD application.

 We have also continued to support applicants to successfully target other funding schemes
 including Carnegie (1), various collaborative funding schemes (1 award from the SGSAH’s Applied
 Research Collaboration scheme; 2 AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Awards and 2 AHRC
 Collaborative Doctoral Partnership Awards), and an additional PhD funded by the AHRC through
 Mahn’s Creative Interruptions project. This funding success depends on the strength of the Unit’s
 external research collaborations, with partners including Scottish Football Association, Glasgow
 Women’s Library, Dundee Central Library, National Railway Museum, National Library of
 Scotland, Working-Class Movement Library and Scottish National Mining Museum. Looking
 beyond the current census period, the development of Research Methods Masters degrees - first
 in Gender Studies, with an MSc in Media & Communications (Research Methods) to follow – aligns
 us with the training requirements of the ESRC to support future growth at PhD level. Indeed, we
 were successful in securing our first ESRC studentship (jointly with Centre for Disability Studies
 at the University of Glasgow) in the 2020 competition.

 We continue to support part-time PhD study and have two part-time students currently enrolled,
 both of whom are externally funded. We also attract high-quality PhD applicants from overseas:
 with 11 international PhD students enrolled at the census date, bringing external funding including

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 from the Algerian and Saudi Embassies and the Turkish Ministry of Education. We have been
 successful in securing internal funding through the Dean’s Global Research Scholarship to support
 two international students.

 The PG Cert in Researcher Development is now embedded in the PhD experience and offers
 students the opportunity to identify, build and reflect upon the knowledge and skills gained through
 PhD research. This programme is enhanced by the range of training, networking and development
 opportunities available through SGSAH, which place an emphasis not only on professional
 development but also on mental health and wellbeing. Our staff have played key roles in delivering
 training for PhD students across Scotland as part of the SGSAH Summer School and Spring into
 Methods programmes. All PhD supervisors receive internal training, and additional training –
 focused on enhancing the employability and skills-development aspects of the PhD - is provided
 by SGSAH.

 All PhD students have a supervisory team comprised of two supervisors (occasionally three), and
 supervisors receive both internal and external (through SGSAH) training. Student progress and
 experience is reviewed annually, with students producing a report alongside a substantial piece
 of writing (c.10,000 words). An essential part of these reviews is a discussion of the PG Cert
 Professional Development and this ensures that students are able to take a holistic view of their
 academic progress and identify training and professional development needs to support their
 career development. This enables supervisors to lay the groundwork for future research activity:
 for instance, following graduation Weiss (completed 2017) was employed as a Researcher on
 Blair’s Royal Philosophical Society of Glasgow Award and subsequently won a Research Society
 for Victorian Periodicals Field Development Grant (again with Blair). The work on these projects
 served as proof of concept for the major AHRC grant Piston, Pen and Press on which Weiss is
 now an RA. Working with external partners on collaborative projects also creates opportunities for
 future development: Farley achieved a permanent position as Librarian and Information Officer
 (Local History) at Dundee Central Library (her PhD partner) and is now acting as a PhD supervisor
 for another AHRC-funded collaborative award (with History at Strathclyde).

 In addition to the annual review (which involves a reviewer external to the supervisory team),
 students have an interim review with supervisors: the PGR Director takes an overview of these
 reviews, enabling early intervention or signposting to other services (e.g. Disability and Wellbeing)
 where additional support may be required. Since 2018, PhD students in Humanities have also
 greatly benefitted from the support of our Royal Literary Fund Fellow who is able to work on a one-
 to-one basis with students to enhance their writing and editing skills.

 Our PhD students benefit from being part of the Graduate School in Humanities & Social Sciences,
 sharing a bespoke study space with other students from across the Faculty. All students have
 access to hot-desking space as well as other bookable rooms, and a Faculty-wide seminar
 programme provides opportunities for enhancing interdisciplinary connections. Social events and
 networking specifically targeting international students are organised at Faculty level. Staff and
 students collaborate on the Animal Studies Reading Group and the Feminist Reading Group, and
 have secured funding from the Alumni Fund for a student-led Writing Retreat. Our students have
 also received external recognition including: the St Andrew’s Society of Washington DC,
 Founder’s Prize for outstanding Scottish student (Ailes, 2017-18); the VanArsdel Price for the best
 graduate student essay investigating Victorian periodicals and newspapers (Logan, 2019); the
 Ross Roy Medal for Best Thesis on Scottish Literature at the Saltire Society Awards (Weiss, 2018;
 R. Murphy, 2019); G. P. Johnston Prize of the Edinburgh Bibliographical Society (Daskalova,
 2019); the Animals and Society Institute scholarship for the summer school in Urbana Illinois
 (Logan, 2018; Ryland, 2020 – delayed until 2021 due to COVID); a Royal History Society grant
 for overseas research and Royal Society for Victorian Periodicals early career conference bursary

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Daskalova, 2019) and a European Summer School in Human/Animal Studies scholarship
 (Ryland).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The data in REF4b shows external funding for the Unit within the census period stands at
 £1,099,182 (REF2014 total was £615,373) with one of our largest grants (Blair’s Piston, Pen and
 Press AHRC grant) spanning this census period and next. A key component of our research
 strategy has been to ensure that all research staff are encouraged to apply for external funding as
 appropriate to their project. ADRs and annual research meetings are used to identify development
 needs and target relevant CPD workshops to support grant writing. Support is provided in the
 development of all grants, large and small, by the Faculty’s Research and Knowledge Exchange
 Team (RaKET) and the Faculty Editor who runs regular grant-writing retreats. Additional support
 for ECRs is provided through the New Leaders’ Academy and for large grant development,
 colleagues are encouraged to apply for additional sabbatical support (outside of the normal 1-in-
 7 semesters rotation) through the Faculty Sabbatical Scheme. The School Research Directors
 arrange for peer review for all grant proposals. For small grants (under £25,000) this will typically
 be conducted by the Research Director or a nominated subject-specialist. For large grants, we are
 able to draw on expertise from across the Faculty and wider University. Where possible, the
 Faculty will also identify internal funding to support large grants: for instance, Blair secured a
 Faculty-funded PhD as part of her Piston, Pen and Press project.

 Our approach to funding recognises that projects within our fields require different kinds of
 resource and that a sustainable research culture requires diverse funding streams. In the census
 period, we have had notable successes with the AHRC, with colleagues taking on both Principal
 Investigator and Co-Investigator roles. These include: Blair (PI), Piston, Pen and Press, 2018-
 2022 (£277,232); Mahn (PI) Connecting States of Desire, 2015-16, (£32,817); Mahn (CI) Creative
 Interruptions, 2016-2020 (£151,415); and an AHRC Fellowship for Fudge (2015-16). Fabb and
 Furniss both held Leverhulme Fellowships in the period (£142,777 and £41,774 respectively), and
 Hammill won a British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship (£57,616). Hope’s Visualising English Print
 1470-1800 project, which we reported on in 2014, received additional funding from the Mellon
 Foundation (2013-17, £123,567). All figures included here relate to the monies spent at
 Strathclyde within the census period rather than the total award value.

 The success of our approach in encouraging all colleagues to apply for funding where relevant is
 demonstrated by the range of colleagues securing smaller grants. We have had particular success
 with Research Workshop, Network and Collaborative schemes, including Royal Society of
 Edinburgh (Jajdelska; Boyle & Duncan; Mitchell; Deane-Cox); Wellcome (Verdier & Rodriguez);
 and British Council Newton Fund (Eckler, for a project with colleagues at Anadolu University in
 Turkey). As these schemes support knowledge-exchange activities, they are not included in the
 data presented in REF4b but have a combined value of £101,174. This total excludes workshop
 grants held in other departments or institutions on which Eckler (Scottish Universities Insight
 Institute, led by Social Work & Policy) and Verdier (RSE, led by History at Stirling) were Co-Is.
 These schemes are particularly valuable for building external networks, recognising that the size
 of our Unit does not always allow for research clusters to cohere round all areas of our scholarship
 (Section 1): moreover, in both cases where colleagues were Co-Is on workshop grants, they went
 on to lead their own grants in this cycle. These grants provide other pathways for progression:
 Jajdelska, for instance, built on her success with the RSE Workshop scheme for her project Stories
 in Scotland by Word and Screen: The Neuroscience of Narrative (£9659.40), with an RSE Network
 grant (£19,904.60) and is now developing a proposal for a large AHRC grant from this work. The
 School has invested in the development of this large grant through funding an open-access
 publication arising from the Network (Jajdelska lead author, with 9 co-authors). We have also

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 successfully targeted other small-grant schemes in the development of new projects, including the
 Carnegie Research Incentive Grant (Hammill; Andrews; Edwards; Verdier; Rodriguez; Deane-
 Cox; Rathnayake); Modern Humanities Research Association (Andrews); RSE Small grants
 (Hammill; Bell; Niland; Fudge); Association for Journalism Education (Duncan); Research Society
 for Victorian periodicals (Blair); Foundation for Canadian Studies in the UK (Lang); Abbotsford
 Trust (Jajdelska); and Royal Philosophical Society of Glasgow (Blair). In 2020, Meehan secured
 seed funding (£3020) from the Global Challenges Research Funding for Open Sesame, to develop
 a project focused on building collaborations with Arab filmmakers.

 Internally, funding for international conferences and networking activities is available through the
 Faculty Strategic Fund: since this was initiated in Autumn 2019 three colleagues within the Unit
 have received funding. This is in addition to the longstanding School Strategic Research Fund
 (SSRF), which is utilised to support conference participation and small-scale research trips,
 including archival visits. All staff on research and scholarship contracts can apply to the SSRF and
 typically receive around £500 annually, though larger applications have also been successful
 where these are tied to the development of impact activities or major outputs. In 2020, SSRF was
 further revised to ensure staff returning from parental leave were eligible to apply for up to £1000
 in the year of return.

 The University Library supports our research through a dedicated Subject Librarian and a series
 of training events on new and updated resources which are attended by staff and graduate
 students. Working with the University Archives, Bell brought the Colin and Gerri Kirkwood Archives
 to Strathclyde, strengthening the University’s collections relating to adult and community
 education. This also attracted a funded-PhD student, Wilson (jointly supervised with University of
 Edinburgh) working on community literature and cultural activism. Our links with other local
 libraries, archives and collections are detailed elsewhere in this document.

 The Faculty has invested in IT support to enhance the dissemination of research and partnership-
 working through Massive Open Online Courses and multi-media resources, including Duncan’s
 toolkit for teaching the Responsible Suicide Reporting Model (see Impact Case Studies). Having
 previously gained experienced in developing introductory MOOCs in Journalism (with more than
 30,000 learners), the Unit has more recently led the way within the University in developing and
 delivering research-led MOOCs with a range of external partners. These have included three
 Industrial Heritage MOOCs, led by Blair in collaboration with industrial heritage museums and
 colleagues in History (Betts, McIvor) as part of the Piston, Pen & Press AHRC-funded project.
 Boyle contributed to the Understanding Violence Against Women MOOC developed by Social
 Policy, and, together with Eckler and Research Associate Rachael Alexander, developed and
 delivered a MOOC on Gender Representation & the Media as part of her work with Gender Equal
 Media Scotland. This involved working with a range of external partners (including Engender,
 Glitch, the Parliament Project, Rape Crisis Scotland, Scottish Women in Sport, and LEAP Sports)
 as well as with individual sports clubs, journalists and content-producers.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 As stressed throughout this statement, a key element of our research strategy is to support
 researcher independence whilst building “critical mass” around our researchers with support for
 both internal and external networking and partnership working. One indicator of the success of
 this strategy is the extent to which our colleagues retain international profiles both in their specialist
 areas and, more broadly, as research leaders within their disciplines. The Unit is strongly aligned
 with the University’s Vision2025 in relation to its local communities.




                                                                                                   Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The significant expansion of the range and quality of activities undertaken since REF2014
 demonstrates the Unit’s enhanced inter/national reputation and the priority accorded collaboration
 in the University’s research strategy. In our REF2014 impact statement, we detailed three main
 types of beneficiaries of our research: the creative industries; educationalists and schools;
 professional bodies and policy makers. Since 2014, reflecting our stronger collaborations across
 the School, we have expanded this to include museums and heritage, as detailed in the Impact
 Case Studies and reflected in new appointments in the period (Deane-Cox, Li, Kistler, Mahn,
 Blair).

 Engage with Strathclyde (see Section 1) has been particularly productive in allowing colleagues
 to engage with external partners as well as building internal links. For instance, the Heritage &
 Culture subtheme ran Engage-with-Strathclyde events in 2019 & 2018, organised by Edwards and
 Mahn. Edwards’ event on ‘Cultural Heritage: Building Partnerships with Strathclyde’ brought
 together a range of academics (from Law, Chemistry, Computer & Information Science, Marketing
 as well as Humanities) and external partners (including major Scottish museums and libraries)
 who work in the cultural heritage sector in Scotland. This led to a successful bid to the Leverhulme
 Trust in 2019 with Glasgow Women’s Library as external partners on which Edwards was Co-I.
 This grant, Transformative Servicescapes and Consumer Vulnerability, was led by Strathclyde
 Business School and so does not appear in the data presented in Section 3, but was worth
 £78,762. Mahn’s 2019 event was attended by organisations including Historic Environment
 Scotland, the Coalition for Racial Equality and Rights (Scotland) and Glasgow Life. Following this
 event, Mahn was invited to deliver a public lecture for Black History Month (run by the Coalition
 for Racial Equality and Rights), and is in the early-stages of a new collaboration with Historic
 Environment Scotland, focusing on neglected colonial collections in Scotland and the difficulty in
 displaying them sensitively. This in turn links with Murphy’s work on the legacies of colonialism in
 museums and public spaces, and reflects our growing research expertise in this area.

 Through targeting external workshop and network funding we have been able to bring a wide
 range of collaborators to Strathclyde for events. Recent highlights include: a workshop on
 dementia and bilingualism at the University of Strathclyde, which brought together academics, arts
 practitioners and health professionals to discuss the performance of a play about dementia and
 language loss (Murphy); and a public lecture on tourism translation from Prof David Katan for
 University of Salento attended by academics, students, translators and heritage professionals
 (Deane-Cox). Internal funding available through the Keith Wright bequest has allowed us to offer
 Literary Fellowships (Alan McKendrick, Chris Agee) and organise a range of visits from
 contemporary writers, literary agents, publishers and festival organisers. The Ross Priory
 Broadcast Talk Group (hosted by Strathclyde and co-convened by Higgins & visiting professor
 Montgomery) has provided an interdisciplinary annual seminar on media discourse since 1992
 which consistently attracts the world’s leading scholars in this field.

 Colleagues have also secured a range of prestigious external appointments in their disciplines.
 For example: Goldie is the President of the Association of Scottish Literary Studies (2019-); Boyle
 is an elected member of the Executive of Media, Communications & Cultural Studies Association
 (2015-21); Blair is on the Board of the Research Society for Victorian Periodicals (2018-21); Mahn
 is an elected member of the Royal Society of Edinburgh Young Academy (2019-); Jajdelska was
 on the Executive of University English (2015-17); Bell represents Strathclyde on the Universities’
 Committee for Scottish Literature (2011-) and Goldie is a member of both the SQA National
 Qualifications Support Team for English and Literacy and the Association for Scottish Literary
 Studies’ Education Committee. Colleagues have held both national and international visiting
 research positions, including: the Lynette S. Autrey Visiting Fellowship at Rice University,
 Houston, Texas and the McGeorge Fellowship at University of Melbourne (both Fudge); Oxford
 University Visiting Fellowships at both St Catherine’s College and Harris Manchester College,

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Charles and Joan Alberto Italian Studies Institute Visiting Fellowship, California State University
 Long Beach Visiting Scholar, and RSE European Visiting Research Fellowship (all Mitchell); and
 Armstrong Browning Library Visiting Scholarship (Blair). Colleagues have also held visiting roles
 at institutions including: University of Saint-Etienne (Murphy); Australian National University
 (Fabb); LUISS Rome (Higgins); University of Sunderland (Boyle); Consejo Superior de
 Investigaciones Científicas (The Spanish National Research Council)(Caballero Rodriguez) and
 University of La Sapienza in Rome (Caballero Rodriguez; Hope).

 Since 2014, we have given invited lectures and seminars at universities across the UK as well as
 keynote talks at conferences and symposia in Italy, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Finland, Sweden,
 Norway, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, South Africa, USA, Canada, Australia, India, China.
 Major editorial works include Blair’s work as Associate Editor of Year’s Work in English Studies
 (until 2017), Fabb’s editorship of Journal of Linguistics (until end 2014) and Deane-Cox’s
 editorship of Translation Studies (2019-) and the Routledge Handbook of Translation and Memory
 (commissioned, but delayed to 2021 as a result of COVID). Consistent with the interdisciplinary
 breadth of our research expertise, colleagues have served on the editorial boards of at least 15
 different journals, and undertaken peer review for more than 80. We have reviewed proposals and
 manuscripts for publishers including Oxford, Edinburgh, Manchester, Princeton, and Cambridge
 University Presses, IB Tauris, Palgrave, Anthem, Rowman Littlefield, Duke and Routledge.

 In addition to extensive experience in external examining at taught postgraduate and
 undergraduate level in the UK and internationally, since August 2013, colleagues have served as
 External Examiners for PhDs at 18 UK institutions (Birkbeck, Birmingham, Brighton, Cambridge,
 Canterbury Christ Church, City, Courthauld Institute, Durham, Edinburgh Napier, Glasgow,
 Highlands & Islands, Hull, Liverpool John Moores, Nottingham Trent, Oxford, St Andrews, West
 of Scotland, Westminster) as well as for Universities of Leiden, Melbourne, Mainz, Stockholm and
 Verona.

 Boyle was a Joint Output Assessor for D35 & D36 in REF2014 and is Deputy Chair of sub-panel
 34 in REF2021. Edwards, Kinloch and Higgins have served as Panel Members for the AHRC
 Doctoral Training Partnership for Scotland, Boyle has served on the Collaborative Doctoral
 Awards panel (2020), and Edwards, Boyle, Colin, Rathnayake and Mahn have additionally
 contributed to the SGSAH doctoral training programme for PhD students across Scotland.
 Colleagues from across the Unit have chaired AHRC panels (Fabb, Goldie) and many more
 colleagues have been involved in peer review for funding bodies nationally (e.g. AHRC, British
 Academy, Carnegie, Royal Society of Edinburgh, Wellcome Trust) and on an international stage
 (e.g. European Research Council; Comisión Nacional de Investigación Científica y Tecnológica
 de Chile; National Science Centre Poland; Netherlands Economic and Social Research Council;
 Social Sciences & Humanities Research Council, Canada; Flanders Research Council; Belgian
 National Fund for Scientific Research).

 Embodying Strathclyde’s ethos as a city-centre University with a strong tradition of public
 engagement, our colleagues play a central role in the literary, cultural and civic life of Glasgow
 and the UK. This extends far beyond the impact case studies, involving all colleagues. Since 2014,
 we have played active roles in: Aye Write! Book Festival; International Edinburgh Book Festival;
 Book Week Scotland; Glasgow Film Festival; Celtic Connections; Scottish South Asian Film
 Festival; Dundee Women’s Festival; WOW Perth; Dundee Literary Festival; Nairn Literary Festival;
 Crossways Scottish-Irish Literary Festival; Scottish Parliament’s Festival of Politics; Hispanic
 Society of Scotland; Spanish Film Festival (Edinburgh & Glasgow), and the Africa in Motion Film
 Festival. Among the most high-profile of these, in 2020, Glass curated a major public event
 commemorating Alasdair Gray for AyeWrite. (The Festival was cancelled due to COVID-19, but
 the event later took place online, with 500 attendees.) In 2019, Blair, Goldie and PhD student

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Lauder worked with DC Thomson on a portfolio of events to celebrate the 150th Anniversary of the
 People’s Friend, the UK’s longest running magazine. We also have a strong tradition of
 involvement in equalities work and have organised or participated in public events for LGBT
 History Month; International Women’s Day; Black History Month; Bi-Visibility Day; Month of Action
 Against Child Sexual Abuse; 16 Days of Action Against Gender-Based Violence. Beyond
 Scotland, Murphy has collaborated with the Bordeaux Festival of Independent Cinema on a
 documentary film on the Senegalese anti-colonial militant Lamine Senghor, who is the focus of
 Murphy’s latest research.

 Colleagues have delivered a range of inputs in local schools: through the RSE Speaker in Schools
 programme (Jajdelska); and Explorathon, a Scotland-wide programme of public engagement
 events in which Strathclyde colleagues have played an active role (Eckler; Fudge; Jajdelska;
 Mitchell; Caballero Rodriguez). Goldie’s work with schools through the Association of Scottish
 Literary Studies has included a jointly-authored book in the ASLS Scotnotes series (aimed at
 teachers and senior school students), and the delivery of papers on school curricular texts at the
 ASLS annual schools conferences (2017, 2018). Goldie also delivered the keynote Burns Scotland
 annual lecture at the Burns and the World annual conference in 2015 (an event largely attended
 by teachers).

 Our leading role within the Scottish literary scene has been recognised by the Saltire Society.
 Kinloch’s collection In Search of Dustie-Fute was shortlisted for the Saltire Poetry Price in 2017,
 and in 2019 Blair’s monograph Working Verse in Victorian Scotland won the Research Book
 Award. Blair went on to win the overall Scottish Book of the Year award: only the second time in
 the history of the awards that the Research Book has won the top prize. Kinloch is the founder of
 the prestigious Edwin Morgan Poetry Competition, now the Edwin Morgan Award for young poets
 under the age of 30, administered by The Edwin Morgan Trust (of which Kinloch is a Trustee) and
 awarded biennially at the International Edinburgh Book Festival. In intervening years, the Trust
 organises translation workshops and has hosted events featuring poets from Slovakia and
 Portugal. Kinloch is also the founder of the Scottish Writers’ Centre (now funded by Glasgow Life)
 which organises training events for aspiring writers who do not wish to or are unable to attend
 college/university writing courses. A recording of 20-years of Kinloch’s own poetry is now archived
 in The Poetry Archive, London.

 Other colleagues have also served on judging panels for academic and practice-based prizes,
 including the UCSL Ross Roy Medal Award (for best thesis on Scottish Literature) (Goldie, 2017-
 20); Hamilton Essay Prize for best article by an ECR, for publication in Victorian Review (Blair);
 Research Society for Victorian Periodicals Linda Peterson Prize (Blair, 2019, 2020) and the
 Scottish Press Awards (Duncan, 2017-). As part of our ongoing collaboration with Zero Tolerance,
 the School has sponsored the Write to End Violence Against Women Awards (2017, 2018, 2019).
 Colleagues have discussed their research on broadcasts for Australian Broadcasting
 Corporation’s Evening News; Al-Jazeera America’s Listening Post, BBC Radio 4’s Word of Mouth,
 In Our Time and Women’s Hour; BBC Radio 5’s Hitlist; and on various BBC Alba, BBC Radio
 Scotland and BBC Scotland documentaries, features and discussion shows.




                                                                                            Page 15
