Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Dundee

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 14 Geography and Environmental Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Overview: UoA14 is the leading unit undertaking social science and environmental research at the
University of Dundee, significantly contributing to the University’s Transforming Lives Locally and
Globally agenda by conducting distinctive and cutting edge disciplinary and interdisciplinary
research through the intersecting themes of Environmental Futures and Social Futures,
respectively. In recognition of the need for diverse expertise and research capacity, and building on
core research strengths in Geography, the UoA has expanded (from 14.3 FTE to 23 FTE),
assimilating researchers with shared interests within the UoA14 domain from the Social Sciences
disciplines of Politics and International Relations and Architecture and Urban Planning. Our
strategy and supportive environment mean staff engage in world-leading research delivering
transformative impact at local to global scales. In disciplinary terms, our research is contributing to
the development of geographical theory, practice and methods, seeking to make a positive
difference to policy, public discourses and livelihoods. Since REF2014, this strategy, supported by
School and University resources, has led to demonstrable success with a doubling of annual
research income compared to the previous REF period, inclusive of European and UKRI sources.
The current UoA stands at 23 FTE, plus 9 research fellows, 3.5 technicians and 27 registered PhD
students.

REF2014 Strategy and achievements: In REF2014, we articulated three strategic aims that
would shape our research activity into the current review period. These were: (i) to advance theory
in the areas of environmental change, social justice, security and resilience, and the interplay
between environment and society; (ii) to develop innovative methodological approaches to
geographical endeavour underpinned by sound ethical practice; (iii) to make evidence-based
contributions to policy debates and practice via close engagement, co-production and knowledge
exchange with users. Table 1 describes published exemplars showing how we have achieved aims
(i) and (ii), whilst aim (iii) is evidenced in Table 2 (Section 4) which details examples of
collaborations and where our research has provided evidence for policy-, practice- and academic-
related impacts.

Table 1: Exemplars of research connecting directly to strategic aims (i) and (ii) as set out in
REF2014:

 Aim (i): advancing theory and understanding in environmental change, social justice, security
 and resilience with social transformation

 Environmental Futures:
 • Quantified multi-decadal increases in above-ground carbon density from forest restoration in
    SE Asia, demonstrating for the first time that current carbon prices are a disincentive to
    investment in forest restoration (Philipson, Cutler et al., 2020, Science).
 • Through measurement and modelling, advanced the theorisation of the ablation and
    hydrological behaviour of high-mountain debris-covered glaciers, with implications for
    downstream water resources (Fyfe, Kirkbride et al., 2019a,b, 2020 J. Hydrol and ESP&L).
 • Established Shetland’s coastal stratigraphy as a globally-significant field laboratory, better
    calibrating numerical models of tsunami sediment run-up as a critical advance in hazard
    assessment in populated coastal zones (DawsonA, DawsonS et al., 2019 Sedimentology).

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   Quantified that foregone carbon sequestration and degradation associated with clearance
     and fragmentation of tropical forest areas increases the net carbon impact by a factor of six
     (626%), equivalent to two years of global land use emissions (Maxwell, Morel et al., 2019,
     Science Advances).
 •   Proposed re-parametrisation of glacial erosion models based upon compilation of the first
     global empirical dataset of glacial erosion rates, ice velocities and climate, unpicking
     fundamental controls on glacial erosion (Cook, Kirkbride et al., 2020, Nature Comms.).

 Social Futures:
 • Going beyond everyday livelihood processes, theorised young Ethiopian sex workers critical
    im/mobilities as relational: their livelihoods and identities shaped within and between places,
    important for creating appropriate policy interventions (vanBlerk 2016, Annals Association of
    American Geographers).
 • Challenged common assumptions about territorial autonomy projects as a route to secession
    and questioned teleological arguments about regionalism developing into nationalism,
    prevalent in theories of territory and conflict (Stjepanovic, 2017, Routledge Book).
 • Merged macro- and micro-level analyses of the experiences of Police Community Support
    Officers in England to re-examine established theories of police occupational culture by
    highlighting the centrality of story-telling to the process (O’Neill, 2019, OU Press, Book).
 • Identified the new concept of ‘debt amnesia’, providing a counter-narrative to debates on the
    financial costs and gains of homebuying. Innovative empirical evidence demonstrated that
    the normalisation of debt feeds into tacit knowledge of profit calculations, challenging lack of
    transparency in mortgage selling (Searle 2016, Env. & Planning A).
 • Reframed the concept of Sick Building Syndrome (SBS), providing holistic analysis for SBS
    symptoms, proposing potential mitigation strategies and the evolution of healthy building
    design (AlWaer, et al., 2018, Architectural Science Review).

 Aim (ii): developing innovative methodological approaches

 •   Based on the Lake Habitat Survey developed by Rowan, led creation of two European
     Committee for Standardization (CEN) standards for (i) characterising lake hydromorphology
     (EN 16039); and (ii) assessing the degree of modification (EN 16870) (Boon, Rowan et al.,
     2019 Aquatic Conservation).
 •   Developed empirical relationships to predict glacial lake volume from satellite imagery and a
     conceptual model of lake evolution in different contexts, leading to development of a no-cost,
     universally applicable, glacial lake outburst flood (GLOF) risk assessment protocol (Cook &
     Quincey, 2015, Earth Surf. Dynamics; Kougkoulos, Cook et al., 2018, Sci. Total Env.).
 •   Developed a methodology for co-produced longitudinal participatory research and knowledge
     exchange with marginalised homeless youth, which fostered ‘street citizenship’ among young
     people, engaged with policy and created the largest database on young people’s street lives
     in African cities (vanBlerk et al., 2020, Space and Polity, and Impact Case Study).
 •   Created a collaborative Knowledge Exchange and research methodology for artists,
     academics, galleries and culturally diverse communities, facilitating wider public engagement
     addressing conversations with Caribbean communities (Mains, 2018, Small Axe).
 •   Developed interdisciplinary methods for understanding home-making by combining visual
     mappings from architecture with interviews, facilitating understanding of the unspoken spatial
     dimensions of domesticity (Lewis, Costa Santos et al., 2018, Methodological Innovations).




                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Unit structure: All UoA14 staff are located in the School of Social Sciences (150+ FTE).
Established in 2015, the School includes Geography, Politics and International Relations,
Architecture and Urban Planning, Law, Psychology, and the Centre for Energy, Petroleum and
Mineral Law and Policy (CEPMLP). The focus of our research is on critical social and
environmental issues which require wide perspectives and diverse expertise. In pursuit of greater
critical mass we have actively recruited cognate researchers into UoA14 from Politics and
International Relations (2 FTE) with expertise on security and migration issues, and from
Architecture and Urban Planning (4 FTE) with advanced spatial/analytic approaches with an
emphasis on sustainable place making. All staff, researchers and PhD students come together in
two research groups (Environmental Futures and Social Futures), nested under the aegis of the
Institute for Social Sciences Research (ISSR), an interdisciplinary cross-school research initiative
spanning four Schools (Figure 1).




Figure 1: UoA14 structure within ISSR and University interdisciplinary research themes. Note
‘partners’ denotes University and external research centres (Section 4) to which UoA14 staff are
affiliated.

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Thematic priorities and interdisciplinary research environment: We have defined six thematic
priorities informing our research and staffing strategy straddling both research groups. These align
seamlessly with the thematic approach of ISSR and the University’s four high level interdisciplinary
priorities (Figure 1 and accompanying REF5a). Thus, bottom up and top-down strategies meet to
address global challenges, such as contributing to the delivery of UN Sustainable Development
Goals, especially SDGs 1, 2, 6, 10 and 13.

The Environmental Futures Group examines contemporary and future environmental change over
a range of spatial scales and geographies. The priorities are to measure and quantify system
dynamics and build better understandings of future drivers of change, the sensitivity of
environmental systems and the societies that depend on them. Working within international
research agendas, our research focuses on three predominantly water-related environmental
change domains:

•   Water extremes and their management (flooding, drought, coastal inundation and lake
    behaviour), including UKRI funded projects addressing global lake change (Cutler and
    Rowan), drought in the UK (Black), and tsunamis and hazards in coastal zones (DawsonS);
    EU Horizon 2020 projects examining marine spatial planning futures (Onyango) and the
    GROW Observatory validating EO soil moisture products (Rowan); and international
    collaborative science on sustainable water resources through the Newton-Bhabha programme
    (Rowan). Scottish-Government-funded projects include research into natural flood
    management (Black, Spray & Rowan), climate change mitigation through emission control in
    new builds (Onyango) and national climate adaptation policy (Rowan).
•   Processes, rates and consequences of glacier melt and retreat (outburst floods, altered
    sediment fluxes, landslides) including the Newton-Paulet PEGASUS network (Cook), the BGS
    Hydrometric monitoring of the Virkisá river, Iceland (Black), and reconstructing past glacial
    extents, erosion and processes (Kirkbride and Cook).
•   Biophysical responses to changing water availability and climate (carbon and forest
    degradation, land-use change and management) including UKRI-funded projects on ecosystem
    and carbon sequestration responses in tropical forests (Cutler), agricultural landscapes
    (Morel) and ecosystem services (Rowan and DawsonT), and NERC / Belmont Forum funded
    research into food security and ecosystem series (DawsonT and Rowan).

The Social Futures Group examines the multiple drivers of social inequalities and change within
and between societies globally. It further focuses on challenging injustice and creating
geographically-informed theoretical and methodological advancements for understanding society
and fostering more equitable livelihoods. Our research in Social Futures identifies three thematic
priorities:

•   Socio-spatial inequalities (urban austerity, poverty and violence; youth transitions and
    livelihoods), including ESRC/Backstage Trust-funded Growing Up on The Streets (vanBlerk),
    ESRC/DFID-funded Social cash transfers and generational relations (vanBlerk); DFID-funded
    Youth transitions in protracted crises (vanBlerk); and Leverhulme Trust-funded Mind the
    Housing Wealth Gap (Searle).
•   Safety and security (crime; policing practices and urban governance; geopolitical relations and
    international security/securitisation), including H2020 projects UNITY (O’Neill), and
    NORDFORSK (O’Neill and Mendel), research into geopolitical relationships and international
    security (Brown), and territorial politics and migration funded by Swiss National Science
    Foundation (Stjepanovic), ESRC-funded Evidence-based Crime Reduction (Fyfe) and
    Leverhulme-funded Community Policing (O’Neill).

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   Creating just societies and places (inclusive spaces, wellbeing, transformation and
    participation) including ESRC-funded research Reclaiming Social Care (Hall) and Uncovering
    the Environment: The Use of Public Access to Environmental Information (Mendel), AHRC-
    funded projects Green Spaces (Smith) and Place and Belonging (Costa Santos), Dundee-
    council funded Evaluation of Dundee hubs (substance misuse) (Searle and Smith) and
    Scottish Government-funded participatory research into sustainable place making (AlWaer).

Increasingly, international research agendas focus on critical global problems that demand
understanding of both social and environmental systems. Addressing these, intra-UoA
collaborations have flourished, including projects such as Assessing the effectiveness of
Scotland’s public flood warning service (Geddes and Black) funded by the Centre for Research
Expertise in Waters (CREW), the Joseph Rowntree Foundation funded Scottish Borders Climate
Resilient Communities (Fazey and Searle), the Scottish Funding Council (SFC) Global Challenges
Research Fund (GCRF)-funded Environmental Degradation and Sustainable Livelihoods in East
Africa (Cutler and vanBlerk) and Tackling water security to improve health in rural Malawi
(Geddes and Halliday), EU Marie-Skladowska Curie fellowship examining Water Sanitation and
Hygiene issues in Sub-Saharan Africa (Akpabio and Rowan), and the UK Space Agency IPP3
project Antislavery using Satellite Technology for Uganda’s Sustainability (ASTUS) (vanBlerk and
Cutler).

All UoA staff recognise that translating science and evidence into genuine solutions demands
robust interdisciplinary working and have built close collaborations with external-facing centres,
national and international organisations (Section 4).

Institute for Social Sciences Research: Creation of the School of Social Sciences in 2015, under
the inaugural Deanship of Rowan, enabled comprehensive re-imagining of research priorities into
fewer and stronger thematic priorities. Established initiatives, such as the Centre for Environmental
Change and Human Resilience (CECHR) and the Geddes Institute for Urban Research, were
assimilated as cross-cutting vehicles set into the five cross-cutting thematic pillars of the ISSR -
environment, social justice, well-being, governance and methods (Figure 1). ISSR, established
and led by UoA14 staff (Fyfe and vanBlerk), developed into a four-school initiative by 2019
(Schools of Business, Education and Social Work, Health Sciences, and Social Sciences) and is
now the largest interdisciplinary centre supporting interdisciplinary research in the University.

Interdisciplinary research that ISSR has fostered include (i) NORDFORSK / ESRC-funded
research into online state surveillance and ethical internet use (in collaboration with Law; O’Neill
and Mendel); and (ii) Oak Foundation research into Human rights violations surrounding major
sporting events (vanBlerk, Fyfe, Mendel) with colleagues in Law and Education and Social Work.
The collaboration fostered by ISSR includes joint supervision of PhD projects, currently with Law,
Psychology and CEPMLP, and the Schools of Business, Health Sciences, Science and
Engineering, Life Sciences, Duncan of Jordanstone College of Art and Design, and externally with
the James Hutton Institute and British Geological Survey.

UoA14 staff lead and contribute to the research and management of externally-focused
interdisciplinary research centres. Described in Section 4, these include the Centre for Research
on Families and Relationships (CRFR) (vanBlerk), the Scottish Institute for Policing Research
(SIPR) (O’Neill, Fyfe), the UNESCO Centre for Water Law, Science & Policy (DawsonS, Rowan)
and provide institutional leads for two SFC national ‘research pooling’ initiatives - the Scottish
Alliance for Geoscience, Environment and Society (SAGES) (Cook) and the Marine Alliance for
Science and Technology for Scotland (MASTS) (DawsonS). SAGES is an SFC-funded initiative

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
that integrates UoA14 researchers to a network of affiliated staff at institutions across Scotland. It
supports numerous fora to foster collaboration (such as the Pollinating Wellbeing network led by
Searle), as well as dedicated funding support for ECRs, pump-priming activities and large grant
preparation. The SAGES Graduate School provides funded scholarships with supervision of
students required across two affiliated institutions. Three SAGES PhD studentships have been/are
based in UoA14, with staff also supervising at other institutions. Our staff help organise networks
and events and Cook is a member of the Executive Committee. MASTS is a multi-disciplinary
marine partnership that brings together researchers from institutions across Scotland, facilitating
communication, collaboration and co-ordination in the marine research community.

Research strategy and supporting mechanisms: Building on our progress towards realising our
REF2014 objectives, we review our research strategy to address emerging thematic priorities and
opportunities at regular research group meetings, away day events and with the wider University
through the Dundee Interdisciplinary and Innovation Forum (DIIF). Our structure within the School
of Social Sciences, ISSR and our external-facing centres (SIPR and UNESCO water centre)
provide the sustainable resourcing to foster and promote success in both research and impact.
Thus, our strategy to achieve the research priorities identified above is aligned directly to the
research process itself:

 (i)   securing resources and infrastructure: to sustain and broaden our research base we need to
       maximise research grant income. This has been achieved through internal mentoring, peer-
       review and sharing of successful applications, fostering a ‘PI culture’ to encourage staff to
       lead major bids and to become members of UKRI peer review panels. Staff and researchers
       have access to pump-priming funds, from the School, ISSR, and through the institutional
       SFC-GCRF grant, as well as through external organisations such as SIPR (e.g. O’Neill
       Impact Case Study), the Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland (e.g. Ties to the Tay,
       Mains) and the Scottish Universities Insight Institute (e.g. The centrality of ‘folk, place and
       work’, in the UN SDGs, Searle; Embedding Ethics by Design in the Policing of Digital
       Futures in Scotland, O’Neill).
 (ii) facilitating research: we build collaborative and often international networks (e.g. through the
       ISSR Global Scholars Programme) exploiting conference and networking funding, with a
       focus on encouraging co-production and early engagement with stakeholders. In contributing
       to interdisciplinary networks and centres we secure state-of-the-art laboratory facilities,
       including sharing of institutional resources through SAGES, and sponsor major
       interdisciplinary conferences (e.g. third Biennial International Conference on Transformations
       to Sustainability in 2017). These deliver essential cross-fertilization of ideas at all levels of
       research and raise the profile of the University. Funding for academic exchanges is available
       from the School, ISSR (pump-priming for establishing networks) and the SAGES
       International Collaboration Schemes.
 (iii) ensuring quality outputs and impact: to optimize quality we peer review outputs prior to
       submission, leverage UoA-specific funding to support development of impact from research,
       and provide opportunities for staff development around writing and research impact,
       including hosting and supporting staff to attend internal and external writing retreats and
       workshops.

Maximising opportunities within our wider structure, we take forward our research strategy and
deliver excellence with impactful research through a four-stage process (Figure 2).




                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



                         Transform lives locally
                         and globally                1. Ideas and Opportunities
                                                        Identification of research environment
                                                        drivers
 4. Embed impactful research culture                    Engagement SDGs
    School ‘Impact Champions’ and                       Research away days
    professional advice                                 Staff Objective Setting and Review
    Competitive funds to support developing             Research-led Teaching
    research impact                                     RESEARCHConnect funding alerts
    Staff development workshops
    Continued engagement with
    stakeholders / beneficiaries through           2. Foster collaboration & Interdisciplinarity
    visits / staff exchange                          Within UoA:
                                                     Research Group Meetings & Away Days
                                                     Within School and University:
 3. Promoting best practice for success              ISSR Forum, writing spaces & events
    Sharing feedback on past proposals               Funds to support conference attendance,
    Staff participation in funding panels            pump-priming activities
    Rigorous internal peer-review, Annual            Dundee Interdisciplinary & Innovation
    Research Review (ARR)                            Forum (DIIF)
    Workload allocation model and planning           External:
    (WAM)                                            ISSR Global Scholar programme
    Dedicated University professional                SAGES / SIPR / Research Centre activities
    support for horizon scanning & proposal          and funding support
    development                                      Co-production & enduring relationships with
    Promoting Open Research and integrity            stakeholders



Figure 2: Strategies for supporting increased research income generation, promoting impactful
research and engagement with internationally-relevant research agendas/networks


At the heart of our strategies for stakeholder engagement and maximising impact is genuine co-
production at every phase of research. For example, we have been awarded seven Scottish
Graduate School of Social Science (SGSSS) collaborative PhD studentships developed with a
range of external stakeholders (including local government and third sector bodies) and through
SIPR have hosted a practitioner fellowship for serving police officers to engage with research from
development to dissemination. Our ODA-related research engages with international NGOs and
Governments who contribute to research design, delivery and outreach. Dedicated support for
impact and engagement (including financial support and training) is provided by the School, ISSR,
and through externally-funded UKRI Impact Accelerator Accounts (formerly KTP grants) (e.g.
Knowledge Transfer Partnership with Scottish & Southern Electricity Networks (Hall)). Impact and
engagement are further promoted by the School Impact Champion (O’Neill). Our strategy of
promoting engagement and impact through co-creation is demonstrated in all three impact case
studies submitted, as well as selected exemplars described in Table 2 (Section 4).

Promoting an Open Research Agenda: The ethical use, storage and management of research
data are integral to our research protocols. Where possible, we aim to make data, tools and code

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
available with a view to increasing access and reproducibility, either via the institution online
repository (Discovery) and/or national data centres, such as ReShare: UK Data Service, NERC
Environmental Information Data Centre, NERC Earth Observation Data Centre, and host
organisation websites (e.g. European Union Crime Prevention Network). Our commitment to
effective sharing and management of research data is exemplified by Geddes leading a successful
ESRC bid to host a SafePod® to the wider benefit of the University and researchers across the
UK. SafePods are an independent network of safe settings providing secure facilities for
researchers to remotely access datasets from participating Data Centres across the UK. To
promote the Open Research agenda, staff attend training in research data management and open
access publication during annual Open Access Week events delivered by the University Library
and Learning Centre.

To maximise our research reach, staff are encouraged to publish outputs outside the remit of the
REF Open Access Policy via other open access routes, including reports and working papers. This
includes publications available through the SIPR publications portal, the CARISCC Working Paper
series, papers, reports and presentations through the online publication platform issuu.com, and
outlets such as The Conversation (vanBlerk, Searle, Kirkbride, Cook and DawsonS).

The School Research Integrity Group (UoA14 representation from Mendel as Deputy Research
Integrity Lead) supports the five commitments for good research conduct and governance as
defined by the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. This provides (i) an independent point of
contact for staff and research students outside their immediate research environment, (ii) impartial
advice on responsible conduct of research, and (iii) advice on making misconduct allegations. Staff
and PhD students are provided with online video-based training in Responsible and Ethical
Practice in Research and Publication. Ethical review and approval of non-clinical research
involving human participants proposed by staff and students is overseen by the School’s Research
Ethics Committee.

 2. People

Staffing strategy: Our staffing strategy looks to the appointment of outstanding researchers to
enhance excellence and capability in research expertise in both research groups’ themes. Despite
the loss of senior staff due to retirement and posts elsewhere, we have capitalised by appointing
early-career academics, as well as expanding the UoA to include staff from related disciplines.
New appointments have been made based on four criteria: potential/proven research and
knowledge exchange excellence; potential/proven collaborative and interdisciplinary working;
commitment to the development of colleagues; commitment to societal impact. Six new
lectureships, including four early-career appointments, have been made since 2014, producing a
well-balanced demographic profile, with five professors, three readers, seven senior lecturers and
eight lecturers. 39% of Category A staff are female.

To enhance the Environment Futures group, we have made appointments relating to all three
thematic priority areas, with Cook (glacial processes) and two early-career academic staff
appointed as Lecturers: Halliday (water extremes and management) and Morel (biophysical
responses and systems). To support interdisciplinary themes in the Social Futures group, three
appointments have been made: Costa Santos (just societies and places) to a Senior Lectureship
and Stjepanovic and Brown (safety and security) as Lecturers. All staff in the UoA are employed
on open-ended/permanent contracts.



                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The ambition of UoA14 staff to shape the research agenda within the UoA and wider University is
exemplified by the key roles that staff have taken up during the assessment period. Rowan was
appointed Dean of the new School of Social Sciences in 2015, and then to Vice-Principal for
Research in 2018. Fyfe, inaugural Director of SIPR and then Associate Dean for Research (ADR)
was appointed Dean in 2018 to replace Rowan, with vanBlerk succeeding as ADR. All three were
instrumental in the formation of the ISSR, embedding geographical and interdisciplinary research
at its heart, and continue to represent the UoA and ISSR at the highest levels in the University
whilst retaining active research portfolios.

Recognition of research excellence and impact are key criteria for staff promotion and the
supportive research environment within the UoA is evidenced by promotions since REF2014: three
staff to Personal Chairs (vanBlerk in 2015; DawsonS and Cutler in 2019 - both previously
promoted to Reader in 2015), two staff to Readerships (O’Neill and Al Waer in 2019 - both
previously appointed to Senior Lectureships in 2015 and 2016 respectively), and four staff to
Senior Lectureships: Hall (2013), Geddes (2018), Cook and Mendel (2019).

Career development, well-being and review: We pride ourselves on maintaining a collegiate,
mutually supportive and intellectually stimulating research environment through our formal and
informal activities and in line with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers. Social and academic interactions take place at daily morning coffee breaks, attended
by staff, researchers and PhD students. Research group round table meetings occur regularly and
include MSc students, Honorary Research Fellows and retired staff members to share ideas,
experiences and plan future activities. More formal training and sharing of best practice (available
to all staff and PhD students) is delivered through School-wide training in publication writing and
research development workshops, and the University’s Organisational and Professional
Development (OPD) programme, while ISSR offers support through interdisciplinary funding,
networking seminars and events (often led by UoA14 members). During COVID-19 restrictions the
research groups, School and ISSR moved to online away days, webinar-based seminars and
randomised coffee trials, where individual staff meet online with researchers from other parts of the
University to share experiences and opportunities for research under COVID-19 conditions.

As detailed in REF5a, individual staff research is reviewed by an Annual Research Review (ARR)
panel, drawn from staff within the UoA and including an Associate Dean for Research from another
school to ensure consistency. Supporting the University’s Excellence Agenda, this enhancement-
led review assesses the quality of outputs, funding applications and impact activity. All staff receive
constructive feedback on their achievements and plans, which feeds into each individual’s
Objective Setting and Review (OSaR) with their line manager. OSaR reviews, which all staff and
PDRAs have once each year, allows research activity, career development and ambition to be
balanced alongside teaching and administrative commitments in the workload allocation model.
Staff are allocated 30% of their time for research endeavour as a base-load. Research leave of
one semester (11 weeks), provides relief from teaching and administration. Identified and
encouraged by discipline leads through the OSaR process, staff are entitled to apply for research
leave every three years. Five staff took research leave during this REF cycle, making significant
contributions to research outcomes and building international relationships (Section 4). Our
teaching programmes are planned such that Honours modules are delivered every second year,
providing staff with lighter teaching loads in alternate years to enable their focus on research. New
staff are supported by a Probation Mentor and have lower teaching and administrative duties to
allow them space to develop their research portfolio and engage in staff development and training.



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
For support outside formal review systems, each staff member is mentored by an experienced
colleague within the discipline. Additionally, four UoA14 staff have served as both mentors and
mentees in the voluntary cross-institutional Teaching, Research & Academic Mentoring Scheme,
an innovative collaboration between Dundee’s OPD and the University of St Andrews. This pairs
experienced academics with earlier career colleagues, providing guidance and structured support.
The scheme now includes staff from other Scottish institutions, providing a pool of experienced
support for colleagues at all career stages.

Postgraduate Research Support and Training: Our doctoral students thrive in an inclusive
research culture which provides opportunities for training and independent impact. Students
regularly contribute to research group meetings, mix with staff at daily coffee and social events and
are supported by the nested structure of a disciplinary setting, within a wider Graduate Community
of Social and Health Sciences (part of ISSR and led by Hall). Co-located within each discipline,
students are provided with dedicated office space with personal computing and have access to the
same research facilities as staff.

 Year       2013/14    2014/15     2015/16    2016/17    2017/18    2018/19     2019/20      Total
 PhDs
                3          3          7           7          7          6          7          40
 awarded

There were no research-based professional doctorates awarded in the assessment period.

Exemplifying our commitment to support, Associate Director of the SGSSS Hall was part of the
team that successfully bid for the Scottish ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP), established
in 2016. Searle is the pathway representative for Human Geography, Environment and Urban
Planning. As a partner institution, UoA14 secured 12 PhD Studentships (from thematic streams
including ‘collaborative’, ‘advanced quantitative methods’, and ‘interdisciplinary’). SGSSS
studentships give access to advanced training, internships and transdisciplinary cohort-building
events, including the annual SGSSS Summer School, which is open to all our PhD students.

Recognising that students arrive with a diverse range of cultural and educational backgrounds all
PhD students undertake a training needs assessment when they first arrive (including identifying
support for disability needs, emotional and physical well-being). Within the framework of the
University’s Researcher Development Policy, the ISSR Graduate Community facilitates and
supports students (using the ESRC Postgraduate Training Guidelines) to access appropriate social
science training within the four Schools and across the University. Both the School and the
Graduate Community support students to attend external training courses and PhD students can
also take modules delivered as part of the ESRC-recognised MSc in Social Research led by
Geography. Those PhD students funded through NERC Doctoral Training Centres (three students,
co-supervised with Civil Engineering in the NERC Oil and Gas Centre for Doctoral Training)
undertake additional training delivered by external agencies and industry.

Two exemplars characterise the vibrancy of our doctoral student community and their integration
into the research culture in UoA14:

i.   In 2014, doctoral researchers in Geography co-developed the conference ‘Facing the
     Future’, an international PhD and ECR conference, with facilitation by the International
     Futures Forum and supported by CECHR. Subsequent conferences held at other institutions
     have all built upon Dundee’s foundation of an interdisciplinary meeting where links between
     learning and practice are central to the aims of the conference.

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
ii.   PhD researcher Mukherjee developed a pioneering solution for disaster resilient floating
      homes allowing families in developing countries to survive natural disasters by maintaining
      sustainable livelihood options. The project won the UN Office for Disaster Reduction
      (UNDRR) RISK Award 2019 and received a Commendation in the ‘Research Project of the
      Year: Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences, THE, 2019’.

During restrictions imposed by COVID-19, the Graduate Community adapted to provide online
asynchronous training, as well as maintaining regular contact with students to sustain progress and
well-being. Despite these measures, some students will experience delays to their research and so
all students have been offered an automatic extension to their studies if required.

Equality and Diversity: Equality, diversity and inclusion (ED&I) is a lens of research for UoA14
staff, including disability (Hall), refugees (vanBlerk, Cutler, Hall), race (Mains), gender and age
(vanBlerk and Smith). It is also a key focus of the School of Social Sciences support for teaching,
scholarship and research. The School ED&I Committee, led by Halliday, has representation from
across UoA14, including Searle, Costa Santos, Stjepanovic, Onyango and PhD student
Mukherjee. This ensures unit-specific ED&I matters are represented and feed into School-level
research strategy, with Halliday sitting on the School Management Group. The ED&I committee
chooses an annual focus area for targeted work: in 2019-20 this was female promotion and
delivered a targeted action plan around promotion of female staff and established a School-level
support network. The committee led a successful School-level application for a Bronze Athena
Swan Award in 2020 having developed a robust action plan to deliver change with respect to
gender equality. In this REF cycle two of the three personal chair promotions have been awarded
to female staff, including the first female professor of Geography at Dundee (vanBlerk in 2015).
The ED&I committee contributes to the University application for the Race Equality Charter and in
2021 will focus on research student engagement with particular attention on our BAME students
due to COVID-19 and the Black Lives Matter movement. Mains is working with partners in the
Black Atlantic Research Dundee network on decolonising the University curriculum and gaining
institutional support for research on legacies of slavery in the institution and Dundee more widely.
The ED&I committee is represented on the University Disability and LGBTQ+ staff and student
support networks. Work is ongoing within UoA14 to improve equality of access for field-based
research, addressing specific needs (e.g. disability), with measures such as financial support and
the inclusion of specific welfare information in first aid boxes.

All staff within the UoA have completed mandatory Equality and Diversity training, a series of
modules relating to equality, diversity, unconscious bias and stress in the workplace, as well as
training in postgraduate supervision, research data management, IT and cybersecurity. Additional
optional modules are available through the OPD programme that delivers workshops on a range of
well-being, administrative and professional behaviour topics. Individual’s training needs are
formally reviewed at annual OSaR meetings.

This REF submission was prepared in accordance with the University’s REF Code of Practice.
Outputs were selected and attributed by the UoA14 Planning Group with the aim of optimising the
overall quality profile. All UoA14 Planning Group members completed EDI and information security
training modules, and REF-specific training in equality & diversity including unconscious bias
training. The resulting selection of outputs exactly reflects the gender balance in our staff profile,
with 39% of outputs selected from female staff, who make up 39% of Category A staff. From a
pool of draft Impact Case Studies, the Planning Group (informed by internal and external
reviewers) recommended case studies to be taken forward for submission in REF2021.


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research income: Our UoA14 research strategy emphasises the importance of excellence with
impact. To achieve this, we pursue collective advantage through collaboration with leading
research groups and organisations, internationally and nationally. This builds on the strategy set
out in REF2014 prioritising engagement with UKRI and EU-funding calls ensuring our research is
“primarily orientated towards academic agendas using rigorous methods approved by the peer
review process”. In this, we show a strong trajectory, with increases in research funding from
UKRI, EU Horizon 2020, Government and the UK Charity sector, and a rise in total research
income to in excess of £5.4m, representing a substantial increase in funding from all sources. A
step-change from previous REF/RAE is greater participation of UoA staff in large national and
international consortium projects, such as the NERC Consortium GloboLakes (Cutler and Rowan),
and Arctic Tsunamis (DawsonS) projects, NORDFORSK (PI O’Neill, Mendel), H2020-funded
Multi-Use in European Seas (MUsES) (Onyango) and Enhancing cooperation between law
enforcement agencies and citizen-community policing (O’Neill). Of the 235 applications for funding
102 have been awarded in this REF cycle, representing a success rate of 43%.

The infrastructure to support our research strategy is made up of administrative support at School
and University level, as well as UoA-specific and University investment (REF5a) in physical
infrastructure, data access, software and staff training.

Administrative Infrastructure for Research: The University provides dedicated support to staff
for preparing funding proposals through its Research and Innovation Services (RIS). Additionally,
RIS supports bids relating to the Global Challenges Research Fund and facilitates access to SFC-
GCRF funds, supporting UoA14 researchers (Hall, vanBlerk, Cutler, Geddes, Halliday and
Morel) with both pump-priming and larger project funding for research relating to the Sustainable
Development Goals. Nine awards made in the period demonstrate the leading role that UoA14
staff make in undertaking ODA-related research. The networks and collaboration fostered through
this funding have leveraged further opportunities. For example, the SFC-GCRF project “Displaced
communities, environmental degradation & sustainable livelihoods in East Africa” has built links
with key Government stakeholders/NGOs in Uganda, leading to the award of the UK Space
Agency IPP3 project Anti-trafficking using Satellite Technology for Uganda’s Sustainability
(ASTUS) (vanBlerk and Cutler).

At School level, there is leadership in research strategy from the Associate Dean for Research
(vanBlerk) and administrative support for research with a dedicated research administrator and
finance officer. At UoA level, support for staff engaging in research is managed through the
research groups and OSaR, with training relating to research project management, grant writing,
ethical research, risk management and other aspects of best practice delivered by the School,
ISSR and OPD.

Research data management and software: SafePod® enhances our infrastructure to securely
manage and store data, whilst the UoA has invested in a new GIS and Data Visualisation facility
with state-of-the-art processing and software capabilities for geospatial data analysis and
visualisation, qualitative analysis and specialist architectural design. This is complemented by a
department licence to access daily high spatial resolution global satellite imagery from a
constellation of over 140 satellites via the PlanetLabs platform. Access to online data platforms is
curated through the Library and Learning Centre, who provide regular training to all staff and
students in data access and management and support the preparation of data management plans
for research applications. Additionally, all UoA staff and researchers benefit from institutional

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
access to Idox RESEARCHconnect, a comprehensive service for alerting staff to funding
opportunities.

Physical Infrastructure and Facilities: Targeted investment in the research infrastructure has
provided a well-founded laboratory and fieldwork resources that support research in both research
groups. The Environmental Diagnostics Laboratory houses specialist equipment for radiometric
dating and tracer-based research (e.g. Ortec low energy gamma spectrometers for environmental
radioactivity applications, surface area instrumentation for soil/sediment particle characterisation
and Olympus x-ray fluorescent analyser for geochemical elemental composition of sediments).
Field-based research is supported by access to equipment such as a Sontek Acoustic Doppler
Current Profiler (ADCP) to determine streamflow, ISCO samplers and fully submersible
spectrometers to measure water quality, Leica dGPS, UAVs to acquire high spatial/temporal
resolution imagery and field-portable spectroradiometers for reflectance and fluorescence
measurements. Investment in staff/student training to accompany this equipment has been
provided by the School (e.g. Civil Aviation Authority drone pilot qualifications for five researchers).
Researchers are also supported through loans of equipment/data acquisition and training through
successful applications to NERC facilities for field spectroscopy (FSF), airborne remote sensing
(ARF), radiocarbon dating (NEIF) and cosmogenic isotope dating (CIAF) to in excess of £100k
since 2014. Social science research is supported with access to electronic recording devices,
tablets for survey, digital cameras, terrestrial laser scanner and 3D printing facilities within
dedicated studio spaces for planning and design of urban spaces. Additionally, UoA14 research
regularly features in events held in a dedicated public exhibition space within the School (the Lamb
Gallery). All facilities are managed by dedicated support staff, including laboratory and studio
managers, GIS and field-equipment technicians (3.5 FTE).

In addition to campus-based infrastructure, staff in UoA14 (led by Black and Spray) have been
instrumental in developing and operating long-term river catchment-based research platforms in
Scotland (Eddleston, Feshie, Talla) and Iceland. Eddleston is Scotland’s principal living laboratory
for policy-focused Natural Flood Management (NFM) research and is a partnership involving
Scottish Government, Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA), BGS, Scottish Borders
Council and more than 20 landowners. The work is heavily based on empirical observation (with
substantial investment in instrumentation) and stands in contrast to most NFM research which
depends on model outputs. The research platform has underpinned complementary projects
involving collaborators (including PhD studentships) at BGS, Edinburgh, Newcastle, UCL,
Catalunya and Geneva, spanning ecosystem service valuation, surface water-groundwater
coupling, interception and infiltration processes. Similar principles of a research platform underpin
monitoring in the Feshie catchment (carbon fluxes and snowmelt hydrology) and Virkisjökull
Iceland, (climate-glacier-runoff-groundwater coupling in a retreating glacier system), involving
collaborators from Edinburgh, Newcastle, Glasgow, Leeds/NCAS, Lancaster, Southampton, CEH
and funding from NERC, BGS, Scottish Natural Heritage and landowners.

Consistent with the University’s ‘OneDundee’ ethos our researchers are encouraged to seek
access to state-of-the-art infrastructure available elsewhere in the institution (e.g. experimental
flumes, geotechnical centrifuge and micro-CT scanner in Civil Engineering). Collaboration with
strategic partners such as the James Hutton Institute provides access to experimental agricultural
facilities, while access to resources/expertise is promoted through reciprocal ‘pooling’
arrangements across Scotland through membership of SAGES and MASTS, meaning institutional
investment does not duplicate large capital investment at other sites, thus enlarging the resource
base for staff.


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

UoA14 staff have multi-scale collaborations that boost our research creativity and impact (Table 2).
Highlights provided here are elaborated further throughout this section. At a local level, we are
uniquely connected to the city and its wider environs through strong links with the council, public
agencies and community-based organisations; nationally, staff collaborate with Scottish
Government, play leading roles in learned societies, including the Royal Scottish Geographical
Society with representatives from local to national, as well as participating more broadly in RGS-
IBG and BSG speciality groups (e.g. Quantitative Methods Research Group secretary Geddes).
Our research strategy encourages and facilitates building and engaging in national and
international networks, including with others at leading Universities across the UK and globally, and
has resulted in a range of successful collaborative funding bids.

Table 2: Exemplars of collaboration, engagement and/or impacts at local, national and international
scales, contributing to aim (iii) of our research strategy.

 Project (PI)             Partnership /       Engagement and/or impact
                          audience
 Environment Futures
 Assessing the
 effectiveness of         Scottish
                                              Eight key recommendations made on enhancing the
 Scotland’s flood         Environmental
                                              content, delivery and status of messages issued from
 warning service          Protection
                                              SEPA’s ‘Floodline’ flood warning service
 (Black and               Agency (SEPA)
 Geddes).
                                              (i) Indicator and monitoring framework adopted by
 Climate change                               Scottish Climate Change Adaptation Programme and
                          ClimateXChange
 adaptation (i -                              UK Adaptation Sub-Committee.
                          policy team;
 Rowan) and                                   (ii) Proposed greenhouse gas reduction targets and
                          Scottish Building
 mitigation policy (ii-                       methodologies for ascertaining compliance, to inform
                          Standards
 Onyango)                                     NPF4 under formulation (National Planning
                                              Framework).
                                              Evidence-based contributions to SEPA’s Flood
 Eddleston Natural        Environment         Management Handbook and Environment Agency’s
 Flood Management         Agency (EA);        Working with Natural Processes Evidence Directory.
 project (Black and       SEPA; EU via        Technical guidance, briefings and workshops to
 Spray)                   INTERREG            Scottish Ministers, Secretaries of State and European
                                              research consortia.
 Multi-Use in                                 Adoption of MU (Multi-Use) concept into marine
                          EU Governments;
 European Seas                                spatial planning strategies and policy; e.g. Multi-Use
                          Blue Growth
 (MUSES)                                      Community of Practice in the Netherlands and
                          Sector
 (Onyango)                                    Belgium
 Social Futures
                                              Report accepted by the Dundee Alcohol & Drug
 Evaluation of
                                              Partnership, with recommendations made to the
 Dundee Hubs and
                          Dundee City         Public Social Partnership project. Findings supported
 substance misuse
                          Council             an application for funding by Dundee City Council to
 plan (Searle,
                                              the national Drugs Deaths Task Force.
 Smith)


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                        Police Scotland;
                                              Evidenced-based changes to the policy and practice
                        Scottish Fire and
                                              of reform of police and fire services in Scotland
                        Rescue Service;
 Evaluation of                                including a ‘lessons learned’ report for Scottish
                        Her Majesty’s
 Police and Fire                              Government on the implications for wider public
                        Inspectorates of
 reform in Scotland                           service reform; and establishment of a European
                        Constabulary and
 (Fyfe)                                       knowledge exchange network of policy makers,
                        Fire and Rescue
                                              practitioners and researchers for the sharing of
                        in Scotland;
                                              information about the processes of police reform.
                        Scottish Govt.
 Knowledge                                    Recommendations changed company’s approach to
 Transfer                                     customer vulnerability, with changes to staff training;
                        SSEN and
 Partnership:                                 re-shaped organisation structure and community
                        vulnerable
 Scottish &                                   support; included learning from the KTP in Ofgem
                        customer
 Southern Electricity                         submission. Now used by the company across the UK
                        community
 Networks (SSEN)                              to manage response to power outages.
 (Hall)                                       Project awarded ‘Outstanding’ by Innovate UK
 Measuring what                               Commissioned report, handbook and innovative online
                        Royal Town
 matters: Planning                            toolkit for the Royal Town Planning Institute (RTPI) to
                        Planning Institute;
 Outcomes                                     gauge how planning delivers on the explicit
                        Kevin Murray
 Research                                     aspirations of planners for placemaking and its social,
                        Associates (KMA)
 (AlWaer)                                     economic and environmental value.
                        EU Crime
                                              Provided evidence and guidance in the development
                        Prevention
                                              of a best practice ‘toolkit’ for community policing in the
                        Network; EU
 Unity (O’Neill)                              EU, accessed over 1500 times on the EUCPN
                        Agency for Law
                                              website; policy paper “Community-oriented policing in
                        Enforcement
                                              the European Union”.
                        Training
                                              DFID Commissioned report on impacts on refugee
                        Academic and
 Youth Transitions                            youth in the MENA region and a case study within the
                        NGO partners in
 in Protracted                                Inter-Agency Standing Committee guidelines of the
                        Uganda and
 Crises (vanBlerk)                            Compact for Young People in Humanitarian Action,
                        Jordan
                                              United Nations Population Fund.
                                              The Oak funded World Cup project received
 Evidencing                                   significant media coverage from the BBC, STV, &
 Violation of           The Oak               Times Higher and fed into the Terre des Hommes
 Children's Rights in   Foundation; Terre     Children Win Campaign which resulted in changes to
 Brazil (vanBlerk,      des Hommes            policy when organising major events by the
 Mendel and Fyfe)                             International Olympic Committee.


Collaborations and partnerships: To promote collaboration we actively lead and contribute to the
management of several external-facing research centres, including SIPR and the UNESCO Centre
for Water Law, Policy and Science (CWLPS):

SIPR: Established in 2007 and led by Fyfe until 2017 (O’Neill became a Co-Director in 2018),
SIPR is a collaboration between 12 Scottish universities, the Police Service of Scotland and the
Scottish Police Authority. It connects c.100 academic staff and research students across Scotland
conducting high quality and independent research co-produced with the police. As Director of
SIPR, Fyfe provided strategic leadership, including evidence-based contributions to national
policing bodies in the UK and Internationally. SIPR has positioned Scotland as the hub of an

                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
international KE network. As an Executive Member and Co-Director, O’Neill has responsibilities for
future strategic directions for research, impact and engagement. A 10-year review by the Scottish
Funding Council, concluded that SIPR had “exceeded its original ambitions, creating significant
value for its stakeholders. It has been an exemplary investment in the extent of its success to date
and it has significant potential to further enhance its impact” (SFC Report, Ref.:SFC/CP/01/2017).

UNESCO Centre for Water Law, Policy and Science (CWLPS): Water, environment and
consequences of climate change have long been a research focus at Dundee, recognised with the
establishment of the UNESCO water centre in 2004. The siting of the Centre within the School of
Social Sciences, led by Rowan, DawsonS and Hendry (Law), capitalises on the strength of water-
related research in Dundee that straddles Geography, Law and Urban Planning. The Centre’s work
is characterised by a strong development focus, examining ways in which legal, institutional and
policy frameworks at national and international levels can be used to improve water management
in developing countries. Nationally, the Centre maintains close links to both the Scottish
Government’s HydroNation programme (funding seven doctoral students) and the Centre of
Expertise for Waters (CREW). Rowan is the national academic lead/advisor for both programmes.

A priority stated in our REF2014 submission was to build lasting international networks and
partnerships. Support for this had led to flourishing global collaborations with staff working on
successful externally funded projects with colleagues in Europe (e.g. Norway, Sweden, Finland,
Germany, France, Switzerland, Portugal, Belgium), Africa (e.g. Nigeria, Uganda, Lesotho, Malawi,
Ghana, Ethiopia), Asia (including China, Philippines, Malaysia), Australasia and Americas
(including Peru, Brazil, Bolivia, Jamaica, New Zealand and Australia) and have resulted in
prestigious visiting and external consultant appointments (e.g. Visiting Professorships UCT, South
Africa; PUC-Rio, Brazil; Norwegian Police University College, Norway). A clear step-change has
seen an increase in the numbers of long-term visiting researchers this REF period (8),
demonstrating a growing reputation as an attractive research environment. For example, Prof.
Rizzini (PUC-Rio, Brazil), Director of the International Center for Research and Policy on Children
(CIESPI), was supported by a Leverhulme Visiting Fellowship to collaborate on research relating to
children’s rights resulting in joint publications (e.g. vanBlerk, Mendel et al. 2019) and further
funded projects. The UoA has successfully sought support from the ISSR Global Scholars
Programme, welcoming researchers from New Zealand and Malaysia, and leading to joint
publications (e.g. with Cook, McColl et al., 2019; Cody et al., 2020). A Royal Society of
Edinburgh/National Science Foundation China exchange programme saw Cutler visit Hohai
University, China (facilitated through research leave), with a reciprocal visit to Dundee focusing on
remote sensing of monitoring muddy tidal flats. Through this developing collaboration a further visit
from a researcher from Nanjing Normal University conducted joint research, producing co-authored
publications. We also welcomed three ECRs to Dundee from Ghana, Zimbabwe and Lesotho,
supported by the GCRF, and working in collaboration with vanBlerk focusing on street children’s
livelihoods in Africa. Dr Emmanuel Akpabio (Uyo, Nigeria) received a Marie Skłodowska-Curie
Actions Programme Fellowship entitled Water, Sanitation and Hygiene in Africa: Understanding
Policy into Practice (WaSH-UPP) to work with Rowan, whilst Mukherjee received a one year
Munich Re Foundation Fellowship to continue his doctoral research as a PDRA in our UNESCO
Centre for Water Law, Policy and Science.

Our international partnerships are further strengthened by Memorandum of Understanding
agreements with CIESPI (Brazil), and with Makerere University and the Office of the Prime Minister
Uganda, facilitating collaboration and helping to ensure the outputs of our research are translated
into policy-related actions. vanBlerk is an Honorary Professor at the Children’s Institute at the
University of Cape Town (UCT), South Africa, whilst Brown holds an Associate Research

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Fellowship with the Center for European and Transatlantic Studies, Jean Monnet Centre of
Excellence at Georgia Institute of Technology (USA). O’Neill co-leads Working Group 1 of the EU
COST Action ‘PolStops’, a network of over 40 organisations in 29 countries focusing on ‘stop and
search’. Stjepanovic is a Citizenship expert with the Global Citizenship Observatory (GLOBALCIT)
and Robert Schuman Centre for Advanced Studies, Italy, updating citizenship legislation
databases and providing analysis of new/amended citizenship laws. Established in 2012 and led
by AlWaer, ‘Place-making, Professionals and the Public’ is a participatory research project
bringing together professionals and academics involved in planning and designing urban
environments. The programme, a collaboration including the Academy of Urbanism, Scottish
Government, RTPI, Sustrans, NHS Scotland, and Urban Design groups, has worked with
interdisciplinary teams in Aarhus, Bilbao, Freiburg, Porto, Utrecht, and Ljubljana all facing similar
problems to UK city contexts.

Impact and Recognition: We have submitted three impact case studies which demonstrate
impact arising from research in national and international settings, as well as demonstrating a more
diverse range of impacts and engagement in Table 2. Our strategy to support staff in maximising
impact (Section 1) also asks staff to regularly reflect on the impact their research is having, with
support from the School and ISSR available to those wishing to develop this further.

Recognition of the quality of our research and its impact has come from various sources. The
project Geographies of Missing Persons (Fyfe) was awarded the ESRC Outstanding Impact on
Society award. Fyfe also received the Distinguished Achievement Award from the Center for
Evidence Based Crime Policy, George Mason University, Washington, ‘For outstanding
contributions in advancing criminal justice policy and practice through research’ as well as a UKRI
sponsored ‘Game Changer’ Bronze Research Impact Award for research on the governance of
security for the Glasgow Commonwealth Games. vanBlerk was awarded the Stephen Fry Award
for Impact and Public Engagement (2017), and the Market Research Society’s President’s Medal
(2015) for Impact, and the same project also featured as an ESRC impact case study. Other
awards include AlWaer, who was awarded the Reed and Mallik Ltd Journal Prize by the Institute of
Civil Engineering (ICE) for the ‘best paper’ published in the Journal of Urban Design and Planning
in both 2014 and 2016, and was recently awarded the National Research Award 2020 for the
Energy and Industry Sector by the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, Oman.

Contribution to society and the discipline: Our research strategy encourages direct
engagement and co-production with a diversity of organisations and stakeholders (Table 2)
including Government and policy-oriented organisations. This has led to collaborative work with:
national organisations (e.g. Police Scotland); the Scottish Government (e.g. Fyfe was appointed to
the Scottish Funding Council’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee, 2019; AlWaer
was an invited advisor to Scottish Government charrette events in 2017 and 2018; and PhD
researcher Saidi completed a 6-month Scottish Government Policy Internship, working with the
Chief Scientific Adviser for Environment, Natural Resources & Agriculture); UK Government (e.g.
DFID, Defence Science Technology Laboratory); international Governments (e.g. MoU with the
Office of the Prime Minister, Government of Uganda); NGOs and other public bodies (Table 2 and
Impact Case Studies). Stjepanovic regularly briefs newly appointed UNICEF ambassadors on the
contemporary politics of countries of Eastern, Southeastern Europe and Caucasus, facilitated by
SOAS, London.

We provide extensive service to the discipline and research community, including hosting of
conferences, workshops (e.g. Architecture and Collective Life 2019) and networks (e.g. Mains co-
founded the Black Atlantic Research Dundee network, researching the legacies of slavery). We

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
undertake review work for high impact journals and a range of grant awarding bodies, including
ESRC, NERC, Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland, Wellcome Trust, as well as reviews
for international funding organisations such as the Canadian, German, Australian and Czech
research councils. Additionally, we have convened conference sessions at national and
international meetings, including the European Society for Tropical Ecology; annual meetings of
the RGS/IBG, the EGU and AGU, European Society of Criminology, Surveillance Studies Annual
Conference, Housing Studies Association and European Network of Housing Studies. Our
contribution to professional associations and learned societies includes committee service to the
Councils of the Remote Sensing and Photogrammetry Society, British Geomorphological Society,
British Society of Criminology, and Royal Scottish Geographical Society, as well as RGS/IBG
speciality groups.

Almost half of submitted staff are editors and editorial board members of leading international
journals (e.g. Children’s Geographies; Social and Cultural Geography; IDPR; Health & Place;
Journal of Intellectual & Developmental Disability; Hydrology Research; Scottish Geographical
Journal; Frontiers in Cryospheric Science; Geomorphological Techniques; GeoHazards; Policing
and Society; International Journal of Police Science and Management, International Journal of
Law, Journal of Caribbean Geography). This engagement with the wider discipline ensures our
own research is cutting edge and highly impactful, influencing policy and practice at all scales.
Contributions to journals and the discipline base are encouraged in discussion at OSaR meetings
and form an important criterion for promotion.

Finally, public engagement forms a key delivery of our research with contributions encouraged at
public engagement events. UoA14 research projects were named in the University’s successful
application for a Gold Engage Watermark awarded in 2020. We make contributions to informal
‘Café Science’ and ‘Café Arts’ events, curate exhibitions in our dedicated exhibition space,
contribute materials and talks as part of large exhibition events at galleries and museums (e.g.
‘Polar exhibition’ at Dundee’s McManus Gallery (Cook) and ‘Moving Jamaica’ exhibition at
museums in St Andrews and Dundee (Mains)), and UKRI and Royal Society public engagement
events including the Dynamic Earth exhibition, Edinburgh (DawsonS and Cook). We are
passionate about communicating our research to new generations through teaching, and more
recently in educational video productions, such as the Geographical Association Silver Publishers
Award winning Time for Geography tsunami knowledge booster series (DawsonS, Cook).




                                                                                          Page 18
