Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Southampton

 Unit of Assessment: 09 Physics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview and context
 The School of Physics and Astronomy (P&A) at Southampton thrives as a centre of world-leading
 research and discovery. We provide a collegial, supportive environment for our staff and students
 who come from a diverse set of backgrounds. In P&A, we want to understand the physics behind
 the fabric of the universe and how it affects the world we observe: 1) What are the most
 fundamental physical laws of the universe? 2) How do they influence the evolution of the universe
 from its beginning to the present day, and into the future? 3) How can we harvest our knowledge
 of these fundamental laws to improve our daily lives?
 Our mission is to find answers to these questions, ranging from the smallest to the largest scales,
 and combining theory, computation, and experimentation. Our research is focused through three
 established research groups: Astronomy, Theoretical High Energy Physics (‘Theory’), and the
 experimentally-focused Quantum Light & Matter (QLM). As part of our evolving strategy, we are
 also building a flourishing Space Environment Physics (SEP) group under the umbrella of the
 Astronomy group (for details on strategy, see §1.2).
 P&A, part of the Faculty of Engineering and Physical Sciences, has 98 academic staff at the REF
 census date (39 academic staff with teaching and research duties, 7 Independent Researchers,
 and 52 research fellows/postdocs). Of the 45 REF-submitted staff, 38 identify as men and 7 as
 women. 9% of staff have a BAME background. Improving upon this imbalance is one of our key
 goals and ties into our ED&I action plan (§2.1 & 2.3). We ensured that our output selection reflects
 this ratio and does not discriminate on the basis of gender or ethnicity (§2.3.6). Staff are supported
 by 10 technical research-support staff and 6 professional administrative staff. The following will
 detail the individual topics addressed by each group.
 The Astronomy group’s research programme (13 academic staff) is linked to the physics of
 compact objects: from supernova explosions that create and destroy them, to accretion that makes
 them luminous and outflows that appear to accompany accreting systems, to the effect they have
 on their host galaxies throughout cosmic evolution. Our goal is to understand the physics behind
 these phenomena and exploit them, especially for cosmological purposes. We have a particular
 interest in time-domain astrophysics and data-intensive science techniques as a tool for pursuing
 these goals. This topical focus and our associated hiring strategy has resulted in a group that is
 well balanced: our interests cover diverse topics, but with a necessary overlap that allows effective
 collaboration.
 The emerging Space Environment Physics (SEP) group (4 academic staff) focuses on
 magnetospheric and ionospheric dynamics. This includes the large-scale dynamics of the
 magnetospheres of Earth, Saturn, Jupiter and Mercury down to auroral processes on scales of
 tens of metres and fractions of a second. The associated physical processes underly the concept
 of ‘space weather,’ an aspiring centrepiece of our research and public engagement activities. Over
 the last five years, we have invested in a new generation of staff with highly complementary areas
 of expertise in these areas.
 The Theory group (13 academic staff) is one of the largest theoretical particle physics groups in
 the UK. We generate innovative theoretical progress responding to formal and experimental
 developments across the field of fundamental physics. The core question we are addressing is
 “what are the mathematical building blocks and laws that underlie nature at the shortest distance
 scales?”. Our phenomenology work with experimentalists ensures that the Standard Model is well
 tested and that current and future data is searched thoroughly for signals from new theories. The

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 theoretical model building and mathematically-based research supports this phenomenology and
 explores the space of models at yet higher scales that might explain fermion mass patterns, dark
 matter, and matter anti-matter asymmetry. We are making state-of-the-art predictions for Quantum
 Chromo Dynamics and develop new directions in field theory (including quantum gravity) that
 underpin future advances in our descriptions of high energy phenomena.
 The Quantum Light and Matter (QLM) group (15 academic staff) hosts the core of the School’s
 experimental research in fundamental and applied physics, connecting the scales between the
 Astronomy and Theory groups, and serving as a platform to turn our fundamental knowledge of
 physics into technology. We work on a diverse set of topics that are aligned with national and
 international efforts (e.g., our participation in European and national Quantum Technology (QT)
 initiatives; §1.2). These include i) quantum science and technology with photonic, atomic, solid-
 state and optomechanical systems, covering topics like matter-wave interferometry and quantum
 simulators by exciton-polaritons; ii) nano-photonics, metamaterials and plasmonics experiments
 paralleled by Raman and THz spectroscopies as well as X-ray imaging; iii) the synthesis of
 nanomaterials and devices. Research in the QLM group is interdisciplinary, linking fundamental
 and applied physics, e.g., through collaborations with Electronics & Computer Science (ECS),
 Zepler Institute (ZI), Institute for Life Sciences (IfLS), and medicine. Our research is being enabled
 by strong ties to national facilities (Diamond Light Source), nanofabrication in local and
 national/international facilities, industries in the photonics, space and QT segments, and the
 European Space Agency (ESA).

 1.2 Research Strategy
 P&A is growing and ambitious. We have positioned ourselves as one of the top physics
 departments in the UK and Europe, with a research strategy guided by the three fundamental
 questions we want to answer (§1.1), influenced by the national and international research
 landscape. We attract the best scientists from all backgrounds (§1.1 & §2) who can help answer
 our fundamental research questions, providing opportunities to become leaders in their field
 (§4.6). This includes support to participate or lead national and international research initiatives
 (see below and §3&4), and support to remove barriers they may experience (§2). We aim to
 respond with agility to new opportunities, as with the formation of the SEP group.
 While the research groups work mostly autonomously, the School has oversight to ensure
 alignment with our strategy. This is done via committees bringing together School and group
 leadership: general strategic discussion and decisions, such as hiring or major investment, are
 made at the fortnightly School’s Senior Management Team (SMT) meeting while the Research
 Enterprise Committee discusses, enables, and supports research initiatives. In the following, we
 will outline how our research groups position themselves within the School’s research strategy.
 The Astronomy group’s strategy following REF2014 consisted of three main goals: (1) expand
 our “compact object”-centred research into extragalactic/cosmological areas; (2) exploit links and
 synergies between our Galactic and extragalactic compact object research; and (3) develop into
 a true multi-frequency, rather than just high-energy, group. This was a major shift in focus and a
 direct response to developments in the field, specifically the emergence of extragalactic surveys
 in the optical (e.g., DES, PESSTO, LSST) and new facilities, already operational or soon to start
 (e.g., NICER, NuSTAR, ALMA, 4MOST, MOONS, JWST). This shift was enabled by strategically
 filling replacement positions and enabling targeted hires (§2.1.1). As a result, extragalactic
 research now covers supermassive black hole and galaxy formation through cosmic time, surveys
 of the evolution of active galactic nuclei, as well the physical characterisation and simulation of
 accretion onto supermassive black holes from the event horizon to galactic scales.
 For the next 5 years, our main strategic aim is to establish the group as a world-leading centre of
 excellence in data-intensive and time-domain astronomy as part of our ‘Physics of Compact
 Objects’ theme. This strategy is driven by our international scientific leadership in current and
 upcoming synoptic sky surveys and instrument consortia and growing expertise in data-intensive
                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 science, including time-series analysis and machine learning. We were able to join major surveys
 and collaborations such as the Rubin Observatory LSST, 4MOST, MOONS, or GRAVITY+ in
 support of our goal
 The SEP group is a prime example of our successful strategy implementation and identification of
 opportunities. Its expansion followed an external review to assess the needs and viability of our
 activities in this field. As such, it was approved by the University, and the group has since been
 extremely successful, winning fellowship and grant support from STFC, NERC, SPRINT and
 SPITFIRE at historically high levels for SEP. The group is now a major player in the field of
 magnetosphere and aurora research with support from the School, e.g., through involvement in
 EISCAT. Over the next 5 years, the group will also play an ever-growing role in our research with
 public outreach via the AuroraZoo project (§1.3; Astronomy Public Engagement ICS).
 The Theory group’s current work is addressed to four “Grand Challenges”: 1) helping the
 experimental community pin down the Higgs sector that underlies the standard model; 2) exploring
 the key mystery of the flavour problem of fermion masses; 3) tackling the problem of our inability
 to calculate at strong coupling; and, 4) searching for a consistent quantum theory of gravity. The
 key to advancing these goals is building a state-of-the-art modelling framework (HEPMDB,
 CalcHEP) for experiments. Two group members joined CMS (Belyaev, Moretti) and our
 Directorship of the NExT Institute fosters the link to experiments. Our linked model building work
 has addressed the flavour puzzle and been responsive to the discovery of neutrino mass/mixing
 and experiments on CP violation and absolute neutrino mass scale. We have developed our work
 in cosmology and leptogenesis proposing related signals at gravitational antennas and using the
 21 cm cosmological global signal. Our lattice work has been strengthened with resulting precise
 results for light-flavour phenomenology (e.g., the QCD+QED hadronic vacuum polarization
 computation for muon g-2). The lattice work has diversified through an innovative project linking
 holography, cosmological observations, and field theory to study the physics of the very early
 universe. There has been an expansion in work on amplitudes at high order including links to
 AdS/CFT and we made important understandings of the renormalisation group for perturbative
 quantum gravity. We have used holography to study strong coupling in QCD, composite Higgs
 models and defect theories linking to condensed matter, collider and gravitation wave
 phenomenology plus lattice studies.
 Over the next 5 years, we will diversify our main research strands: the lattice work will solidify its
 strong presence in light-flavour phenomenology but develop it into cosmology work. We are keen
 to broaden this area to prepare for the exascale computing era, responding to the upcoming
 international landscape in the field. In phenomenology, we will be led by the new era of Precision
 Higgs Physics at the LHC as well as future electron-positron Higgs factories. Dark matter searches
 and other non-accelerator experiments will become a field of increased attention by our group.
 We will continue to develop models led by new data, e.g., in neutrino physics where we are
 preparing for data from T2HK and DUNE. Our model building will seek unified structures in flavour,
 neutrino masses, dark matter and matter-antimatter asymmetry. After the large growth of the
 formal area in collaboration with Maths, the two groups will exploit this growth to build an
 international agenda in perturbative quantum gravity, string theory, applied holography, conformal
 field theory and amplitude techniques. Goals include a geometric formulation of QFT amplitudes,
 understanding the nature of quantum gravity in AdS space, understanding entanglement across
 black hole horizons, and describing the QCD equation of state in conjunction with gravitational
 wave data.
 For REF2014, the QLM group identified ‘Quantum Technology’ as the unifying theme linking
 engineers, physicists, chemists, and mathematicians. The research strategy has since seen an
 expansion in this direction, and three main thematic areas are the focus of our 5-year strategy.
 (1) Foundations of quantum physics and quantum metrology. We are working to establish the
 Penrose Institute (PeI) of Physics of the Universe at the University of Southampton. This will foster

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 dedicated experimental and theoretical research to understand physical effects at the interplay
 between General Relativity and Quantum Mechanics. We will develop new experiments that target
 new physics and test fundamental theories of nature, including quantum optomechanics and
 magnetomechanics of large-mass systems and cold-atom BEC experiments.
 (2) Photonic and polaritonic quantum technologies. We are building on international partnerships
 with experimental and theoretical groups working on Quantum Polaritonics. A second area of
 growth is in silicon-based solid-state integrated photonic quantum simulators, photonic quantum
 memories, and single-photon sources. This area is pushed forward through a $2M Moore
 Foundation grant (Sapienza), and through new entrepreneurial activities, such as Duality
 Quantum Photonics.
 (3) Advanced materials and Nanoscience. We are going to increase our lead multidisciplinary,
 cross-faculty and cross-university initiatives on priority areas in energy, healthcare and ICT. We
 will develop underpinning science, new instruments and tools, and advanced materials for a wide
 range of research activities. We will expand the strong links with the Diamond Light Source through
 a recently awarded UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship on coherent X-ray experiments (Newton).

 1.3 Developing Impact
 The School actively encourages individual researchers, as well as the research groups, to develop
 impact from their applied and blue-skies research. The main vehicle for this is the annual STFC
 Impact Acceleration Award where seed funding is locally available for projects that drive our impact
 cases. Successful examples include Sullivan (MoleGazer), Bird (Symetrica), Knigge (DataKind),
 and Shankar (blood pressure monitoring).
 Through our established coordination channels (e.g., Research & Enterprise Committee, Impact
 Champion), we identified four cross-group strategic pillars of impact from our research: Data
 Science, Sensor & Display Development, Public Engagement, and Industrial Engagement.
 Implementation of the strategy is supported by tailored administrative and financial services at
 University, Faculty, and School level, e.g., via central Research & Innovation Services (RIS), the
 faculty’s Future Worlds hub facilitating industrial engagement, and the School’s Business
 Engagement Manager.
 A cornerstone of implementing our Impact strategy is seed funding through our STFC Impact
 Acceleration Account, allocated via a competitive process to projects reaching beyond our core
 research. Projects in Data Science and Sensor & Display development have profited from such
 funding, going on to secure external grants (e.g., Shankar for blood pressure monitoring; Bird for
 coded aperture mask development, leading to a KTP grant). A further highlight is our placement
 scheme for postgraduate students: Through our Business Engagement Manger, local and regional
 companies, from SMEs to large enterprise and non-profits, offer multi-week to several month-long
 placements enabling bidirectional knowledge transfer and plant seeds for further research impact.
 In addition, we have been successful in attracting a Royal Society-funded Entrepreneur-in-
 Residence to help develop our impact strategy further (Hill).
 We highlight major initiatives in our four impact pillars:
 (1) Data Science: Data science is now a cornerstone in the UK’s industrial strategy and a key
 component of Industry 4.0. As a result, the School has placed an increased focus on this pillar of
 our impact strategy. For example, our leading roles in large astronomical surveys (e.g., 4MOST,
 MOONS, Rubin Observatory, VEILS) has led to broad expertise in the analysis, modelling, and
 interpretation of multi-dimensional datasets. Topics of particular interest include time-series
 analysis, the analysis of “big data”, machine learning and image processing. Jackman and
 Shankar are fellows of the Alan Turing Institute.
 A basis for our work in data science beyond physics is our leadership of the STFC-funded CDT in
 data intensive science DISCnet. This CDT provides a vehicle for knowledge transfer to industry.

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGR students in this programme receive training in big data techniques, including Machine
 Learning and Artificial Intelligence. During their 4-year PhD, students participate in two 3-month
 industrial placements where they apply their acquired skills in industry or the third sector. These
 placements and training will be sustained beyond the lifetime of the DISCnet CDT with other
 studentships. An example of how DISCnet seeds future impact work is a recent School-funded
 PhD studentship in direct collaboration with the data science start-up company HAL24K.
 We are actively working to generate impact in the Third Sector via the growing field of Data
 Science for Social Good (DSSG). We have been working closely with DataKind UK to make our
 expertise available to charities who need assistance with data-science related problems (led by
 Knigge). With the Office of National Statistics, we co-hosted an extreme DataDive event at
 Southampton in Sep 2018 and will host further events. We have volunteered to contribute to the
 organization of the Turing Institute’s 12-week internship programme in DSSG.
 A growing field of our impact work in Data Science concerns applications of our research to
 medicine. Shankar used his galaxy evolution model to improve blood pressure monitoring of the
 population. This work is carried out in collaboration with the British Heart Foundation Centre and
 the Department of Clinical Pharmacology at Kings College London. Another project applies
 techniques used to identify supernova in survey images to detection and monitoring of malign
 melanoma. This ‘Molegazer’ programme is supported by an ERC Proof of Concept grant
 (Sullivan/Smith). Based on our experience with time series analysis, we recently started a new
 STFC-supported project on cardiac arrest prediction (Sullivan/Frohmaier), and during the COVID-
 19 crisis, PhD students and postdocs were recruited by the Faculty of Medicine/University Hospital
 to assist in analysing data from COVID test trials.
 Finally, the Theory’s group work in lattice QCD has significant impact on the development of
 parallel supercomputers. With UKRI Strategic priorities funding under ‘Excalibur’, our 'Exalat'
 project (Flynn, Jüttner) will develop a roadmap for training, algorithm development and
 application of lattice methods in industry (ATOS, Dragonfly Labs).
 (2) Sensor & Display development: Our second impact pillar is the work of the Astronomy and
 QLM groups in detector and display technology development. The Astronomy group has a long-
 standing relationship with Symetrica, where the company’s founder was a past member of the
 group and developed high-energy detectors, a line of research with a 20+-year track record in
 P&A. In 2016, a new lab for Bird was established to facilitate further R&D links to Symetrica as
 part of a KTP project (£101k), with further strengthening of links via a parallel instrumentation
 development activity funded by the Impact Acceleration Account. Recent work focused on medical
 and defence-related applications of coded mask apertures as used in high energy detectors in
 space.
 In QLM, we are working actively on new sensor technology. Piezoelectric energy recuperation and
 harvesting – a process to convert mechanical energy to electrical power via the piezoelectric effect
 in crystalline materials – has been exploited in a new device by Newton (patent filing number
 EP19156606) and we are discussing with Merck licensing the technology for use in novel pressure
 sensors. Kaczmarek has developed an Optical Multi-Parameter Analyser for liquid crystals based
 on new optical methods developed in P&A. A first device has been sold to Facebook Reality Labs
 for display performance analysis, and further expressions of interest have been received.
 (3) Public Engagement: The School runs a major public engagement programme based on
 research from all the groups. Our key goal is to reach audiences that are traditionally
 underrepresented in public engagement through our ‘New Audiences’ scheme. Since 2014, we
 have had more than 105,000 face-to-face interactions and more than 1M engagements on-line
 (including social media). We have a strategic partnership with the Winchester Science Centre,
 where our exhibition was visited by about 75,000 people. In addition, our appearances on BBC
 TV programmes reached almost 5M viewers. For astronomy, more details can be found in our
 Public Engagement Impact Case Study “Astronomy with US”, but we also have a stategic public

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 engagement programme in QLM that significantly contributed to these numbers (corresponding
 impact case not submitted).
 We own and operate the inflatable planetarium “Astrodome” as a vehicle for public engagement,
 and frequently work with regional schools as part of a programme to engage children from age 8-
 17 in STEM, which also includes lectures by PGRs and academics. We also run more focused
 events, such as a supernova exhibition at Southampton airport where passengers can learn and
 engage about our research. A recent focus is ‘AuroraZoo’, a citizen science project run by the
 SEP group on the Zooniverse platform. Our researchers (Whiter/SEP) reach out to the public to
 help classify aurora required to reveal physical process of aurora formation. These classifications
 are subsequently used in research papers.
 (4) Industrial Engagement: QLM research is directed towards producing industrial impact. As
 our work spans the gap between physics and engineering, we actively collaborate with the ZI on
 research and impact falling into REF descriptors of physics and engineering (e.g., nanoscale
 physics, lasers, optoelectronics and photonics). This makes our research inherently
 interdisciplinary (§1.4), as evidenced by the selected Impact Case Studies (“5D memory”,
 “Covesion”). Our photonic and polaritonic quantum technologies group is pursuing new routes to
 optical computing and quantum simulators of spin Hamiltonians through strong industrial-
 academic partnerships with IBM Zurich and MIT-Skoltech. We are expanding our diverse funding
 support on the national and international level, for example through the recently awarded FET-
 Open project “Polariton Logic (POLLOC)”. Several group members have filed patents with the goal
 of commercialisation (Muskens, Newton, Freegarde). Another example is our work on metal-
 oxide metasurfaces for infrared active coatings (Muskens). This technology is being picked up by
 Italian commercial R&D centre CREO, with whom we started to develop flexible radiative cooling
 panels for satellites.

 1.4 Interdisciplinary Research
 Our goal to exploit advancements in the understanding of physics to improve daily lives naturally
 leads to collaborations outside physics, supported through our research and impact strategy. We
 actively engage with interdisciplinary Centres of Excellence at Faculty level, where researchers
 from across engineering, computer science, chemistry, and physics are brought together (e.g.,
 IRIS, the Centre of Excellence for In-situ and Remote Sensing).
 The QLM group has strong engagements within the wider university including ZI, Chemistry,
 Engineering, Life Sciences, Mathematics, and Electronics and Computer Science. QLM-led
 research increasingly makes use of local world-leading infrastructure such as the Southampton
 cleanroom facilities and Diamond Light Source. An example of such cross-disciplinary research is
 our Advanced Materials and Nanoscience research, where we are transitioning from the Physics
 rapid prototyping facility to the use of ZI cleanroom facilities. This strengthens ongoing
 collaborations with the ZI and ECS on emerging topics related to photonics for AI, Space, and
 Defence. Several staff (Smith, Kanaras, Muskens) have an established track record of
 interdisciplinary collaboration between QLM, Chemistry and Life Sciences (IfLS), e.g., for cancer
 treatment (£1M BBSRC grants).
 In the Astronomy and Theory groups, we conduct interdisciplinary research around data science.
 To support this, we have 3 joint studentships between Astronomy/Theoretical Physics and
 Computer Science. The Astronomy and Theory groups also participate in interdisciplinary
 research through DISCnet and NGCM CDTs. The DISCnet CDT receives matched funding from
 P&A for all STFC-funded studentships. The DISCnet CDT students are engaged with mandatory
 placements in industry, which are also open to other PGR students.
 The SEP group has strong ties to aeronautics and space engineering, in part facilitated by the
 UKRI-funded SPRINT innovation network. Space weather (the effect of solar
 wind/magnetosphere/ionosphere coupling on space- and ground-based technology) is inherently

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interdisciplinary, and we collaborate with colleagues in Ocean & Earth Sciences, supported by a
 NERC Highlight Topic grant (Co-Is on SWIGS).
 We are co-founders of the Southampton Theory Astrophysics Gravity (STAG) Research Centre,
 formed in 2012 to develop science at the interface between three research groups from two UoS
 faculties: Theory and Astronomy in P&A, and the Gravity Group in Mathematical Sciences in FSS.
 Both faculties support STAG financially, and STAG has developed its international profile through
 hosting scientific and public engagement events, including the annual STAG public lecture series
 promoting the research centre. Most of the past speakers are Physics Nobel Prize laureates,
 supporting engagement with our research in schools and the community.

 1.5 Open Data
 We are strongly committed to an open research policy and contributing to an environment that
 allows open access to data from publicly funded research. Our objectives for open access align
 with the University (REF5a§2.4). Most importantly, we are committed to address the
 “reproducibility crisis” by working towards general access to data produced by our research.
 Outputs are deposited in PURE which delivers them to the University repository ePrints (see REF
 5a). We follow open data rules and procedures as required by national and international funding
 bodies (e.g., STFC, EPSRC, NERC, EU). In general, research papers produced by our staff,
 postdocs, and PGRs will be accessible through arXiv. All groups in the School follow the provisions
 for reproducibility and open data/open software as required by funders and the major academic
 journals. Where we are involved in large collaborations or use international research facilities, data
 are stored and publicly available through archives (e.g., ESO).

 1.6 Research Culture
 We provide an inclusive and diverse working environment with tailored support to set our
 researchers up for success. A key part of this is our Code of Conduct that all members of P&A are
 committed to. We follow mandatory training by the university on topics surrounding research
 culture. Our PGR students receive training on research integrity and research ethics as part of
 their skills training provided by the Doctoral College.
 The University is a signatory to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and we follow policies
 derived from the framework by the University (REF5a§2.8). Breaches of research integrity will be
 pursued through the faculty research ethics committee, which serves as outside counsel and
 decision-making body to reduce potential conflict-of-interests. Since 2014, no research ethics
 issues within the School have been brought to our attention.
 Since 2008, P&A has been part of SEPnet (the South-East Physics Network) with nine partner
 universities. SEPnet provides a network to promote excellence in physics research, impact and
 teaching, works to improve diversity by sharing best practice amongst its partners, and raises the
 quality of postgraduate training through shared ‘GRADnet’ tuition.

 2. People

 2.1 Staff
 2.1.1 Staffing strategy and staff recruitment policy
 Our strategy is to recruit the best researchers who will help us address the three fundamental
 questions we want to answer (§1.1) and enrich our impact work. Careful planning allowed us to
 grow the number of academic staff from 42 in 2014 to 45 in 2020 despite a challenging funding
 environment. Most of our recruitment happens though internationally open competition (60% of
 submitted staff are international), but we also make target-of-opportunity hires of excellent
 candidates (e.g., Banerji-Wright, Gingell). Recruitment follows ED&I policies (§2.3). All staff
 involved in recruitment receive unconscious bias training. When recruiting, we specifically invite
 strong candidates from underrepresented groups to apply. School interview panels aim at

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 representing the diversity of the shortlisted candidates. The 7 staff recruitments since
 implementing the ED&I policies in 2016 resulted in the hire of 4 women and 3 men, demonstrating
 the effectiveness of our new approach.
 Since 2014, P&A have made 14 new appointments at the Lecturer and Associate Professor levels.
 With only two anticipated retirements over the next 5 years, we now have the required continuity
 to implement our research strategy. Our major challenge will be staff development to lead more
 junior members into senior roles. Hence, we encourage and invite junior staff to participate in
 management training offered by the University’s Leadership & Management Development
 programme (e.g., through Leadership Circles, Line Manager Development), and guide them
 towards higher responsibilities by assigning leadership roles in specific fields. The major vehicle
 for encouraging staff is our appraisal, support and management strategy (§2.1.2). This approach
 has led to the award of 9 Chairs and 12 Associate Professorships over the last 5 years. The
 fraction of men and women promoted reflects the current gender distribution in the School.
 Currently six academic staff are on fixed-term contracts while holding a long-term (5+ years)
 personal fellowship. We have an excellent record in converting suchpositions into permanent
 posts. Newly appointed independent fellows (e.g., RS URF, STFC ERF, EPSRC fellows) are
 treated on the same basis as other staff, fully integrated into research groups, and are encouraged
 to supervise PhD, Masters and UG project students. Evidence of the effectiveness of our strategy
 is our attractiveness to external research fellows: since 2014, 6 long-term (5+-year duration)
 research fellows have arrived at P&A, including 3 transferring their fellowships from other
 universities. We also attracted shorter-term research fellowships including 6 Newton International
 Fellows and 3 Marie Curie Fellows.
 Since the last REF, the Astronomy group has seen turnover from retirements (Charles, Coe) and
 departures (Breton, Croston, Ho, Scaife). This has been used as an opportunity to hire staff to
 support our expansion in the extragalactic field and with a multi-wavelength approach (Banerji-
 Wright, Childress, Gandhi, Hoenig, Middleton, Raimundo). Five of the six new staff came with
 fellowships, demonstrating the high quality of our recruitment. The SEP group was expanded over
 this REF period in line with our research strategy. Following the retirement of Lanchester, the
 proleptic appointment of Fear has been made permanent. In addition, we were able to recruit three
 new staff, all of them holding long-term fellowships (Jackman, ERF; Gingell, URF; Whiter,
 NERC) with permanent positions at the conclusion of the fellowships. The Theory group has been
 strengthened through the hiring of O’Bannon who came to us from Oxford on a Royal Society
 (RS) URF. In the QLM group, hiring since the last REF was used to support expansion in quantum
 technology, one of our key strategic fields (§1.2). This was achieved by making the appointments
 of Sapienza and Himsworth permanent and recruiting Ledingham. In addition, we were able to
 strengthen our X-ray imaging group by the new appointments of Thibault and Zanette and making
 Newton permanent.

 2.1.2 Staff development
 Our staff are the key to achieve the School’s goals outlined in §1, which is why we have developed
 policies to support them developing their careers.
 All new P&A staff are assigned a line manager, who coordinates their mandatory UoS induction
 and oversees the two-year (postdocs one year) probation period. Our induction includes
 signposting to policies on diversity, discrimination, our Dignity at Work and Study policy, our
 School Code of Conduct, our School Workload model, and online courses that all new staff must
 take (e.g., ED&I training; safeguarding training). New staff are made aware of university-wide
 mentoring schemes, the WISET+ network and the Springboard development programme available
 to women (P&A pays for women to take this course). Postdocs and junior staff can join the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers that has recently been launched
 by the University (REF5a§3.5).


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 New staff are offered a mentor, who is named in the induction material. The mentor is available
 to discuss all aspects of academic life, to assist the new academic staff to settle into the School,
 and to discuss career development. Once staff have completed probation, they have mandatory
 annual appraisal meetings with their line managers (REF5a§3.1). All line-managers take
 mandatory appraisal training, monitored by the University, which includes further elements of
 unconscious bias and ‘managing diversity’ training. Promotion and long-term ambitions are
 discussed during appraisal and recorded.
 Promotions for ERE staff are considered on an annual cycle, with two annual university-wide
 information events run for staff. Potential promotion applications are first informally discussed with
 line-managers, who are proactive in encouraging staff to apply. The application form includes
 space to describe individual circumstances (e.g., career breaks). Applications are then considered
 by a P&A School panel, then by a faculty panel. For promotion to Associate and Full Professor,
 the faculty panel will have representation from external to the Faculty. Interviews are conducted,
 and the university offers day-long interview training for short-listed candidates (‘Excelling at
 Interviews’). The purpose of the P&A SMT review is (1) to provide feedback to applicants to
 strengthen applications, and (2) to decide whether P&A will support the application (applicants are
 free to proceed with their application regardless of P&A support). This P&A step is designed to
 strengthen applications prior to faculty review, and to identify any applications that may be
 considered premature. The fraction of women applying for promotions is consistent with our staff
 profile and have been successful 100% of the time. Unsuccessful candidates receive in-person
 feedback from the HoS and/or Dean.
 Research Innovation Services (RIS) hold a library of successful grant proposals (contributed by
 staff). All major UKRI and EU grants undergo a formal internal peer review process in the School
 before submission. Mock interviews are offered for those who reach the interview stage of grants
 or fellowships (uptake is 100%). The PG lectures on ‘Applying for Fellowships’ are also open to
 junior postdocs. Our self-assessment since 2015 has identified a need to better support staff with
 unsuccessful grant applications. Although our existing mentor/line-management system is the first
 point of contact, we have established the role of School ‘Fellowship Champion’, who highlights
 opportunities and offers advice for potential applicants.

 2.1.3 Support for early-career researchers
 Students and postdocs are critical to the success of P&A. They are fully integrated with our
 research life, including organising the seminar series of their parent research groups. In 2018 we
 set-up a new postdoc network, with a focus on peer support, and with seminars on applying for
 fellowships, grants, including resilience aspects of such proposals. In addition, postdocs have the
 option to be paired with a permanent staff as a career mentor.
 We also have a Women’s Physics Network (WPN; open to all members of the School) that seeks
 to highlight the profile of junior researchers in physics. WPN is self-organised by PhD students
 and postdocs and receives an annual £1k budget from the School to support events. The group
 is represented on our ED&I committee (§2.3) and part of the university-wide WiSET+ group
 (REF5a§3.8). Since 2014, WPN holds regular networking events, seminars on careers in science,
 and public outreach events.

 2.1.4 Sabbatical/leave policy
 Academic staff with a mix of teaching and research responsibilities are eligible to apply for a
 semester of research leave every 4 years. While business needs may require flexibility on the
 timing of the sabbatical, the School will usually make arrangements to allow for the leave as
 requested by the staff member. This policy also applies to part-time staff.




                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.1.5 Rewarding impact
 Most academics are on a ‘balanced’ pathway (see University Environment statement). All impact
 (including public engagement) is fully accounted for in the School’s workload model, with the same
 status as teaching or university administrative duties: to encourage our staff to carry-out impact,
 we do not count it as time towards their ‘blue skies’ research. In addition, we offer our staff the
 opportunity of 30 days per year for work in industry or third sector bodies as part of their normal
 working contracts to stimulate knowledge exchange with academia.

 2.2 Research students
 2.2.1 Recruitment
 Over the REF period, we have been home to 141 PGRs, retaining the annual average from the
 last REF. A fall in STFC DTP studentships due to a flat-cash funding landscape combined with
 more universities bidding for the same studentship pool was offset by individual grants (ERCs,
 Leverhulme, John F Templeton foundation) and new doctoral training centres (ITNs, STFC and
 EPSRC CDTs). We also offer studentships jointly with world-class research institutions (ESO,
 JAIST).
 We regularly receive a factor of 10 more applications than PGR places available. The international
 profile of the School is reflected in our PGR recruitment: 79 entrants were UK nationals and 62
 came from abroad. 26% of the recruited PGR students identify as women. Our PGR students are
 recruited by the individual research groups with central administrative support from the faculty.
 While the groups are responsible for selecting students, the process is governed by the School’s
 recruitment guidelines along the principles of equality, diversity, & inclusion (ED&I) and set out in
 our Athena Swan Silver Action Plan. All staff involved in the recruitment will have undergone the
 university’s mandatory ED&I training.
 The undergraduate summer research placement scheme within the School and across SEPnet
 serves as an initial point of contact with the best undergraduate students from our own university
 as well as the partner universities in the South East. Moreover, we regularly recruit PGR students
 from our undergraduate flagship programmes, where the best students in Theory, Astronomy and
 QLM spend a year at CERN, the Centre for Astronomy at Harvard, and our research labs,
 respectively, to undertake a research project.

 2.2.2 Support and monitoring
 Each PGR student has a supervisory team comprising at least two academics. The University
 provides mandatory training for new supervisors. Main progression events for PGRs are: start of
 year 1 training evaluation, 9-month report and viva, 18-month report and upgrade viva, and 36-
 month report on progress to submission. These are evaluated by two academics independent of
 the supervisory team. Additionally, students produce regular, short 3-month reports on progress,
 including meetings with their supervisory team and training.
 All students are monitored through ‘PGRTracker’ – a bespoke UoS web-based interface that
 provides a personalised record of student training, monitors all progression events and
 automatically sends e-mail reminders to staff and students to prompt each stage of progression.
 It also allows the Graduate School staff to access all progression information on a student very
 simply.
 Each student, regardless of funding source, receives a Research Training Support Grant (RTSG)
 of £1,230. We have a dedicated PGR student representative to communicate concerns of the
 wider PGR community to the School’s Senior Management Team, if necessary. Moreover, each
 research group has a PGR Senior Tutor who provides confidential pastoral support to PGR
 students.
 Over the current REF period, we have awarded 134 doctoral degrees (17 women, 83 men).
 Against the 141 entrants during the same time, this implies a more than 90% success rate
                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 considering that overall entries remained about constant. Of those not graduating, about half
 moved to a different institution (e.g., because their supervisor moved).

 2.2.3 Skill development
 We run lectures for our PGR students on pursuing an academic career and applying for grants
 and fellowships, and diversity/unconscious bias. Uptake is 100% by first year PGR students.
 SEPnet/GRADnet runs and funds many other career development events and workshops, some
 of which are considered mandatory. This includes exercises in leadership, team-working skills, CV
 writing, and science communication. In addition, GRADnet runs a mentoring scheme connecting
 PGR with physicists ready to act as mentors. Since 2017, we have offered a PGR training
 programme in data science techniques (e.g., Machine Learning, Statistics, or Big Data handling
 and visualisation) as part of the DISCnet CDT. All lectures are open to and used by PGRs beyond
 the CDT. The CDT, including its training programme, has recently been reviewed and awarded an
 ‘A’ grade by STFC, one of only two such grades in the country.
 Students are led towards independence with small exercises in grant bidding within SEPnet where
 they can competitively bid for grants to organise student-led conferences. Such conferences were
 funded and hosted in Southampton by our students in March 2017, April 2018, and April 2019,
 attracting students and postdocs from across the UK. Students also self-organise journal clubs
 and compete in the Three Minute Thesis competition. For experimental PGRs, we run 1-2 week-
 long workshop courses per year, covering both mechanical and electronic engineering.

 2.2.4 Stimulation of knowledge exchange
 We employ a SEPnet Employer Engagement Officer to run our undergraduate placement scheme
 (more than 35 students placed since 2014). Since 2018, we also employ a Business Engagement
 Manager funded by our STFC Impact Acceleration Account.
 Our DISCnet CDT placements have placed 10 of our CDT PGR students in 3-month placements
 in local industries. We host a 0.2 FTE Royal Society Entrepreneur in Residence (Hill, a previous
 PhD student in the Astronomy group) from the HAL24k data science company.

 2.3 Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (ED&I)
 2.3.1 Overview
 Since 2014, P&A has achieved Athena Swan (AS) Bronze (2015), AS Silver (2018), Project Juno
 (PJ) Practitioner (2017) and PJ Champion (2019). This is driven by our Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion committee (EDIC), whose mandate is to develop, implement and monitor (local P&A)
 policies and best practices that promote ED&I in the School, including the AS/PJ action plans. The
 EDIC is fully embedded within the School, and the Chair regularly attends SMT meetings to
 discuss EDIC policies. These have always received approval from SMT.
 The EDIC consults five established focus groups: UGs, PGs, postdocs, and one each for Support
 and Technical staff, led by the reps on the EDIC. The groups are informal, and the student groups
 are open to all in the cohort. We have gained detailed (and frank) perspectives on experiences in
 P&A using these groups that have driven much of our work and change in P&A.

 2.3.2 Career pathways for part-time and fixed-term staff
 Part-time and fixed-term staff are treated the same way as staff on open-ended contracts. All
 academic staff independent of their contractual circumstances belong to our ERE (Education,
 Research, Enterprise) job family over Levels 4-7 (L4-7; REF5a §3.1). Reward and leave process
 are open to fixed-term and part-time staff as they are for permanent staff and they are fully
 integrated within the School.




                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.3.3 Support for staff and research students with special needs
 The School established a dedicated ED&I fund that can support staff and research students with
 care responsibility or other special requirements. The fund is supported by an annual contribution
 of £2k from faculty. In addition, we have used a donation from the Hercock family of £50k to award
 scholarships to research students to attend conferences, with a particular focus on students with
 responsibilities outside of academia. Up to £5k is reserved for a hardship fund to support
 disadvantaged research students.

 2.3.4 Support for extended leaves
 Before taking leave, staff meet line managers to plan for changes in workload and cover, discuss
 career aspirations, and plans for their return. In case of maternity leave, P&A has a flexible
 approach and, where the job descriptions allow, we offer flexible working arrangements during
 pregnancy, e.g., working from home if that is more comfortable. Research groups facilitate remote
 working and participation in key meetings via remote conferencing. We enable partners to attend
 as many ante-natal appointments as required.
 The University has a maternity/shared parental leave package for all staff beyond statutory
 requirements: for the first 26 weeks, this is full contractual maternity pay (CMP), for the next 13
 weeks statutory maternity pay (SMP), and a final 13 weeks unpaid. To qualify for CMP, staff are
 required to return to work for at least 52 weeks after the leave period. While on leave, P&A uses
 the 10 Keeping in Touch (KIT) days (or 20 SPLIT days) to provide the opportunity for staff to
 undertake a limited amount of work and training, attend group meetings, seminars or social events,
 meet with their PG students or postdocs, or simply introduce their child to colleagues. This has
 helped ease the return to work and benefit both parties. PGR students are usually eligible for paid
 maternity (or adoption) leave following normal UKRI rules: 26 weeks of maternity leave on full
 stipend and a further 26 weeks of unpaid maternity leave. The 26 weeks of paid leave is in addition
 to the original length of stipend support.
 We offer a 50% reduction in teaching load for the first year upon return, tracked via the School’s
 workload model. Staff can transition from full-time to part-time and back again via amendments in
 their contract.

 2.3.5 Wellbeing
 P&A has a formal core hours policy: regular or major meetings should be scheduled during (i.e.,
 neither starting nor ending outside of) the hours of 9.30am to 4pm on normal university working
 days. Our email etiquette policy also reflects these hours, and staff are not expected to respond
 to email outside of these hours. These policies are disseminated to staff each year and during
 induction. In addition, we have rolled out a "Code of Conduct" for the School, which highlights our
 commitment to good practice in all areas of ED&I.
 The Women’s Physics Network (WPN) (§2.1.3), founded as part of our first Athena Swan Bronze
 submission in 2014, holds events to support women in physics via careers seminars and
 networking events. These events typically have a mix of genders in attendance, are open to
 everyone in P&A, and are attended by members of other departments/Schools within our faculty.

 2.3.6 Equality and diversity in REF submission
 At every stage of preparing the REF submission, we have monitored the impact of decisions on
 diversity and equality aspects. This was specifically important where unconscious biases may
 become important, such as selection of outputs. The selection matches the gender distribution of
 the School (15% women) and includes 13% of outputs from staff with a BAME background (9% of
 staff). In line with University policy, all staff were given the opportunity to confidentially report any
 special considerations or concerns affecting their productivity during the REF period for an
 application to reduce their required numbers of outputs. No eligible staff opted for a reduced
 submission.

                                                                                                  Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income and strategy
 The School’s total annual grant income averaged £5.28M per year over the REF period (£35.04M
 total). While a direct comparison to REF2014 is difficult due to a change of UOA accounting, we
 have seen an increase in annual income to the School from 2013 to 2016 of more than 40% from
 £3.7M to £5.4M, and which remained above £5M ever since. Our research is primarily funded via
 UKRI and the EU. The Astronomy/SEP and Theory groups hold STFC consolidated grants
 (£5.87M through REF period). In addition, between 2014 and 2019 we have hosted 5 ERC
 grantees as well as 6 RS URF fellows, 4 STFC ERF fellows, and 1 NERC fellow. The School led
 3 STFC and EPSRC CDTs as well as a Marie Sklodowska-Curie ITN.
 Aside from those traditional income streams, P&A diversified its funding basis through its
 interdisciplinary research. Via the SEP group, the School successfully bid for NERC grants (total
 income £1.4M). The QLM’s involvement with chemistry and biology secured funding from BBSRC
 (total income £1M). Finally, several staff won competitive fellowship, prizes, or grants from
 private/charity funders, such as the Leverhulme Foundation (£1.49M), the Moore Foundation
 ($2M), and the Ogden Trust.
 Our research output and impact cases were supported by several of these grants. For example,
 the Ogden Trust partly funded a public engagement officer. Other examples include support by
 the STFC IAA fund for the research collaboration with Symetrica and the blood pressure impact
 case study where galaxy evolution models have been transferred to medicine.

 3.2 Research infrastructure
 3.2.1 Areas of strategic expansion and investment
 Since REF2014, significant areas of expansion include data science (Astronomy, Theory) and
 Quantum Technology (QLM), in line with our research and impact strategies. The School is the PI
 institution of the CDT DISCnet, the Data-Intensive Science Centre in the South-East Physics
 Network. The School provided 7 matched PGR studentships to secure 7 studentships from STFC
 (other DISCnet partners received similar or smaller shares). The CDT is now used as a vehicle to
 broaden the School’s applied research Data Science and Artificial Intelligence, and to link to
 industry via DISCnet industry mixers, show cases, and student placements. QLM is a partner in
 the CDT in New and Sustainable Photovoltaics. This CDT supports the transformation of
 photovoltaics in the UK, achieving its renewable energy obligations.
 The expansion of the Astronomy group’s research into the extragalactic field was supported by
 investment into several projects. The faculty provided €100k to allow the Astronomy group to buy
 into the 4MOST collaboration to run a time-domain spectroscopic survey in the 2020s. The recent
 targeted hire of Banerji-Wright was support by £30k of funding to join the MOONS collaboration,
 a spectroscopic survey using ESO’s VLT observatory. These buy-ins are seen as a strategic
 investment to support future grant income and impact in the field of time-domain astronomy and
 analysis of time-series data in general.

 3.2.2 In-house infrastructure and related impact activities
 P&A receives infrastructure support from the faculty and University. The University’s central IT
 department iSolutions provides an embedded IT expert (shared between two iSolutions staff) to
 allow for day-to-day support with equipment and software. Our data and computing infrastructure
 is centrally hosted and maintained. To facilitate data science, with the focus on interdisciplinary
 and/or impact-creating projects, the faculty invested in a specialised 88-core high-performance
 server for P&A (£30k investment). In addition, staff, postdocs and PGR students in the School
 have access to and make extensive use of IRIDIS4 and IRIDIS5, two major computer clusters with



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 12,000+ and 18,000+ cores, respectively. In November 2017, IRIDIS5 was ranked as one of the
 top 500 supercomputers in the world.
 The Astronomy group created a new lab with the purpose to support the KTP project by Bird on
 coded aperture masking. The data science activities use the School’s computing facilities. Our
 QLM group and their laboratories are supported by the in-house research workshops. These
 employ 10 technicians with expertise in mechanical and electronic engineering. The research
 workshops provide invaluable capabilities in the design and fabrication of parts not commercially
 available, which underpin many of our experimental and impact activities, including a helium
 recovery system and liquefier. We also have access to the university’s Cleanrooms (REF5a§4.2)
 for fabrication of nanomaterials, fibres, etc.

 3.2.3 Specialist infrastructure and facilities
 Data-heavy research within the Astronomy group is supported by several data storage and high-
 performance computing servers with a data capacity of >1Pb. In addition, the faculty-funded data
 science server provides a unique platform for advanced parallel processing beyond
 “embarrassingly parallel” problems.
 The Theory group’s modelling work is mostly carried out on local (IRIDIS) and national HPC
 facilities (DiRAC). In addition, the group operates several computer clusters, including a 512-core
 Knights Landing cluster.
 The QLM group operates several research laboratories with optical tables, Lasers and
 spectroscopy equipment, cryogenic equipment (at 4K and 300mK), and ultra-high vacuum
 equipment. The facilities also support bio-sample handling as required for interdisciplinary
 projects. Further, the group uses the faculty clean rooms for nano fabrication.
 The SEP group operate the arctic auroral instrument ASK (Auroral Structure and Kinetics). This
 instrument takes multi-wavelength observations of the aurora on the same spatial and temporal
 structure as the upcoming major radar facility EISCAT_3D and enhance its scientific quality.

 3.2.4 Shared and collaborative infrastructure and facilities
 The Astronomy group uses both shared computing and observing facilities. IRIDIS and
 STFC/DiRAC and IRDISis serve high-performance computing needs. For observations, major
 shared international ground-based and space-based facilities have been used (§3.2.6).
 The Theory group makes use of local and national, RC-supported supercomputing facilities
 (§3.2.6). Through CMS experiments, our full and associate researchers access the major LHC
 programmes at CERN.
 The QLM group makes extensive use of the RC-supported Diamond Light Source (Thibault,
 Newton) with about 120 days of beamtime awarded. In addition, the group has access to
 cleanrooms and laboratories at the National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg
 (USA), at the Ecole Normale Superieure in Paris (France), and at The George Washington
 University, DC (USA).
 Details on monetary equivalent where available are provided in §3.2.6.

 3.2.5 Benefits-in-kind
 For our impact case on code-aperture masking (Bird), Symetrica provided 1/3 of the postdoc plus
 material costs (£70k), essential contributions for the success of the case. Bird, Shankar, and
 Knigge received 3 Nvidia GPU Titan XP cards from Nvidia. The Royal Institute of Technology
 (KTH), Stockholm (Sweden) and the University of Tromso (Norway) provided the equivalent of
 £100k in staff time and EISCAT radar access (Whiter, Fear).
 The QLM group received (non-competitive) access to various international research labs (see
 above) and fabrication samples for further analysis and investigation, e.g., from ENS, NIST, KIST,

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Hong Kong University, IIT Genua, University of Lancaster, George Washington University. In
 2016, an ultrafast laser system was awarded from the STFC laser loan pool retirement scheme
 (£350k in value).

 3.2.6 Use of major national and international research facilities
 Over the REF period, researchers in the School received non-UKRI-supported facility access with
 an equivalent value of £33.72M (see REF4c Research Income in-kind).
 Astronomy/SEP (total £19.7M)
    •   XMM/Newton: £6.8M
    •   INTEGRAL: £6.1M
    •   ESO telescopes: £5.2M
    •   e-Merlin: £671k
    •   Liverpool Telescope: £369k
    •   EISCAT: £240k
    •   ALMA: £105k
    •   WHT/ING: £91k
    •   DiRAC: £57k
 In addition, the astronomy group made use of international facilities where no monetary equivalent
 is available: Chandra X-ray space telescope (>200ks observing time), Swift-Gehrels space
 telescope (>1,730ks), NuStar space observatory (>250ks), AstroSat (>35ks), NICER on the ISS,
 (>372ks), Hubble space telescope (>22 orbits), Gran Telescopio de Canarias (10 hrs), VLA (133
 hrs).
 Theory group (total £9.9M):
    •   DiRAC HPC computing time: £9.9M
 The theory group also received computing time on additional facilities without monetary equivalent
 available: Brookhaven National Lab Jpsi (27M core hours), IBM Blue Gene/Q (1.56B core hours),
 Edinburgh Extreme Scaling Service (100M core hours).
 QLM (total £4.0M):
    •   Diamond light source: £2.9M
    •   ESRF: £77k
    •   E-XFEL: £1.0
 The QLM group also made use of the Swiss Light Source (award of 2 beam times).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Overview
 The School’s research is inherently collaborative, and the individual groups have extensive
 national and international networks, including major and leading involvements in large projects.
 Since 2014, 87.6% of our research outputs had international co-authors, which is the highest
 fraction within the University (58% overall). On the regional level, the School provides all groups
 with the SEPnet platform (£35k annual buy-in; §1.6).

 4.2 Support for collaborations, partnerships, and networks
 The various collaborations and networks are supported by UKRI and EU grants as well as
 allocation of the School’s DTP and university PGR studentships to projects relevant to those
 collaborations. The faculty supported the Astronomy group’s participation in the 4MOST project
 with a 100k EUR buy-in to the collaboration.


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 With few exceptions, all the Astronomy group’s research papers have been the result of national
 and international collaborations, where our staff take leading roles. These are supported by EU
 and STFC grants and studentships as well as successful bids to major observatories. Banerji-
 Wright (PI), Hoenig (Co-PI), Sullivan, and Childress are members of the VEILS, an international
 collaboration of ~80 astronomers running the ESO Public Survey VEILS. Sullivan (PI), Hoenig,
 and Childress are members of 4MOST/TiDES, a Southampton-led time-domain survey on the
 upcoming 4m Multi-Object Spectroscopic Telescope (4MOST). Banerji-Wright is Co-I of the
 MOONS extragalactic GTO survey team as part of the team currently building a new instrument
 for the ESO VLT. Hoenig is Co-I of GRAVITY+, an upgraded instrument approved by ESO after
 its ‘ESO in the 2030s’ review. Knigge is Co-I of the ThunderKAT MeerKAT Key Project on
 Astrophysical Transients. Knigge is Co-I and steering committee member of SCIP, a key project
 on stellar, circumstellar and interstellar astronomy within the WEAVE consortium. Altamirano is
 member of the NICER science team, a collaboration of ~70 astronomers using NICER data to
 understand the physics of accretion onto black holes and neutron stars. Altamirano (PI), Gandhi,
 Whiter, Knigge and Middleton lead the OPTICam collaboration to build a triple-beam fast
 imaging camera for time-domain astrophysics with UNAM (Mexico). Gandhi is member of the
 NuStar science team. Banerji-Wright, Sullivan, Gandhi, and Hoenig are Affiliate PIs of LSST:UK
 and members of various international LSST Science Collaborations. Shankar is PI of EU Horizon
 2020 funded ITN BiD4BESt with partners in Italy, Spain, Germany, and the Netherlands.
 The Theory group works closely with colleagues in Brookhaven and Columbia University in the
 USA and with the group in Edinburgh, under the RBC-UKQCD collaboration (Flynn, Jüttner,
 Sachrajda). Weekly collaboration meetings and sharing resources and simulation data in both
 collaborations gives increased leverage. We have the advantage of working very closely with LHC
 experimentalists through the NExT (New directions in Experiment and Theory) Institute, hosted in
 Southampton and directed by Moretti. NExT involves collaboration with Queen Mary, Bristol,
 Brunel, and the Rutherford Laboratory experimental particle physics group. As new data from the
 LHC and other facilities call for rapid interpretation, NExT provides the ideal environment for a
 new kind of interaction between theorists and experimentalists to meet this challenge. This is
 maintained by joint studentships, conferences and workshops.
 Most of the QLM group’s research papers are written with international partners based on a large
 network of international collaborations. Many of them are sustained by cross-national funding
 sources. As examples, Muskens is part of an EU Horizon 2020 Space project involving Italian
 and Danish partners, a Royal Society International Joint Project with Bordeaux, and a GCRF
 Seedcorn funding project that led to a Malaysian government grant. Lagoudakis is part of
 SkolTech and several EU-funded projects with international partners. Ulbricht is part of the EU
 Horizon 2020 FET Open project TEQ, the COST actions “Fundamental problems in Quantum
 Mechanics”, the EU QTFlagship project, and has a long-standing collaboration with Tata Institute
 at Mumbai, India. Politi is part of the EU Horizon 2020 FET open project. Kavokin leads the
 Mediterranean Fundamental Physics Institute, is Head of the Spin Optics Laboratory at the
 University of St Petersburg, and Director of the International Center of Polaritonics at Westlake
 University.

 4.3 Major international conferences organised
 Several major international conferences and workshops have been organised in Southampton by
 members of P&A. These provided a very visible platform to engage with the relevant academic
 audiences, develop new relationships and widen the impact of our research.
    •   TORUS 2015 (Gandhi, Hoenig): Triennial international conference on the environment of
        s supermassive black holes; 120 participants
    •   XCalibur 2019 (Gandhi): International Workshop on “Next generation X-ray spectroscopy”;
        100 participants


                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   43rd Annual European Meeting on Atmospheric Studies by Optical Methods (Whiter); 40
        participants
    •   Lattice 2016 (Flynn, Jüttner, Sachrajda): Major annual conference in Lattice Field
        Theory; 420 participants; supported by STFC, Intel, IPPP, SEPnet, SGI, DDN and Emmi
    •   Quantum Science Distinguished Lectures (Sapienza, Ulbricht): Series of lectures given by
        high-profile researchers from Harvard University (USA), National Institute of Standards and
        Technology (USA), Technical University Munich (Germany), University of Oxford and
        Southampton
 To reach beyond the academic audience, we organise student placements and industry mixer
 events as part of our CDTs.

 4.4 Wider contributions to the economy and society
 The four submitted Impact Case Studies are only a small fraction of our wider contributions to the
 economy and society. We are running a far-reaching public engagement and outreach programme
 in all fields of research (§1.3). As highlighted in the Impact Case Study “Astronomy with US”, we
 are specifically interested in targeting non-traditional audiences. This includes engaging visually
 impaired in astronomy by sonifying astronomical data and reaching out to schools with traditionally
 lower fraction of students from academic households. In 2018, we held our first DataKind event.
 Staff and PGRs from the School were paired for two days with two charities to work on a problem
 that can be solved with data science.
 Beyond the presented ICS with companies, other active collaborations in the private sector include
 new detector design to be developed with Merck and screentesting devices with Facebook Labs.
 We integrate the knowledge transfer mentality that is a core trait of P&A into the training of our
 PGR students via industry mixers and placement scheme, as provided through SEPnet or our
 DISCnet and NGCM CDTs.

 4.5 Sustainability of discipline and responsiveness to priorities
 The Astronomy group developed several initiatives in the industrial strategy priority area of “data
 economy.” Specifically, we have strong ties with more than two dozen SMEs and large companies
 on the south coast via the DISCnet industrial placement scheme. The group also runs the GCRF
 SITARE project (Gandhi) that focuses on advancing the physics knowledge base in India and
 Nepal.
 For the academic community, we hosted the UK national community meeting in space science
 (Spring MIST) and the STFC Summer School in space science. We are part of the SPRINT
 innovation network, in support of government ambition for the UK to capture 10% of the global
 space market by 2030, and SWIGS, the NERC Highlight Topic into the effects of Space Weather,
 which is a threat identified in the UK national risk register.

 4.6 Wider influence and recognition
 P&A staff contribute to the research base in various ways. All staff regularly review journal articles
 and grant applications for private and governmental/inter-governmental funding bodies in the UK
 and abroad. They lead a wide range of national and international funded research programmes
 and serve on scientific organising committees of large international conferences or hold editorships
 at journals. The following lists positions by category:
    •   Editorships and editorial board memberships
        Optics Express (Muskens), Flavour Lattice Averaging Group (Jüttner), ROPP (Moretti),
        EPJC (Moretti), AHEP (Moretti), Space Research Today (Altamirano), IEEE TNS
        (Bird), Scientific Reports (De Liberato), Superlattices & Microstructures (Kavokin)
    •   Advisory roles for national/international funding agencies
        STFC Operations Review committee (Altamirano), STFC Astronomy Advisory Panel

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        (Gandhi, Sullivan), STFC Herschel Oversight Committee (McHardy), Italian Ministry of
        Education Scientific Advisory Board (Shankar), Czech Academy of Sciences (Hoenig),
        REF2021 panel (Moretti),
    •   Award panels of national/international funding bodies
         (i) Chairs: STFC PP Theory grants panel (Evans), STFC Astronomy Grants Panel
        (Sullivan), Horizon 2020 evaluation panels (vice-chairs: Moretti, Kaczmarek)
          (ii) Membership: STFC Astronomy grants panel (Fear), STFC equipment grants panel
        (Evans), EPSRC College Funding Panel (Freegarde, Himsworth, Muskens), Royal
        Society University Research Fellowship Panel (Moretti), Royal Society Research Grants
        panel (Sullivan), US Department of Energy award panel (Moretti), US NSF grant panel
        (Gandhi), Swiss NSF panel (Moretti, Shankar), Polish NSF panel (Shankar), Chilean
        CONICYT (Shankar), Swedish Wallenberg Foundation award panel (Moretti), RAS
        Astronomy Awards panel (Jackman), RAS Fellowship panel (Jackman)
    •   Advisory roles for national/international research facilities:
          (i) Chairs: CERN Computing Resource scrutiny group (Flynn), STFC gridPP oversight
        committee (Flynn)
         (ii) Memberships: DiRAC procurement board (Jüttner), VRO LSST Contributions
        Evaluation Committee (Hoenig)
    •   Chairs and membership of facility access panels
         (i) Chairs: STFC PP/NP DiRAC Resource Allocation Committee (Jüttner), Liverpool
        Telescope Time Allocation Group (Sullivan), Chandra Time Allocation Committee
        (Middleton)
         (ii) Membership: ESO Observing Program Committee (Banerji-Wright, Hoenig,
        Sullivan), XMM/Newton Time Allocation Committee (McHardy)
    •   Memberships on accreditation bodies
        IoP Degree Accreditation Committee (Freegarde)
    •   Leadership roles in international organisations
        European Interferometry Initiative (Hoenig), Optical Society of America Executive
        Committee of Nonlinear Optics Working Group (Sapienza),
 The work of several staff was recognised by prizes and fellowships, including:
    •   Leverhulme Trust (Senior) Research fellowships (Belyaev, Knigge, McHardy, Morris,
        Shankar)
    •   ERC Grants (Starting/Consolidator) (Drummond, Hoenig, Jüttner, Sullivan, Thibault)
    •   STFC Ernest Rutherford Fellowships (Jackman, Middleton)
    •   Royal Society University Research Fellowships (Banerji-Wright, Gingell, Zanette)
    •   NERC Fellowship (Whiter)
    •   EPSRC Established Career Fellowship (Kavokin)
    •   Honorary Doctorates (Kavokin, Moretti)
 In addition, Gandhi received a NASA Group Achievement Award as a leading member of the
 NuSTAR survey team. Kanaras was awarded the “SET for Britain” silver medal in biological and
 biomedical sciences.




                                                                                            Page 18
