Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Edinburgh Napier University

 Unit of Assessment:
 Unit of Assessment 32 – Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit of Assessment 32 comprises 10 submitted category A research staff at 8.9 FTE. All
 submitted staff are based in the School of Arts & Creative Industries (SACI) and are a part of the
 Art and Design Research Centre (ADRC). The ADRC comprises researchers from the
 departments of Design, Photography, Film and Television. Two individuals from Film and
 Television (Holmes and Gray) are submitted in UoA 32, but also participate in the research
 activities of UoA 34. In 2014 Edinburgh Napier University did not submit to UoA 32, although two
 researchers (Vettese and Jamieson) submitted research in UoA 36.

 The focus of the ADRC in the period has been to build a dynamic and experienced art and
 design research group, committed to undertaking externally funded commercial research. Within
 this cycle the group has developed a critical mass of active researchers, has engaged in
 research supervision, and has built links with external commercial partners. This has led to a
 vibrant and sustainable research environment which has enabled a significant submission in this
 REF.

 Unit Structure
 The ADRC is one of a number of practice-based creative research groups in SACI. The Centre
 leads and supports research in Design, Photography, Video Arts and Performance Art. Art and
 design research activity occurs in four sub-disciplines:

    1. Making and Remanufacture. This concerns the creation of innovative, sustainable
       materials for design. This area includes Vettese and Lambert

    2. Design for Heritage and Interpretation (including Lighting Design and
       Photography). This concerns innovative artistic solutions for heritage spaces. This area
       includes Innes, Winton, Jamieson, Supartono, O’Donnell, Andrews, Vettese and
       Holmes.

    3. Graphic Advocacy and Ethics. This concerns filmmaking and photography as vehicles
       for social change. This area includes Gray, Buwert, Jamieson and Gerrard.

    4. Design for Health and Wellbeing. This includes Gray, Winton, Jamieson and Vettese.

 Although nominally divided above, research in the unit takes place collaboratively and across the
 boundaries between the sub-disciplines. Projects are often led by funding from local industrial
 partners, who have identified a relevant skill set within the expertise of the group. Collaborations
 between staff occur often, as does co-writing of funding bids. Co-investigation on projects in the
 unit is common, and often involves combinations of divergent skills to respond to societal issues.

 In the period, the ADRC has grown substantially in terms of staff numbers and research
 capacity. The ADRC has grown from 2 out of 18 staff being submitted to REF 2014, to 10 out of
 32 staff submitting work to UoA32. This constitutes a significant growth in the size and
 productivity of the research group. The unit is burgeoning and the optimal structure is still in
 development.

 Research Strategy
 The University Strategy 2020 aimed to grow research capacity and knowledge exchange
 partnerships across the institution. To meet this objective SACI aimed to develop and grow each

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of its creative research groups, one of which is the ADRC. As an emerging area, Unit of
 Assessment 32 did not outline a comprehensive strategy following REF 2014, but is has sought
 to grow its research capacity and increase collaborative and interdisciplinarity research, as well
 as increasing focus on responding to societal and cultural problems.

 ADRC has aimed to identify its unique pathways to growth, reach a critical mass of researchers,
 and establish and develop areas of research excellence. To achieve this, the unit has sought to
 undertake research which is socially and aesthetically valuable, and is performed with society in
 mind. This has led to higher quantities of practice-led research, collaborative and
 interdisciplinary research, as well as development of new ties with industry.

 Research capacity has been improved in the period, as evidence by the increase in research
 active staff in ADRC. The area now has 32 staff in total, with 10 category A staff being submitted
 to this REF, compared to 2 out of 18 in 2014. 5 individuals have been brought into the
 filmmaking and photography group (Holmes, Gray, O’Donnell, Andrews and Gerrard) to
 develop this area. Early Career Researchers publishing in text-based media (Buwert and
 Supartono) have joined this group to provide expertise and long-term sustainability. The unit
 has also increased its numbers of PhD completions and students. Since 2015, 12 PhD students
 have been recruited, with 1 having completed their studies. A staff member has also supervised
 a project in UoA34, and a successful MRes has completed. 2 PhD’s by published works have
 also been won by members of staff.

 The unit has also aimed to increase the quantity of practice-led research as a route to increasing
 impact, knowledge exchange and research funding. ADRC has sought to support researchers in
 undertaking this kind of research, and during the period all funded projects have involved
 practice in some capacity. An increase in practice-led research is also indicated by the REF
 submitted multi component outputs in REF2.

 ADRC has sought to increase both its interdisciplinary and collaborative research, as well as its
 ties with external commercial partners. In this period interdisciplinary work has occurred between
 the ADRC and other colleagues in the fields of; Microbiology (Vettese, £10,000 FEC), Tourism
 (Vettese, £42,000 FEC), and Computing and Engineering (£59,000). There have also been
 national and international collaborations with other institutions, including; Heriot Watt University,
 The University of Edinburgh, The University of Sunderland, the University of Dundee, and
 Sejong University in South Korea.

 9 Innovation vouchers were won by staff in this period, totalling £45,000. These have led to
 development of research partnerships with a number of industries and charities, which has in
 turn increased funding and grown the capacity of the centre. Funded research has subsequently
 occurred with a number of Scottish manufacturers and charities. Around £160,000 has been won
 in this period from industry, including from partners in the Scottish textile industry and Historic
 Environment Scotland.

 This REF period has been the beginning for research within this unit. In this period the ADRC
 has built its research capacity, and has identified areas of excellence, but it has also identified
 approaches in the future which can ensure its long-term sustainability and vitality. The success
 of practice-led research, the positive engagement with business and industry, and
 interdisciplinary collaborations are key successes to take forward.

 The school and unit are committed to the University’s overarching research strategy as outlined
 in REF5a. Future school strategies are informed by the institutions five-year focus on staff
 development, increasing innovation, and developing international research partnerships, and
 aim to feed into the broad strategic aims of the University.

 In the next REF period, this unit will aim to continue to grow the quantity of practice-led research.
 ADRC will continue to pursue industry-led collaborations and funding opportunities to lend its


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 expertise to the sector and ensure impactful outcomes. Different kinds of funding opportunities
 will be targeted, including Innovate UK Plastic Innovations grants, and Knowledge Transfer
 Partnerships. For example, a currently emerging KTP with The Scottish Leather Group will be
 provided significant support. The unit will also aim to utilise University level support from the
 planned Innovation Hub to facilitate this target.

 UoA 32 will also seek to bring its expertise to other disciplines to undertake interdisciplinary
 research and lead to high quality outputs. In particular it will aim to build on ADCR’s crossovers
 with members of staff from Film and Television. This will be done in combination within the new
 University theme of Culture & Communities, which will facilitate impactful society-led research.

 These two strands will allow staff to network pursue grant applications with the aim of publishing
 in journals in other disciplines. This aligns with University and School aims to increase income,
 encourage cross disciplinary research supervision, and increase publications of 3 and 4 star
 quality.

 ADRC will also look to continue to grow numbers of PhD students by promoting our knowledge
 base and supervision capacity more publicly, and advertising potential projects in Find A PhD.
 This will be done with the University level support for People, as outlined in REF5a.

 Achievement and Continuation of Impactful Research
 As the research is an emerging area for the University, ADRC has aimed to establish pathways
 to impact in this period. These have led to direct benefits, but have also developed into
 meaningful collaborations with longer-term implications for beneficiaries. The unit has supported
 researchers in growing their areas and establishing connections with external businesses and
 charities.

 To establish these pathways, the unit has encouraged staff to use SFC Innovation Vouchers, 9
 of which have been won in the period. This has allowed researchers to engage in short, industry
 led projects, which have developed into substantial impactful research areas. For example,
 Vettese won a voucher to explore 3-D remanufacture with textiles company Lenzing.
 Subsequently she has undertaken 3-D remanufacturing research with Interface and Applied Arts
 Scotland which has directly impacted on artists and businesses.

 Once established, researchers have been encouraged to target applied sources of funding to
 continue their research. For example, in the period funding has been received from bodies such
 as; Mike Stoane Lighting £4,000, Scottish Leather Group £3,000, and The Textiles Future Forum
 £90,000. This approach has ensured end beneficiaries are considered in funding bids.

 These strategies relate directly to the success of Vettese’s impact case study. An SFC
 Innovation Voucher established her research into using 3-D printing to innovatively reconstruct
 waste and aesthetically ‘outdated’ materials. Following this, she utilised her experience and
 findings to seek funding and engagement from the wider textiles sector. Vettese was
 subsequently funded directly by the Textiles Future Forum to collaborate with four Scottish
 textile companies, Calzeat, Bute, Begg and Co, and the Scottish Leather Group. This has led to
 the adoption of new waste utilisation techniques by these organisations, as well as building an
 ongoing partnership with Scottish Leather Group, who estimate they could find a use for up to
 2,300 tonnes of previously wasted material as a result of the research.

 The second impact case study concerns a researcher submitted to UoA 34 (Scott). Scott’s
 primary research interest is in film; however he was funded by an internal grant to kick-start an
 archival research project into Scottish feminist photographer Franki Raffles. This internal funding
 has allowed him to re-discover this iconic photographer, and has led to the establishment of a
 virtual archive, and a long-term collaboration and exhibition with The University of St Andrews
 Special Collections Archive. Through this, publics have been reacquainted with the work of a
 previously lost photographer.

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Over the next period, ADRC will support research areas to build on existing connections with
 industry and charity. The unit aims to increase Knowledge Transfer Partnerships following their
 collaboration to date. For example, between Vettese and The Scottish Leather Group. Vettese
 is confirmed to take a one-year secondment to the organisation to facilitate a particular piece of
 research. ADRC will also aim to build relationships with new partners. Researchers will continue
 to be encouraged to build ties via Interface Innovation Vouchers, and the unit will also aim to
 increase its support for researchers undertaking public engagement and presentations to non-
 academic audiences.

 Supporting Interdisciplinarity
 As an emerging research area, interdisciplinarity in UoA 32 has been encouraged via
 development of existing networks and connections. This has strengthened ties between areas of
 excellence and other disciplines, which has led to successful research in the period and has
 initiated a lasting culture of interdisciplinarity.

 Vettese has undertaken externally funded research in the period with Singleton (UoA7), a
 Microbiologist from the School of Applied Sciences, regarding the use of fungal materials as a
 sustainable future textile product. She has also collaborated with Anastasiadou (UoA24) from
 the Tourism Department, in The Business School, regarding 3D printing technology and visitor
 heritage experiences. Jamieson has worked with Todd (UoA24), lecturer in Events
 Management in The Business School, regarding festivals, and with Heriot Watt University’s
 School of Social Sciences, regarding Deaf Heritage Research, funded by the Royal Society of
 Edinburgh (£27K FEC). These collaborations have led to co-written interdisciplinary papers
 submitted in REF2.

 Interdisciplinarity has also been encouraged via cross-disciplinary doctoral research. Three PhD
 students in UoA 32 are co-supervised by colleagues from the School of Computing (SoC), and
 one ADRC staff member is a second supervisor for a student there. One PhD student has a
 second supervisor from the School of Applied Sciences, with a background in psychoanalysis
 and cultural theory, and one PhD student has a second supervisor from the Tourism department
 in The Business School. By bringing through PhD students whose research spans a number of
 disciplines, the ADRC has increased its own connectivity, and has ensured interdisciplinarity
 continues sustainably in future.

 Now that the area has critical mass and links have been forged between departments, the
 ADRC is looking to strengthen existing interdisciplinary links and encourage new collaborations.
 In order to move beyond informal collaboration between disciplines the unit is planning a series
 of formal research ‘speed dating’ events and themed symposiums, led by the director of the
 Research Centre (Innes). In addition, the unit is going to encourage current interdisciplinary
 students to consider a future in art and design research, as well as looking to increase numbers
 of research students undertaking interdisciplinary research.

 Strategy on an Open Research Environment and Considerations of Reproducibility
 This unit and the ADRC as a whole abides by University regulations on Open Access, and
 ensures all media is recorded on the Worktribe data management system. Documentation of the
 types of creative, developing outputs submitted in this unit, such as exhibitions, performances
 and public facing media, have traditionally been difficult to document. However, over this REF
 period, the unit has worked with the University Information Management team, to ensure the
 system has been developed to better facilitate the group’s more specific needs. The system now
 contains new ways of recording and storing ongoing visual research data, high resolution visual
 files and films, all of which can are easily and openly available.




                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Culture of Research Integrity
 SACI has structures in place to strengthen research integrity. For most of the period, Duff
 (UoA34) has been SACI Research Integrity Director and a member of the University Research
 Integrity Committee (URIC). This role is now undertaken by Hails (UoA33). In this REF period, a
 school ethics committee has been set up, which includes Jamieson from ADRC as an ethics
 gatekeeper.

 Research Integrity in the School has been furthered through such methods as; an online ‘one-
 stop shop’ for documents (e.g. sample consent forms) and links launched in June 2016, the
 ‘professorial surgery’, a weekly office drop-in facility for staff and research students, running
 since 2017, ‘Research integrity roadshows’, presentations about research ethics to all SACI
 subject groups, in the 2017-18 session, and presentations to SACI research-student workshops.
 Special contributions have also been made to the University Integrity Committee, including
 writing the University’s official response to the UK Parliament Committee on Science and
 Technology’s consultation on research integrity in February 2017.

 2. People

 Staff Recruitment Strategy
 The key aim of the unit has been to increase research capacity via development of areas of
 excellence. One important aspect of the recruitment strategy has therefore been to increase
 numbers of researchers designated as significantly responsible for research. This unit has grown
 from 2 submitted staff from 18 in 2014, to 10 submitted staff from 32 in REF2021 (6 Associate
 Professors/Readers, 4 Lecturers). All 10 current category A staff have been appointed to
 positions in the ADRC in this REF period.

 The unit has also attempted to recognise and promote internal staff members who have actively
 and successfully engaged in research. This goal has grown existing areas of excellence by
 providing individuals with greater independence, but has also led to effective leadership of these
 areas. Since 2014, 2 members of staff have been awarded Readerships, and 2 members of staff
 have been awarded Associate Professorships. Cox (Associate Professor) has been the most
 recent appointment, and the ADRC now has 4 members in promoted positions (Innes, Holmes
 and Vettese). This approach has yielded success in the development of research areas such as
 Innovative Lighting (Innes), and in Making and Manufacture (Vettese). Appointments have also
 been made to grow new areas in ARDC, for example, of Supartono, O’Donnell, and Andrews
 to a burgeoning research group in Photography. All are returned in this REF.

 The unit has also sought to recruit staff to support these leaders and retain flexibility. 2 part-time
 Research Fellows were appointed in 2014 to support emerging research areas in Innovative
 Lighting and Ocean Plastics. These appointments provided additional support in growing these
 areas via external funding. Lambert’s project ‘Ocean Plastic : Developing a Model for Localised
 Remanufacturing’, with assistance from Research Fellow Vones, won £21,000 FEC from the
 Carnegie Trust. Innes, supported by the Research Fellow Taylor won ‘Innovative Lighting
 Solutions for Smart Textile Production’ £48,000 FEC from the Textiles Future Forum.

 The unit has also sought to ensure long term sustainability via the recruitment and development
 of ECR’s. 2 ECR’s have been appointed during this REF period who have been submitted as
 Category A staff; Buwert and Supartono. Buwert has won internal funding, working with
 researchers from Glasgow School of Art on ‘Testing the use of Participatory Speculative and
 Critical Design Methods in the Context of Deliberative Democratic Processes’ (£31,000 FEC).

 Staff Development Strategy
 ADRC has encouraged staff to engage in research, increasingly emphasising it as a key element
 of career progression, as per the university’s appraisal process MyContribution.

 As the ADRC has grown across this REF period, it has sought to mentor staff to encourage their
 development as researchers. Vettese, Buwert, and Supartono are research mentors and

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 colleagues are encouraged to contact them for support. Vettese has worked with practice-led
 researchers to ‘position’ their research for REF review. Buwert has worked closely with advising
 on digital platforms, and Supartono has advised photographers on written presentations.

 Due to the emerging nature of the research in this unit, and the volume of time which creative,
 practice-led research can require, UoA 32 has sought to support researchers by providing extra
 budget for staff buy-out time. This has been allocated when needed for specific publications and
 visual outputs.

 To support researchers in increasing the quality of their outputs, two ‘mini REF’ reviews,
 exhibitions and presentation days have taken place. Input from externals from Sheffield Hallam
 University in 2015 and 2017 was paid for by the unit, and provided researchers useful advice on
 practice led outputs and the nature of impactful research practices.

 ADRC has also sought to encourage and support staff in setting up exchanges with industry and
 charities. As outlined earlier in this narrative, the unit supports staff in applying for SFC
 Innovation Vouchers to build these links, 9 of which have been successful in the period. In 2021
 the ADRC will also support its first industrial secondment. Vettese will work for the Scottish
 Leather Group for two days a week for one year, to develop a particular material and set up an
 end of life leather innovation centre on their premises.

 Members of staff undertaking practice-as-research are supported financially and through time
 given to exhibit their work internationally. This has allowed exhibitions as high-quality outputs,
 which have become part of their multi component submissions in REF2, as well as supporting
 creative impact. For example, in the period the unit funded Homes, Vettese, Lambert,
 Andrews, Gerrard, and O’Donnell in participating in an exhibition at Songjiang Art Museum in
 Shanghai.

 ADRC is also committed to ensuring staff have appropriate opportunities for further education
 and qualification. Staff who joined the University before the requirement of a PhD have been
 supported to undertake PhD’s, including via the PhD by Published works route. Two staff have
 achieved PhD’s in this REF period; Lambert and Firth.

 To support networking, collaboration, and dissemination ADRC has a dedicated research fund
 for conference attendance. Staff must bid for this money based on paper acceptance and the
 bearing of the conference. Several conference papers have developed to be research outcomes,
 or have led to networking opportunities and invited book chapter publications in the period.

 The unit abides by the University’s policies on research and impact leave, and for sabbaticals.
 Although no requests have been made in this period, the unit would be open to treating them
 flexibly if made in future. No fixed term staff are employed in the unit at present, but equally,
 ADRC is committed to treating them equitably. The unit has 5 members of staff on part-time
 contracts, and opportunities for them to develop are equitable with full time staff, with their
 protected research time being calculated pro-rata, in alignment with University policy.

 Early Career Researchers
 2 submitted staff members are identified as ECR’s (Buwert and Supartono), and actions have
 been put in place to support them in quickly gaining research experience and independence. At
 the inception of their independent research careers, those identified as ‘developing researchers’,
 are given 10% of their time for research. ECR’s are then supported by the three mentors in the
 ADRC to plan their future research activity as a part of their MyContribution process. Where
 necessary, the unit also supports the targeting of certain funding streams, and an increase in
 research time.

 For example, in 2018 mentors in the unit helped Buwert to identify and successfully apply for
 central funding to support his research into Design Ethics, so that it could become more applied


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and generate empirical data. The ADRC has subsequently supported Buwert’s teaching buy-out
 to undertake this research. As a result he has been able to undertake significant independent
 research, developing his research skills, and has been able to develop key data for future
 research.

 Supporting Research Students
 Increasing PGR numbers and achieving successful completions have been important goals for
 UoA 32. Due to the developmental nature of this unit over the period, the ADRC has aimed to
 build a vibrant PGR student community from the ground up. As such, the focus over this period
 has been to increase recruitment of PGR students and build a supporting culture wherein they
 can thrive.

 In 2015 ADRC utilised the University’s 50th Anniversary Fund to recruit its first full-time PhD
 student since 2008. This allowed the unit to develop supervision experience, and subsequently
 across this period the ADRC has recruited 12 PhD students (3 in full-time (3 years) and 9 part-
 time (5 years)). Although staff have been encouraged to advertise in Find-A-PhD, these
 students have primarily followed on from undergraduate and post graduate courses undertaken
 at Edinburgh Napier University, testimony to the success of the research led teaching. Since
 2014, the unit has had 1 PhD completion (2020), and 2 PhDs are awaiting Viva. 1 MRes has
 completed and a member of staff have also acted as supervisor on a project led by a colleague
 in UoA34. Two member of staff have completed a PhD through published works.

 Research Students in this unit are supported and monitored in accordance with the supervision
 policy of the University. The unit also benefits from the School dedicated Research Degrees
 Leader. The ADRC aims for all research students to have cross-disciplinary supervision should
 they require it for their studies. 3 PhD students are currently supervised by colleagues from the
 School of Computing, and 1 by a colleague from the School of Applied Sciences. This has been
 vital in ensuring the interdisciplinary needs of research students in this unit are met, and for
 students to feel as though relevant and knowledgeable advice is at hand.

 Research students have a budget of £1,000 per year for conference attendance, and design
 students are able to use this funding for particular pieces of equipment or visual materials that
 may help their studies. Design students have also been supported in undertaking short research
 assistant roles to support their career development. For example, on particular Innovation
 Vouchers (Milne, Tao), or other funded projects (Milne, research assistant for Scottish Leather
 Group / Scottish Institute for Remanufacture) where the project remit enhances their study.

 At a School level, students have access to a substantial yearly PGR student fund. SACI
 provides a permanent workspace shared by students across the school in Design, English,
 Music and Film, of which students in this unit benefit. These resources support research
 students in developing their skills, and help to build a vibrant PGR community.

 In combination with the University Researcher Development Programme, which students in this
 unit are encouraged to participate in, SACI offers a series of subject specific PGR workshops led
 by student requirements. The intention of these activities is to ensure students graduate with
 essential skills and knowledge, and are prepared for their career following their PhD. Research
 specific sessions have covered; research design, data collection and analysis (including
 software training), research data management, and research ethics. Sessions also cover
 transferrable skills. In 2019 these included sessions on practice-based research, social media
 use, English language support, publishing, teaching and public speaking.

 The unit has also sought to utilise and encourage external support for its research students.
 Edinburgh Napier University has strong links with The Scottish Graduate School for Arts &
 Humanities (SGSAH), and as such ADRC research students have access to their facilities and
 training. For example, the unit encouraged its students to consider taking part in the Scottish
 Graduate School of Social Science’s ‘Spring into Methods’ course. ‘Spring into Methods’ is an
 interdisciplinary and cohort building programme, giving researchers studying for a PhD in the

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Arts, Humanities or Social Sciences in Scotland the chance to apply to attend 2½-day research
 methods training events.

 The ADRC also actively encourages its research students to work with their supervisory teams
 in an attempt to get published, either as a single author or collaboratively. 2 PhD students (Milne
 and Tao) have been proactive in identifying and participating in conferences and having their
 work published in conference proceedings.

 PhD Student Achievements
 Using the supervision and development opportunities on offer, research students in this unit
 have delivered and published solely or co-written papers at international conferences in this REF
 period. 12 publications have been written or co-written and published by Research Students.

 For example, PhD candidate Milne has had a number of excellent successes in this REF period.
 She has led a number of successful research-led workshops. Her paper, ‘3D-printing ‘Ocean
 plastic’– Fostering children’s’ engagement with sustainability’, was published in Materials Today
 Communications, and won $10,000 for best paper (co-written with Lambert and Vettese). A
 further paper ‘A study of children’s' relationship with making and use of CAD in collaborative,
 physical and digital environments : implications for learning and open access fabrication’, was
 published in ‘Design and Technology Education, An International Journal’, co-authored with
 Vettese.

 Equality and Diversity
 With regards to gender, submitted staff in this unit identify as; 73% Male, 27% Female. In
 relation to ethnicity, submitted staff identify as 73% White, 9% Asian, 18% Unknown. 64% of
 submitted staff identify as having no known disability, 36% are unknown. 50% of submitted staff
 are on part time contracts. All submitted staff are on permanent contracts, and no staff in this
 unit are on fixed term or atypical contracts.

 ADRC adopts University maternity and paternity leave policies, and its flexible working policy.
 ADRC implements the Edinburgh Napier equality and diversity agenda through university
 committees, and SACI is now working towards submitting for the Bronze Award for Athena
 Swan. While there is no policy for study leave, and no requests have been made in this period,
 ADRC remains open to hearing requests and flexible in responding to them.

 ADRC has provided options of flexible working and unpaid leave for those with caring
 responsibilities in this period, and to support this, core hours are highlighted as between 10am-
 4pm. All though none have been forthcoming, the unit remains flexible in supporting staff with
 caring responsibilities to travel and attend conferences. To increase flexibility for staff, the unit is
 also currently reviewing the distribution of staff research time. A proposal is under consideration
 whereby researcher time is more flexibly consolidated into meaningful blocks towards outputs,
 as opposed to a blanket 20%.

 The unit has no eligible fixed term staff, but does have 5 Category A part-time staff. All staff
 within the unit are to be provided with the same opportunity to progress career-wise as
 permanent, full-time staff. Part time staff are not disadvantaged in their choice to be on a
 research pathway, and are given appropriate time for research pro-rata as per University
 guidelines. The unit also follows the university’s academic promotions framework in this regard.
 No staff have returned from periods of long term leave within this period, but the unit remains
 committed to being flexible regarding their reintegration.

 To ensure student and staff wellbeing, the ADRC advertises and encourages the university
 Counselling and Mental Wellbeing facilities. This includes dedicated Disability and Inclusion staff
 and Dyslexia support. At a unit level, mentoring and supervisory arrangements are targeted as
 the best methods to support researchers and research students. There is a ‘suspension of
 studies’ option available for research students of up to six months. Suspension of studies has
 been taken advantage of by three research students in UoA 32 to enable them to undertake full

                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 time meaningful work as a research assistant, to teach, and as a technical workshop assistant,
 which the supervisors felt would enhance their academic experience in the long term.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Since 2014, this unit has received £497,266 total in external income, which is a significant
 amount for a first submission. This breakdown in funding is; £28,492 from BEIS Research
 Councils, The Royal Society, British Academy and The Royal Society of Edinburgh, £91,473
 from UK based charities, £378,947 from UK government industry and other UK sources, and
 £3,681 EU funded research.

 Average annual research income across the period is £71,038. The average annual division is
 as follows: 6% BEIS Research Councils, The Royal Society, British Academy and The Royal
 Society of Edinburgh, 1% EU industry, commerce and public corporations, 1% tax credits, 42%
 UK central government bodies/local authorities, health and hospital authorities, 5% UK industry
 commerce and public corporations, 27% UK other sources, 18% UK-based charities.

 ADRC’s aim is to share knowledge and ideas to benefit a wide range of stakeholders and end-
 users. It has sought to work with the community of practice, businesses, the public sector and
 local communities to deliver tangible societal impacts, and as such has sought external funding
 from traditional funding bodies and commercial or charity organisations.

 The key underpinning priority of UoA32 for this period has been building critical research mass.
 In order to do this the unit has prioritised maximising its external funding, beginning with
 traditional academic sources such as research councils and UK based charities. Almost
 £120,000 has been won over this REF period from these sources. For example, £27,203 was
 won by Lambert from the Carnegie Trust for research on Ocean Plastics, and £41,563 was won
 by Vettese from the Arts and Humanities Research Council for her work on 3D printing and
 heritage. This funding has led to strong submitted outputs in both cases.

 The unit has also targeted industry and charities for funding. In this REF period over £394,000
 has been brought in from UK central organisations and industry. This has fed the research
 activity of the unit, but has also led to significant impact, and developed long term links with
 sector partners. For example, the £58,592 won by Vettese from the Textiles Futures Forum,
 allowed her to develop her research area, but also led to further collaborations with the Scottish
 Leather Group.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 In 2016, ADRC, led by Lambert, won significant internal funding of £200K to complete a Maker
 Space. The digital fabrication facilities installed by this funding include additional specialist 3D
 printing and CNC cutting and reductive manufacturing equipment (i.e. upgraded laser cutters
 and milling machines, and a new knife cutter), plastic granulators and extruders, and additional
 supporting equipment and software packages to create an up-to-date, publicly facing data base.
 This investment furthers the strategic aims of the School to provide an excellent learning
 environment for our students, as well as supporting research, CPD, knowledge exchange and
 public engagement.

 This resource has increased the quality and volume of research in the unit and will continue to
 supplement the vitality and sustainability of the research environment in future. The facility has
 the potential to attract a higher number of PhD students, as well as continuing to be utilised for
 workshops, challenges and symposia by industrial partners, schools and policy makers. Smaller
 specialist equipment has also been acquired through grants with other departments (Advanced
 Materials, Engineering, Microbiology) and other institutions (Heriot Watt University, Edinburgh
 University).

 ADRC have collaborated with academics in other institutions, utilising their research facilities.
 Jamieson’s project ‘Deaf Heritage : Scotland’s Hidden Culture’ worked directly with the Centre

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for Translation & Interpreting Studies in Scotland at Heriot-Watt University. This centre, within
 the School of Social Sciences, is public facing, and supported the research in advising the
 Scottish Government's Equality Unit and Parliament's Education & Culture and Equality &
 Human Rights committees on language and communication issues.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
 A great deal of collaborative research has been performed between ADRC and other institutions
 in the period. ADRC’s user-led approach to research has often involved collaboration with other
 institutions to maximise impact.

 Innes was involved in the organisation of the Heriot Watt University Illuminations research
 project. Innes’s research focuses on visual, design-led lighting solutions, and combined with the
 more utilitarian, scientifically developed approach at Heriot Watt University, this led to improved
 research outcomes.

 Lambert co-investigated ‘Making as Growth: Narratives in Materials and Process’ with
 Edinburgh College of Art. This research combined Lambert’s research into off-grid making
 practices, and the college’s experience of workshop creation to run Research Through Design
 conferences at the Museum of Scotland.

 Vettese and Lambert co-investigated ‘3D-printing ‘Ocean plastic’– Fostering children’s’
 engagement with sustainability’ and Lambert co-investigated the Carnegie Trust Funded project
 ‘Ocean Plastic: Developing a Model for localised Remanufacturing’ with Duncan of Jordanstone.

 Lambert is now Dean of Graduate Studies at the College for Creative Studies in Detroit, and
 continues to be second supervisor on an ongoing PhD project (with one recent completion as
 second supervisor alongside Vettese and Innes). He also continues to collaborate with Vettese
 on research practice around sustainable materials and experiential tourism.

 Supartono’s research has involved national and international institutions, including co-authoring
 with the University of Sunderland and Sejong University in South Korea. He continues to
 research in the area of digitisation of archival photography collections.

 In collaboration with Singleton (UoA7) from Edinburgh Napier’s Microbiology Department, and
 working with the Scottish Company Cellucomp, Vettese won an Interface ‘Multiparty
 Competition’ (£10,000) for the project ‘Towards Sustainable Textiles from Site-Specific Fungal
 Materials’. This opened doors with continued use of materials with Cellucomp and testing
 facilities with Advanced Microwaving Technologies. Work on this project was then presented at
 the Interface/Applied Arts Scotland events ‘Inspiring Innovative Sustainable Materials’ at Dundee
 Contemporary Arts in February 2019 and Xpo North in Inverness in July 2019, advancing further
 collaborative research with industry, artists, makers and academics.

 Key Research Users, Beneficiaries, and Public Engagement
 Engagement with research users is fundamental to research in UoA 32. A large amount of
 funding has been obtained directly from companies and charitable organisations to complete
 specific research, which has subsequently informed these organisations policies and practices.

 Relationships have been built with various manufacturers through research by Vettese.
 Supported by the Interface Innovation Voucher scheme, further research has led to lasting
 relationships with members of the Textiles Future Forum. A number of members now work for
 CEED (Centre for Engineering, Education and Development), a unit of which Edinburgh Napier
 University is also a member. Vettese has been supported by ADRC to pitch at several events
 and projects, including her current funded research with the Scottish Leather Group. This
 relationship allows continues dissemination of findings to key users, and has also developed a

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 relationship with Scottish Leather Group which has become an Impact Case Study. This
 ongoing relationship is based on Scottish Leather Group’s acceptance of a new material found
 by Vettese, which has become part of their innovation strategy.

 Innes has continued to develop connections and projects from his previous work as a lighting
 designer before joining academia. His work with heritage organisations has had a beneficial
 impact on Scottish heritage networks, and has led to further funded projects and research
 outcomes. Royal Botanic Gardens Edinburgh have continued to have yearly night time lighting
 shows due to Innes and Winton’s first event for them.

 The ADRC supports projects in disseminating their findings. Broader strategies such as Interface
 Innovation Voucher projects, and exhibitions in Scottish galleries and museums ensure that
 creative research engages with end users, communities and publics. The unit also encourages
 researchers to perform research projects which engage publics, as in the following projects by
 Jamieson, Buwert, Winton and Innes.

 Jamieson is lead for public engagement in SACI. In 2020 she worked on an interdisciplinary bid
 to win funding (£20,000) from UK Research and Innovation for the ‘Seven Kingdoms of Wester
 Hailes’. The project will enable members of the public to actively contribute to research and
 innovation projects that affect their lives. Local residents will get the opportunity to become
 community researchers, and get involved in a variety of place-based activities with support from
 researchers from across the university. The work, backed by cutting-edge technology, will
 include virtual reality, oral and art-based storytelling projects and the creation of a book. This
 project has funded several cross disciplinary projects including work with recycled plastic
 involving PhD candidate Tao, and Vettese.

 Jamieson has won funding for ‘Deaf Heritage: Scotland’s Hidden Culture’, and has proposed a
 new networking project to engage users and disseminate findings. This project will formalise a
 collaborative network of cultural institutions and researchers, whose work coalesces around the
 subject of Deaf Heritage. A series of events exploring Deaf Culture, heritage design, inclusivity
 and technology will enable the network to drive the sharing of expertise and best practice.
 Through collaborations between the heritage sector, academic research in BSL and design, the
 aim is to consider both places of Deaf Heritage and new experiential possibilities, and engage
 the wider public with Deaf Culture.

 Buwert’s research explores how deliberative democratic approaches aim to assist politicians
 and publics in making important decisions. Following the example of deliberative democratic
 exercises in Ireland which led to the referendums on same-sex marriage in 2015, and abortion in
 2018, in April 2019 First Minister Nicola Sturgeon announced the proposal to establish a similar
 Citizen’s Assembly for Scotland to explore questions about the future of the country. This
 research will engage Scottish communities in taking part in deliberative politics.

 Innes and Winton’s research for ‘12 Closes Community Co-Design Project’ with Edinburgh
 World Heritage Trust involved a series of workshops. The researchers worked with a variety of
 publics, to develop local understandings that have underpinned their practice and gone on to
 form a significant part of their outputs and impact in this area. These involved: Bakehouse Close
 Twelve Closes Launch event – a public open event with invitations also sent to local residents
 and businesses, council members, and MSP’s. 70+ people attended. Carrubbers Close
 Workshop 2 – a testing of designs on-site demonstration event. Chessel’s Court Close
 Presentations of Designs - a public presentation of designs at an open meeting with the public
 talk and a platform for feedback and discussion. Riddel’s Court Presentation of Designs to
 Historic Environment Scotland. Riddel’s Court Presentation of Designs to Council. A guerrilla
 lighting event built around the principles and practices of Workshop 1 for the 2015 Beltane
 European Researchers Night, where 28 attended. A further guerrilla lighting event built around
 the principles and practices of Workshop 1 for ProPEACE European Research Group, where 24
 attended. A Twelve Closes presentation to JM Architects to inform their approach to surrounding
 designs for their new hotel at Market Street, where 22 attended. Night of Heritage Light Guerrilla

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Lighting Event – an award-winning nationwide event exploring methods for enchanting a network
 of World Heritage Sites, the audience of which was nationwide, and online along with public
 viewing.

 Wider Contributions to the Economy and Society
 As well as a route to further research, working on short projects with Interface via Innovation
 Vouchers has had a direct impact on the wider economy and society. These projects have
 developed small Scottish businesses via innovation from specific academic expertise. Working
 on these projects also has also given research staff the opportunity to see theoretical ideas
 developed into practice, which has developed into ‘traditional’ research.

 Vouchers have funded activity into open access digital making and selling platforms, interactive
 design and applications, new lighting approaches and collaborations with academics in
 Marketing, computing and Tourism. Many of the industrial collaborations have developed to
 become formally funded projects, which have benefitted various businesses, for example;
 Innes’s work with Edinburgh Zoo and Edinburgh World Heritage Organisation, Dunbar SciFest
 and the Royal Botanic Gardens, and Vettese’s research work on 3D printed Scottish Textiles.

 Contributions to the Sustainability of the Discipline
 Members of staff in ADRC are encouraged to raise their research ‘esteem’ and widen their
 participation in research groups through conference attendance, giving ‘keynote’ talks,
 organising workshops and taking part in group exhibitions.

 Invited Keynotes, Lectures, Or Performances, and Conferences
 The ADRC played a key role in the organisation of the 3rd Research through Design conference
 in 2017 (Lambert), providing one of the two general chairs (along with Edinburgh College of Art,
 and Edinburgh University), and 2 other committee members (Vettese) (along with the University
 of Newcastle and Northumbria University). Lambert continued as an organiser for RtD 2019
 along with TU Delft.

 Innes co-organised the Professional Lighting Design Convention’s‘ ‘The Challenge’ two-day
 international student speaker competition, hosted by Edinburgh Napier University in 2015.

 Members of the ADRC have been keynote and invited speakers at the following: True Colours:
 Explorations in Art, Design and Research’, International Colour & Imaging 2017 (Innes); Seeing
 Art in a New Light’, Courtauld Institute Frank Davis Memorial Lecture 2016 (Innes); How Do You
 Make a Lighting Designer ? Society of Light & Lighting 2016 (Innes); Balancing Light: Less Light
 for More Effect’, Lights in Goa 2014 (Innes); Presenting Cultural Heritage in the Best Light’, Iran
 Lighting Design Convention 2014 (Innes); 3D Printing in Heritage, Edinburgh Open Doors Day
 2017 (Vettese), AHRC Next Generation Design Event 2018 (Vettese).

 Supartono has been asked to be Convenor for the International Conference of Jakarta Biennale
 2021, and Co-Convenor for Art Activism of Dolorosa Sinaga International Conference in National
 Gallery of Indonesia, Jakarta (January 2020) and in Indonesian Art Institute, Yogyakarta
 (February 2020). He has given a number of public lectures; “The Politics of Colonial
 Representation and Photographic Practice in Colonial Southeast Asia”, Institute of Southeast
 Asian Studies (ISEAS), National University of Singapore (June 2018), “Treasure Spots: Travel
 Albums and the Formulation of 19th century Southeast Asian Photographic Traditions,” in John
 Thomson: Reframing Material, Images and Archives symposium, SOAS, London (June 2018),
 and “Constructing the Portrait of Southeast Asia: Pictorial and Thematic Commonplaces of 19th
 century Southeast Asia Photography," in Leiden University Southeast Asia Seminar series,
 KITLV, Leiden (December 2017). He is a member of the Scholar Advisory Group for
 International Consortium of Photo Archive PHAROS 30-month pilot project (2020-2021), an
 Editorial Board member for peer-reviewed online journal Trans-Asia Photography Review, a
 reviewer for Carnegie Trust's Undergraduate Vacation Scholarship scheme (2019-present) and
 a Mentor for the Emerging Writer Grant programme organised by academic journal Southeast
 Asia of Now 2019-2020.

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Exhibitions
 Holmes’s work focuses on new forms of film-making, distinct from the narrative-based moving
 image seen in the cinema or on television. His international work showed as part of "Outside
 the Box', at Studio 21, Kolkata, June 2015, at the Jazzfest, Dalhousie Institute, Kolkata in
 November 2015, at the Royal Scottish Academy Open Exhibition in Edinburgh November 2015
 - February 2016, and at TMU and Miraikan the National Museum of Emerging Science and
 Innovation, Tokyo in April 2016.

 Workshops run by ADRC staff
 ADRC staff have created workshops for academics, business and the public. These include: the
 Science Festival workshops at the National Museum of Scotland (O’Donnell), Lighting
 Educators Workshop, Rome 2015 (Innes), ‘The Future of Lighting Education’ Seminar, Goa
 2014 (Innes), ‘Creative Strategies for Exhibit Lighting in Conservation Environments’ aimed at
 experienced professional lighting designers, museum curators and conservation scientists. Light
 Fair International Conference Las Vegas 2014 and New York 2015 (Innes), 4 day residential
 lighting design workshops for professional Architects and Interior Designers in Lithuania: 2014
 and 2015 (Innes), 3D Printing Souvenirs of Place and Time : The Architecture of Basil Spence,
 Edinburgh architectural Fringe 2017 (Vettese), Critical Making with Aluminium Sand casting, a
 one day workshop at RtD 2017; and one week workshop at Estonia Academy of Arts 2016
 (Lambert), and Narratives of Waste : an exploration of material transformation through 3D
 printing : RtD 2019 (Lambert).

 Networks
 Gerrard is founding member of WildFire Women Photographers Network in Scotland, which
 launched in 2017. This group is registered as a Community Interest Initiative and involves other
 female members of staff at Edinburgh Napier University. It has hosted many international
 Wildfires photographers as speakers in the Photography Lecture Series at Edinburgh Napier
 University (including Arpita Shah, Sylwia Kowalczyk, Margaret Mitchell, Kotryna Ula Kiliulyte,
 Sarah Amy Fishlock, Sylvia Grace Borda, Alice Myers, Flannery O’Kafka and Kirsty Mackay). As
 organiser for the lecture series Gerrard ensures that the photography lecture series is 50:50
 male: female speakers.

 Gerrard is a founding member of the Document Scotland Photography Collective. This was
 formed in 2012 as a collective of four Scottish documentary photographers ‘brought together by
 a common vision to witness and photograph the important and diverse stories within Scotland at
 one of the most important times in our nation's history’.

 Vettese was reviewer for Train@Ed Research Fellowship Programme, Marie Sklodowska Curie
 Actions COFUND project.




                                                                                          Page 13
