Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Kingston University

 Unit of Assessment: 12 – Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Unit Context and Structure

Kingston University’s Unit of Assessment in Engineering is comprised of 42 staff (41.8 FTE),
including 7 professors and 4 ECRs. Research is undertaken within the Centre for Engineering,
Environment and Society Research (CEESR), led by Centre Director Dykes and Deputy Director
Walford. CEESR covers a broad range of engineering and related disciplines with researchers
drawn from across the Faculty of Science, Engineering and Computing’s School of Engineering
and the Environment (EE), the School of Life Sciences, Pharmacy and Chemistry (LSPC) and the
School of Computer Science and Mathematics (CSM). The Centre is additionally supported by
Wang (School Director of Research and Enterprise) and Khazaeinejad (Director for Postgraduate
Research). CEESR is organised into seven themes:


Table 1. Staff research Areas (Themes), with early career researchers (ECR) and staff appointed
in this cycle* indicated.


                  Research Themes                     Staff

                  Civil Engineering and               Donchev (Lead), Georgopoulos, Haroglu,
                  Construction (CEC)                  Ofetotse*, ECR, Omer, Zafari*, Dykes
                  Fire, Explosion and Fluid           Dembele (Lead), Heidari, Muppala,
                  Dynamics (FEFD)                     Volkov, Elsayed (Elsayed Ali Hussin)*
                  Nanomaterials and Composites        Hadavinia (Lead), Jayaseelan (Daniel)*,
                  (NC)                                Esconjauregui*, Kresinski, Khazaeinejad*,
                                                      ECR

 CEESR (Led       Medical Engineering (ME)            Wertheim (Lead), Barton, Singer, Thatti
 by Dykes)                                            (formerly Ghatora), Spearman*
                  Ground and Aerospace                Wang (Lead), Benhadj-Djilali, Saleh*,
                  Transportation Engineering          Zhang X*, Duran, Zweiri*
                  (GATE)
                  Kingston Energy (KE)                Gillmore (Lead), Augousti, Lin*, Mirzaii,
                                                      Vienescu*, ECR, Hooda
                  Earth, Environmental and            Walford (Lead), Brown D*, Brown K,
                  Social Sciences (EESS)              Coates, Dalton*, Fox*, Jarvis, Wilson*, ECR


CEESR was created in 2014 following a new strategic direction to bring together a set of smaller,
highly focused research themes. This restructuring also brought together researchers previously
submitted in two Units of Assessment, namely General Engineering and Geography,
Environmental Studies and Archaeology. CEESR’s creation was also associated with Faculty
restructuring that established the School of Engineering and the Environment in order to integrate
teaching, research and enterprise across a broader staff base. The formation of the new centre
has led to a cross fertilisation of ideas, promoted collaborations and encouraged interdisciplinary
research, supported by the generation of £3m research income in the period.


1.2 Unit Research

In line with Kingston University’s (KU’s) research strategy, the Unit fosters a collaborative,
outward-looking research culture, developing both existing and emerging areas of excellence with

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
a central focus on facilitating impact within and beyond academia, enabling generation of external
funds, and supporting staff development.

For REF2014 the Unit defined the following strategic objectives:

    1)   Embedding research into everyday academic life and increasing the quantity and
         diversity of research income through cross-fertilisation of ideas

    2)   Greater interaction with enterprise activities

    3)   Expanding industrial partnerships, collaboration with other HEIs and research
         organisations, staff development, and cultivating existing strengths to increase the
         volume and diversity of research

    4)   Generating impact beyond academia by creating benefit to the economy, society, culture,
         public policy and health


1.2.1 Developments and achievements since 2014

This submission comprises 42 (41.8 FTE) academic staff, which is a significant increase
compared with the REF2014 submission (24 FTE) in the corresponding Units (14 FTE for UoA15,
10 for UoA17). Growth in the number of submitted staff is in part a reflection of the changed
criteria for REF2021 and is also a demonstration of the fostering of a stronger research culture
within the Unit throughout the assessment period. There is an emphasis on interdisciplinary
research within and beyond the Unit, as well as on the co-creation of knowledge through links with
individuals and organisations outside academia. This is reflected by the inclusion of staff from
across the three schools of the Faculty of Science, Engineering and Computing in this
submission. It also reflects the Unit’s clear recruitment strategy and commitment to undertaking
impactful research, strongly supporting early career researchers (ECRs), and
encouraging/supporting existing staff to raise the quality of their research. These positive features
are attributable to the research and impact strategy established by the Unit at the outset and
refined according to emerging priorities and opportunities during the assessment period.

Since REF2014, the Unit’s achievements are as follows:

    •    Increasing the number of outputs published in high quality journals (81% (85) of
         submitted outputs are published in upper-quartile (Q1) journals based on Scimago
         journal ranking).

    •    Increasing the number of doctorates awarded within the Unit by 62% since REF2014.

    •    Research has benefitted from the outward-looking culture through fostering national and
         international collaborations. The Unit has 80 (counted per university/institute)
         collaborations within the UK. International collaborations with the Unit extend to 25
         countries and 80 collaborations (counted per institution).

    •    Several Unit members have received prizes or honours in recognition of the significant
         contributions made to their respective disciplines, including those from: the Institute of
         Measurement and Control, the Chartered Institute of Building International Innovation
         and Research Awards, National Cancer Research Institute (NCRI); and IStructE.

    •    Members of the Unit have served on 20 UK and international funding committees
         (counted per committee), such as NERC, ESRC, the European Commission (MSCA-IF),
         the Fonds de la Researche Scientifique (Belgium), the Innovation Fund Denmark (IFD),
         the Latvian Council of Science, the DAAD - Deutscher Akademischer
         Austauschdienst/German Academic Exchange Service Team.

    •    Unit members currently serve or have served as members of editorial boards/or as editor

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          of 25 journals during the period, including 11 Q1 journals (Section 4).

    •     Members of the Unit have actively participated in organising ~15 international
          conferences within the assessment period by joining organising committees (>10) and
          chairing conference sessions (>18).

    •     The FEFD theme, which has a long history at KU (since 1998), has earned its reputation
          worldwide and attracted relatively high levels of funding from several sources including
          the EU, Leverhulme Trust, and Softbits Consultants Ltd.

    •     Staff of the NC Theme have published 94% of their submitted outputs in Q1 journals
          based on Scimago, in journals including ACS Nano and ACS Applied Materials &
          Interfaces.

    •     Members of the GATE Theme work with major airlines (e.g. British Airways) and attract
          funding from the EU, EPSRC and industrial partners (such as Quanser). GATE members
          also work with staff in the KE theme on wind turbine anti-icing and have established a
          strong reputation within the industry, enabling the transfer of discoveries of aircraft anti-
          icing technology to the wind energy industry.

    •     Members from the ME theme work closely with industrial partners, for example through
          knowledge transfer partnerships (KTPs), establishing long term relationships, leading to
          impact. In addition, their interdisciplinary research facilitates collaboration with colleagues
          in the KE theme to further deliver impact (see 1.3.1). Research and in-house expertise in
          structural modelling of innovative elements in CEC have had a positive impact on the
          construction industry as detailed in an Impact Case Study (ICS) (ICSUoA12Donchev1).

    •     EESS attracts funding from Wellcome Trust, the MRC Prevention Research Partnership,
          British Academy, NERC, Statoil Petroleum AS (Norway), Maersk Oil (Denmark). This
          theme has also generated an ICS (ICSUoA12Walford4) from its interdisciplinary
          research.


1.2.2 Future research plans and mechanisms

Building upon these successes, the Unit has reviewed its objectives in order to maintain
consistency and to further develop its research base during the next six years. Our three primary
objectives will seek to:

    i)    Increase the number of research-active staff by an enhanced mentoring scheme and
          Research Time Allocation model (Section 2);

    ii)   Ensure a sustainable balance of senior, mid- and early career researchers through
          strategic appointments and career development;

    iii) Expand interdisciplinary research by implementing integrative activities and exchanges
         across the Unit.

Collectively these three strategic goals will allow us to exploit new opportunities; further
enhance outreach activities and public engagement; and increase external funding and PhD
awards.

Restructuring, as already outlined, has established a coherent organisation to foster
interdisciplinary working and enable an agile response to opportunities for research funding and
impact. Research and enterprise in the Unit has benefitted from these changes in the current
review period and has created a launchpad for the next six years.

The current recruitment and staff replacement policy, as described above, has strengthened
the Unit, especially in terms of the quantity and quality of research outputs (refer to Section 1.1)

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and in the potential commercialisation of research through appointment of staff with industrial
experience (Zweiri, Shaw, Dansoh, Haritos). Therefore, the current policy will be maintained to
further improve research capability and strength within the Unit.

Support mechanisms, such as staff development funding, PhD studentships/bursaries, research
capital funding, flexible teaching loads, and a practical mentoring scheme have been deployed.
Unit funding and teaching relief have been targeted strategically. For example, sabbatical leave
funding has been provided to support researchers to strengthen proposal development, to write
high quality journal papers and engage in outreach or public engagement, which will be
developed as further support mechanisms. In addition, the Unit offers leadership and support to
facilitate the efforts of experienced, returning, and new researchers in initiating or extending their
research activities in the interests of career development and achievement.

Networking and building collaborations have been exploited to gain international esteem in
addition to growth in internal partnerships to obtain the critical mass and cross-disciplinary
perspectives. Under the auspices of CEESR and assisted by the School’s Research Focus
Group, research themes have been established to support ECRs and other staff to develop more
high-quality research funding proposals and outputs.

Collaborations internally, nationally and internationally remain a key element to the success of the
Unit. Internal links are well established and will be strengthened through the internal networking
activities, such as CEESR or theme meetings, research away days, research seminars organised
by research themes and pump-priming funding targeted for interactions. Furthermore,
collaboration across Units has been and will continue to be enhanced through the following
mechanisms:

    i)    When allocating QR funds, consideration is given to multidisciplinary/interdisciplinary
          research and studentships;

    ii)   Cross-School research activities will be integrated into Faculty events, and School
          research events will invite staff from different schools;

    iii) Continued support for PhD student conferences to provide training opportunities;

    iv) Utilising and integrating Faculty-managed facilities to encourage interdisciplinary
        collaborations. National and international collaboration is supported and encouraged
        within the Unit on an ongoing basis.


1.2.3 Open research and ethics

The Unit complies with the University Open Access policy, which commits to ensuring that the
Unit’s outputs are freely accessible in line with HEFCE and REF requirements unless there are
special requirements from the sponsors. QR funding is available together with a library fund to
cover Gold Open Access costs.

The University is committed to the highest standard of ethical conduct in carrying out all of its
activities. To support staff, the University has adopted online ethics training provided by Epigeum,
part of Oxford University Press. Following University requirements, the Unit and Faculty
encourages and monitors research ethics training attendance of all research active staff. The Unit
works with the Faculty to prepare and organise activities, such as seminars, thematic discussion
fora, information events, online public lectures, etc. to discipline specific issues relating to
research ethics.


1.3 Unit Impact Strategy

Researchers in the Unit, while undertaking research in their disciplines, including interdisciplinary
research, concurrently adopt a proactive approach to generating impact beyond academia mainly

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
through collaboration with third-stream partners.

Our strategy, focusses on:

    1)   developing long-term relationships with commercial organisations to generate impact
         through knowledge transfer leading to product development/enhancement,

    2)   collaboration with local and central government to improve policy, and

    3)   enhancing public understanding and engagement in STEM subjects.

The Faculty Impact Champion coordinates – along with support from Impact and Business
Development Managers from KU’s Research Business and Innovation (RBI) office – regular
workshops involving established external experts to assist in developing and realising the impact
of the Unit’s research. Commercialisation and Knowledge Transfer are supported by KTP
Champions in each academic department, who work with the University’s Business Development
Team to facilitate productive engagement with businesses. The University has a Contracts
Manager and retains the services of IP consultants.

Researchers participate in Research Circle meetings with staff and external organisations
including, for example, the National Physical Laboratory (Gillmore, Hadavinia and Wertheim),
the Radon Council (Gillmore), Natural England (Hooda), English Heritage (Coates), and Local
Councils (Walford). In addition to impact arising from specific research projects, a programme of
enhancing public understanding and engagement in STEM subjects has been enhanced by a
£6.8 million project (including a £1.9 million investment by HEFCE) for ‘Labs in a Lorry’ with a
dedicated outreach centre. These endeavours raise public understanding and involvement in
STEM subjects. Additional outreach activities include the Primary Engineer program (the Faculty
is the London partner) and the Saturday Engineering Club in partnership with the Sorrel
Foundation (the Faculty is the founder and lead institution) engaging with young students. These
outreach initiatives are continuously refined and contribute to our overall impact strategy.

During the next REF cycle, impact will continue to be driven by sector needs. Current
collaborations and research partnerships will be extended to enhance impact. Researchers with
clear pathways to impact include: Barton, Brown D, Brown K, Georgopoulos, Haroglu, Hooda,
and Thatti (formerly Ghatora), who recently have been or are currently in receipt of external
funding, thus ensuring a healthy pipeline of future impact initiatives is in place. Future outreach
and public engagement activities will include research outcomes, demonstrations and animations,
such as: showcasing development of robotic control methods and AI systems (Zweiri and Duran);
rocket propulsion laboratory/test bed, wind turbine anti-icing research (Wang and Lin); and
intelligent manufacturing and cloud manufacturing including 3-D printing (Zhang X). Outreach and
public engagement are important ways in which the Unit fosters research with far-reaching social
impact and works with its economic, industrial, governmental and policy networks.


1.3.1 Relationship between the Unit’s approach to impact and the submitted case studies

The Unit’s four impact case studies demonstrate the breadth of interdisciplinarity as well as
discipline-specific research carried within the Unit. These case studies also exemplify the
longevity of researchers’ connections and collaborations that have in some cases endured more
than two decades. The submitted case studies are:

    1)   A case study in the ME theme (Thatti, Barton and Foot, ICSUoA12Thatti3), grew from
         doctoral research completed in 2010 in collaboration with Rayner Intraocular Lenses Ltd
         and other manufacturers to help them to understand better their materials’ capabilities
         enabling them to develop new or improved products.

    2)   Similarly, another case study (Wertheim and Gillmore, ICSUoA12Wertheim2) based on
         research carried out during the previous assessment period achieved new impact as a
         result of Olympus, the manufacturer of the confocal microscope, making their improved

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         software add-on commercially available. The new technology has been incorporated into
         the main microscope software in the latest version, with IP shared between the University
         and Olympus.

    3)   The CEC case study (Donchev, Limbachiya, Wertheim and Hadavinia,
         ICSUoA12Donchev1), demonstrates the value of using lightweight concrete and thin-
         layer mortar in wall systems for offsite housing construction, and illustrates how our
         research benefits the economy, society, and public policy by reducing the time and cost
         of housing construction.

    4)   The fourth case study (Walford, Samarasundera and Pratt, ICSUoA12Walford4)
         exemplifies our interdisciplinary research collaboration with researchers in other UK
         universities that has achieved national and international impact by focusing on the design
         of built environments as places which are potentially unfriendly, unfamiliar and
         inaccessible to older people.


 2. People

The Unit aims to integrate the research of its staff with the research and training of its postgraduate
research students, adopting a research-led approach to teaching and research development.


2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

The overall staffing strategy of the Unit follows the University strategic plan of developing an
inclusive and supportive environment to nurture and foster current and future research leaders, to
ensure a vibrant research culture, and to sustain strong international research teams. Therefore,
the Unit has established the strategic objectives to:

    1)   Ensure a supportive research environment through active engagement with the
         University’s equality and diversity strategy, and corresponding activities such as the
         Athena Swan and Race Charter awards;

    2)   Optimise recruitment opportunities to strengthen research leadership and develop ECRs;

    3)   Support the development of researchers through the University’s academic career
         framework and its training programmes, the staff mentoring system and the faculty
         sabbatical policy.


2.1.1 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

The staffing strategy of the Unit is guided by its commitment to Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion
(ED&I). Kingston was one of the first 8 UK institutions to be awarded a Bronze Race Equality
Charter in 2015 (renewed in 2019). Its ED&I work on academic career progression was
recognised by The Guardian Award for Diversity Initiative in 2014. Within the Unit, there exists a
sustainable critical mass of research active staff with a good balance of senior, intermediate and
junior researchers (7 Professors, 10 Associate Professors, 18 Senior Lecturers, and 7 Lecturers,
including 4 ECRs). The appointment of research students and staff aligns with best practice for
equality and diversity and adheres to Athena SWAN principles. This is overseen by the Faculty
Director of Postgraduate Research Programmes in the case of research students, and by the HR
department in the case of staff. The University was awarded Athena SWAN Bronze accreditation
in 2017. All three Schools in the Faculty have been awarded the departmental Athena Swan
Bronze Award. The Unit's EDI ambassador is Thatti, who has been involved in the KU Race
Equality Charter submission as well as the development of Athena Swan at faculty and institution
levels. Thatti has also completed the Stellar HE strategy executive leadership programme for
diverse leaders. Four Unit members have undertaken the Aurora leadership development

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
programme for women with Advance HE.

Of the 42 (41.8 FTE) staff within this submission, nine are female (8.8 FTE) (21%) and 33 are male
(79%). These proportions remain the same as REF 2014 in which 24 FTE were submitted, 5 were
female (21%) and 19 male (79%). The proportion of BAME staff within the submitted Unit (45%)
has increased slightly since 2014 (~42% in REF2014 for combined units 15 and 17).


2.1.2 Career Framework for Staff

Kingston’s Domains framework (see Institutional Environment Statement) facilitates and supports
the career development and advancement of academic staff, giving clear guidance and criteria for
research expectations. Clarity around requirements of academic domains and roles have
enhanced the Unit’s ability to organise research by providing flexible working load for research
active staff, who can apply for up to 40% research time and sabbaticals when necessary.


2.1.3 Recognition through promotion

Through the annual promotion process, four staff have been promoted to Professor
(Georgopoulos, Gillmore, Wang and Wertheim) in this cycle. Five staff have been promoted to
Associate Professor (Dembele, Donchev, Dykes, Thatti and Zweiri) and seven to Senior Lecturer
(Brown D, Coates, Heidari, Saleh, Wilson, Zafari and Zhang) within the period.


2.1.4 Strategic recruitment

New academic staff are appointed based on existing capability and potential for high-quality
internationally recognised research, evidence of attracting external funding, industrial connectivity,
and fit to Unit strategic research directions. New staff across the range of academic roles have
been appointed during the assessment period. They are aligned with one of the Unit’s research
themes and are mentored, given a reduced teaching load and provided with funding for
consumables, research travel and small equipment items. New staff within the Unit (since
REF2014) are: Ofetotse and Zafari (CEC theme); Elsayed (FEFD theme); Jayaseelan,
Esconjauregui and Khazaeinejad (NC theme); Spearman (ME theme); Saleh, Zhang X and
Zweiri (GATE theme); Lin and Vienescu (KE theme); Brown D, Dalton, Fox and Wilson (EESS
theme). Our aim is to maintain a critical mass of SRR researchers in each theme thereby
promoting sustainability and developing potential, which has already delivered an increase in
number of outputs (~230) eligible for inclusion in the submission.


2.1.5 Faculty/School Support

All new staff, irrespective of seniority, are mentored by an experienced colleague in a cognate
field, who assists with writing grant applications, publishing and building their research profile. All
staff have unrestricted access to research equipment, facilities and technical support aligned with
their research interests. Researchers in the Unit have contributed to and benefited from central
and faculty level research support mechanisms, which have been strengthened during the
assessment period. The University has established a Peer Review College for research funding
applications (Unit members include Jarvis, Walford, Gillmore, Dembele, Wang, Wertheim and
Augousti) and a Research Mentorship scheme for ECRs. For example, Wang has mentored new
staff, Lin, Saleh and Jayaseelan in the Department of Space and Aircraft Engineering, Augousti
has mentored new staff, Esconjauregui and Zhang X, in the Department of Mechanical
Engineering, and Walford mentored two new staff (Brown D and Wilson) in the Department of
Geography, Geology and the Environment. The University deployed Quality Research funding
strategically during the assessment period through a First Grant Scheme and two researchers in
the Unit (Brown D and Wilson) were successful in open competition in 2016 and 2019
respectively (Section 3). These and similar faculty level initiatives have the combined aim of

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
enabling academic staff to maximise their research potential and contribute to the institutional
research strategy.

We have also developed a more integrated teaching and research environment through the
provision of regular research seminars to which undergraduate/postgraduate students are invited.
These policies have led, for example, to a marked broadening of research capacity and experience
in the area of Aircraft Engineering, along with concomitant growth in the other disciplines that make
up the Unit.


2.1.6 Training for staff development

The University and Faculty/Unit provides comprehensive training for all the staff, covering for
example, research supervision, introduction to the programmes/projects from the funding bodies
(such as EU, Innovate UK, EPSRC, Leverhulme, etc.), how to improve grant bidding quality and
peer review, and contracts and negotiation. More than 30 training programmes are provided,
including: research ethics and good practice in research, management of research funds, impact
development, mandatory training in PhD supervision, KTP and IP training, Academic Mentoring –
Sharing Best Practice, and Publication Masterclasses. Postdoctoral research associates (PDRAs)
within the Unit, funded through external awards are integrated into the relevant research theme
and enrich the research environment and culture overall. Past investment in research students and
their training has led to some of them becoming PDRAs in the Unit and continuing their research
with former supervisors (e.g. Wang, Augousti, Dembele, Hadavinia and Zweiri). These ongoing
relationships with their supervisory teams help to transition these PDRAs towards becoming
independent researchers. They, like other researchers in the Unit, are required to develop and
maintain individual research plans.


2.2 Research Students: Support Mechanisms, Training and Supervision


2.2.1 Recruitment

We have made considerable efforts to increase research student numbers by providing Faculty
Graduate School studentships and starter bursaries for self-funded PhD students. The Unit has
aimed to grow the postgraduate research (PGR) population and also the pool of academic
supervisors. The Faculty purchases 100 project credits per year on the FindAPhD.com online
platform to allow all SEC academics, without any restriction on their previous track record, to
advertise their project ideas nationally and internationally. Since 2014, 22 start-up bursaries (£10k
for Fulltime students) were awarded to recruit high-quality self-funded students into the Unit.

The number of PGR students within the Unit has been maintained at a sustainable level since
REF2014, and currently stands at 53 (52 PhD, 1 MPhil), with total completions numbering 74 (plus
7 wholly overseas), representing 1.8 per FTE staff in the submission, and an increase from 50
completions in REF2014. Research students show a similar degree of ethnic diversity and gender
balance to the staff researchers. The overall number of research students supervised by staff in
the Unit shows a similar profile, with some 55% of research students being BAME, and 15%
female (faculty data).


2.2.2 Support Mechanisms

The recruitment, training and development of students is managed centrally by the Faculty, under
the academic leadership of the Faculty Director of Postgraduate Programmes. The School
Director for Postgraduate Research (DPR; Khazaeinejad), ensures that the development of the
PGR student portfolio follows best practice and is compliant with the Researcher Development
Framework, the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, and the QAA
Code of Practice. The DPR liaises with and manages postgraduate study and contributes to the

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Faculty Research Degrees Committee (FRDC) which oversees student progression and the
faculty strategy for developing and enhancing PGR programmes. PGR representatives from all
disciplines and stages are members of the FRDC, at which they provide formal feedback which is
recorded and actioned.

A student society for SEC PGRs, supported financially by the Kingston University Student Union
and the Faculty, organises social events to bring our PGR population together and also hosts a
series of “Research Stories” that provides a platform for PGR students to discuss their
experiences. PGRs within the Unit help to organise events. Students are also encouraged to take
part in Vitae’s ‘Three Minute Thesis’ (3MT) competition. The Faculty operates a competitive
bidding system to enable research students to apply for funding to actively engage in conferences
through attendance and paper/poster presentation with most students receiving support to attend
at least one national/international conference per year of study.


2.2.3     Training and Supervision

The University Graduate Research School acts as a focus for research student life and activity
and has a physical presence in the form of ICT facilities, meeting rooms and social space.
Graduate Schools at the University and Faculty levels together provide a structure for research
student support and require students to undertake a programme of training to build key
researcher skills. The training is organised in three layers:

    i)     The first layer is provided by the GRS and aims to cover training needs that are common
           to all University PGR students, e.g. research ethics, academic writing, information
           management, research impact, IPR. The programme is based on Vitae’s Researcher
           Development Framework.

    ii)    The second layer is organised by the Faculty for all SEC students and covers training
           needs that are more closely aligned to the research needs of students in SEC. Examples
           include specific training sessions for existing and new facilities and for new students
           including safety and specialist software.

    iii) The third layer of training is discipline and project-specific, and is mainly overseen by the
         supervisory team. Such specialist training is delivered both within and outside the
         university, and includes training in finite element analysis, computational fluid dynamics,
         and advanced statistics.

Part-time and overseas-based research students are also required to participate in this training.
Customised training, for example in the use of specialist equipment or analytical techniques is
provided on a case-by-case basis according to research requirements making use of in-house
technical support or external courses if necessary. The systems of research student recruitment,
involving interview and preparation of project proposal and initial and annual monitoring, provide
robust mechanisms for ensuring suitable students are enrolled and for tracking progress. These
measures have helped to raise our retention and completion rates.

During the assessment period KU became a founder member of the University Alliance’s Doctoral
Training Alliance (DTA) for Energy, and Gillmore, based in the Unit, leads the DTA Energy
Specialist Training Group, which resulted in the recruitment of four fully-funded research students.
As a member of the University Alliance DTA Management Committee, he helped to organise and
run the Energy Spring and Summer Schools (the first DTA Energy Summer School was held at
KU) and two DTA Energy Electives. Other self-funded students have been attracted to the Unit as
a result of the DTA Energy initiative, which has also increased the range of staff with supervisory
experience and contributed to our aim of heightening interdisciplinarity.

Publication of research outputs before completion of research programmes in the form of
conference papers/posters and journal articles is encouraged and forms part of the strategy
aimed at developing excellent practice in dissemination of research. As part of the process of
fostering development as independent researchers, research students on completion of their

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
doctorates and Research Associates (RAs) during their contracted research invariably lead in the
publication of co-authored journal articles. All research students and RAs engage with the wider
academic community through participation in conferences, workshops and similar meetings and
working as postgraduate representatives on committees. These actions demonstrate our
commitment to and implementation of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers.

Apart from tutorials and assisting laboratory sessions, Unit PhD students are given opportunities to
develop teaching skills by completing the Introduction to Learning and Teaching course, providing
Associate Fellowship of the HEA.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

This section focuses on funding received by the Unit during the assessment period in respect of
awards for specific projects and for infrastructure and facilities. However, the connections
between internal and external funding should also be emphasised as Brown D, Brown K, and
Zweiri succeeded in gaining external funding as a result of their success in securing internal
research studentships and seed corn grants.


3.1 External Funding

Since REF2014, the combined income to the Unit (£3m) has originated from a diverse range of
national and international sources with ~60% from EU projects.


Table 2. Analysis of Income and new awards during the census period.

 Category               % of       % New award        Example funders
                        income     headline value
 Civil Engineering
 and Construction          1%               9%        Innovate UK
 (CEC)
 Fire, Explosion and                                  EU Marie Curie Schemes, FM Global,
 Fluid Dynamics                                       National Grid, Leverhulme Trust, Royal
                          54%            24%
 (FEFD)                                               Academy of Engineering, Softbits
                                                      Consultants
 Nanomaterials and                                    EU Framework Scheme, University of
                           6%
 Composites (NC)                                      Birmingham
 Medical Engineering                                  British Heart Foundation, Fight for
 (ME)                     12%            13%          Sight, NIHR, MoD, KTP, Essilor
                                                      international
 Ground and                                           EU Framework Schemes, including
 Aerospace                                            Marie Curie, Jaguar Land Rover Ltd,
 Transportation           13%               8%        Royal Academy of Engineering,
 Engineering (GATE)                                   EPSRC, National Space Technology
                                                      Programme, KTP
 Kingston Energy                                      British Council, DEFRA, UNESCO,
                           1%               9%
 (KE)                                                 Sellafield UK
 Earth,                                               NERC, Randgold Resources, Statoil
 Environmental and                                    Petroleum, European Goldfields, Surrey
                          13%            36%
 Social Sciences                                      Fire & Rescue Centre, Royal Society,
 (EESS)                                               Wellcome Trust




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Activity has focussed on supporting staff to increase the breadth, scope and quality of their
research. The increased maturity developed is demonstrated by the direction of bids to significant
funding streams. Successful new external funding awards were distributed across the Unit’s
research themes with successes in each theme and the majority ~36% awarded to EESS, closely
followed by FEFD with 24%. 13% of the total award values have been for the collaborative and
cross-disciplinary area of Medical Engineering (Table 2). However, other areas also cross
disciplinary boundaries. For example, Brown K has built upon his internal first grant funding to
secure further funding from the Wellcome Trust to study Morbidity, Mortality and Occupational
Health in the Victorian and Edwardian Post Office (£288k awarded).
Other significant competitively-won awards include:

    •   Dembele has won funding from both EU-MSCA (€147k), for efficient methods for radiative
        heat transfer analysis in fires and water sprays for fire suppression to, and the Leverhulme
        Trust - Distinguished Visiting Fellowship Scheme (£98k) to investigate new engineering
        solutions to improve fire protection by water mist curtains. These have helped to support
        a collaboration with Professor Leonid Dombrovskiy from Russia and enabled him to work
        within the Unit. Dembele has also received industry funding for work with Softbits to
        develop water spray screening methods.

    •   Ofetotse, an ECR, has won (£254k) funding from Innovate UK (SwanaSmartStore, £83k
        to KU) to lead a project with companies EmPowered, OneSunSolar and SolaForm to
        research Intelligent solar and storage for reliable and affordable household energy access
        and sustainable support for stressed electricity grids in Zimbabwe & Botswana. The
        project is a collaboration with the companies, colleagues within our computing unit and
        Ulster University.

    •   We have been awarded £151k (Augousti, Gillmore, Lin) from several British Council
        schemes, including their IKIERI and Newton Schemes.

    •   £83k has been awarded by other UK charities, including the British Heart Foundation,
        Analytical Chemistry Trust Fund and the Royal Academy of Engineering.

    •   GATE has been awarded £51k across several space-themed projects by the National
        Space Technology Programme and the UK Space Agency.


University and Faculty funding for developing research profile, attracting external funds

University and Faculty research funding has been competitively targeted towards key areas of
development and to fostering a vibrant research community by supporting ECRs through an
annual First Grant Scheme. Brown D was successful in securing one of these awards in the first
round, which has assisted with the development of his research profile and with providing a
foundation for a successful funding application to the Welcome Trust with co-investigators from
King’s College London, University College London and the University of Derby. This ongoing
project entitled ‘Addressing Health: Morbidity, Mortality and Occupational Health in the Victorian
and Edwardian Post Office’ has brought a PDRA and PhD student in the Unit. The Unit has in
place procedures to encourage and support researchers and one member of the unit (Wilson)
transitioned from PhD completion to full-time staff member during the period under review. Zweiri
received a Research Transformation Fund award from the University (£65k) for the OptiTrack
system housed in the Learjet lab that contributed to him securing three external awards from the
Royal Academy of Engineering (IAPP1R2\100174), Quanser Canada (in-kind support - a gifted
autonomous self-driving car) and AOUK (with St George’s Hospital). University funding for the
Rocket laboratory led to a rocket Engine test of A ‘self-eating’ rocket engine for University of
Glasgow, and also the data acquisition system for the Rocket laboratory will be used for data
acquisition for a recent funded project by UK Space Agency through NSTP – Pathfinder Grant.




                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3.2 Internal Funding

The Unit has benefitted from over £2m investment by Kingston University through various
initiatives, such as: i) 30 fully or partially funded PhD studentships; ii) Staff development funding
(travel funds for conferences and networking); iii) Pump priming funds for innovative research
projects, especially for newly recruited staff; iv) Research transformation funding; v) Research
Capital funding for improved research facilities; vi) Funding for outreach and public engagement
to equip and maintain the outreach initiative ‘Lab in lorries’; vii) PhD starting (typically £10k) and
completion bursaries to attract self-funded students and to help self-funded students to complete
their studies; and, viii) University-funded sabbaticals.


3.3 Infrastructure and Facilities

Faculty-facing Research, Business and Impact Development Managers from within the University
Research, Business and Innovation (RBI) Directorate assist staff in identifying opportunities for
external funding, developing grant applications, identifying external partners, designing pathways
to impact, as well as evidencing and evaluating impact. RBI coordinates a structured process of
internal peer review of applications. Internal support ranges from research group and
departmental mentoring, peer review and faculty-level training, such as grant-writing workshops
which enable staff to devote concentrated effort toward completing funding applications. There is
specialist RBI support at Faculty level in preparing research funding application budgets, and
Research Operations Managers and a Finance post-award team dedicated to
Research/Enterprise support post-award.

The University has invested in its research support infrastructure and the improvement of the
facilities where Unit research is located. The John Galsworthy Building (2008/09, £20m) provides
65 lecture/seminar/conference rooms. In the subsequent period, other spaces have been
reconfigured as specialist research facilities to benefit the Unit including Palynology and
GIS/Remote Sensing laboratories. Funding from HEFCE/University initiatives totalling over £8m in
the past decade have permitted continued enhancement and refurbishment of research facilities
in the SEC Faculty, which have increased laboratory space and computational equipment and are
helping to enable further interdisciplinary working. The University’s flagship building project
(~£55m), known as the Town House, was opened in January 2020, which is close to the Unit’s
present buildings and provides world class library and seminar space for researchers to work and
collaborate.

Staff in the Unit are currently accommodated on the Penrhyn Road and Roehampton Vale
campuses. Staff in the Department of Civil Engineering and Construction and the Department of
Geography, Geology and the Environment are located in the Main Building at Kingston
University’s Penrhyn Road Campus with administrative and technical support staff in neighbouring
offices or the adjacent John Galsworthy or Sopwith Buildings. The Department of Aerospace and
Aircraft Engineering and the Department of Mechanical Engineering are together at the
Roehampton Vale Campus.

The engineering laboratories are generously provisioned, and include a number of facilities that
are sparse within the UK. The latter includes two full-scale wind tunnels equipped with a Laser
Doppler Anemometry system for accurate full-field measurement of wind flow patterns. A
Micromist fire suppression test rig has been developed from the Micromist Generator provided by
BP. The Unit also benefitted from a dedicated 16-node Linux Cluster and shared use of a 128-
node Linux Faculty Cluster before 2018. Since then, the University has invested £340k on a new
High-Performance Computing facility, which is a 768 core with 6144GB RAM, which nearly
doubles the number of cores of the old HPC. The storage comprises 2 x SuperMicro servers with
attached IBM Storage and GPFS file system, total storage is 85 TB. The interconnect is a
Mellanox SN2100B, providing 10gb connectivity between devices. The software stack uses
Adaptive HPC Suite, which provides a web front end for managing and submitting jobs, making
access easier and accessible for all.


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Unit’s indoor Rocket Laboratory is a unique, European-leading facility for teaching and
research on small to medium sized rocket propulsion engine development work. Nearly £200k
from the University has been invested in this laboratory. Specifically designed for rigorous “hot-
fire” testing, this facility allows students and academics to build, fire and evaluate novel and
unique experimental rocket engines. With its integration with the High-Performance Computing
Cluster, new advances in machine learning to develop new engines and diagnostic equipment for
the UK Launch and Space Propulsion industry can be developed.

In addition, there are several Faculty-owned facilities which are freely accessible to all academic
staff in the Unit. These include the Olympus LEXT OLS4100 laser scanning digital microscope,
which can be used to conduct non-contact 3D observations and measurements of surface
features easily at 10 nanometer resolution. The OLS4100 industrial microscope has distinctive
features for fast image acquisition and high-resolution microscope images over a wider area. One
ICS (ICSUoA12Wertheim2) is based on work using the Olympus LEXT OLS4100. Furthermore,
the Faculty strategically invests to maintain and/or acquire additional new facilities, for example,
upgrading the LEXT400 to 5000 series, and investing £103k to replace a Renishaw Laser Raman.

Additional facilities include: a full-scale environmental chamber which provides a temperature
range between -24 OC to 24 OC, for phase flow testing of elements; a specially designed rig for
shear testing of composites and concrete; a high resolution thermal imaging camera for non-
destructive testing of materials; a range of large-scale specialised ovens for curing concrete; a
CNC machine; two 3-D printers (one powder-, one liquid-based); a clean room; a metrology
laboratory; automotive engineering laboratories; a range of programmable load-testing machines;
specialised lasers; an X-ray diffractometer; a spin coater; as well as the use of NMR and TEM
microscopes. Most recently, a portable Geovisionary 3D geo-visualisation system (£30k)
(Walford) has been purchased as a research facility and as part of the development of the STEM
Outreach Centre at the Penrhyn Road Campus which can accommodate up to 30 people for
interactive activities.

Research students are located in open-plan offices with their own desk space and computers,
which are renewed on a four-year cycle. Research students have access to specialist laboratory
and ICT facilities in accordance with the needs of their research and benefit from full access to the
University’s library and learning resource services. Technical support is provided at Faculty level,
but with discipline-specific assistance provided to researchers in the Unit for example in respect of
thin section cutting and geographical information systems.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 External Collaborations within the Unit

Members of the Unit collaborate on both disciplinary and interdisciplinary fronts with academic
colleagues nationally and internationally. A high proportion, ~80% of submitted outputs include at
least one co-author from outside KU and ~49% of these include at least one non-UK co-author.
Collaborations demonstrate reach in respect of the range of external organisations, breadth
through the involvement of all researchers, and depth in relation to endurance of links over many
years.

These academic collaborations with UK-based researchers are particularly strong with universities
and research institutes in London and South-East England, although there is also geographical
spread from the University of Plymouth in the South-West to the University of Stirling in Scotland.
The submitted outputs include 80 institutional UK collaborations across 35 universities and
research institutes, such as the National Physical Laboratory and the Natural History Museum
(Table 3).




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Table 3. Co-authorships within the total pool of submitted outputs highlighting collaboration with
UK universities and other research institutes (excluding companies) by UoA staff. The number
of collaborations shown is at the level of the organisation and not with individual researchers
(authors).

 Total number of separate UK collaborations (counted per university/institute): 80
 University                       No. University                                  No.
 University of Warwick            12 University of Bristol                        2
 Imperial College London          5    Anglia Ruskin University                   1
 Queen Mary University of London 4     Birmingham University Botanic Gardens      1
 University of Bath               4    Coventry University                        1
 University of Cambridge          4    London School of Medicine and Dentistry 1
 British Geological Survey        3    Middlesex University                       1
 Cranfield University             3    Nottingham Trent University                1
 Durham University                3    The Natural History Museum                 1
 King's College London            3    University College London                  1
 National Physical Laboratory     3    University of Derby                        1
 University of Edinburgh          3    University of East London                  1
 University of Leicester          3    University of Leeds                        1
 University of Southampton        3    University of Manchester                   1
 Heriot-Watt University           2    University of Plymouth                     1
 Lancaster University             2    University of Stirling                     1
 University of Birmingham         2    University of Surrey                       1
 University of Oxford             2    University of Wolverhampton                1
 University of Reading            2


The submitted research outputs also demonstrate wide-ranging international collaborations
across 25 countries, with notably high levels in China, Russia and the Middle East, to some extent
reflecting the cultural diversity of staff in the Unit (Table 4). The full spectrum of UK and
international collaboration with researchers in universities and research institutes extends beyond
those summarized in Tables 3 and 4.


Table 4. Co-authorships identified within the total pool of submitted outputs highlighting
international collaboration by Unit staff. The number of collaborations shown is at the level of
country and not research organisation.

 Total number of separate non-UK collaborations (counted per Institution): 80 in 25
 countries
 Country         No. Example Institutions
 China           14 Beijing Research Institute of Chemical Industry; Northwestern
                      Polytechnical University; Shandong University; Southwest
                      Jiaotong University; Wuhan University of Technology.
 Russia          10 Baltic State Technical University; ITMO University; Moscow
                      Radiotechnical Institute of Russian Academy of Sciences; St
                      Petersburg State University
 USA             9    Johns Hopkins University; Northwestern University; South Dakota
                      State University; St. Louis University; University at Albany
                      (SUNY); University of Minnesota
 Abu Dhabi       7    Khalifa University of Science and Technology; Robotics Institute
 Spain           5    Public University of Navarre; Universidad de Las Palmas de Gran
                      Canaria; University of Vigo
 Italy           4    National Nanotechnology Laboratory (NNL); Università degli Studi
                      di Milano Bicocca; Università del Salento; University of Insubria
 Poland          4    Wrocław University of Science and Technology

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Greece            3     Piraeus University of Applied Sciences; School of Pedagogical
                         and Technological Education
 Canada            2     University of British Columbia; University of Calgary
 France            2     Université Paris-Sud; Université Paul Sabatier
 Germany           2     Goethe-University Frankfurt
 India             2     Bombay College of Pharmacy; NMIMS University
 Madagascar        2     Université d’Antananarivo; Université de Fianarantsoa
 The               2     Utrecht University; Vrije Universiteit
 Netherlands
 Vietnam           2     Nha Trang University; Vietnam National University
                   1     Australian National University (Australia); Institute of Geophysics
                         (Czech Republic); University of Copenhagen (Denmark); Kyoto
                         University (Japan); Universität Basel (Switzerland); American
 Others (10
                         University of Sharjah (United Arab Emirates); National Technical
 countries)
                         University of Ukraine (Ukraine); Seoul National University (South
                         Korea); Universitas Muhammadiyah Surakarta (Indonesia);
                         Jordan University of Science & Technology Jordan).


4.2 Relationship with Industry, the Public Sector, Economy and Society

Researchers in each of the research themes in the Unit are also engaged in networks and
partnerships with industry, the public and charitable sectors. Several of these transcend the
research themes and help to integrate researchers across the disciplines contributing to the Unit.
These partnerships and relationships are at different stages of maturity, some have already
contributed to the submitted outputs, with others expected to lead to outputs suitable for future
REF assessments.


Table 5. Examples of networks and partnerships with industry, the public and charitable sectors
across the research themes in the Unit.

 Theme                   Example Partners
 Civil Engineering       BP/HSL on Health and Safety; Institution of Construction
 and Construction        Engineers; Barratt Homes Construction; H+H Celcon; SIG
 (CEC)                   Roofspace; Willmott Dixon
 Fire, Explosion and     BP/HSL on Health and Safety; European Hydrogen Safety
 Fluid Dynamics          Network; FM Global; National Grid (COOLTRANS project);
 (FEFD)                  Daresbury Laboratory; the Russian Scientific Centre; London
                         ReMade, Day Group Ltd.; Intelligent Door Solutions (IDS) Ltd.
 Nanomaterials and       National Physical Laboratory; Zotefoams plc; SCG Chemicals in
 Composites (NC)         Thailand, Ansaldoenergia in Switzerland, Westinghouse USA, DLR
                         Germany, Tokyo Institute of Technology Japan, Dunlop Oil and
                         Marine Limited Lincolnshire UK
 Medical Engineering     Central Glass and Ceramics Research Institute in Kolkata, India;
 (ME)                    Carlow Institute of Technology, Ireland; the Laboratory of the
                         Government Chemist (LGC)
 Ground and              Bombardier Aerospace; Chess Dynamics Ltd.; FG Wilson through
 Aerospace               Drone EPSRC (DT/F006829/2); Chinese Government; British
 Transportation          Airways; Bionanovate; Glanotech; DEMOKRITOS; Rolls-Royce
 Engineering (GATE)
 Kingston Energy         China Aerodynamics Research and Development Centre (CARDC)
 (KE)
 Earth, Environmental    Colchester Borough Council; Maersk Oil Denmark; Equinor;
 and Social Sciences     Evolution Applied Ltd.; National Physical Laboratory; Natural
 (EESS)                  England; Olympus Corporation; Petroleos de Venezuela SA
                         (PDVSA) Venezuela; Soils Ltd.; Statoil Norway

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The networks and partnerships in the Unit, including some noted in Table 5, have operated in a
variety of ways. Some have focused on specific research questions such as investigating the
mechanical behaviour and optimum design of advanced aircraft structures in complex
environments, and novel nanomaterials for coating aircraft to prevent icing and to decrease drag.
Some concentrate on highly specific topics including adhesive bonding, nanomaterials, bonded
structures and FRP materials, polymer foams, high and ultra-high temperature materials and
slippery surface coating. Some of the networks and partnerships have resulted in externally
funded research studentships with co-supervision from the industry partner. The non-academic
links also help our research to be impactful in relation to the economy and society.


4.3 Interdisciplinary Research

Interdisciplinary research within the Unit by members from different disciplines and with external
collaborators is commonplace. The submitted outputs (36% flagged as interdisciplinary) and
examples below serve to illustrate such interdisciplinarity.

Brown D works with demographers, historians and human geographers to investigate health in
relation to people’s occupation, focusing on postal workers and other selected categories in the
nineteenth and early twentieth century.

Hooda collaborates with chemists and environmental managers to undertake environmental
assessment especially in relation to soil and water.

Walford works with urban designers, gerontologists, planners and demographers in respect of
older people’s navigation and mobility through urban spaces. He also works with 3D modellers to
create and visualise contemporary and archaeologically significant buildings and environments for
heritage experience purposes.

Wang is working on synthesis of advanced top nanocoatings with improved aerodynamic and de-
icing behaviour, which involves research on new nanomaterials and its application on the aircraft.
The products have been applied on British Airways aircraft.

Wang and other colleagues have supervised a university funded PhD student researching “Finite
Element Modelling of Human Eye Lens”, which led Zeiss-Meditec, a major manufacturer of
implant lenses post-cataract surgery, to provide funding for developing novel implant lenses
(£70k). Eventually, Dr Kehao Wang (then PhD student) is employed by Beihang University as
Associate Professor, who secured a grant from National Natural Science Foundation of China
(240k Yuan) to continue this research.

Barton and Thatti have built up a good relationship with Rayner investigating materials for
intraocular implant lenses. An ICS (ICSUoA12Thatti3) is submitted in this area.


4.4 Leadership and Achievement in the Academic Community

Members of the Unit are embedded in their respective disciplines and support these in a number
of different ways including editing journals and serving on editorial boards, organising and
participating in international conferences and symposia, working with and advising national and
international public sector organisations and private corporations, and supporting the work of the
learned societies of which they are members (fellows) through various forms of committee work
and other research-related activities. The following examples demonstrate this engagement with
the wider academic community and disciplinary bases of the Unit’s members.




                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Journal Editorships and Editorial Boards

Unit members currently serve or have served on the editorial boards of ~25 journals during the
period. These journals include 11 Q1 journals, i.e. Bulletin of Geography, Frontiers in
Environmental Science, Geomorphology, International Nano Letters, Journal of Environmental
Management, Journal of Intelligent and Robotic Systems, The Journal of Maps, Journal of
Sensors (Measurement), MDPI Applied Science, Population, Place and Space and Science of the
Total Environment.


International conference organisation and participation

Members of the Unit have individually or in conjunction with others organised ~15 international
conferences in the review period and have been invited to speak/act as session Chairs/give
plenary talks at over 30 meetings internationally. Unit members have delivered keynote
presentations at conferences in China, France, Italy, Jordan, Lebanon, Norway and Switzerland.
Unit researchers have supported over 80 international conferences through delivery of papers and
more especially by joining organising committees (10) and chairing sessions (18). The global
reach of our organising and chairing participation has included Aerodynamics CARDC, Mianyang,
China (2016); Multi-Scale Self-Healing Nanocomposite Shielding Materials conference Turkey
(2018); 6th Structural Engineers World Congress (Mexico 2017); 10th International Symposium on
the Cretaceous, Austria (2017) and Drilled Shafts of the Deep Foundations Institute, USA (2018).


Funding Committees

Unit members serve on UK and international funding committees, including NERC, ESRC, the
European Commission (MSCA-IF), the Fonds de la Researche Scientifique, Belgium, the
Innovation Fund Denmark (IFD), the Latvian Council of Science, the DAAD - Deutscher
Akademischer Austauschdienst/German Academic Exchange Service Team, the Cypriot
Government Research Promotion Foundation, the British Council, the Royal Academy of
Engineering.


Learned Society Engagement

Members of the Unit are fellows of a range of learned societies as befits the disciplinary breadth
and interdisciplinary research carried out by its researchers. Examples include: Association for
Geographic Information, British Ecological Society, British Institute of Soil Science, Geological
Society, Institution of Civil Engineers, Institution of Structural Engineers, Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers, Institute of Engineering and Technology, Institute of Measurement and
Control, Institute of Physics, Mineralogical Society, Royal Geographical Society with IBG and
Royal Society of Chemistry. A number of Unit members support their disciplinary bases by holding
leading roles on committees in a range of these organisations making significant contributions to
the academic community. These include work for learned and professional societies, notably the
British Ecological Society (Brown K review college member and Meetings Officer 2014-16); the
European Geosciences Union (Jarvis Deputy President, Stratigraphy, Sedimentology and
Palaeontology Division 2009-18); the International Union of Geological Sciences (Jarvis
appointed voting member International Subcommittee on Cretaceous Stratigraphy 2016-20); the
Royal Geographical Society (RGS-IBG) and its research groups, among them Population
(Walford Treasurer 2009-18), Rural Geography (Walford Chair 2013-19), Council for British
Geography (Walford Treasurer 2008-), Commonwealth Geographical Bureau (Walford Treasurer
2012-20); Expert Panel Member of the Institution of Civil Engineers (Georgopoulos 2013-);
Geological Society of London Science Committee (Gillmore elected member); and Research
Panel of the Institution of Structural Engineers (Georgopoulos 2007-16). UK Research Councils
include Unit members in their Peer Review Colleges, including the EPSRC (Augousti,
Jayaseelan, Khazaeinejad), ESRC (Walford), and NERC (Hooda). Our contribution to research
in the discipline also includes external PhD examinations, roles on national advisory bodies

                                                                                                 Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
including University Alliance Doctoral Training Alliance Energy, Specialist Training Group
(Gillmore is Chair), UK Radon Council (Gillmore is elected Chair and Director), where he leads
Radon regulation and training workshops (with the Health and Safety Executive and the Royal
Society for Public Health) to educate builders, engineering companies, lawyers, environmental
health and building control officers on radon issues, reviewer for Royal Academy of Engineering
Fellowships (Jayaseelan) and membership of Research Panel of the Institution of Structural
Engineers (Georgopoulos).

Service to the Engineering community over the assessment period includes membership of the
Council of the Institute of Measurement and Control, as well as its Accreditation Committee
(Augousti), Dembele is a member of the Scientific Council International Water Mist Association.
Wang is a Member of the Design Engineering Technical Committee and the Value Driven Design
Programme Committee of AIAA. A number of Unit members have received prizes or honours in
recognition of the significant contributions made to their respective disciplines. These include
Augousti’s receipt of the Callendar Medal for “Outstanding Contribution to the Art of Instruments
or Measurement” by the Institute of Measurement and Control in 2020; Haroglu’s Merit Award in
the Research Paper Category by the Chartered Institute of Building International Innovation and
Research Awards in 2014; Wertheim’s National Cancer Research Institute (NCRI) Prize Award in
2015; and Zafari’s Research Prize - Midland from IStructE in 2015.


4.5 Ongoing contribution to research base, economy and society for REF2021 and beyond

Contribution to Economy and Society

As detailed in Section 1, our research and its impact are articulated through collaborative and
reciprocal links with industry and the public sector at national and international levels and through
acting in an advisory capacity. Notable examples from across the spectrum of research include
knowledge exchange and training with petroleum companies (e.g. Statoil) which has led to
industry support for doctoral students, development of scientific instrumentation with NPL
facilitating access to its LEXT OLS4000 confocal microscope series allowing subsequent
commercialisation of new software on this equipment by the Olympus Corporation (see 1.3.1,
ICSUoA12Wertheim2), and influencing local government (Colchester Borough Council) in respect
of urban design and directional signage (see 1.3.1, ICSUoA12Walford4). Unit members have
worked in an advisory capacity with a range of organisations including the Intergovernmental
Platform for Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES), the Department of Agriculture, Food
and Rural Affairs (Northern Ireland Assembly (landslide advice)), All-Party Parliamentary Group
on Energy Studies, and the joint European Federation of Foundation Contractors and Deep
Foundations Institute (USA) working group in relation to the Chennai Metro Rail Project (India).

The Unit’s researchers also engage with and inform the public through a range of activities
including participating as an academic expert on BBC1’s flagship genealogy programme “Who Do
You Think You Are?”, contributing to the work of the KU Outreach centre (Section 1), and talking
at meetings of local/regional scientific societies including branches of the Geographical
Association and the Royal Geographical Society.

The Unit achieves impact as a natural outcome of its engineering research and through members
of the themes in CEESR working with partners across government, industry and commercial
organisations. Much of the supported activity occurs in collaboration with industry, where the
outcome of the research is directly translated into societal and economic benefit.

Hadavinia researches in the renewable energy sector, directs projects on composite, wind energy
and solar energy and works with Zotefoams plc on polymer foam materials. Wang is an Associate
Fellow of AIAA, closely working with the Institution, and collaborating with Bombardier Aerospace
Belfast (on Nacelle technology), FG Wilson, LMS, Masters Choice Ltd, Houchin Aerospace;
Queen’s University Belfast; Caterpillar Wimborne Marine Power Centre and British Airways.

Dembele’s major industrial sponsors include international companies including BP, FM Global

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and National Grid. Collaboration with BP and HSL has been instrumental in shaping the strategy
to expand the modelling activities of CFES into explosion modelling.

Zweiri works closely Jaguar Land Rover on fuel consumption control. Wang collaborates with
partners in Greece and UK including British Airways towards anti-icing and improving
aerodynamic performance of aircraft.

Georgopoulos was commissioned by Wiley-Blackwell to author a book on the sustainable use of
concrete in modern construction. The book - ‘Sustainable Concrete Solutions’ has been
distributed in more than 40 countries.

The range of disciplines represented in the Unit coming from both core engineering fields as well
as the environmental and social sciences constitutes fertile ground for the gestation of blue-skies
interdisciplinary research and serendipitous interaction. It also strengthens the Unit’s ability to
work with industrial, public and charitable sector partners to deliver real impact. The synergies
created through these interchanges result in research of significant importance to the Economy
and Society. This has been achieved through careful and sustained nurturing of early career
researchers on their journey towards senior research status and the recruitment of staff with
established research leadership capability.




                                                                                            Page 19
