Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Manchester Metropolitan University

 Unit of Assessment: D27 English Literature and Language

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and structure

 Home to 70 staff (58.5 FTE), the Centre for Creative Writing, English Literature and Linguistics
 (CELL) is now one of the largest English research centres in the UK. Following an investment of
 £1.08 million over the assessment period, the Centre has experienced dramatic growth,
 appointing 36 new staff while increasing its volume of outputs, developing broader and deeper
 impact and generating significantly higher income. The investment has also enabled CELL to
 reinforce its contribution to the discipline. Key examples of our success include:

       The publication of 90 books, with awards such as the Costa Book of the Year (Roffey
        2020), the Costa First Novel Award (Hurley 2016), the Windham-Campbell Prize
        (Makumbi 2018) and the Costa Poetry Award (Symmons Roberts 2014).
       ‘Mother Tongue Other Tongue’, CELL’s multilingual poetry initiative, which was awarded
        a Queen’s Anniversary Prize in 2019.
       Professor Dame Carol Ann Duffy’s Laureateship during six years of the assessment
        period, and her leadership of public projects such as the Manchester Children’s Book
        Festival (MCBF).
       CELL’s pivotal role in Manchester’s successful bid to acquire UNESCO City of Literature
        status in 2017.
       The community-facing Linguistics project, ‘Manchester Voices’, funded by the AHRC
        (£700,811).
       CELL’s successful bid in 2018 to co-host ‘English: Shared Futures’, and the delivery of
        the conference’s online version with the English Association in 2020.

 Under Rowland’s directorship, CELL is one of 14 university centres for Research and
 Knowledge Exchange (RKE) (see REF 5a), rooted in an established research environment that
 has been home to the current Poet Laureate, Simon Armitage, as well as other leading figures in
 Creative Writing, such as Michael Schmidt OBE FRSL. The Centre is home to world-leading
 expertise in the areas of Creative Writing, Gothic Studies, Place Studies and Linguistics, all of
 which thrive on interdisciplinary scholarship.

 Poetry Research Group (PRG)
 The world-class status of poetry research and practice in the Manchester Writing School (MWS)
 has been noted in the feedback from RAE and REF exercises since 1996. Led by Symmons
 Roberts, the PRG is home to Carol Ann Duffy (DuffyCA), Britain’s Poet Laureate until 2019.
 Collectively, the PRG has garnered a large proportion of all the significant national and
 international poetry prizes and awards, including the T.S. Eliot Prize, the Forward Prize, the
 Costa Poetry Prize, the Whitbread Poetry Award and the PEN Pinter Prize. The PRG includes
 11 staff, comprising four Professors, one Reader, six Lecturers and six PhD students. The
 group’s external partners include the Arvon Foundation, the Royal Exchange Theatre and the
 Royal Northern College of Music. Recently, a major project has been the establishment of the
 Manchester Poetry Library (MPL), the first public poetry library to open within a British university,
 and England’s first new public poetry library since 1968.


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Manchester Centre for Gothic Studies (MCGS)
 Established in 2013, MCGS is home to the world’s largest concentration of scholars researching
 the Gothic mode from antiquity to the present day. An investment from the university’s Strategic
 Opportunity Fund supported five additional appointments, including a new Chair (Townshend
 2017). Of the Centre’s 18 staff, 14 are from CELL, including two Professors, two Readers, nine
 Lecturers and one Senior Research Associate. MCGS also has members from Media,
 Geography, Microbiology and Politics, and it is home to 15 PhD students. Led by Blake and
 Townshend, MCGS draws on the expertise of external strategic advisor Professor Fred Botting
 (Kingston University) and Visiting Professor Carol Margaret Davison (University of Windsor,
 Ontario). Demonstrating a strong commitment to innovative public engagement with partners
 that include the National Trust, BBC Philharmonic, the John Rylands Library and Marketing
 Manchester, MCGS hosts the annual Gothic Manchester Festival (see impact case study
 MMUD27ICS04). A key project has been Townshend’s AHRC-funded ‘Writing Britain's Ruins’,
 which led to the publication of Gothic Antiquity: History, Romance, and the Architectural
 Imagination (1760–1840) by Oxford University Press in 2019. Other prominent publications
 include the co-edited, three-volume Cambridge History of the Gothic (2020) and Cambridge
 University Press’ ‘Elements in the Gothic’ series.

 Centre for Place Writing (CPW)
 The CPW produces increasingly influential research that confronts major contemporary
 geospatial challenges, including displacement and the climate emergency. In 2020, the practice-
 based research of Lichtenstein and Symmons Roberts, complemented by Cooper’s pioneering
 work on digital literary mapping, contributed significantly to the faculty’s £1.35 million
 Leverhulme Trust award to establish a multidisciplinary doctoral training centre on designing
 smarter, more accessible, playful and convivial cities of the future (The Leverhulme Unit for the
 Design of Cities of the Future - LUDeC). CPW includes 29 staff, 17 of whom are from CELL,
 including five Professors, three Readers, nine Lecturers and 15 PhD students. The Centre also
 has members from other areas of the university, including Architecture, Ecology, Environment,
 and the Creative AR and VR Hub. Led by Lichtenstein and Cooper, CPW benefits from the
 expertise of its external partners such as the Portico Library, the British Library, the Rothschild
 Hanadiv Europe Foundation and the Wordsworth Trust, as well as strategic input from Visiting
 Professor Tim Cresswell (Ogilvie Chair in Human Geography, University of Edinburgh).

 Linguistics Research Centre (LRC)
 Demonstrating specialist expertise in community-oriented sociolinguistics, applied pragmatics,
 forensic linguistics and applied linguistics, the LRC’s research was flagged as world-leading in
 the feedback from REF2014. Led by Archer and Drummond, the LRC includes one Professor,
 two Readers, nine Lecturers, three Research Assistants and 38 PhD students. The LRC serves
 as a hub for Linguistics and English Language research in CELL, and inspires and coordinates
 interdisciplinary research across Psychology, Education and Health. Collaborating closely with
 external partners and stakeholders, including the NHS, the British Council and Hansard, LRC’s
 core aim is to produce and promote innovative applied research that makes a genuine difference
 to real-world problems. Major projects have included Drummond’s Leverhulme Trust-funded
 work with pupil referral units, and Carrie and Drummond’s AHRC-funded work on regional
 language variation and identity.

 1.2 Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact during the assessment period.



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In REF2014, we aimed to ‘increase the volume and quality of research, and create a high-calibre
 research culture, with the aim of optimising long-term performance and sustainability’. We also
 made a commitment to further investment in world-leading impact, and to develop our expertise
 in Gothic and Place Studies. We have succeeded in fulfilling our aspirations by:

 i. Increasing research volume and quality
 CELL has produced 330 new outputs—an increase of 120% on REF2014—including 39
 monographs, 25 novels and plays, and 26 collections of poetry and short stories. 69% of the
 staff have produced monographs (or equivalents).

 ii. Recruiting, retaining and developing high-calibre researchers
 CELL has recruited 36 researchers at all stages of career development. The university’s
 commitment to rewarding sustained high-level performance has resulted in 25 promotions (see
 Section 2.1).

 iii. Building a lively and diverse postgraduate research community
 144 new PhD students were recruited to CELL during the assessment period, and there were 32
 doctoral conferments, which represents an increase of 135% on REF2014.

 iv. Promoting knowledge exchange and impact
 As our impact case studies illustrate, CELL is committed to engaging the public and making a
 difference to the world beyond the academy: there have been a minimum of 52,141,311
 audience engagements with MWS staff during the assessment period; in 2020 alone, CELL
 generated 297 instances of media coverage. Impact case study MMUD27ICS01 demonstrates
 how the Poetry Research Group has facilitated public access to literary classics to raise their
 popular appreciation, as in Symmons Roberts’ radio adaptation with Sir Ian McKellen of
 Paradise Lost (2018), and his libretto commemorating the Peterloo Massacre performed by the
 BBC Philharmonic in 2019. Key indicators of the quality of CELL’s impact include a Queen’s
 Anniversary Prize for ‘Mother Tongue, Other Tongue’ (2019) and a HEIST Award (2020) in the
 category ‘Best Community/Business Engagement Campaign or Initiative’ for MCGS’s ongoing
 partnership with Marketing Manchester on the city’s Gothic Tourism website (MMUD27ICS04).
 The secondment of Biswell as Director of the International Anthony Burgess Foundation (2013-
 present) further exemplifies CELL’s commitment to knowledge exchange through the
 Foundation’s series of public events (MMUD27ICS05).

 Staff can apply for research leave to support impact development, and the university offers a
 variety of schemes to optimise impact, including the Research Accelerator Grants, Strategic
 Opportunities Fund and Research Development Fellowships (see Section 3). The faculty’s
 prioritisation of impact delivery and capture led to the step-changing appointment of an Impact
 and Public Engagement Manager in 2013 (see Section 3), and the launch of the ‘Humanities in
 Public’ programme (subsequently known as ‘Research in Arts and Humanities’), which was
 shortlisted for a HEIST Award in the category ‘Best Marketing Initiative to Promote Research
 Excellence’ (2019). This programme has benefited from a Public Engagement Officer post
 alongside £50,000 annual investment in events organisation and partnership building, with
 additional support for school outreach activities funded from Widening Participation and Arts
 Council grants. Our lead partner contribution to Manchester’s UNESCO City of Literature project
 likewise receives an annual institutional investment of £50,000. Impact is also supported by four
 Project Manager posts based in the Manchester Writing School and Manchester Poetry Library
 respectively, whose brief it is to showcase and mobilise our research for the public good. In

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2018, we appointed a 0.6 FTE Research Assistant in Linguistics to record the impact of Archer’s
 specialist training package for airport marshals and the police force (MMUD27ICS03).

 v. Increasing external income
 The total income generated was £1,771,296. This figure combines income captured in REF4b
 (£743,761)—an increase of £607,295 (445%) on REF2014—and income not captured in the
 official HESA returns (£1,027,535). These figures represent a per-capita increase of 282%.

 vi. Promoting collaboration and interdisciplinarity
 All the faculty’s most successful research initiatives to emerge since 2013 are of interdisciplinary
 origin and orientation, as exemplified by the Manchester Centre for Youth Studies (MCYS),
 whose growth has benefited significantly from the institutionally funded secondment of CELL
 researchers (Bellamy, Drummond, Germaine Buckley, Grzegorczyk, Larner and Wheatle), as
 well as researchers from Criminology, History and Fashion. CPW staff have full membership of
 the Institute for Place Management (IPM) in the Business School, and Lichtenstein’s senior
 leadership position bridges English and History. CELL has also nurtured the interdisciplinary
 work of colleagues from other disciplines, such as Professor Jo Verran, a microbiologist who
 completed the MA in Gothic Studies, and who has joined MCGS. The faculty’s public
 engagement programme has successfully introduced colleagues from different disciplines to
 each other and promoted closer interdisciplinary collaboration, as has the faculty’s Postgraduate
 Arts and Humanities Centre (PAHC), whose mission it is to unite over 400 PGRs and ECRs into
 one ‘community of practice’.

 CELL members are engaged in collaborations with composers (DuffyCA), scientists and textile
 artists (Symmons Roberts), dramaturgs (McMillan), fashion designers (Mort) and filmmakers
 (Wheatle). Barnett worked with singer-songwriter Kathryn Williams on Greatest Hits (2017) and
 Songs from the Novel ‘Greatest Hits’ (2017). In the same year, Stephens’ collaboration with the
 world-famous musician Jarvis Cocker on ‘Hymn to the North’ was included in a production of
 Stephens’ play Landing Light. Symmons Roberts’ collaboration with the Royal Northern College
 of Music (RNCM) includes the annual Rosamund Prize, now in its twelfth year, which honours
 new collaborative work by RNCM and MWS postgraduates.

 CELL has established international research partnerships with Yale University (Townshend),
 Radboud and Oslo Universities (Rowland) and Pontificia Universidad Catolica de Santiago,
 Chile (Bullo). Other collaborations include DuffyCA’s Mother Tongue Other Tongue initiative with
 40 schools across the Northwest, and Drummond’s work with pupil referral units. Townshend,
 Liggins and Michelis’ membership of History’s ‘Reading the Country House’ network shaped the
 production of two interdisciplinary monographs: Townshend’s Gothic Antiquity, and Liggins’ The
 Haunted House in Women’s Ghost Stories, 1850-1945 (2020). In 2014-5, together with the
 National Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement and Professor Melanie Tebbutt from
 History, Schoene delivered an AHRC-funded postgraduate skills-training programme on public
 engagement and partnership building that lasted a year, and was attended by 21 PhD students
 and seven local community groups. In addition, Schoene and Evans have built links with
 environmental scientists through their ‘Putting Nature into Words’ initiative, and Bullo and Burke
 have full membership of the Manchester Institute for Arts, Health and Social Change.

 vii. Expanding and establishing our research centres
 CELL has been able to recruit strategically to its four priority areas of Poetry, the Gothic, Place
 and Linguistics (see Section 2). In direct support of the university’s commitment to diversity and

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 decolonisation in research and education, as indicated by the recent launch of a cross-faculty
 Race and Racism Studies Network, CELL is developing a new Migration and Postcolonial
 Studies group, initiated by the professorial appointment of Salgado in 2020.

 viii. Raising our international profile
 Rowland has established the AHRC-funded Metamodernism Research Network in partnership
 with Northwestern University (Johannesburg), La Trobe University (Melbourne) and the
 University of Oulu (Finland). CELL researchers are regularly invited to participate in cross-
 institutional grant applications and research exchanges, as exemplified by MWS’ Visiting
 Professorship Exchange Programme established in 2017 with Mount St Mary University, Los
 Angeles. In 2018, CELL’s international research lead (Bullo) successfully applied for a faculty-
 funded International Research Partnership Fund (IRPF) award, worth £50,000 over two years,
 which has enabled her to establish an international research network on health, discourse and
 communication with researchers in Chile and the US.

 1.3 Future strategic aims for research and impact (2021-30)
 CELL aims to become a sector-leading model for public-facing, community-engaged English and
 Linguistics research and knowledge exchange. Its aims are to: (i) expand its public-oriented,
 impactful research, (ii) enhance opportunities for collaboration, (iii) raise CELL’s international
 profile, (iv) increase and diversify income to support this range of activities, and (v) build a
 Centre for Migration and Postcolonial Studies (MAPS).

 i. Public-oriented and impactful research
 Our poets’ influential public broadcast, theatre, music and performance work will continue to
 promote the PRG’s mission to widen access to poetry and invigorate its cultural import and
 agency. The multicultural resources of Manchester Poetry Library will enable us to sustain and
 develop the legacy of ‘Mother Tongue Other Tongue’ by collaborating with our partners on the
 delivery of Manchester’s UNESCO City of Literature’s key projects. One of these is the city's
 annual celebration of International Mother Language Day, which involves CELL researchers and
 students in coordinating the production of multilingual poetry by thousands of participants; for
 instance, as part of a Multilingual Mushaira designed to celebrate Manchester’s rich linguistic
 diversity. Other projects in development include a Libraries Festival and Write Manchester, a
 mass-participation, city-wide place writing project. Enduring impact will be achieved by
 introducing the public to poetry from diverse cultures, and by mentoring teachers, public and
 NHS librarians and other health professionals to utilise the writing and reading of poetry in their
 own work.

 The strategic promotion and development of the Haunt Manchester website will establish it as a
 keystone project and global toolkit for Gothic cultural curation and place-making in cities other
 than Manchester. In partnership with Manchester’s Portico Library, CPW is committed to the
 launch of a ‘Northern Writing’ project that aims to combine critical scholarship on regional writing
 with creative-practice responses in order to secure the legacy of a specific northern literary
 tradition, and to showcase and celebrate its contemporary manifestations. The successful
 delivery of the Manchester Voices project will consolidate the LRC’s role as an international
 leader in community-oriented linguistic research. Its ongoing collaboration with Manchester
 Central Library and an extensive network of local schools will continue to enhance and deepen
 the popular understanding and appreciation of linguistic diversity.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ii. Opportunities for collaborative work
 CELL will benefit from the university’s alliance with other Higher Education institutions in the
 region, via, for example, the AHRC’s North West Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership
 (NWCDTP). The recent £1.35m Leverhulme Trust investment in the faculty’s multidisciplinary
 postgraduate research culture will generate additional opportunities for collaboration by
 facilitating co-supervision across disciplines as well as with non-academic partners. Supported
 by MPL and informed by its ongoing contribution to Manchester’s City of Literature project, the
 PRG will continue to consolidate and grow its partnerships with eminent national and
 international institutions, including the Royal National Theatre, BBC radio and television, the
 British Council, the Poetry Translation Centre, the Poetry Archive, Boston Lyric Opera and the
 Edinburgh International Festival.

 Already a prominent player in Manchester’s cultural landscape due to its inauguration of Gothic
 Manchester Week and pioneering revival of the city’s Gothic heritage, MCGS is keen to develop
 its international profile as a desirable partner for collaboration by more effectively integrating the
 specialist portfolios of their critical scholars and creative practitioners to define new areas of
 unique expertise in, for example, contemporary Folk Horror and the ‘Rural Eerie’. CELL’s new
 Centre for Migration and Postcolonial Studies will follow suit by bringing together its critical and
 creative research specialisms in order to devise new avenues for cross-disciplinary and
 academic/non-academic collaboration.

 iii. International profile
 CELL will optimise the unique opportunities offered by Manchester’s UNESCO City of Literature
 status. Cities from across the UNESCO network will join us in the preliminary activities of the
 Manchester Poetry Library, contributing books as well as resources for a digital exhibition
 intended to showcase and celebrate poetry from other Cities of Literature. CELL will forge a
 globally influential profile for the MPL supported by the Poetry Archive, which is the world’s most
 significant archive of poetry recordings established by Sprackland and Andrew Motion (2001).
 MPL sits at the centre of a new national network of UK poetry libraries, and we intend to expand
 this into a global network of poetry centres, building on our successful partnership with the Du
 Fu Thatched Cottage Museum in Chengdu, which is supported by the British Council
 Manchester China Forum initiative.

 MCGS is consolidating its international reputation through its partnership with the University of
 Windsor, Ontario. Future MCGS–Windsor plans include an application to Canada's Social
 Sciences and Humanities Research Council (SSHRC). CELL also intends also to build on its
 other Visiting Professor appointments of Professor Denise Riley from the European Graduate
 School, and Professor Tim Cresswell (University of Edinburgh). CELL researchers will be
 supported in accepting similar positions overseas: Solie, for example, will take up residencies at
 the University of Toronto and the University of California, Berkeley in 2021.

 iv. Research income
 CELL will continue to draw on the expertise of its most successful bidders, as well as colleagues
 with relevant review panel experience, through a scheme of mentoring, peer review and training
 events. A particular area earmarked for future grant capture is MPL, whose increasing cultural
 importance—boosted by the Queen’s Anniversary Prize and CELL’s pivotal role in the City of
 Literature project—has generated interest from influential sponsors and trusts, including the
 Garfield Weston and Granada Foundations. MPL grant applications under development include
 bids to the Esmée Fairbairn Foundation (£180,000), Marie Curie (£180,000), the AHRC
 (£320,000) and the National Heritage Lottery Fund (£570,000). The latter is for ‘The

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Record: Archiving Multimedia Heritage, 2021-25’, a project that will involve partnerships with 23
 Greater Manchester libraries seeking to establish an audio-visual archive of performance and
 other spoken-word poetry from Greater Manchester and the Northwest. The Esmée Fairbairn
 Foundation bid is to support ‘MPL Learning’, a four-year mass-participation programme to co-
 curate, celebrate and communicate the diversity of poetry across Greater Manchester’s 200+
 community languages, working closely with local BAME-led community groups and grassroots
 organisations.

 v. Centre for Migration and Postcolonial Studies
 MAPS is envisaged as an interdisciplinary hub for expertise in postcolonial studies, promoting
 critical and creative collaborations with colleagues from Sociology, Languages, Politics and
 International Relations. Led by Salgado in partnership with the Genocide Archive at Yale
 University, MAPS’ first collective initiative will be a comparative study of testimony on a range of
 sites of exceptional violence, drawing on Salgado’s specialist interest in transitional justice
 mechanisms in Cambodia and Sri Lanka.

 1.4 Ethical integrity and open research

 In alignment with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, CELL can demonstrate a proven
 track record of ethical and sustainable knowledge production, which is integral to its cultivation of
 an equitable, open and transparent research environment. Ethical training is core to a
 researcher’s development, but we also recognise that the ethics agenda impacts on disciplines
 in different ways. Creative Writing research often falls outside of a default ethics model, which
 makes it vital that subject-specific mentoring and guidance is provided at an early stage in
 project development. All CELL researchers, as well as PGR students, receive training on
 ETHOS, the university’s ethical approval system. All CELL professors and readers are members
 of the Faculty of Arts and Humanities Research Ethics and Governance Committee, and CELL
 researchers have access to a Research Ethics and Governance Manager specialising in the
 ethical and legal implications of Humanities research. General Data Protection Regulation
 training is also mandatory.

 CELL research complies with the REF Open Access policy, and the Concordat for Open
 Research Data is monitored by Library Services and RKE Systems. CELL contributed to the
 university’s response to UKRI’s post-REF Open Access Policy consultation, advising on the
 proposed open-access publication of monographs. CELL researchers make use of the Library’s
 online repository (e-space): 266 CELL outputs were deposited during the assessment period,
 with 29,288 recorded downloads. Colleagues are encouraged to publish in ‘green’ Open Access
 (OA) journals, and to incorporate any Gold OA charges into grant applications. CELL
 researchers also benefit from a joint UKRI/internal budget for Gold APCs to promote work of the
 highest quality, impact or strategic value. To date, APCs totalling £8,610 have supported five
 REF2 outputs, including Burke’s ‘Dementia and the Paradigm of the Camp’ (output ref: 455) in
 the Journal of Bioethical Enquiry, and Carrie’s ‘British is Professional, American is Slang’ in the
 International Journal of Applied Linguistics (output ref: 302). E-space training is provided and OA
 compliance features in all annual research-mentoring reviews.


 Examples of CELL’s commitment to disseminating their research outcomes as widely as
 possible include Byrne and Schoene’s inaugural editorship of the Open Arts Journal, one of the
 first interdisciplinary OA journals in the Humanities. Cooper is a founding co-editor of the OA
 journal Literary Geographies, Blake sits on the editorial board of the OA journal Dark Arts, and

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Burke has edited a special OA issue of Palgrave Communications. In addition, 35 CELL
 researchers have used OA online outlets for their work, curating or contributing to blogs, or
 publishing in The Conversation. The Haunt Manchester website has published 55 articles by (or
 about) MCGS researchers. Wilcox’s creative writing ‘Realms of Glory’ blog has welcomed
 215,753 readers, and Wake’s Manchester Games Network blog has received 31,565 hits (2018-
 20). Ní Fhlainn’s OA article in Adaptation on H.G. Wells’ The Time Machine has been viewed by
 160,281 readers, and Biswell’s article on the ethics of posthumous publication in The
 Conversation (2018) has attracted 10,748 readers.

 2. People

 2.1. Staff

 Investment in recruitment has allowed CELL to diversify and strengthen its research profile
 through 36 strategic appointments over the assessment period. Only two out of 71 researchers
 are on fixed-term contracts. Only four of the 27 colleagues returned in REF2014 are now not in
 CELL—three due to retirement, and one who has relocated. This statistic underlines the quality
 of the Centre’s research environment and its ability to retain staff.

 CELL benefits from a vibrant mix of staff at all career stages, and displays a healthy ecology of
 professorial-level researchers, mid-career research leaders and early-career academics (see
 Table 1). This assessment period saw two internal promotions to Professor (Edwards and
 Sprackland), six to Reader (Aldana Reyes, Blake, Bousfield, Drummond, O’Riordan and Wake)
 and 17 to Senior Lecturer (Badwan, Barnett, Bishop, Bullo, Carrie, Carter, Germaine Buckley,
 Harris, Ilott, Larner, Lawrenson, Makumbi, Mort, Ní Fhlainn, Norminton, Roffey and Wilcox).

  Professor                    Principal Lecturer    Senior Lecturer           Lecturer, Research
                               and Reader                                      Fellow
  16%                          14%                   41%                       29%
 Table 1: Staff contract type by FTE percentage


 12% of submitted staff are ECRs and 2.9% of staff are on fixed-term contracts.

 2.2 Staff development
 The university has held an ‘EU HR Excellence for Research’ standard award for the past eight
 years, and its research structures correspond with the ‘Concordat for Supporting the Career
 Development of Researchers’. CELL has implemented the Concordat by: (i) ensuring that
 research managers complete training in equality, diversity and inclusion, as well as staff
 wellbeing and mental health; (ii) reviewing the quality and sustainability of the research
 environment via the Professional Development and Review (PDR) scheme; (iii) meeting
 requests to support researchers according to need and circumstance, for instance by
 contributing to childcare costs for staff on domestic or international research trips; (iv) offering
 transparent and merit-based support for progression and promotion, as through regular
 Academic Careers workshops and the university’s ‘Future RKE Leaders’ and ‘Good to Great’
 schemes (see section iv. below); and (v) engaging CELL researchers through our PDR and
 research-mentoring schemes.

 Two examples illustrate CELL’s proactive support of staff development. In early 2014,
 Drummond attended the ‘Bidding for Success’ workshop series as an ECR, resulting in a
 Leverhulme Trust project grant later that year (£107,113). In 2016, he was selected for the

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘Future RKE Leaders’ scheme, which provided funding and time for a pilot study. This created
 the foundation for Drummond’s ‘Manchester Voices’ project, which subsequently won an AHRC
 award (£700,811), and accelerated Drummond’s promotion to Reader in 2019. Together with
 Drummond, Aldana Reyes attended ‘Bidding for Success’ as an ECR in 2014. He then benefited
 from two other staff development schemes (‘Future RKE Leaders’ (2016-19) and ‘Good to Great’
 (2019-21)), enabling him to complete two high-quality monographs and two successful British
 Academy small grant applications in 2014 and 2016. Aldana Reyes progressed from a fixed-
 term research fellowship to a permanent lectureship (2014), followed by accelerated promotion
 to Senior Lecturer (2015) and Reader (2019).

 Such concentrated staff development is enabled by CELL’s annual review of individual research
 plans, a scheme that, since 2015, has been incorporated into a mentoring programme which
 pairs researchers at all career stages with a senior colleague who meets with them at least three
 times a year. This review process feeds directly into departmental work-loading: depending on
 performance, researchers can acquire a research allocation of 50%. CELL staff also engage in
 an annual PDR process to review their broader career objectives, negotiate targets for teaching,
 administration and research, and receive guidance and support from their line managers. In
 addition to the mentoring scheme, the annual research review and PDR, staff development is
 supported by CELL as follows:

 i. Research training
 CELL provides an annual training programme on project planning and management, publishing,
 bid-writing, impact and policy. Specific events have focussed on ‘Media Training’, ‘Writing
 Articles for International Publication in Peer-Reviewed Journals’, ‘Understanding Policy’, ‘Bidding
 for Success’, ‘Mentoring Training’ and ‘International Networking’.

 ii. Away-days and cross-faculty seminars
 CELL runs a bespoke series of away days, each of them dedicated to one of our four research
 groups and their specific future research and impact plans. In addition, CELL researchers also
 attend and participate in the faculty’s coordination of cross-disciplinary ‘Show and Tell’ seminars,
 designed to promote collaboration and the sharing of specialist research expertise across the
 Arts and Humanities. Since 2016, the faculty has run over 60 such events.

 iii. Research leave
 CELL researchers can apply for extended periods of research leave to concentrate on research,
 impact and grant capture. In lieu of leave, staff can apply for the appointment of a research
 assistant (0.4FTE over 9 months). During the assessment period, 38 CELL staff (including staff
 on part-time and fixed-term contracts) have benefited from this scheme. Research leave has
 supported the completion of 14 books submitted in REF2, including Researching Urban Youth
 Language and Identity (Drummond, 2018), My Country (DuffyCA, 2017), Mancunia (Symmons
 Roberts, 2017), Green Noise (Sprackland, 2018) and Gothic Cinema (Aldana Reyes, 2019).

 iv. Internal funding
 A total of £822,000 strategic funding has been invested in new CELL appointments. CELL also
 shares an annual Research Development Fund budget of £150,000 with two other research
 centres, which amounts to an average expenditure of £1,000 per staff member to support
 conference attendance and fieldwork. CELL receives a separate £45,000 devolved budget
 specifically for advancing its research culture. It has also benefited from central investment in the
 ‘Humanities in Public’ programme (£50,000) and the Postgraduate Arts and Humanities Centre

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (£50,000). CELL has access to the full range of funding opportunities administered through the
 university’s Central Research Office. During the assessment period, CELL has benefited from
 internal awards totalling £257,000, including Strategic Opportunities Funding (UNESCO City of
 Literature £100,000), Archer’s Linguistics Research Assistant (£24,180), Haunt Manchester
 (£22,200), Creative Writing impact-capture support (£20,902), Research Accelerator Grants
 (£16,891), Impact and Public Engagement Awards (£19,960), as well as the ‘Future RKE
 Leaders’ and ‘Good to Great’ schemes (£15,000 and £32,000 respectively).

 v. Support for KE and impact activities
 Biswell’s secondment to the International Anthony Burgess Foundation (IABF), fully funded by
 the Foundation (£488,884 over the assessment period), exemplifies CELL’s commitment to long-
 term external partnership building. Public engagement and impact are recognised in CELL’s
 promotions process. The efforts of CELL researchers to achieve impact are supported through
 allowances built into CELL’s shared workload model as well as four full-time Project Managers
 based in MWS and MPL who work closely with CELL’s two designated academic Knowledge
 Exchange leads. Our foundational involvement in Manchester’s City of Literature project means
 that close collaboration with the city’s schools, libraries, publishers, museums and writer-
 development organisations has become second nature to many CELL researchers. Key
 partnerships have been established with Comma Press (who co-designed our new Masters in
 Publishing and with whom we run an annual Creative Writing Industry Day), Manchester Muslim
 Writers, Muslim Arts and Culture Festival (MACFest), and the Portico Library, that substantially
 benefited from CELL’s support in relaunching the Portico Prize, also known as the ‘Booker of the
 North’.

 Mid-career researchers (MCRs)
 All MCRs are offered consistent career-development support through the mentoring scheme and
 annual review process. The ‘Future RKE Leaders’ scheme was launched in 2015 to provide
 additional bespoke mentoring and funding over three years to expedite the career development
 of staff displaying particularly promising leadership potential. CELL has been represented in all
 three cohorts (Aldana Reyes, Cooper, Drummond, Larner), and the scheme has contributed to
 two promotions to Reader (Aldana Reyes, Drummond), one research centre lead (Cooper) and
 one CELL deputy (Drummond). Aldana Reyes has been selected for the follow-on programme
 ‘Good to Great’ (2020–21), with a £32,000 institutional investment in the consolidation of his
 leadership and research profile. CELL also promotes active succession planning by ensuring
 that all senior research leadership roles are deputised by MCRs.

 Early-Career Researchers (ECRs)
 CELL researchers within six years of their first non-casual academic appointment have ECR
 status, entitling them to additional support tailored to their needs. The Centre hosts an annual
 interdisciplinary ECR away day, which in 2019 centred on career progression, with a particular
 focus on Creative Writing and Youth Studies. ECRs are invited to join PhD supervisory teams,
 initially in the capacity of third supervisor. They are also provided with training to progress from
 mentee to mentor: current and former ECR mentors include Aldana Reyes, Badwan, Foley,
 Larner, McMillan, Mort and O’Riordan. The Centre’s ECR representative (Germaine Buckley)
 has membership of the CELL Steering Committee. Her role connects CELL with the university’s
 ECR Forum, which meets once a term to exchange best practice (especially regarding ECR
 training) and to monitor the implementation of the Concordat for Career Development of
 Researchers. To ensure the ECR representative is adequately supported, a senior colleague
 (Wake) also has Forum membership.


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Recruitment
 Since 2014, 36 researchers have been appointed. A special investment measure by the
 university’s Strategic Opportunities Fund was launched in 2016 to attract eminent scholars with
 international reputations (Salgado and Townshend), as well as multi-award-winning creative
 writers (Hurley, McMillan, Makumbi, Solie and Wheatle). The emphasis has consistently been on
 appointments in key areas, including Creative Writing (Barker, Barnett, Butler, Harris, Hurley,
 Lichtenstein, McMillan, McDowell, Makumbi, Mort, Roffey, Solie, Stephens and Wheatle) and
 Linguistics (Archer, Badwan, Bellamy, Carrie, Dao, Jagodzinski, Larner, Macis and Nguyen).
 Other areas of strength have equally benefited from this recruitment boom, especially the Gothic
 (Foley, Germaine Buckley, Hurley, Ilot and Townshend), Place Writing (Lichtenstein) and the
 Postcolonial (Grzegorczyk, Ilott, Rahman and Salgado). Appointments have also included senior
 staff whose leadership expertise bridges specialist areas while fruitfully destabilising the
 traditional creative/critical divide (Lichtenstein, Rowland and Salgado). In addition, the English
 department created seven new posts when the university’s Cheshire campus closed in 2017:
 these are not counted here as additional roles, as the staff in question already had CELL
 membership.

 2.3 PGR students

 In its 2016 Higher Education Review, the QAA report praised the university’s ‘reflective approach
 to enhancing postgraduate research opportunities’, and its promotion of ‘an inclusive research
 student community’. According to the 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey, CELL is
 in the top quartile for the overall quality of our PGR experience, performing outstandingly in
 terms of progression and conferments (up 135% on REF2014). Our membership of the AHRC’s
 North-West Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership is integral to our self-understanding and
 scholarly ethos as a research community committed to long-term sustainability, collaboration
 and career support. The aim is to create a diverse, vibrant and collegiate environment that
 provides excellent development opportunities.

 Recruitment
 CELL has two Research Degree Coordinators who manage the application process, which
 consists of the submission of a research proposal, followed by an interview with the Director of
 Postgraduate Research and the prospective supervisory team. Applicants whose first language
 is not English must demonstrate an IELTS score of at least 7.0. Prospective PGRs (and
 overseas applicants especially) are supported by Collective Online Learning, a distance-learning
 portal that provides a six-week course on how to write a compelling research proposal. From this
 year onwards, the NWCDTP offers ring-fenced awards for applicants from BAME backgrounds
 or with a disability. Inclusion, equality and diversity also feature prominently in the training
 programme of the faculty's Postgraduate Arts and Humanities Centre. Supported by the
 university’s new Race and Racism Studies Network, we are in the process of applying to
 Research England and the Office for Students for additional support to improve BAME access to
 PGR study.

 Our recruitment strategy comprises four related strands:

 i. Recruitment from PGT
 In line with CELL’s strategy to ensure that its PGRs are well integrated into the life of the
 research centre, it has expanded its MA programme to support PhD recruitment. Our MA
 programmes and units reflect the specialisms of CELL researchers more consistently, including

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pathways on Creative Writing, the Gothic and Postcolonial Writing, and an MA in Linguistics and
 English Language. This approach, envisaged in our REF2014 return, has been progressed by:
 (i) the integration of our research seminar series into the taught MA provision and (ii) a ‘buddy’
 scheme, which partners MA students with PGR mentors, and provides funding to support the
 development of co-authored conference papers (£400 per pair). The success of our approach is
 exemplified by the growth of PGR recruitment in Creative Non-Fiction, which—following the
 establishment of the MA/MFA in Creative Non-fiction—has increased from two in 2013 to 13 in
 2020.

 ii. Match-funding commitment
 CELL has accessed external funding for PGR funding through all three iterations of the AHRC’s
 Block-Grant Partnership schemes, and in its latest iteration (2018–24) we committed to match-
 fund all successful applicants.

 iii. International development
 CELL has various arrangements in place to help it to maintain sustainable international
 recruitment, including with institutions and funding bodies in the US and Algeria. A good
 example of success is the MCGS, which has attracted 19 international PGRs since 2013. CELL
 has developed a special preparatory research-training programme that supports the entry of
 international students with good MA qualifications but insufficient familiarity with the standards
 and conventions of university-level research in the UK. This programme provides specialised
 training in project development, research methods and academic English. The additional support
 has enabled many overseas applicants to meet the given entry requirements by improving their
 academic language skills and strengthening their methodological approach and subject-specific
 understanding.

 iv. Reimagining the PhD
 CELL is leading at a national level on practice-led research. In 2019, the Centre ran a highly
 successful ‘Reimagining the PhD’ symposium in partnership with the RNCM and the BBC, which
 attracted 60 delegates. A follow-up e-conference is planned for 2021, integrated within a newly
 established summer school on practice-led research. Our work has already prompted changes
 to university regulations regarding PhDs by practice.

 Funding Opportunities
 In 2013, the university became a member of the NWCDTP, alongside the Universities of Keele,
 Lancaster, Liverpool, Manchester, Salford and the RNCM, securing 40 doctoral awards per
 annum from 2014–19 (valued at over £14 million). In 2017, the NWCDTP was successful in
 securing over £17 million to support PGR study for the period 2019–24. Success in this second
 round required a substantial PGR investment on the part of our university, which has committed
 to providing a third of the value of the AHRC Core Studentship Funding.

 The NWCDTP has had a significant impact on the establishment of a vibrant and sustainable
 PGR community across the region. The Consortium has supported cross-institutional
 supervision with the universities of Manchester and Salford. It has also invested in CELL-
 coordinated PGR training, such as ‘Working with Archives’ (2015) and ‘Knowledge Exchange
 and Research Impact’ (2016), as well as initiatives led by CELL PGRs, including the ‘Feminist
 Affects Webinar Series’ (2018), the ‘Absent Presences: Shifting the Core and Peripheries of the
 Gothic Mode’ symposium (2019) and the ‘Queer Research Network Manchester’ (2019).
 Between 2014 and 2020, seven CELL PGRs received AHRC funding through the NWCDTP
 open competition. In 2018, CELL secured additional AHRC funding through the National

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Productivity Investment Fund on Artificial Intelligence, and in 2019, we secured two AHRC
 Collaborative Doctoral Awards, with the BBC Philharmonic and the Manchester Secondary Pupil
 Referral Unit. In addition to match-funding three of these AHRC grants, CELL has awarded three
 PhD studentships and four fees-only bursaries, and we have supported two more PhDs through
 the university’s Graduate Teaching Assistant scheme. The Vice-Chancellor’s Studentships
 scheme contributed another five awards during the assessment period. From 2021/22, CELL will
 benefit from the faculty’s new Leverhulme-funded Unit for the Design of Cities of the Future,
 which has been awarded £1.35m for 15 PGR studentships over six years.

 Population
 CELL’s PGR population currently stands at 140 (up from 21 in REF2014). Its international intake
 has seen rapid growth, with the recruitment of 21 students. Table 2 indicates the composition of
 the student body according to data gathered in December 2019, revealing a comparatively high
 level of students with disabilities, and BAME students:

  Gender                     Ethnicity                   Disability       Age
  Female        Male         BAME          White         Y          N     Over 35     Under 35
  62%           38%          35%           65%           20%        80%   39%         48%
 Table 1: Demographic profile of PGR students in December 2019

 Research management
 Following the creation of the Faculty of Arts and Humanities in 2016, the home of our PGRs has
 been the Postgraduate Arts and Humanities Centre (PAHC), co-directed by CELL researcher
 DuffyN. Assessed by two internal reviewers, formal application to register takes place within
 three months of enrolment, and is followed by an annual viva voce progression review, at which
 candidates defend their work to a panel of two researchers from outside their supervisory team.
 Alongside these key milestones, students embark on a formal process of induction covering
 mandatory ethics training and generic regulatory matters. PGRs engage with a bespoke
 selection of training opportunities chosen in consultation with their supervisory team. Each
 student is allocated 100 hours of supervision per year, usually divided 60:20:20 between
 Director of Studies, First Supervisor and Second Supervisor, the last of whom must be an ECR.

 Training
 In addition to subject-specific training delivered by CELL and a generic university-wide student
 development programme, PAHC provides a year-long multi-disciplinary programme for all PGRs
 in the faculty. The aim is to grow and promote academic diversity and sustainability by
 addressing three key areas: practice-led research, digital research and student wellbeing. The
 ‘Core Series’ guides PGRs through the different stages of their degree, as well as covering
 employability, academic profile building, funding opportunities, public engagement and impact.
 The ‘Provocative Theory’ strand explores different critical approaches to research across the
 Arts and Humanities, and the ‘Methods and Methodologies’ strand encompasses a whole range
 of diverse approaches from participatory to practice-led. Supported by the Student Initiative
 Fund (£3000), PGRs take responsibility for the programme in the third term, running training
 sessions as well as writing and reading groups that they establish in consultation with staff in
 PAHC.

 Outcomes
 PhD conferments in CELL have risen from 14 (REF2014) to 32 (REF2021). Another 22 students
 submitted in 2020, and currently await examination. The success of CELL’s creation of an
 environment in which PGRs can thrive is demonstrated by the breadth of student projects and

                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 activities, which include the foundation of The Dark Arts Journal (Greenaway, 2015), ‘Feminisms
 in Public’ (McDermott, 2018) and the PGR Film Club (Gislam, 2019-). PGRs regularly present
 their work at conferences and in print. During the assessment period they have published four
 collections of poetry (Kunial, Mann and Moore), two monographs (Mann), four journal articles
 (Edwards, Kratz, Hirst and Rudman) and seven book chapters (Fitzpatrick, Hirst, Ikin,
 McDermott, M'Rabty and O’Connor).

 2.4 Equality and diversity

 The university’s comprehensive self-assessment and action planning in the area of equality and
 diversity since REF2014 has resulted in an Athena SWAN Bronze Award (2017). In the same
 year, the university became the first in the UK to achieve Gold status in the Business Disability
 Forum’s Disability Standard. In 2019, it was ranked second in the English education sector on
 Stonewall’s Workplace Equality Index (WEI), and recognised as only one of 14 Stonewall Top
 Trans inclusive employers. In 2020, the university was accredited as the UK’s first Manchester
 Pride Role Model Organisation at the launch of the Pride All Equals Charter. CELL researchers
 play a prominent role in ensuring equality and diversity both across the university and at a
 national level. Burke is co-chair of Learning Disability England, UCU representative for disabled
 members and co-chair of the university’s Disabled Staff Equality Forum. CELL’s success in
 promoting equality and diversity is evidenced by the number of women in prominent research
 leadership roles: Archer (LRC co-lead, KE lead, and CELL deputy head (2018-19)); Blake
 (MCGS co-head); Germaine Buckley (ECR co-ordinator and co-head of the Manchester Game
 Studies Network); Lichtenstein (CPW co-head); Salgado (MAPS head); and Sprackland (MPL
 chair). Our support for equal opportunities is further evidenced by the diversity of our PGRs (see
 Section 2.3).

 We are committed to ensuring that principles of equality, diversity and inclusion guide all our
 activity. For example, we support progression by mid-career women, with targeted policies that
 have resulted in a 77% female share of all promotions to Senior Lecturer in 2014-20. Flexible
 working facilitates temporary part-time working and career breaks, and our promotions scheme
 ensures colleagues are not penalised for career breaks. Timetabling arrangements support
 colleagues with caring responsibilities, while all meetings and most research seminars are held
 during standard working hours. CELL has an equality and diversity committee whose members
 are given teaching relief to support their work. The CELL Steering Committee also has an
 equality and diversity representative as a standing member (Rahman).

 CELL recognises the effect of personal circumstances on research productivity. Following
 disclosure of an equality-related issue, we adjust our expectations regarding the proliferation of
 outputs. ECRs are defined as colleagues within six years of their first non-casual academic post,
 and they equally benefit from reduced expectations regarding research productivity. We make
 similar adjustments for colleagues with caring responsibilities, those with chronic disabilities
 (including mental health issues) and for staff returning to work after lengthy periods of absence.

 CELL fully supports flexible and agile remote working. Career pathways for part-time and full-
 time staff are the same, and all colleagues receive equal access to support, mentoring, funding,
 research leave and other career-development opportunities. Staff have access to funding to
 support childcare during research trips, and are supported and represented by the Working
 Parents and Carers Network. Applications are treated flexibly and sympathetically on a case-by-
 case basis. Equality and Diversity matters are administered at a university-wide level, where a


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Diversity and Equal Opportunities Committee oversees delivery of the university’s Equality and
 Diversity Policy and Strategy (see REF 5a).

 2.5 Equality and Diversity and REF2021

 In its preparation for REF 2021, CELL aimed to be fair, transparent and inclusive, following the
 University’s Code of Practice. All colleagues with significant responsibility for research have
 been included in the submission. All staff involved in unit of assessment co-ordination completed
 training on ‘Managing Diversity’, ‘Equality and Diversity Essentials’ and ‘Unconscious Bias and
 REF2021’. All colleagues have been made aware of the processes surrounding requests for a
 reduction in output expectations as a result of individual circumstances. Three staff members
 declared their individual circumstances and relevant adjustments have been made. We have
 opted not to seek any reduction in the overall volume of outputs because we believe there is
 enough scope within the rules for us to manage the impact of individual circumstances through
 our existing processes. Decisions about output selection have been led by CELL’s UoA
 Coordination team in line with the process set out in our Code of Practice.

  Gender profile                         Disability profile
  Female      Male          Other        Disability declared   No Disability     Unknown
  53% (37)    47% (31)      0%           2% (1)                95% (65)          3% (2)

  Ethnicity profile
  White            Black            Chinese         Asian          Other/Mixed   Unknown
  85% (58)         1% (2)           0%              7% (4)         2% (2)        4% (2)



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 Following REF2014, CELL identified increased grant income as a future strategic priority due to
 our relatively modest return over the previous assessment period. In 2015, the faculty introduced
 a mentoring scheme that includes experienced grant-writers working on bids with ECRs and
 mid-career academics. In 2016, CELL initiated a series of bidding workshops based around
 individual funding schemes, as well as away days specifically centred on bidding. These
 sessions focussed on the AHRC, British Academy and Leverhulme Trust, and included invited
 colleagues talking about their bidding experience. The latter shared good practice and led
 hands-on workshops on nascent applications.

 As a result, grant income reported in REF4b (£743,761) shows a 445% increase on REF2014
 (£136,446). The diverse nature of CELL’s funding, which includes income from literary prizes
 and charitable organisations, adds an additional £1,027,535 of non-reportable funding, bringing
 our total external income to £1,771,296. CELL’s income includes major grants from research
 councils, including the AHRC (£538,446), Leverhulme Trust (£105,405) and British Academy
 (£14,791), as well as income from a significant number of other funding bodies, such as Arts
 Council England (see Table 3 below). The growth in total external income exceeds staff
 recruitment, representing an increase per capita of 157% per FTE on that reported in REF2014.




                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Source of          BEIS               UK Charities,    UK Govt,     European    Non-EU
  Income             Research           Open             Industry &   Union
                     Councils           Competition &    other UK
                                        Other            Sources
  Percentage         72%                15%              10%          0%          3%
  of Income
 Table 3: Diversity of Income Sources

 Major awards, prizes and secondments include:

           ‘Manchester Voices’ (Drummond and Carrie, AHRC, £700,811)
           Biswell’s secondment as director of the International Anthony Burgess Foundation
            (2013-present, £488,884)
           ‘UrBEn-ID’ (Drummond, Leverhulme Trust Project Grant, £107,113)
           The Windham-Campbell Prize for Fiction (Makumbi, 2018, $165,000).

 The research council grants have resulted in major monographs, such as Drummond’s
 Researching Urban Youth Language and Identity (2018). In 2020, CELL contributed a key
 component of PAHC’s successful £1.35 million bid to the Leverhulme Trust to establish the
 LUDeC centre for PGR research. In addition, we have shared £170 million in AHRC funding over
 eight years as a member of NWCDTP. Funding not reported on REF4b includes awards from
 Arts Council England (£64,827), Erasmus+ (£81,211) and the Heritage Lottery Fund (£50,500).
 The total income not reported through HESA is included in Table 4 below:

  Funder                                                Value
  Arts Council England                                  £64,827
  British Council                                       £31,075
  Costa Awards                                          £40,000
  Erasmus +                                             £81,211
  Heritage Lottery Fund                                 £50,500
  International Anthony Burgess Foundation              £488,884
  Rothschild Foundation                                 £64,000
  Royal Literary Fund                                   £27,500
  Windham-Campbell                                      £118,000
  Miscellaneous (from multiple sources)                 £61,538
  TOTAL                                                 £1,027,535
 Table 4: Income not reported through HESA


 Two key examples illustrate the impact of the non-reportable funding. Roffey’s ACE grant
 (£9,700) in 2016 allowed her to begin the research for her novel The Mermaid of Black Conch,
 which subsequently won the Costa Novel Award and the Costa Book of the Year (2020).
 Biswell’s secondment resulted in an extensive series of cultural events at the IABF across the
 assessment period, as documented in impact case study MMUD27ICS5.

 3.2 Infrastructure

 Financial management at CELL level rests on a devolved faculty budget and an operational
 budget from the university (£60,000 in total), managed by the head of CELL with the support of
 the CELL Steering Committee, including the two deputy heads, all internal research centre
 heads and two Knowledge Exchange leads, as well as representatives for ECR, equality and

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 diversity, internationalisation and PGR. The Committee meets twice a term to review progress
 against our research and impact strategy, to monitor the development of our areas of specialist
 strength, to discuss internationalisation and REF preparation, and to receive updates on the
 activities of individual research groups.

 CELL is supported by a permanent Research Impact and Public Engagement Manager and her
 six-person team, who have responsibility for the faculty’s impact and public-engagement
 activities. These include the operational coordination of CELL’s public-engagement programme,
 conference organisation, support for the Gothic Manchester Festival and curation of the Haunt
 Manchester website and associated network. The team also trains researchers in impact and
 public engagement while enabling academics to establish and develop relationships with
 external stakeholders and research beneficiaries. In addition, CELL is supported in its
 Knowledge Exchange activities by the director of the Manchester Children’s Book Festival, the
 Faculty Press Officer and the directorship of the International Burgess Foundation.

 At university level, a Central RKE Office provides full-service support, including the Graduate
 School, RKE Systems, support for grant development, IP, commercialisation and contracts. Our
 researchers work with a dedicated Research Development Team, which includes an
 International Research Development Manager, and a Research Delivery Team supporting
 procurement, HR logistics, financial management and legal guidance. The Head of Impact and
 Research Environment manages a team of impact and public-engagement professionals, and a
 Research Ethics and Governance Manager offers guidance and training. Engagement with
 business is supported by a Business Development Manager, a Partnership Manager and an
 award-winning KTP team.

 RKE Systems manage: (i) Symplectic, which CELL members use to maintain a record of their
 outputs, OA compliance and their web profiles; (ii) Worktribe, for the online management of
 external funding applications; (iii) ETHOS, for research ethics and governance; and (iv)
 SkillsForge, to manage the PGR student journey. RKE Systems also provide management
 reports and data for quarterly and annual review processes. Administrators in the university’s
 Graduate School work closely with our Research Degrees Lead and PAHC. Additional support is
 provided by a team of five local RKE administrators.

 Financial support for the activities outlined in our strategic plans includes:

       Strategic Opportunities Funds: for applications in excess of £50,000, to support long-term
        projects. CELL has accessed these funds for research leader and ‘rising star’
        appointments (£1,800,000), UNESCO City of Literature (£250,000), Haunt Manchester
        (£22,200), Archer’s Linguistics Research Assistant (£24,180) and Creative Writing impact
        capture (£20,902).
       Research Accelerator Grants: for applications of up to £5,000, leading to a full
        submission to an external funding stream. Applications from ECRs are particularly
        encouraged.
       Research Development Fellowships: for applications up to £5,000, to support
        researchers to gain experience of undertaking research at an organisation from another
        sector or in another country.
       International Collaborative Fund: for applications up to £5,000, to support the
        development of international research networks that are aligned with the priorities of
        external funding agencies. This fund supports visits from leading researchers to

                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        undertake joint research and to develop joint research outputs. The faculty has a Head of
        International who, in collaboration with the Faculty RKE Head, provides additional
        funding through the faculty’s International Research Partnership Fund, which has an
        annual budget of £100,000.

 3.3 Facilities
 The University Library normally provides a full 24/7 service across the academic year, and, after
 the advent of COVID-19, has adapted to provide an online booking system for individual study
 spaces, and ‘click and collect’ for book loans. Librarians with subject-specific expertise offer
 support and guidance to CELL researchers, and they also contribute to workshops organised by
 the University Graduate School as well as the PAHC PGR Training Programme. The Library’s
 InfoSkills workshops are available to all staff and students. Inter-Library Loan requests are free,
 and researchers can utilise the SCONUL network to gain access to other libraries. CELL staff
 have access to Special Collections and their unique Children’s Book Collection of over 10,000
 books, a significant resource to researchers in Youth Studies. The university’s North West Film
 Archive comprises an internationally renowned collection of over 50,000 items of moving images
 from and about Northwest England, dating back to the 1890s. CELL researchers also make
 regular use of local specialist collections and archival resources held by Chetham’s Library, the
 International Anthony Burgess Foundation, John Rylands Library, the Working-Class Movement
 Library and the Portico Library.

 To create a state-of-the-art centre and exciting new public-engagement forum for our world-class
 expertise in poetry, the university invested in a major capital project in 2018 to establish the
 Manchester Poetry Library, including a £200,000 outlay for the acquisition of books and an
 estimated £518,000 of ongoing costs over its first five years. The MPL is situated within the
 faculty’s new Grosvenor Building, itself part of a £72.2 million Arts and Humanities development
 in Manchester’s city centre. Open to researchers, practitioners and the public, the MPL is
 designed to become an invaluable literary resource and cultural hub. With a distinctive focus on
 northern writers and Northwest regional presses, as well as the poetry of migrant communities
 and the engagement of non-traditional audiences, MPL stands as a beacon to the university’s
 commitment to public education through creative encounter and intellectual exchange. It will also
 serve as a major new research and reference resource of international reach and significance.
 CELL’s commitment to engaging local communities with its research and creative practice also
 motivated the lease of No. 70 Oxford Road, previously the Cornerhouse Cinema, a prominent
 Manchester landmark that has transported CELL’s research into the very heart of the city,
 providing an ideal venue for our manifold public-engagement activities.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Context
 CELL’s core strength resides in its passionate commitment to innovative and impactful
 community engagement. Our growing expertise in devising pioneering and influential initiatives
 that deliver real benefit to the wider world, and which put us at the forefront of reasserting the
 civic value of the Arts and Humanities, was recognised by our Queen’s Anniversary Prize for the
 ‘Mother Tongue Other Tongue’ initiative. DuffyCA’s ‘Shore to Shore’ project celebrated the value
 of independent bookshops: in 2016, Duffy and fellow poets Gillian Clarke, Imtiaz Dharker and
 Jackie Kay travelled across the UK performing their work, bringing poetry to the heart of the
 communities that these independent booksellers serve. Over 3000 people attended the 15
 ‘Shore to Shore’ events, and nearly 2000 books were sold. Since 2010, CELL’s delivery of the

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Manchester Children’s Book Festival—embedded within a year-round collaborative programme
 involving teachers, schools and communities—has given local families in-person access to
 leading children’s authors. According to Maria Balshaw (Director, Tate Galleries), MCBF ‘has
 done more than most not just to deliver arts and culture to communities, but to support the
 creativity of children and young people themselves. It is this that makes it stand out, and that is
 at the heart of its enduring impact.’ Sir Richard Leese CBE (Leader of Manchester City Council)
 commented that MCBF ‘is a hugely valued part of the cultural offer of the City of Manchester,
 enriching the lives of our young people, showing them what they can achieve and inspiring them
 to excel.’

 The Manchester Writing School’s unrivalled support for up-and-coming authors includes the
 reinvestment of £140,000 over the assessment period in the Manchester Fiction and Poetry
 Prizes. These are the most generous UK awards for unpublished work, not only increasing new
 authors’ chances of success with publishers, but also administering much-needed financial
 support. In close collaboration with Comma Press, our Writing School hosts the annual National
 Creative Writing Industry Day: since 2014, this initiative has supported as-yet-unpublished
 writers by introducing them to literary agents, booksellers and other publishing insiders. Another
 more recent initiative is the QuietManDave Prize for new flash fiction and flash non-fiction, which
 started in 2020. CELL has also led on Creative Writing’s national and indeed international
 response to the COVID pandemic by launching the Write Where We Are Now project (WWWAN)
 in the same year. Conceived by DuffyCA as ‘a radical reinvention of the anthology form’,
 WWWAN set out to solicit and curate new writing that records life under lockdown from both
 established poets and the wider public. The project resulted in a powerful display of the role of
 art and creativity in the UK at a time when the ‘use’ of the Arts and Humanities is increasingly
 being contested.

 4.2 Research collaborations (HEI and non-HEI)
 Prominent examples of our commitment to partnership building include DuffyCA’s long-standing
 collaboration with the Royal Exchange Theatre, and the annual series of events that constitute
 the Manchester Children’s Book Festival. One key motivation behind all our external
 engagement is to broaden the reach and scope of literature to captivate, enthuse and mobilise
 individuals and communities from outside the traditional reading public. To this purpose, CELL is
 continuing to form partnerships with a steadily increasing number of relevant stakeholders,
 including schools and other national and international cultural and educational agencies, such as
 the National Theatre, Welsh National Opera, the Royal Opera House, Boston Lyric Opera, the
 Royal Northern College of Music, the BBC, the Poetry Archive and the national Poetry by Heart
 initiative. This work is by no means exclusive to the Manchester Writing School, and is mirrored
 by collaborative initiatives initiated by other CELL researchers: in 2018, for example,
 Townshend, Byrne and Liggins collaborated with the National Trust on the exhibition ‘Romance
 and Revival: The Gothic at Speke Hall (Liverpool)’. In addition, Lichtenstein’s partnership with
 the Historical Society and Barbados Museum has been instrumental in inaugurating interest in
 exploring the Jewish legacy in the Caribbean. Other projects include Drummond and Carrie’s
 AHRC-funded ‘Manchester Voices’, which challenges linguistic prejudice and regional
 accentism. Burke’s AHRC-funded work in partnership with a variety of local and national
 community groups has brought about a genuine step change in the perception and
 understanding of disability, while Bullo’s close collaboration with health practitioners and
 women’s groups is revolutionising public understanding of how the pain of endometriosis often
 remains miscommunicated and hence vulnerable to misdiagnosis.



                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CELL researchers are regularly called upon to share their research expertise in the media:

        Wheatle formed the central subject of one of Steve McQueen’s Small Axe films for BBC1
         in 2020 (Series 1: Alex Wheatle), and Wheatle was the Writers’ Room Special Consultant
         for the entirety of McQueen’s acclaimed series.
        Archer is an expert consultant for Discovery’s Faking It: Tears of a Crime (2017-).
        Drummond is ‘resident linguist’ on BBC Radio 3’s The Verb (2018-).
        Lichtenstein provided expert advice to actor Daniel Radcliffe for a 2019 episode of
         BBC1’s Who Do You Think You Are?
        Mort presented a series of episodes on body modification for the Radio 4 programme
         One to One (2020).

 CELL researchers have appeared on Sky News, Sky Crime and Investigation Discovery as well
 as Radio 5 and the World Service, and they have contributed to The Independent, The
 Observer, Which?, El Diario and The Guardian.

 Significant AHRC-funded collaborations with academic partners include Rowland’s international
 Metamodernism Research Network, Archer’s collaboration with Lancaster University on a project
 exploring the language of Shakespeare, Burke’s contribution to the ‘D4D Project’ on disability
 and community with the University of Exeter, University College London and the University of
 Bristol, and Cooper’s collaboration with Lancaster University on mapping literary texts.

 4.3 Contribution to the discipline and markers of esteem

 i. Fellowships, grants and prizes
 In addition to DuffyCA’s Poet Laureateship (2009-19), CELL’s growing national and international
 reputation has been recognised by a variety of awards and prizes:

        Costa Book of the Year Award and Costa Novel Award (Roffey, 2020)
        Windham-Campbell Prize (Makumbi, 2018)
        Pinter Commission from the Royal Court Theatre (McDowall, 2018)
        Costa Poetry Award (Symmons Roberts 2014)
        Commonwealth Short Story Prize (Makumbi, 2014)
        Abraham Woursell Award (McDowall, 2016)

 McMillan has won five awards: a Guardian First Book Award (2015), the Fenton Aldeburgh First
 Collection Prize (2016), an Eric Gregory Award (2016), a Somerset Maugham Award (2016) and
 the Polari Prize (2019). In 2019, McMillan came second to Alice Oswald in the election for the
 position of Oxford Professor of Poetry, and in 2020 he was elected a fellow of the Royal Society
 of Literature, an honour that he shares with Mort and Symmons Roberts. CELL staff have also
 held a range of international fellowships:

        Andrew W. Mellon Foundation Fellowship at the Huntington Library, California
         (Townshend, 2020)
        MacDowell Colony Fellowship in Peterborough, New Hampshire (McDowall, 2018)
        Andrew W. Mellon Foundation Fellowship at the Harry Ransom Center in Austin, Texas
         (Biswell 2016)
        The Alan Cheuse International Writers Fellowship at George Mason University
         (Makumbi 2020)

                                                                                          Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Lessons and Legacies Fellowship at Northwestern University (Rowland 2016)

 International residencies have included Bullo’s with the International Association for the Study of
 Language and Culture in Health Communication, in partnership with the University of California,
 Merced, and Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile, and DuffyN’s UNESCO International
 Literary Residency in Ljubljana (both 2019).

 ii. Grant reviewing
 CELL staff contribute to the vitality and sustainability of the discipline through their ongoing
 advisory activities. Schoene sits on the AHRC Academic and Strategic Peer Review panels, the
 AHRC Research Careers and Training Network Advisory Board, and the AHRC NWCDTP
 Strategy Board. Drummond and McMillan have membership of the AHRC Peer Review College.
 Townshend is Advisor to the Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland, and Burke sits on
 the Steering Committee of the Northern Network of Medical Humanities Research.

 During the assessment period, members of CELL have reviewed grant applications for the
 AHRC (Badwan, Biswell, Drummond, McMillan, Larner and Schoene); the Austria Science Fund
 (Duffy); the British Academy/Leverhulme Trust (Larner); Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft
 (DFG) (Badwan and Drummond); the EPSRC (Larner); the ESRC (Archer, Bullo, Carrie,
 Drummond and Larner); the Irish Research Council (Townshend); the Israeli Science
 Foundation (Townshend); the National Science Centre of Poland (Drummond); The Nuffield
 Foundation (Bullo); Research England (Larner); the Social Sciences and Humanities Research
 Council Canada (Cooper); the UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship Scheme (Larner and Schoene);
 and the Wellcome Trust (Burke).

 iii. Editorial Positions/Reviewing
 CELL staff have established four new journals and book series: Horror Studies, Literary
 Geographies, Open Screens and the Irwell Edition of the Works of Anthony Burgess. CELL
 members sit on the editorial boards of 17 journals, have guest-edited five special journal issues,
 and serve as peer reviewers for over 70 academic journals—including Diacritics, Journal of
 Sociolinguistics, PMLA and Textual Practice—and over 20 academic presses, including Yale,
 Cambridge and Oxford University Presses.

 iv. Literary award panel membership
 Manchester Writing School continues to make an unparalleled and increasingly eminent
 contribution to the national ecosystem of literary awards and prizes, particularly where this
 ecosystem is designed to nurture and support newly emergent writers. Beyond its contribution
 during the assessment period to over 30 judging panels (including the Forward Prize, the Man
 Booker International Prize, the National Poetry Competition and the T.S. Eliot Prize), the MWS
 has devised its own independent Manchester Writing Competition, as well as the Rosamund
 Prize (in partnership with the RNCM) and, more recently, the QuietManDave Prize. CELL has
 also supported and actively contributed to the relaunch of Manchester’s Portico Prize. Other
 pioneering prize initiatives include the Ted Hughes Award, a ten-year Poetry Society project
 funded from DuffyCA’s laureateship honorarium, and The Observer’s Burgess Prize for Arts
 Journalism, which depends pivotally on Biswell’s support as director of the IABF.

 v. Conference organisation and contributions
 CELL successfully applied to co-host ‘English: Shared Futures’ in 2018. Following the COVID-
 related suspension of the conference, CELL played a leading role in delivering an online version

                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in 2020 in partnership with the English Association, facilitated by our £14,000 investment in a
 0.5FTE conference coordinator. CELL staff have organised ten conferences and nine symposia
 since 2014, including the annual Gothic Manchester Festival, which has evolved into a three-
 week series of cultural events across the city. In 2016, MCGS won a highly competitive bid to
 host the 2018 International Gothic Association Conference, a prestigious academic event that
 attracted over 300 international delegates from 27 countries, consolidating MCGS’s international
 and increasingly influential standing in the field. CELL staff also regularly present their research
 at major conferences in the UK and overseas, delivering 44 keynote lectures since 2014,
 including the British Council’s ‘Berlin Literature Seminar’ (Symmons Roberts). In 2020, Wheatle
 and Makumbi contributed to the 75th anniversary celebrations of the Pan-African Congress,
 which took place in Manchester in 1945 at a venue that now forms part of the university campus.

 vi. Professional Associations and Learned Societies
 As a member of the English Association’s Higher Education Committee, Rowland (together with
 the EA’s chair) is currently working on an analysis of the discipline’s COVID response and the
 impact of the pandemic on teaching and research in English. In 2020, this work resulted in a
 special issue of Issues in English on disciplinary responses to the pandemic, co-edited by
 Professor Jenny Richards (Newcastle University), Rob Penman (Chair of the EA) and Rowland.
 In addition to membership of numerous learned societies, CELL researchers have been elected
 to prominent positions on various boards, including those of the Arvon Foundation, the British
 Association for Applied Linguistics, the International Gothic Association, the Poetry Archive, the
 Poetry Book Society and the Royal Literary Fund.

 vii. Examination of Doctorates
 Since 2014 CELL researchers have examined over 60 doctorates in 50 institutions, including the
 Universities of Auckland, Brussels, Cambridge, Gothenberg, Lorraine, Malta, Melbourne,
 Monash, Poznan, St Andrews, Singapore, Tel Aviv, the West Indies and Western Australia.

 In conclusion, the university has invested extensively and with great confidence in research in
 English and Linguistics during what has been a period of uncertainty for the Arts and Humanities
 at a national level. Strategic institutional investment of £1.08 million has resulted in 36 new
 appointments, and led to the creation of the first public poetry library in a UK university. Since
 2017, CELL has worked in close partnership with Manchester City Council and the University of
 Manchester to gain UNESCO City of Literature status, and subsequently to establish the project
 as a charitable organisation, supported by a diverse executive team and board of trustees. Our
 key guiding principle has been to define a vision and strategic plan that employs literature and
 creative writing in the service of inclusivity, social justice and sustainability. Over the coming
 years, we shall mobilise our research resources and cultural assets, including the Manchester
 Poetry Library, to seek funding from trusts, foundations and research councils, and continue to
 collaborate with our network of partners and stakeholders from libraries, publishers and writing-
 development organisations. As the Chief Executive of Arts Council England has commented, the
 work of the Manchester Writing School is ‘transformative’, and demonstrates ‘the social and
 cultural impact that can be achieved through the arts and literature’.




                                                                                             Page 22
