Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Manchester
 Unit of Assessment: 13 (Architecture, Built Environment and Planning)
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Context

 The Departments of Architecture and Planning and Environmental Management (APEM) are
 based in the School of Environment, Education and Development (SEED), one of four Schools
 in the Faculty of Humanities. Organised around three themed clusters, researchers across the
 two departments produce agenda-setting research of international importance which engages
 with multiple external audiences, locally, nationally and internationally.

 The vitality and sustainability of our research environment is reflected in:

       A consistent flow of high-quality publications, including twenty monographs and over
        200 outputs included in the Social Sciences Citation Index (of which 33.2% were rated
        by SciVal in the top quartile for field-weighted impact).
       Continuing success in generating impactful research and fostering collaboration with
        policy and user communities, as evidenced by three impact case studies selected for
        assessment, and by our research more generally.
       Development of a vibrant culture for postgraduate research (PGR) and an effective
        system for research training and supervision, reflected in 55.4 FTE PhD completions
        from 2013/14-2019/20 (representing 2.0 per CatA staff).
       The award of key prizes and commendations for our research (e.g. Association of
        European Schools of Planning (AESOP) best article prize, 2014; Wolfson Prize, 2014;
        Founders Award of the Society of Architectural Historians, 2016; Lize Meitner award,
        2017; The Planner Women of Influence list, 2017, 2018; Nick Tyrrell Research Prize for
        best real estate paper, 2015; Harold Samuel Research Prize in real estate, 2020; Royal
        Institute of British Architects (RIBA) President’s Award for Research in History and
        Theory, 2020).
       Attraction of £3.44 million in research revenue, an increased proportion of which derived
        from blue-chip sources such as UK Research Councils (54%) and the European
        Commission (31%).

 These achievements have been underpinned by a research environment that continues to
 support research excellence. As later sections explain, the period since REF2014 has seen the
 consolidation and improvement of this environment, growing our research base, enhancing the
 resources for research, developing PGRs and early-career researchers (ECRs), and enabling
 APEM to generate world-leading impactful research.

 1.2 Unit structure and organisation

 APEM sits within a multi-level structure for research support and governance. Our researchers
 are part of two university-wide interdisciplinary research institutes, the Manchester Urban
 Institute (MUI, launched in 2016) and the newly created Manchester Environmental Research
 Institute (MERI), which provide a mechanism for fostering collaborative cross-departmental
 working. At School level, SEED’s research director, working alongside a research support
 manager, coordinates the School Research Committee, with APEM representation from the
 respective departmental research directors, Yaneva and Kingston. SEED provides pre- and
 post-award support for research projects, competitively allocated developmental funding for
 new research, support for impact and knowledge exchange, and monitoring of progress against

                                                                                          Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 REF2014 commitments and the School and University research strategies.

 Within APEM, we organise research around three clusters:

    (1) the Spatial Policy and Analysis Lab (SPA-Lab), directed by Wong and part of MUI;
    (2) the Manchester Architecture Research Group (MARG), directed by Yaneva, also part
        of MUI; and
    (3) the Sustainability, Resilience, Nature and Built Environments cluster, directed by Mell
        and linked to MERI.

 The clusters support and mentor PGRs and ECRs, provide a conduit to non-academic
 stakeholders to engender impact, and input to School and University research strategies. They
 are designed as stable but permeable groupings rather than hard structures, thus enabling
 cross-cluster synergies.

 1.3 Strategic aims for research and impact

 Our research strategy aims to enable world-leading research, closely reflecting one of the three
 core goals of the University’s Manchester 2020 strategic vision and the UoM Research
 Strategy. Following a review of our strategy in light of REF2014, we identified five goals:

    i)      generate and lead academic debates which take forward our understanding of the
            role of architecture and planning in creating a sustainable future;
    ii)     support research which generates positive societal impacts and informs policy and
            practitioner agendas;
    iii)    recruit, retain and develop high-quality researchers by building and maintaining an
            inclusive research environment and providing a research infrastructure conducive
            to world-leading scholarly activity;
    iv)     nurture future generations of world-leading researchers by expanding and
            supporting our ECR and PGR communities; and
    v)      attract a higher proportion of blue-chip research income to enable long-term
            fundamental scholarly enquiry and set international research agendas.

 We have delivered fully against all five goals in the current REF cycle, as demonstrated below.
 These goals will continue to shape our research after REF2021.

 In the remainder of this section, for each of the three research clusters, we highlight our major
 achievements since REF2014.

 1.3.1 Spatial Policy and Analysis Lab (SPA-Lab)

 Research undertaken through the SPA-Lab, part of the interdisciplinary MUI, continues a
 policy-relevant programme of urban scholarly enquiry, developed over the previous thirty years.
 The influence of SPA-Lab research on scholarly and policy agendas is evident in relation to
 four specialisms: (1) infrastructure and mobility; (2) planning decision-support systems; (3)
 spatial development in China; and (4) urban governance, politics and planning. Research
 across these substantive areas has attracted major research council funded grants in the UK
 and internationally (Europe, South America and China).

 SPA-Lab specialism (1), infrastructure and mobility, brings together multiple projects aimed at
 developing new ways to explore patterns of mobility and inform emerging research and policy

                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 agendas. This has included ESRC-funded work on the socio-spatial equity dimensions of
 travel-to-work flows, which developed a new geodemographic classification of commuting
 patterns and produced an interactive website that challenged conventional policy thinking
 (Kingston, Wong, Schulze-Baing). New ways to conceptualize and measure mobility were
 also developed through Pinto’s research on the development of indicators to assess resilience
 in urban mobility in São Paulo, and an associated doctoral studentship to develop a policy
 decision-support system for Greater Manchester Combined Authority (GMCA). Further
 research on urban mobility has focused on developing a new methodological framework to
 capture the spatial patterning, asymmetries and hysteresis of car travel (Thanos). Research
 on urban mobility also includes Acheampong’s work, as part of an early career University
 Presidential Fellowship, exploring the adoption of driverless vehicles, the resultant impact on
 travel behaviour and land-use, and the implications for urban governance and policy. We are
 extending research on infrastructure and mobility through new projects (e.g. Wong’s ongoing
 five-year MRC project on mobility patterns, working with GMCA to explore the relationship
 between transport infrastructure, mobility and planning healthy urban development; and
 Nanda’s research to develop new interdisciplinary methods on forecasting the impacts of new
 infrastructure).

 SPA-Lab specialism (2), planning decision-support systems, has supported, developed and
 critiqued existing and emerging forms of public engagement in planning-related decisions.
 Building on Kingston’s long-term programme of research on public participation geographical
 information systems (PP-GIS), the central scholarly and policy contribution of this work has
 been to identify, codify and analyse multiple forms of community knowledge and expertise, and
 transform it into useful ways of improving policy-making. For example, by integrating data
 science and GIS visualisation, recent projects (e.g. RTPI’s Map for England and the UK2070
 Commission’s Industry 4.0 report, Baker, Schulze-Baing, Zheng, Wong) have revealed
 hidden spatial relationships of development to inform planning policy and practitioner agendas.
 Other examples include Black’s use of the novel Q-Method approach to explore decision-
 making linked to design reviews, and Pinto’s pioneering research on the development of an
 innovative cellular automata model to better represent space and spatial interaction.

 SPA-Lab specialism (3), spatial development in China, builds on APEM’s long-term research
 strategy on international urbanization and planning. A central element has been a three-year
 ESRC-NSFC Newton Fund project led by Wong (with Baker, Barker, Kingston, Pinto,
 Zheng), working alongside the Chinese Academy of Sciences, on eco-urbanization and
 planning in metropolitan regions of China. This research has deepened understanding of the
 interrelationships between urban development, environmental impacts, and strategies to
 manage and plan for sustainable urbanization. To create synergy with the Newton Fund project
 and build capacity, a three-year Hallsworth postdoctoral fellowship explored high-speed rail
 development and sustainable spatial growth in the Yangtze River Delta (Wang, Wong); a three-
 year Leverhulme Fellowship is assessing spatial decentralisation and sustainable urbanization
 in China (Zheng); Zhang was appointed to extend our research on Chinese urbanization,
 through her work critiquing creativity and culture-led regeneration; and three China Scholarship
 Council doctoral studentships explored environmental and socio-demographic aspects of eco-
 urbanization.

 SPA-Lab specialism (4), urban governance, politics and planning, challenges conventional
 academic understanding and policy narratives around planning and urban economic
 development. For instance, path-breaking critiques of agglomerationist models of city-
 regionalism by Deas, Haughton and Hincks have led to ongoing critical research on
 devolution experiments in northern England, including recently the emergence of alternative

                                                                                          Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 models. Also notable is Haughton’s work on planning ideologies, exploring how central
 government planning policy is subject to shaping pressures from organisations like think-tanks.
 Agenda-setting work on planning and post-politics, evident in REF2014, continues through
 research exploring how local protests are ‘contained’ (Haughton), while work on soft spaces
 of governance has been developed via new theorizations of scalar postpolitics and spatial
 imaginaries (Deas, Haughton, Hincks). Augmenting this work on the Northern Powerhouse
 has been further research, undertaken as part of the UK2070 Commission, on spatial
 inequalities, aimed at challenging policy and influencing the ‘levelling-up’ agenda (Wong, with
 Sheffield, UCL). All this work has been complemented by multiple doctoral studentships.

 1.3.2 International theories of architecture and design practice

 The second APEM cluster is the Manchester Architecture Research Group (MARG). The
 overarching goal of MARG has been to develop new areas of architectural research, create
 new standards of architectural pedagogy, and facilitate novel ways of engaging in public
 debate. This has been undertaken in relation to three specialisms: (1) political agency of
 architecture; (2) architectural histories; (3) planning and design of urban structures and
 infrastructures.

 MARG’s first specialism has positioned theoretical understanding of the politics of architecture
 at the forefront of international research agendas, drawing upon conceptual and empirical
 investigation in multiple contexts. For example, Yaneva’s research on environmental politics
 and architecture (with Princeton University) questioned the role of architectural design during
 the Anthropocene, scrutinizing different examples of cosmopolitically correct design. A further
 project, inspired by object-oriented political thought, generated original insights into the political
 agency of design practice based on case studies of multiple international cities. Yaneva also
 completed a major work on the role of archiving as an epistemological basis of architectural
 history, undertaking ethnographic exploration of archival and conservation practices at the
 Canadian Centre for Architecture to generate a novel agenda for exploring the politics of
 architectural archive-making. Minuchin’s research has engaged conceptually and practically
 with the politics of construction practices, developing action-research methodologies for design
 interventions in deprived urban areas in the Global South (ESRC and the National Research
 Council of Ecuador).

 The second MARG specialism has taken architectural history in new conceptual and empirical
 directions. Stanek’s landmark work on modernist planning and architecture in former socialist
 countries has focused on multiple genealogies of architecture’s globalization during the Cold
 War, seen through the lens of socialist internationalism and the Non-Aligned Movement. This
 work has uncovered and explained planning documentation which has often been dispersed
 and could be relevant for current planning decisions (e.g. Baghdad ex-masterplan) and
 conservation/preservation of post-independence architecture (e.g. West Africa, Middle East).
 Stanek also introduced an unknown manuscript of Henri Lefebvre to an audience of cross-
 disciplinary urban scholars. Szacka’s work is among the first re-examinations of postmodern
 architecture’s history and theory, opening new debates, unveiling hitherto unexplored archives,
 and deepening our understanding of discourses on architecture exhibitions and curating
 architecture. Drawing on institutional theories, Förster’s research on the history of the New
 York-based Institute for Architecture and Urban Studies extends knowledge of the
 postmodernization of architecture, demonstrating its contribution to the wider avant-garde
 culture that emerged in the 1980s.

 MARG’s third specialism has centred on the planning and design of urban structures,

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 infrastructure and spaces, across a range of settings. Lewis’s research has investigated how
 building design can address the challenges and opportunities posed by an ageing population,
 climate change, and the growing awareness of health and wellbeing. Iossifova has conducted
 work on urban borderlands, exploring socio-spatial fragmentation, migration, coexistence and
 identity processes under rapid urban transformation in developing countries, including China.
 She has also undertaken work on Cities as Complex Adaptive Systems (ESRC), identifying
 innovative ways to link soft and hard systems through mixed-methods research to produce
 simulative models of urban systems and enable scenario-based multi-level decision-making,
 working with an international network of academics and practitioners. MARG’s research on
 infrastructure is continuing through Iossifova’s recently awarded NERC and GCRF grants on
 sustainable sanitation in India, Brazil and China.

 This third MARG specialism has also extended into the novel area of ephemeral architecture.
 Lucas’s research on marketplaces and festivals in Korea and Japan has augmented the
 research literature on visual ethnography, highlighting the practices of drawing and inscription
 in architectural work. Walker’s work on the architecture of travelling fairs has used critical
 theory to re-engage with this long-overlooked area of cultural and spatial practice within
 architecture research.

 1.3.3 Sustainability, resilience, nature and built environments

 Working within MERI, research excellence in this cluster is evident in terms of grant income
 and the scholarly and societal impact of research findings across three specialisms. Research
 on green infrastructure is a longstanding specialism, and work in the current review period has
 generated new insights on planning and implementation (Mell), natural flood management
 (Carter, Barker), the financing of urban greening (Mell), green growth (Barker) and health,
 design and ageing (Barker, Zandieh). Funding for this work has derived from three NERC
 grants, the Valuing Nature Partnership, and two Horizon2020 projects, as part of two multi-
 organisational consortia. The green growth project (Barker) involves co-production with
 partners to develop and test a route map which translates green infrastructure scientific
 research into a practical user interface. Mell has engaged local authorities to develop a robust
 economic baseline for investment in green infrastructure. He worked with Defra and Natural
 England to create a new set of Green Infrastructure Standards. Against the backdrop of
 austerity, Mell’s Valuing Nature work provides a new insight to the role of developers in
 providing green infrastructure.

 Second, research on resilience and the built environment has again influenced research and
 policy agendas. A further Horizon2020 project, RESIN (Carter, Hincks), has supported the
 development of approaches to enhance the resilience of critical infrastructure in the face of
 extreme weather and climate change. The RESIN impact case demonstrates how this research
 has benefited external users through the development of tools and methodologies to support
 decision-making to plan for and respond to climate risks. This research is being developed
 further as part of the EU-funded IGNITION project (2019-21), which aims to increase climate
 change resilience by expanding green infrastructure cover in Greater Manchester (Carter,
 Barker).

 The cluster’s resilience and the built environment specialism has also involved work on
 community involvement in promoting resilience. This work includes Stein’s research on
 environmental disasters in different international contexts, which demonstrates the importance
 of policy actors identifying and harnessing unrecognised community activity in order to manage
 and minimize risk more effectively. The potential and problems associated with community

                                                                                          Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 involvement in developing resilience has also featured in research on the roles of co-production
 and expert practice in reconciling multiple sources of flood knowledge and increasing climate
 change resilience (Barker, Carter, Haughton, Jones).

 A third theme of this cluster focuses on community environmental futures. Unifying this work
 has been an emphasis on the development of practical tools to help promote community
 preparedness for future environmental change. This work includes the development of
 quantitative methods to inform practical tools for energy supply and housing demand
 management (Thanos), inclusive mechanisms for community engagement (Tippett’s impact
 case), and research by Ravetz generating new insights into emergent practices to mobilize
 collective intelligence for sustainable environmental futures.

 1.4 Research impact and user engagement

 The APEM strategy prioritizes impactful research that benefits non-academic users and
 engages a wide range of stakeholders (goal 2). Impact is supported by deploying School funds
 (section 3.2), with the help of SEED’s research and impact team (section 3.3.2). All three APEM
 impact cases are based on long-term multi-project research programmes, with impact
 developing over lengthy periods (e.g. Tippett’s case demonstrates deepening and widening
 impacts over successive REF cycles).

 As part of our commitment to open and inclusive access to APEM research, we disseminate
 findings as widely as possible, guided by the University Publications Policy (2015). An Open
 Access (OA) Gateway and fully mediated deposit service are available to all researchers
 (Section 2.5 REF5a). The University’s OA Fund allows researchers to access resources to
 publish on a Gold OA basis. Reflecting this support, 97% of REF-eligible APEM papers are OA
 compliant

 Alongside published outputs, we strongly encourage research data to be made more openly
 available, while maintaining a culture of research integrity, based on the ethical and legal
 standards contained in the University’s Code of Good Research Conduct (see 3.3.2). To that
 end, APEM researchers use a Research Data Gateway developed by the Library. Alongside
 our commitment to making APEM research data available to other researchers, where
 appropriate we make data accessible to non-academic users (e.g. Kingston and Carter’s
 impact cases show how a range of users have accessed data on climate change risks).
 Section 2: People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Strategy for recruiting, developing and supporting researchers is overseen by the heads of
 department (Baker, Walker), informed by the departmental research directors (Kingston,
 Yaneva) and coordinators of the three research clusters (Mell, Wong, Yaneva).

 2.1.2 Staff recruitment and development strategy

 APEM’s recruitment strategy has been developed in light of the wider goal of promoting world-
 leading research. The period since REF2014 has seen APEM’s CatA staff increase from 17.6
 to 27.6 FTE. 48% of staff were appointed in the current REF cycle. The staff profile is
 significantly more balanced in terms of ethnicity and we continue to promote equality and
 diversity in recruitment (section 2.3).

                                                                                          Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The focus of recruitment has been on selective senior appointments supported by ECR posts
 to reinforce and extend the three clusters (goals 3, 4, section 1.3). Nanda was appointed as
 chair in 2019 to develop research capacity in relation to real estate finance and project
 management, linking particularly to the work of Thanos, Wong and others in SPA-Lab. In line
 with strategic goal 4 (section 1.3), we have made eight ECR appointments since REF2014
 (Acheampong, Förster, Schulze-Baing, Szacka, Wang, Zandieh, Zhang, Zheng). Some
 appointments relate to anticipated or actual succession planning (e.g. appointment of Zhang
 in 2019 following Haughton’s change to part-time status). Two ECR posts were secured via
 competitive funding through the University’s Presidential Fellowship (Acheampong, appointed
 2018) and Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship schemes (Zheng, appointed 2019).

 Our promotion procedures are designed to incentivise high quality research and maximise
 impact. Since 2014, eleven APEM academic staff have been promoted: Baker, Yaneva,
 Kingston and Walker (to Chair) and Barker, Carter, Iossifova, Mell, Szacka, Stanek and
 Thanos (to Senior Lecturer/Fellow). Promotion criteria give weight to knowledge exchange and
 impact, as well as research, service and leadership and (where appropriate) teaching. A
 number of researchers have been promoted partly in recognition of the external impact of their
 work (e.g. Carter and Kingston’s impact cases).

 Our promotion procedures recognise and reward achievements at all levels. Reflecting our
 strategic commitment to nurturing future research leaders, five of six ECRs appointed in the
 previous REF period have secured promotions, either at Manchester (Iossifova, Minuchin,
 Stanek) or elsewhere (Doucet to Professor at Chalmers, Hincks to Reader at Sheffield,
 Karvonen to Associate Professor, KTH Royal Institute of Technology). Several APEM doctoral
 students have progressed to internal temporary lectureships (e.g. Koksal, Snow).

 2.1.3 Support for researchers

 In line with the University’s overriding commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion, we
 support researchers at all career stages (e.g. by ensuring that research students participate in
 strategy discussion in clusters) and colleagues with varied work patterns (e.g. through our core
 hours policy of timetabling meetings to accommodate part-time researchers and colleagues
 with caring responsibilities, and by accommodating pressures resulting from COVID-19).

 To maintain this researcher-friendly environment, colleagues participate in an annual research-
 focused appraisal. This opportunity for self-reflection helps individuals develop their careers by
 reviewing progress, agreeing short and long-term priorities, discussing ideas for securing
 grants, supporting publication and dissemination strategies, and ensuring that, where
 appropriate, external impact is maximized.

 2.1.4 Support for early-career researchers

 We recognise the distinct support needs of ECRs, whether appointed as lecturers (Förster,
 Lewis, Schulze-Baing, Szacka, Zandieh, Zhang) or post-doctoral fellows (Acheampong,
 Wang, Zheng). We help to fulfil their potential by ensuring rapid integration to our research
 community. All ECRs are allocated to a mentor, ensuring they are embedded in the research
 of one or more of our clusters. Mentors work closely alongside ECRs on a range of research
 activities, from grant applications to publications and impact (e.g. Kingston with Acheampong;
 Wong with Zheng). Mentors also ensure that ECRs are directed to appropriate training and
 career development resources provided by the University’s Careers Service, Library, Staff
 Training and Development Unit, and IT services.

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Further support mechanisms for ECR career development include a reduced teaching and
 administrative workload. All ECRs and probationers attend the research elements of the
 Faculty’s New Academics Programme, accredited by Advance-HE. The Faculty Researcher
 Development Team uses Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework to plan training events
 and promote skills development.

 We also give ECRs priority in relation to internal seed-corn funding to support career
 development. Conference attendance funds provide up to £1,200 per researcher, with priority
 and additional resources for ECRs. The annual School Research Stimulation Fund awards up
 to £5,000 for small-scale projects, again prioritizing ECRs. The Faculty’s Strategic Investment
 Fund aims to pump-prime the development of larger interdisciplinary collaborative research
 applications; past ECR recipients include Iossifova and Minuchin, both of whom went on to
 win larger grants and secure promotion.

 2.1.5 Research leave

 We use sabbatical leave in a managed and pro-active way, linked to future research
 achievement. All academic staff, including colleagues on fixed-term contracts, are eligible to
 apply for one semester of sabbatical after six semesters of normal duties (part-time staff
 eligibility is determined pro rata). Applicants submit a planned programme of research or impact
 and knowledge exchange activity, which is reviewed at departmental level before the School
 sabbatical committee decides on final approval. To help disseminate findings, promote wider
 impact and contribute to our research environment more generally, researchers produce post-
 sabbatical reports and give presentations within their respective departmental seminar series.

 This managed approach to the award, monitoring and evaluation of sabbatical has opened new
 areas of research and important collaborations. For example, Haughton used sabbatical to
 engage in collaborative research at Waikato on environmental risks in New Zealand, and at
 Sydney on post-political governance, leading to published work on ‘risky spaces’ and major
 infrastructure developments. Similarly, Yaneva used sabbatical leave at Princeton to develop
 new work on cosmopolitical designs. Wong’s sabbatical led to collaboration with researchers
 in China and to ESRC-funded research on eco-urbanization and associated SPA-Lab projects.

 2.2 PGR support, training and supervision

 APEM continues to be a leading provider of PhD training in planning, environmental
 management and social science studies of architecture. Over the REF period, 55.4 FTE
 students completed a PhD (compared to 33.5 at REF2014), representing 2.0 completions per
 CatA FTE staff.

 Our leading status as a PhD provider is evidenced below in relation to: buoyant recruitment of
 new doctoral students; an effective system for training, supporting and supervising students;
 and the achievements of PhD students in producing publishable research, generating wider
 impact, and progressing their research careers.

 2.2.1 PGR recruitment

 At census date, 51.7 PGRs (FTE) were supervised by APEM researchers. Our recruitment
 strategy focuses on the intellectual calibre of students and the potential for their research topics
 to reinforce the core themes of our research clusters, while also benefitting from the

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 interdisciplinary potential within a large research-intensive university.

 We have secured external scholarships for students, as well as deploying internal resources to
 promote student recruitment. Nine of our post-2014 PGRs have received UKRI studentships.
 Our commitment to cultivating policy and practice links is evident in collaborative funding
 secured for multiple CASE studentships. External partners for UKRI-funded collaborative
 studentships have included local social housing providers (Trafford Housing Trust), land
 development charities (MERCi), policy think-tanks (IPPR North) and professional groups (Town
 and Country Planning Association). Funding from international bodies (e.g. Ford Foundation,
 CONACYT-Mexico and Newton-Mosharafa) has helped us to recruit high-quality international
 students.

 APEM has been successful in applying for internal university resources to attract high-quality
 students. 29 APEM students have received University studentships, and a further six have been
 awarded the prestigious President’s Doctoral Scholar Award, a £2.5m flagship scheme offering
 around 100 studentships annually across the University. In 2019, we secured three of ten
 studentships offered through a collaborative doctoral programme involving the universities of
 Manchester and Melbourne. We have actively utilised SEED’s Teaching Assistant funding to
 recruit PGRs, in doing so providing training opportunities to help students engage in teaching
 and develop their careers. SEED funding is also being used to promote diversity among PGRs,
 through a new Enhancing Racial Equality Doctoral Studentship, launched in 2021.

 2.2.2 Training, support and supervision

 Strong support mechanisms for APEM doctoral students exist at all levels within and beyond
 the University.

 We are active participants in the NW Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership (NWSSDTP)
 (ESRC), Data Analytics and Society Centre for Doctoral Training (ESRC), the North West
 Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership (AHRC), and EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in
 Power Networks. Longstanding arrangements with Geography and Planning at Liverpool
 (reciprocal attendance at research student seminar sessions, subject-specific training, and joint
 supervision of selected students) have been enhanced as an integral part of the NWSSDTP.

 Within UoM, the Manchester Doctoral College (MDC) oversees all aspects of the University’s
 doctoral training and researcher development, integrating PGR support with career
 development. APEM’s newly established MSc in Research Methods with Planning and
 Environmental Management is part of a school-wide suite of degrees providing generic and
 discipline-specific foundational research training. Guided by supervisory teams, students
 undertake a structured training programme in methods, comprising compulsory modules (e.g.
 research integrity and ethics) and electives (e.g. from the Faculty’s Methods@Manchester
 programme of methods-related courses). Reflecting their distinct needs, Architecture PGRs
 undertake additional methods training and writing ateliers on architectural theory and history.

 Support for APEM PhD students is provided through a panel supervision structure (two
 supervisors and an additional panel advisor), with six-monthly and annual reviews. An online
 progress monitoring system records students’ engagement with training and sets out critical
 milestones for the completion of their PhD.

 All APEM research students are allocated to a research cluster to ensure they integrate with
 the wider research community. Doctoral students are encouraged to play an active role in the

                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 departmental seminar series. Students also benefit from working within a supportive
 interdisciplinary research environment, using shared SEED facilities and drawing upon cross-
 departmental peer support (e.g. MUI reading group organised by APEM students).

 2.2.3 PGR researcher development

 To prepare for future careers, we encourage PGRs to present their research, publish their work
 and promote wider impact. Supervisors help first year PGRs to present at a student-organised
 seminar series. PGRs also present at the annual School PhD Research Conference, a student-
 organised event involving around 50 participants. PGRs have organised events such as the
 annual conference of the Architectural Humanities Research Association (2019) with 60
 international participants, and the international symposia “Planetary Urbanization and
 Architectural Research” (2019) and “Another Scenography for Architecture” (2019). In 2018,
 PGRs in the SPA-Lab used APEM funds to organise a two-day international conference on
 ‘China’s New Urban Agenda’, presenting findings from the ESRC-NSFC Newton Fund
 Collaborative project on eco-urbanization.

 Experience gained through these student-focused and organised events prepares PGRs for
 external conferences. Students also receive financial assistance (at least £600 each) from
 School and Faculty conference funds (and additional support for those with caring
 responsibilities). This funding has allowed PGRs to present at international conferences (e.g.
 Royal Geographical Society, 2018, 2019; Association of American Geographers, 2019; and
 Assist-UK, 2019). Conference presentations have also generated articles by PGRs in leading
 journals: among many examples, Antipode (Thompson), Environment and Planning C, E
 (Bafarasat, Snow), Urban Studies (Martin, Kefford) and International Journal of Urban and
 Regional Research (Horn).

 We also encourage students to consider the non-academic/wider impact of their research.
 Hjelmskog, supervised by Deas and Baker, completed an ESRC internship with GMCA. Doyle
 won the ESRC Celebrating Impact Prize 2015 for Outstanding Early Career Impact, following
 a CASE studentship with Homes England (supervised by Deas). PhD research by Gibbs
 (supervised by Wong) informed a BBC Panorama broadcast in 2018 on failed city centre
 housing development. Another example is a practitioner focused one-day seminar and
 workshop on social housing futures (2019), funded by MUI and led by three PGRs (supervised
 by Deas and Wong).

 These examples of APEM support for doctoral research and impact, alongside career
 development support via MDC, have allowed PhD graduates to secure post-doctoral posts at
 UoM (e.g. Koksal, Shakeri, Snow, Taheri, Qiaoor) and other universities (e.g. Arnold,
 Crawshaw, Hayes, Hassan, Heaphy, Lawson, Miedzinski, Morrison, Moustaka, Sharif,
 Thompson). Others have secured lectureships (e.g. Crawshaw, Newcastle; Kefford, Leiden;
 Horn, Sheffield; Lecomte, Ecole Nationale Supérieure d’Architecture de Versailles; Martin,
 Aalborg).

 2.3 Equality, diversity and inclusion

 APEM research is undertaken within a broader context that prioritises equality, diversity and
 inclusion (EDI). SEED achieved Athena Swan bronze in 2017, and is working towards silver
 status. SEED was commended for its honest acknowledgement of gender diversity challenges,
 its evidence-based approach to monitoring, and its inclusion of EDI as a standing item on
 committee agendas. SEED organised a ‘Women into Leadership’ training course which the

                                                                                       Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Athena Swan committee recognised as good practice and is now being extended across the
 entire University. Reflecting progress to date, UoM was ranked 47th in the 2020 national
 Stonewall employer rankings.

 Equitable recruitment of researchers is central to the development of our research community.
 All members of staff appointment committees complete training on EDI and unconscious bias.
 This training has allowed us to improve the gender balance and ethnic diversity of APEM
 researchers. 30% of FTE CatA APEM researchers are women, of whom four are new recruits.
 For PGR students, an average of 54% of recruits annually over the REF period were women.
 24% of CatA APEM researchers are of BAME heritage, increasing from two at REF2014 to six.
 15 different non-UK nationalities are represented among CatA APEM researchers, including all
 eight ECR recruits since 2014. On average, 67% of PGR recruits annually since REF2014 are
 non-UK. To help offset the underrepresentation of BAME PGRs, in 2021 SEED launched a
 ring-fenced Enhancing Racial Equality Doctoral Studentship.

 SEED produces a biannual report on progress against EDI objectives. As part of our workload
 allocation model, SEED monitors roles by gender and seniority. A long-established system of
 mentoring for probationary appointments also helps to promote equalities, as recent appointees
 establish and plan their future career development. In 2019, mentoring was extended to mid-
 career researchers, helping to promote equality in relation to promotions and academic
 leadership roles. Complementing this formative support, summative review via annual research
 performance meetings and the staff appraisal system helps to ensure that academic research
 managers are aware of EDI challenges.

 In line with the University’s REF2021 Code of Practice, SEED internal funds and coaching
 mechanisms help colleagues (e.g. with caring responsibilities or disabilities) to improve the
 quality of their published outputs, linked to the wider development of their research careers.
 More broadly, we accommodate caring responsibilities by encouraging flexible working
 patterns. The SEED core hours policy limits meetings to specific times that are less likely to
 impinge on caring responsibilities. This policy has supported new working patterns in response
 to COVID-19. In 2019, SEED launched a pilot returners scheme for carers, entitling researchers
 to apply for additional sabbatical and/or enhanced research support funding.

 APEM has embodied EDI principles in current leadership roles (e.g. Wong and Yaneva as
 directors of the SPA-Lab and MARG clusters) and future ones (e.g. Nanda’s appointment at
 chair level in 2019 to develop real estate research). Ensuring ethnic and gender balance in
 leadership roles has helped APEM to develop an inclusive REF preparation strategy, taking
 account of EDI principles in UoM’s Code of Practice (e.g. REF preparations have been led by
 a gender-balanced team comprising Deas and Yaneva).


 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Research funding strategy

 A strategic goal after REF2014 has been to attract a higher proportion of blue-chip research
 income (goal 5, section 1.3). This is partly a response to diminishing public sector research
 budgets, but the strategy also aims to reduce dependence on short-term contract research and
 generate the resources to facilitate long-term fundamental scholarly enquiry. Reflecting this
 strategy, over the period 2013/14-2019/20, the majority (54%) of our £3.44m research revenue
 derived from research councils (compared to 42% at REF2014) (Figure 1). In contrast, reliance


                                                                                       Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 on UK central and local government has remained low, at 3.5%. We have also targeted other
 sources, notably the European Commission (31%) and charitable trusts and voluntary bodies
 (4.3%), again in order to support high-quality scholarly research.

                            Figure 1: Percentage grant income by category, 2008-13 and 2013-20
     60
                    53.6

     50
             42.4

     40
                                                                                   33.6
                                                                                          31.4
     30

     20
                                                                     11.8
     10                       4.5 3.7                    3.7 3.5                                                              3.9
                                           0.7 0.6                          0.4                  1.3 2.8   0.8 0.1      1.1
     0
              a. DIUS       b. UK-based c. UK-based    d. UK central e. UK industry,  g. EU  j. EU       k. Non-EU-    m. Non-EU
             Research      charities (open charities   government commerce & government (excluding UK) based charities   other
             Councils       competitive     (other)    bodies/local      public      bodies  other          (open
                              process)                  authorities, corporations                       competitive
                                                         health &                                         process)
                                                          hospital
                                                        authorities

                                                              2008-13        2013-20


 Underpinning this strategic repositioning of funding is a research grant culture that prioritises
 applying for and securing high-quality external income. We have supported this activity in three
 main ways:
     a rigorous system of peer review within the clusters has improved the quality of grant
        applications.
     membership of interdisciplinary networks such as MUI and MERI has provided the
        critical mass of research expertise and peer support to identify funding opportunities
        and facilitate high-quality applications.
     provision of competitively allocated seed-corn funds has supported external grant
        capture (e.g. UoM Hallsworth funding provided £20,000 to pump-prime Iossifova’s
        network-building on urbanization, infrastructures and everyday life in East Asia, leading
        to a £440,582 Royal Society/GCRF grant and NERC funding of £323,768).

 The result of this strategy has been success in attracting support from AHRC, EPSRC, ESRC,
 MRC and NERC. Examples of some of the more significant external grants and awards, which
 also reflect the diversity of our research themes and external sponsors, include:

         Research Councils: Grant funding from NERC includes projects on green infrastructure
          (Barker) and natural flood management (Carter, Barker). In 2020, Kingston secured a
          five-year NERC-funded £8m project, ‘Digital Solutions Platforms and Toolkits’, to develop
          new tools that utilise environmental data, as part of UoM’s Digital Futures initiative, working
          with NERC data centres and government departments. Major ESRC grants include a
          project on transportation and the socio-spatial equity dimensions of travel-to-work flows
          (Kingston, Wong), and cities as complex adaptive systems (Iossifova). We have been
          actively involved in Newton Fund projects to promote collaborative international research,

                                                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     including projects assessing the retrofitting and rethinking of the planned city (Mell, Barker),
     eco-urbanization and sustainable development in metropolitan regions of China (Wong,
     Baker, Barker, Kingston, Pinto), and peri-urbanization and climate-environment change
     (Ravetz).
    Major collaborative research: Wong is Co-I (£1m for UoM) on a consortium led by Bristol,
     awarded £6.7m by the UKRI-led Prevention Research Partnership to examine how to tackle
     unhealthy urban development linked to non-communicable diseases.
    European Commission: EU funding for major collaborative projects has included four
     Horizon2020 grants (Carter, Mell, Barker) and the Urban Innovative Actions programme
     (Carter, Barker).
    Central government: although representing a diminishing fraction of overall income,
     government funding has supported major projects which reinforce long-term specialisms.
     These include research for Defra/Natural England on Green Infrastructure Standards
     (Mell); Innovate UK on climate change risk (Carter, Kingston); and Government Office of
     Science ‘Foresight’ research on the Future of Cities (Ravetz).

 3.2 Funding support for impact

 Alongside income to help generate world-leading research, we have been proactive in
 marshalling funds to maximise stakeholder impact (goal 2, section 1.3).

 First, funding from government has helped to bolster policy impact. Among many examples,
 GMCA has been both funder and beneficiary of Carter’s impact case research on flooding and
 transport infrastructure networks. Another example is Mell’s work on Valuing Nature
 Placement, where Greater London Authority funding has supported research that has informed
 resultant policy. An ongoing example is research commissioned by the Local Government
 Association, exploring infrastructure and spatial planning in order to help the Planning Advisory
 Service advise local authorities about strategic plans (Baker, Wong).

 Second, we have used internal funds to support impact. The SEED Impact Fund, available on
 an open call basis but also targeted at established and early-career academics, has made four
 awards to APEM (total value of £8,819). We have also used funding from the University’s ESRC
 Impact Acceleration Account (IAA), which has received over £1m since 2014 and generated a
 further £1.9m in additional contributions. This money has supported seven projects totalling
 £93,393: Iossifova is developing impact activity related to research on the Tokyo Olympics,
 and is also working with the Right to Water Campaign to improve access to water in Mumbai’s
 informal settlements; Kingston is building on PP-GIS research to develop Manchester’s
 Environment Map Online; Lewis is working with P&HS Architects, Leeds, on building design to
 mitigate anti-microbial resistance in cystic fibrosis clinics; Minuchin is extending the community
 impact of research on construction systems and adaptable housing in Ecuador; Nanda, with
 Civil Engineering, is developing new interdisciplinary methods to improve benefits forecasting
 linked to new infrastructure; and Ravetz is developing MINI-LAB, an evidence base to support
 innovation in metropolitan governance.

 The University has also provided financial and in-kind administrative support to maximise
 impact. The UK2070 Commission on regional inequality (led by Wong, with Sheffield and UCL),
 funded by the Lincoln Institute of Land Policy, Sykes Foundation and combined authorities,
 received additional University support in recognition of its potential external impact. This
 support facilitated direct advice to government on the national ‘levelling up’ agenda (e.g. the
 Commission’s research featured prominently in consultations on revisions proposed in 2020 to
 the Treasury Green Book for evaluating and appraising government projects, as well as direct

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 advice to government on industrial strategy and infrastructure priorities).

 3.3 Infrastructure and facilities

 3.3.1 Infrastructure and facilities for research

 One of our strategic priorities has been to invest in physical and digital infrastructure for
 research (goal 3, section 1.3). We have drawn from an ongoing £1b programme of capital
 investment in the Manchester campus to support bespoke research accommodation and
 facilities, including a base for the SPA-Lab, an architectural workshop for research and
 teaching, and refurbished computer labs. In addition, there is dedicated space for PGRs in a
 purpose-built open plan area that can accommodate up to 75 students. To enable our work on
 PP-GIS (Kingston, Pinto), we have benefited from UoM’s prioritization of research computing
 and digital infrastructure (e.g. server space and eResearch platforms) to meet computationally
 intensive research needs.

 3.3.2 Dedicated research and impact support services

 Alongside the physical and digital infrastructure and facilities underpinning our activities, a
 range of School support services benefit our research:

       Administrative support is provided via a research manager and research services team,
        which coordinates funding applications, new researcher appointments and contracts,
        and post-award internal and external quality assurance.
       Support for impact, knowledge exchange and research dissemination is provided by
        SEED’s associate research director for Impact and Business Engagement, a
        Knowledge Exchange and Impact Officer who advises on impact at all stages of the
        research process, and a Communications Officer who supports dissemination.
       SEED’s research services team also helps to ensure rigour in assuring grant
        applications against ethical standards contained in the University’s Code of Good
        Research Conduct (REF5a Section 2.5). Projects involving human participants must
        receive approval from the University Research Ethics Committee, with pre-vetting by
        SEED’s Ethics Committee (on which Barker and Wong serve). We are also committed
        to best practice in relation to health and safety, and the ethics committees ensure that
        research fieldwork adheres to exacting requirements, including ongoing COVID-19
        preparedness.
       SEED’s Cartographic Unit supports web mapping, desktop publishing, graphics,
        photography and digitization, and help for publications and wider online and non-
        academic dissemination.
       A GIS and Remote Sensing Officer manages software and licenses, maintains
        equipment, oversees facilities and liaises with data providers. Infrastructure in this area
        supports the research and impact activity of researchers including Acheampong,
        Kingston, Pinto, Wong. The GIS Officer also protects researcher time by offering
        technical support for research (e.g. for Kingston and Wong’s commute flow analysis
        tool, or Kingston’s ClimateJust impact case).




                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the discipline or research base
 4.1 Knowledge exchange and impact strategy

 Our strategy for contributing to the research base, and for impacting on economy and society,
 is set by the University’s Strategic Vision, which prioritizes social responsibility and impact
 beyond academia. As departments with long-established professional links, knowledge
 exchange and impact are integral elements of our research. A series of actions reinforce the
 scholarly and societal benefits of our research:

 • Research applications: approval of a research proposal by SEED’s Research Director is
   contingent upon a fully developed ‘Pathway to Impact’ plan, requiring researchers to foster
   innovative approaches to co-production and engagement.
 • Funding: we have used Faculty and School funds to support impact-related activity, both for
   impact cases and more broadly (see 3.2).
 • Training: SEED knowledge exchange networking events help colleagues to embed impact
   activity into their research plans, share best practice and build relationships with research
   users and potential beneficiaries.
 • Research review: annual performance review for individuals and clusters identifies potential
   and existing research impact.
 • Staff development: impact and dissemination activities are part of our sabbatical leave
   system; workload models reward impact-related activities; and knowledge exchange and
   impact is one of the University’s four promotion criteria.

 All three impact cases returned under this submission have benefited from UoM and SEED
 financial support, enabling the authors to extend the reach and significance of their work. This
 type of support is available to staff at all career stages, as reflected in our three impact cases,
 which were led by colleagues at lecturer, senior research fellow and professorial grades. The
 choice of impact cases was also informed by EDI principles; cases were chosen after
 consultation with all researchers, linked to a stocktake to gauge collective stakeholder impact.

 4.2 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 APEM has a strong tradition of collaborative and interdisciplinary working, with staff involved in
 numerous research partnerships within and beyond the University. Our staff play a leading role
 in UoM interdisciplinary networks, notably MUI (Wong, Yaneva, board members; Carter,
 leadership team), Data Science Institute (DSI) (Kingston, board member) and
 Methods@Manchester (Wong, management board). These appointments play an important
 role in APEM’s contribution to the wider research base, enabling us to forge interdisciplinary
 links and promote researcher development at all levels. For example, involvement in DSI has
 led to new collaborative doctoral studentships (Kingston, Pinto), while our contributions to
 Methods@Manchester have helped in relation to skills development for doctoral students,
 ECRs and established researchers. Interdisciplinary links are also helping us to develop new
 areas of research. For instance, in 2020 Nanda began supervising an ESRC-DTC funded
 student with colleagues in Civil Engineering. Collaboration within UoM between Yaneva and
 Sir Konstantin Novoselov (Nobel laureate, National Graphene Institute) led to their book, The
 New Architecture of Science (2020).

 Participation in UoM networks has also provided an important platform for major collaborative
 research projects. Involvement in China@Manchester (Wong, board member), a leading
 interdisciplinary research centre on contemporary China, has resulted in multiple research


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 projects as part of the SPA-Lab’s work on Chinese urbanization (e.g. ESRC-Newton Fund
 research), as well as reciprocal visiting and permanent fellowships (e.g. Wang’s appointment).
 Iossifova is Director of the University’s Confucius Institute, facilitating research links and
 creating a foundation for GCRF research on sustainable sanitation in China. Likewise,
 participation in the Centre for Infrastructure Development, created by the Alliance Manchester
 Business School with inputs from Baker and Wong, enabled peer support which underpinned
 a series of related projects (e.g. Wang’s research on high-speed rail in China, and Carter’s
 impact case on resilience and critical infrastructure).

 Beyond the University, we have developed collaborative partnerships, leading to a wide range
 of innovative, agenda-setting, interdisciplinary, multi-year projects, networks and activities, both
 internationally and domestically. Examples include joint working with the Chinese Academy of
 Sciences and Fudan University on the eco-urbanization in China project, and extensive
 European partnerships developed as part of the RESIN, IGNITION and URBAN GreenUP
 projects (Barker, Carter, Hincks, Mell). Within the UK, there are multiple inter-university
 interdisciplinary collaborations (e.g. Mell’s Beyond the Peace Lines project, with four partner
 HEIs).

 Some of these collaborations have emerged from earlier developmental visits by researchers,
 eventually leading to new projects and publications. The SPA-Lab hosted Carbonell from the
 Lincoln Institute, subsequently leading to funding for the unit’s inclusion as one of the four
 partners of the UK2070 Commission to develop a new framework for city and regional
 development. We have supported collaboration by using competitively allocated funds from the
 University’s Simon and Hallsworth endowments to support visiting fellows from the universities
 of Waikato (White), Sydney (McManus), Hong Kong (Shenjing He), Peking (Pengjun Zhao),
 Wuhan (Zhigang Li), Sciences Po (Latour) and the Chinese Academy of Sciences (Xiangjing
 Deng), all of which have led to joint research outputs.

 We have also provided financial support to encourage mobility and exchange for UoM
 researchers, again to promote longer-term collaboration, including visiting appointments of
 APEM researchers at: Hong Kong and Nanjing universities (Baker, Wong); Sydney and
 Waikato (Haughton); Ahmedabad (Mell); Leibniz Institute for Research on Society and Space
 and Michigan (Stanek); Harvard (Szacka); Cluj-Napoca (Walker); National Cheng Kung,
 Taipei Tech and Twente (Wong); and Columbia, Lund, Parsons and Princeton (Yaneva).

 4.3 Contribution to the research base

 APEM’s contribution to the research base has also included invited inputs as expert reviewers
 for many national and international bodies, including: chair (Wong) and assessor (Yaneva) for
 REF2021 Panel UoA13; ESRC Grant Assessment Panel and Chair of ESRC Urban Big Data
 Centre’s Research Approvals Committee (Wong); ESRC and AHRC Peer Review Colleges
 (Walker, Yaneva); British Academy (Iossifova, Yaneva); commissioning member for ESRC
 Research Seminar Competition (Wong, Yaneva); European Research Council (Ravetz,
 Yaneva); trustee, Urban Studies Foundation (Iossifova); Hong Kong Research Grants Council
 Humanities and Social Sciences Panel (Wong); and European Science Foundation (Deas,
 Wong, Yaneva). Yaneva has acted as expert reviewer for the Austrian Science Fund, Fonds
 de la Recherche Scientifique (Belgium), Canadian Social Science and Humanities Research
 Council, Netherlands Research Council, WOTRO Science for Global Development, Vienna
 Science and Technology Fund, Swiss National Science Foundation, Leverhulme Trust,
 National Council for Research and Development of Romania, the Israel Science Foundation,
 and the Irish Research Council.

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 APEM researchers contribute to the editorial functions of numerous journals, including key
 management roles (e.g. Wong, Editor, Town Planning Review (until 2020); Yaneva, Managing
 Director, Museum and Society). Alongside established researchers’ membership of editorial
 boards (among many examples: Barker, Journal of Environmental Assessment Policy and
 Management; Haughton, European Planning Studies; Wong, Planning Theory and Practice),
 we also encourage ECRs to contribute to the research base via guest editorships (e.g.
 Acheampong is editing a Cities special issue on autonomous mobility and urban planning).

 Our contribution to scholarly communities is further evidenced by multiple awards. Haughton
 was awarded the AESOP 2014 prize for best paper (with Allmendinger, Cambridge, and
 Oosterlynck, Antwerp). Yaneva was awarded the Lize Meitner Visiting Professorship in Lund,
 Sweden (2017-2019). Stanek won the 2016 Founders Award of the Society of Architectural
 Historians, and the 2020 RIBA President's Award for Research in the category History and
 Theory. Szacka won the 2017 Society of Architectural Historians of Great Britain Alice Davis
 Hitchcock Medallion for her book, Exhibiting the Postmodern. Wong was named one of The
 Planner’s Women of Influence (2017, 2018). Nanda was joint winner of the Harold Samuel
 Research Prize (2020) and co-authored the winning paper for the Annual Nick Tyrrell prize in
 real estate (2015).

 4.4 Collaboration and contribution to professional practitioner and policy communities

 We have employed three main mechanisms to broaden and deepen APEM’s contribution to
 professional and policy agendas:

    •    We have actively targeted policy user groups via participation in UoM interdisciplinary
         networks, allowing us to extend and intensify dissemination and reach practitioner
         beneficiaries. For example, Policy@Manchester (Wong, board member), as one of the
         world’s largest collections of scholars engaged in public policy research, has enabled
         us to showcase our work and develop policy user links, e.g. through blogs (Deas,
         Haughton, Pinto) or participation by many researchers in the annual Manchester Policy
         Week event.
    •    Externally-targeted and user-friendly engagement activities such as articles for
         professional journals, like Town and Country Planning (Haughton, Pinto), have helped
         to reach practitioner users.
    •    We have targeted high-profile international conferences that bring together academic
         researchers and policy communities. For example, in 2018 Carter’s impact case
         research to develop a climate risk typology was presented at key agenda-setting events
         such as the UN Climate Change Conference (COP24) and the IPCC Cities and Climate
         Change Science Conference. APEM research for the UK2070 Commission on regional
         inequality will feature as part of COP26 in 2021.

 Alongside these indirect mechanisms for engaging external users, we have also had a direct
 impact on professional and policy agendas through local, national and international advisory
 roles:

        At local level, Mell has advised the Liverpool Mayoral Commission on Green and Open
         Space, drawing on research on alternative funding options for green infrastructure, co-
         produced with business and resident stakeholders, to inform Liverpool’s local plan and
         strategic framework for sustainable urban drainage. Carter’s impact case details work
         advising the Manchester Climate Change Board and the Greater Manchester Natural

                                                                                        Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

         Capital Group, drawing on his RESIN and IGNITION projects to support GMCA policies
         on transport, green infrastructure and civil contingencies. Local impact is also
         developing through projects involving embedded researchers (e.g. Wong’s ongoing
         research, funded by MRC, involves a GMCA-based researcher for five years) or
         collaborative doctoral studentships (e.g. a GMCA-based PhD student as part of an
         ESRC Data Analytics and Society studentship, supervised by Deas and Pinto).
        At national level, our contribution to economy and society has involved advice to
         professional bodies such as the RTPI (Baker, Kingston, Wong) and RIBA (Walker,
         Yaneva). We have also advised high-profile national policy reviews (e.g. Wong’s role
         as expert adviser to the Lyons Review of Housing, and as part of the UK2070
         Commission, drawing on SPA-Lab research on housing and spatial policy agendas).
         We have also advised government. For example, Lewis has advised the Government
         Office for Science by drawing upon research on building design and ageing. Wong
         served on the Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government’s Independent
         Panel on the Evaluation of Local Growth Interventions Framework, 2017-20.
        At international level, Minuchin has advised Ecuador’s Ministry of Urban Development
         and Housing on the ‘Right to the City’ agenda. Members of the SPA-Lab and MUI
         agreed in 2019 to develop links with UN-Habitat China (Wong, Zheng). Wong is
         international expert member of Taiwan National Development Council’s National
         Spatial Development Strategy board.

 Our engagement with policy communities is longstanding, and applied policy research
 undertaken in previous REF cycles continues to have an important impact (e.g. the REF2014
 impact case on RTPI-funded research on quantitative indicators and spatial policy-making is
 highlighted in the Scottish Government paper, Monitoring the Outcomes of Planning (2018,
 Baker, Wong).

 Alongside these contributions to government and quasi-public organisations, we undertake
 research collaborations with multiple private sector organisations (e.g. Nanda’s work with
 WiredScore to examine the impact of digital connectivity on commercial real estate, and with
 Investment Property Forum on ESG benchmarking in real estate).

 Complementing these expert advisory roles, we have developed professional practice and
 other non-academic links by hosting visiting and honorary appointments. Our honorary fellows
 and professors from practice (Carbonell, Goodstadt, Grilli, Handley, May, McInroy, Rudlin)
 make active contributions to our research (e.g. Goodstadt’s involvement, with Wong, in the
 UK2070 Commission). The effectiveness of these contributions has been recognised via
 prestige awards. Rudlin, with contributions from Ravetz, was awarded the Wolfson Economics
 Prize 2014 for work on a new generation of garden cities.

 4.5 Engagement with diverse communities and networks

 Alongside these contributions to professional practice, our impact and engagement strategy
 also recognises the importance of engaging non-professional beneficiaries. We do so, for
 example, via blogs in The Conversation (Acheampong, Deas, Kingston, Mell, Nanda, Pinto,
 Stein), helping to raise awareness of research findings among the general public (e.g. recent
 blogs on COVID-19 implications). We have also used creative and innovative methods to
 disseminate research beyond professional networks and widen the social contribution of our
 research. For example, Acheampong participated in ‘Meet the Neighbours’, an event in 2019
 exploring dimensions of contemporary urban neighbourliness, using his research findings on
 transport as part of performance art led by a local theatre company, Quarantine. Findings from

                                                                                       Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Wong’s research on planning and brownfield regeneration were used in a poem by Caron
 Freeborn as part of ‘Connections: Science, Poetry and the Brain’, a 2019 event at Lucy
 Cavendish College, Cambridge, pairing researchers and poets to engage children, students
 and the public.

 In these ways, APEM has developed a vibrant and sustainable environment that facilitates
 world-leading research, as evidenced by the agenda-setting work highlighted across our three
 research clusters. APEM’s research environment is one that embraces a diverse range of
 scholars, supports a growing cohort of early-career researchers and provides doctoral training
 of the highest quality. This environment underpins a dynamic research community, enabling a
 wide-ranging portfolio of research activities and advisory roles that generate positive scholarly
 and societal impacts.




                                                                                          Page 19
