Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Surrey

 Unit of Assessment: 21 – Sociology

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 A world leading Department, we enjoy an international reputation for pioneering methodological
 approaches, whilst also setting new agendas across sociology, criminology and media and
 communication.

 Since 2014, the Department has been characterised by five key elements: First, the generation
 of significant research funding. The Department has been awarded over £8.87 million in
 external funding, which has facilitated the establishment of several large research centres;
 including the multi-million-pound Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC)-funded Centre
 for the Evaluation of Complexity Across the Nexus (CECAN) and the Centre for the Understanding
 of Sustainable Prosperity (CUSP). Second, the development of international research
 collaborations. Since REF2014 we have continued to develop our global reach and currently
 have active research collaborations across, inter alia, India, Bangladesh, Australia, New Zealand,
 South Africa, Japan, Turkey and Brazil. These have helped facilitate, third, high-quality research
 outputs. Over 50% of our outputs across the REF period (2014-2020) are collaborative with
 colleagues outside the Department and 21% have been written with an international partner.
 Fourth, a strong emphasis on engagement with research users and the co-creation of research.
 Research in the Department has, for example, brought together academic research, social
 housing providers and third sector organisations to explore and promote new frameworks for
 creating inclusivity for LGBTQI+ people living in social housing. Fifth, an emphasis on innovation
 and capacity building within the academic community, demonstrated by the evolution of our
 research groupings on the themes of ‘Criminology and Criminal Justice’, ‘Science, Environment
 and Health’, ‘Inequalities and Diversities’, ‘Families and the Life Course’, and ‘Digital Societies’
 and our research centres ‘Centre for Research into Social Simulation’ (CRESS), ‘Centre for Sex,
 Gender and Sexualities Research (SGS)’, ‘Centre for Criminology’, ‘Centre for Research in Ageing
 and Gender’ (CRAG), and ‘Computer Assisted Qualitative Data Analysis (CAQDAS) Network’.

 Achievement of strategic aims

 The Department has achieved the strategic aims set following REF2014.
    •   We have further extended our methodological expertise. We have made several
        appointments which have strengthened our methodological base. Berlusconi, Roberts and
        Elsenbroich have added methodological expertise in social network analysis, mobile and
        complexity methods respectively. Hubbard, Lohman and Griffiths have introduced
        historical methods (including archival and oral history approaches) to the Department.
        Harman has added expertise in visual arts-based methodologies. We have also continued
        to build on the internationally renowned and cutting-edge research being carried out by
        established centres. For example, CRESS, led by Gilbert, launched CECAN, a £3.8 million
        research centre, in 2016. CECAN is developing, testing and promoting innovative policy
        evaluation approaches. Between 2016 and 2018 CRESS was also home to the National
        Centre for Research Methods (NCRM)/ESRC-funded HomeSense project which
        developed and demonstrated how digital sensors can be used effectively in social
        research.

    •   We have led the development of emerging fields in criminology. The Department is a
        catalyst for world-leading criminological work. It has pioneered research in critical areas
        including cybercrime, hate crime, and the analysis of online commercial sex networks. For
        example, McGuire was an investigator on an Engineering and Physical Sciences Research
        Council (EPSRC)-funded project Addressing Cybersecurity and Cybercrime via a Co-
        Evolutionary Approach to Reducing Human-Related Risks (2017-2018). Berlusconi is part
        of an ESRC-funded project investigating how technologies are transforming transnational

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        organised crime (2019-2021). Garland completed the largest study of hate crime
        victimisation ever undertaken in terms of both the numbers and the diversity of hate crime
        victims accessed (ESRC 2012-2014). McCarthy received ESRC-funding for a project
        (2015-2017) on Parenting Young Offenders which focused on the social impacts of youth
        imprisonment on primary caregivers. Following REF2014, the Department established the
        ‘Surrey Crime Lab,’ to support our criminological research and this subsequently grew to
        become the ‘Surrey Centre for Criminology’ (SCC). Led by Brunton-Smith and McCarthy
        (with Lloyd from Mathematics), the SCC is a cross-Faculty initiative which coordinates
        interdisciplinary collaborative research across the University of Surrey together with
        criminal justice partners.


    •   We have consolidated areas of particular strength. The Department had intended to
        establish a University-wide network on race, migration and multi-culturalism. Whilst this
        remains a focus within the Department, strategic reviews of staffing and infrastructure led
        to a decision to consolidate other emerging expertise in sexualities research. For example,
        Griffiths received a Wellcome Trust Fellowship (2015-2020) to write a social and medical
        history of intersex in Britain. Lohman joined the Department as a Leverhulme Fellow and
        is currently a Surrey Research Fellow working on the lifecycles of LGBTQI+ community
        centres in London. King has conducted extensive work on LGBTQI+ life course inequalities
        (with linked RCUK funds totalling over £1million) including housing. Hubbard was awarded
        Wellcome Trust funding to explore the interconnected lives and work of queer women in
        mid-century British Social Science (2019). Drawing on this expertise, in 2019, King and
        colleagues established the University-wide ‘Sex, Gender and Sexualities’ Group at Surrey
        which has now been given centre status (SGS). As explained further below, the Families
        and the Life Course research group and the Digital Societies research group were also
        formed in 2017 to consolidate and develop these emerging areas of strength.


    •   We have continued to recruit high-quality postgraduate research (PGR) students.
        The research culture within the Department has long been enriched by a large and vibrant
        PGR community and we have diversified funding opportunities to attract high-quality PGR
        students. Alongside winning nine competitive, internally-funded Doctoral College
        Studentships, we have received funding for studentships from organisations such as
        Surrey Police, Keep Out (the crime diversion scheme), Surrey Country Council and the
        Higher Education Academy. Recruitment also benefits from our collaborative approach to
        fostering genuinely cross-disciplinary research projects. For example, Brunton-Smith is
        currently co-supervising studentship-holders in the Department of Mathematics.
        Burningham and Roberts have both supervised PhD students with the Centre for
        Environment and Sustainability (CES) and Meadows has received PhD funding under the
        ESRC’s interdisciplinary Research Studentship and Postdoctoral Fellowship Scheme
        (September 2013 onwards). The Department has been at the forefront of PGR training and
        development. This has included the delivery of an annual three-day course on Agent-
        based Modelling for the Social Scientist (Elsenbroich 2014-2017), funded by the ESRC
        Advanced Training Initiative. Since 2014, we have expanded the range of our
        methodological training, creating a suite of robust advanced methods modules which are
        freely available to all our PhD students. Graduates from our PGR programme continue to
        make significant contributions to both academia and wider sectors (see section 2 below
        for further details).

 Since its inception some 50 years ago the Department has utilised research groups as a key
 mechanism for achieving our strategic aims. They facilitate the development of collaborative
 outputs (over half our category A staff have published with another member of the Department
 during this period) and they help drive forward the intellectual agenda and culture of the
 Department. For example, through contributing to the Department’s seminar series, organising
 events, identifying possibilities for infrastructure support, facilitating grant capture through peer
 review and support, and helping shape the staffing strategy. Each of the six research groupings,

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 below, has links to the research centres managed from the Department and includes a productive
 mix of doctoral students, researchers and academic members of staff.

 The Innovations in Methodology research group has been essential to meeting our aim of
 extending our methodological expertise. The group has strengths in survey research methodology,
 secondary analysis of cross-sectional, multi-level and longitudinal datasets, qualitative
 methodology, social simulation, statistical modelling, methodological integration, virtual methods,
 research ethics, archival and oral history approaches and new technologies for social research.
 This group includes CRESS and CAQDAS. Both are long-standing research centres, celebrating
 their 20-year and 25-year anniversaries during the assessment period, and they continue to have
 a major international impact on the use of social simulation and qualitative data analysis
 respectively. In an international collaboration with colleagues from Erasmus University
 (Rotterdam, the Netherlands), the University of Quebec and the University of Montreal, members
 of CAQDAS coordinated the development of the open source QDA-XML exchange format which
 enables more than a million users to exchange data between software packages for the first time.
 In addition, the CRESS affiliated CECAN project produced supplementary guidance for the 2020
 revision of the Magenta Book, which is published by HM Treasury, and is the official government
 guide about policy evaluation. The Innovations in Methodology research group also co-ordinates
 methodological training across the Department, University and wider community. Between 2014
 and 2020 the Department Day Course Programme (founded in 1981) ran over 175 courses and
 trained over 1,390 delegates.

 The Criminology and Criminal Justice research group ensures that the Department continues
 to identify and engage with cutting-edge developments in the field (and see Surrey Centre for
 Criminology, above). The University of Surrey has a long history of research on the organisation
 and outcomes of police work. Since 2014, key research projects in this area have included funded
 research on the co-production of crime control between the police service and religious
 organisations (British Academy, 2015-2016; Bullock) and police trauma and workplace injuries on
 police personnel (Police Dependants’ Trust, 2015-2016; Fielding, Bullock and Garland). Members
 of the group have also worked alongside colleagues around the country to develop and
 disseminate knowledge about what is known to be effective in reducing crime as part of the
 College of Policing's What Works Centre for Crime Reduction (ESRC, 2013-2016; Bullock). Our
 considerable research on prisoners and their families has also informed debates about reducing
 reoffending (ESRC Future Leaders Award 2015-2017, McCarthy with Adams). As well as
 continuing to work in these areas, group members are currently carrying out ground-breaking work
 in analytic criminology. Brunton-Smith, for example, has recently been awarded an ESRC
 Secondary Data Analysis Initiative grant (2020-2022) to better understand measurement error and
 to estimate adjusted crime counts.

 The Science, Environment and Health research group brings together our work on the
 applications of computational technologies in the social and natural sciences, the sociology of
 contemporary communications technologies, the sociology of sleep, and the sociology of the
 environment and sustainability. As an example of the latter, Burningham is currently Deputy
 Director of the Centre for the Understanding of Sustainable Prosperity (CUSP). This was originally
 a five-year (2016-2020) ESRC-funded multi-institutional research centre to address the question
 of what prosperity can mean in a world of environmental, social and economic limits. CUSP has
 become a leading international network, drawing together expert partners from academic and non-
 academic institutions as co-producers of the work programme. As part of CUSP, Burningham is
 co-ordinating an international study (with partners in New Zealand, Brazil, India, Bangladesh,
 Japan and South Africa) considering what enhances young people’s sustainable wellbeing in
 cities. CUSP has recently been awarded transition funding (£1.2 million) for the period 2021 to
 2025.

 The Inequalities and Diversities research group supports and consolidates the sexualities
 research being carried out in the Department and fosters the development of a range of linked
 research projects centred on the role of structural inequalities in contemporary societies. This

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 includes work on gender, race and migration and social class. For example, Brooks’ European
 Research Council Consolidator grant (£1.2 million, 2016-2021) looks at the diversity of student
 experiences across Europe. King received funding from NORFACE as part of the Dynamics of
 Inequality Across the Life-course programme (DIAL: 2018-2021). The key objective of this study
 is to compare intersectional life course inequalities and to provide cross-cultural evidence, for the
 first time ever, concerning life course inequalities experienced by LGBTQI+ people. The
 Inequalities and Diversities group includes the Centre for Research on Ageing and Gender
 (CRAG) which has been conducting policy relevant research on ageing and gender for over 15
 years. CRAG has an established international reputation and continues to host international
 visitors; including Dr Ralf Lottman who was a Marie Curie International Fellow in the Department
 from 2017 to 2019.

 The Families and the Life Course and the Digital Societies research groups were formed in
 2017 to help foster and consolidate emerging areas of department expertise. The former includes
 Hodkinson’s work on fathers who are primary or equal carers for young children (with Brooks) and
 Harman’s work on intensive mothering. The latter captures expertise in technology and society,
 online methodologies and data and platforms in contemporary mediated societies. Current work
 in this area includes Setty’s 2020 ESRC Impact Acceleration Account-funded project on
 Transforming School Culture, a body of British Academy and Wellcome Trust-funded work on
 digital health communication practices of mothers experiencing post-natal difficulties (2017-2019
 Das), and British Academy-funded (2020-2022) studies to explore the ways that chatbots are
 shaping understandings of mental health recovery (Meadows, Hine). The Digital Societies
 research group has close links with the University of Surrey’s Technology and Society research
 theme which is led by Das.

 The Department’s intellectual agenda strongly emphasises interdisciplinarity and staff within
 these groupings are supported to develop and lead interdisciplinary collaborations. Burningham’s
 post, for example, is funded across two departments in different faculties and her research
 projects, researchers and PhD students span the two. Hine currently holds a prestigious Royal
 Society APEX cross-disciplinary fellowship (2020-2022) to look at emergent everyday ethics in
 development of infrastructures for smart care, in collaboration with Payam Barnaghi, Deputy
 Director of the UK Dementia Research Institute’s Care Research and Technology Centre.
 Brunton-Smith was part of a research team (with the Centre for Environment and Sustainability)
 that developed a methodology to calculate the carbon costs of criminal activity (2017). This work
 provided the first estimate of the carbon footprint of crime in England and Wales and examined
 the carbon implications of falling crime rates.

 We have continued to co-create research with users and to build impact into new research. As
 examples, members of SGS, the new Centre for Sex, Gender and Sexualities Research, bring
 together researchers, activists, charities, policy makers and representatives from cultural
 industries. Setty’s work on relationship and sex education has been built through collaboration
 with groups such as eNurture, Outspoken Sex Ed, Digital Awareness UK and Life Lessons Ltd.
 Roberts is designing work on waste crime in dialogue with Surrey Police, Guildford Borough
 Council and Surrey Environment Partnership. Our approach to co-creation and ‘engaged research’
 has been enhanced by the creation of a Department Impact Strategy and changes to the
 impact infrastructure. Appraisals and annual scoping reviews are used to capture and identify
 how best to support co-creation activities. Colleagues are encouraged to apply for central and
 Faculty-level resources to support research, travel, networking and engagement activities. The
 Department also made a significant contribution to the University’s ESRC £1 million social
 sciences Impact Acceleration Account (IAA). Bullock, a co-director of this fund, ensures that the
 Department continues to feed into decision-making on the development of impact from social
 science research. IAA funds have enabled Hodkinson and Das to build resources for perinatal
 support in partnership with the Institute of Health Visiting (IHV) and the National Childbirth Trust
 (NCT). In addition, Faculty impact funds have enabled Garland to spend time with key
 stakeholders exploring future priorities for hate crime research.



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Department culture also emphasises transparency, open communication and making
 research findings available to other researchers and the public. Elsenbroich currently serves on
 the Editorial Board of the open access Journal of Artificial Societies and Social Simulation. The
 Department continues to edit and publish the open access Social Research Update. There has
 been wide adoption of ORCID profiles amongst colleagues and an increase in the depositing of
 code/data for re-analysis. For example, Brunton-Smith made code available with papers published
 in Science (2018), Journal of the Royal Statistical Society (Series A) (2016) and Criminology
 (2018). Open access work is supported by the Surrey Research Insight (SRI) team who advise on
 open access and enhancing research visibility. Data, publications and doctoral theses are shared
 through the SRI open access repository. Since 2014, staff throughout the Department have
 deposited nearly 600 items and items within the repository have been accessed over 270,000
 times.


 During this REF period the Department has influenced University of Surrey strategy and initiatives
 in open access and research integrity. Hine acted as Chair of the University Ethics Committee
 between 2015 and 2018 and was responsible for institutional policy formulation and
 implementation in relation to research integrity, with a specific focus on raising awareness of
 ethical issues across the institution through the introduction of a self-assessment tool. Burningham
 is currently Deputy Chair and Lohman sits on a panel which reviews high risk proposals. Barbrook-
 Johnson is a member of the University of Surrey’s Open Research Working Group and works
 closely with the newly appointed Academic Lead for Research Culture and Integrity to develop
 and promote a positive culture of research integrity and improve relevant practices. Academic
 research within the Department has also advanced our understanding of open themes and ethics
 – for example, Brooks publishing Ethics and Education Research in 2014 and Fielding (now
 Emeritus) completing a Higher Education Funding Council for England (HEFCE)-funded study on
 open source communication (2015-2017).

 Strategic priorities

 Our vision is to offer a distinct brand of policy-oriented sociological research driven by world-
 leading methodological innovation, to combat inequalities and champion diversity. We aim to
 strengthen our position as a global leader in sociological research and innovation, to foster and
 develop talented research and academic staff, including early career researchers (ECRs), and to
 promote an inclusive culture that promotes integrity and treating people with respect.

 Over the next five years we will:

   i.    Continue to generate a diverse portfolio of research funding. External funding has
         proven to be an important mechanism for supporting the intellectual work of the
         Department. Reflecting our successful track record here, we will continue to build on the
         strategies outlined in section 3 (below).

   ii.   Produce internationally-recognised research outputs. We will facilitate the generation
         of research that is seen as internationally excellent and the publication of results in leading
         outlets. The Department has a long history of fostering international collaboration through
         its Visiting International Fellowship scheme, and by regularly hosting international visitors.
         Since 2014 this has included Haynes (Limerick), Jemielniak (Kozminski University),
         Harnois (Wake Forest University), Perry (University of Ontario Institute of Technology),
         Hsu (University of South Australia), Salmela (University of Helsinki) and Ebeling (Drexel
         University). We will grow such initiatives and (i) invite more international colleagues to act
         as mentors and peer reviewers for staff in the Department; and (ii) further develop the
         proportion of our projects and outputs which have an international collaborator.

  iii.   Continue our focus on innovation and the generation of societal value from our
         research. We will support colleagues in leveraging impact from research, engaging

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        publicly and transferring knowledge, and will facilitate enterprise, entrepreneurship and the
        commercialisation of social science. For example, we will continue to support initiatives
        such as CECAN Ltd, a spin out company established by members of the Department to
        provide those in the third sector (amongst others) access to innovative policy evaluation
        approaches and methods to support decision-makers.

  iv.   Further extend our methodological expertise. We will continue to develop innovative
        approaches to modelling and understanding social processes. CRESS is looking to
        pioneer the application of ‘participatory system mapping’ in the Natural Environment
        Research Council (NERC)-funded project Actively Anticipating the Unintended
        Consequences on Air Quality of Future Public Policies (ANTICIPATE, 2019-2022). We will
        also continue to grow our expert methods training in online and digital methods and
        strengthen synergies between the methods expertise of current staff and the methods
        training we offer. For example, Harman developed workshops on visual arts-based
        methodology whilst at the Vitalities Lab (Australia) and members of CECAN are currently
        developing a technical training programme, CPD courses, specialist workshops,
        publications, webinars and seminars to demonstrate the challenges of evaluation in real-
        world situations. CAQDAS launched a webinar series in 2020 which will run in parallel with
        more traditional forms of training.

  v.    In line with the University of Surrey research strategy, we will continue to attract and
        provide high-quality support and training for ECRs. Postgraduate, postdoctoral and
        early career researchers are an integral part of our department. We will continue to secure
        studentships and fellowships through industrial sponsorship and other funding streams.
        Building on a track record of success in this area (see section 2 below), we will support
        ECRs in their applications to, for example, Future Leader schemes and postdoctoral
        fellowships (such as those run by the Wellcome Trust and NIHR). Drawing on our methods
        expertise, we will work with the Doctoral College to provide high-quality advanced methods
        training to ECRs as well as mentoring and support.

 The research groupings and research centres will continue to act as key mechanisms for ensuring
 that strategic aims are achieved (see above). We will also constitute an advisory board from the
 Department’s network of non-academic partners, global networks, Visiting Professors (currently
 Professors Tarling, Patten Smith and Scambler), and its Visiting International Fellows. This group
 will then meet annually to advise the Department on its strategic strengths and review progress
 against these strategic priorities.

 2. People

 The Department’s current Category A eligible staff includes 7 Lecturers, 3 Senior Lecturers, 5
 Readers, 7 Professors, and 5 Senior/Research Fellows. All of these are permanent posts with the
 exception of 4 Senior/Research Fellows who are employed on fixed-term contracts which match
 the length of the funded project. Where these exceed 4 years a permanent role is guaranteed
 once funding is complete.

 Fourteen of our Category A eligible staff have joined the Department since 2014, including 6
 current Lecturers (Hubbard, Griffiths, Berlusconi, Menichelli, Setty, Adams), 1 Senior Lecturer
 (Harman) and 1 Reader (Das). Two further colleagues moved to Category A having held Research
 Fellow positions in the Department prior to this assessment period (Roberts, who is currently a
 Lecturer and Elsenbroich currently a Senior Lecturer).


 Staffing strategy

 Since REF2014 our staffing strategy has prioritised: (i) recruiting in key areas to support the
 Department’s intellectual agenda (ii) recruiting excellent early career academics, where possible,


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as part of a commitment to HR Excellence in Research initiatives and the University of Surrey’s
 aim to support the career development of researchers; (iii) recognising and promoting leadership
 potential to ensure the long-term vitality of the Department.

   i.    Recruiting in key areas. As noted in section 1, recruitment has helped us extend our
         methodological expertise (for example Berlusconi, Harman and Elsenbroich) and
         consolidate areas of strength (for example Hubbard, Lohman and Griffiths). Appointments
         have also enabled the Department to enhance its criminological strength (Berlusconi,
         Menichelli, Setty and Adams).

   ii.   Recruiting excellent ECRs. Hubbard, Berlusconi, Setty and Adams were all within five
         years of their PhD when they joined the Department as Lecturers. The emphasis on
         recruiting early career academics has been backed by infrastructure and financial support.
         Lohman, who joined the Department as a Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellow (mentored
         by Hodkinson), has been supported by matched Department funds and was awarded a
         Surrey Research Fellowship in 2019 (mentored by Garland). Griffiths joined the
         Department as a Wellcome Trust University Fellowship (with matched funds by the
         Department and a commitment to fund a full-time lectureship once the fellowship ended).

  iii.   Recognising and promoting leadership/long-term vitality. Investment in people and
         leadership has seen the staff profile change from 30% Professor/Reader (REF2014) to
         44% Professor/Reader (REF2021). Das was recruited in part, to provide leadership in
         media and communications alongside Hodkinson and Hine (promoted to Professor in
         2019). Brunton-Smith re-joined the Department as a Professor to provide additional
         leadership in criminology and research methods alongside McCarthy (promoted to Reader
         in 2017). Elsenbroich (promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2019) is working closely alongside
         Gilbert and the Centre for Social Simulation with an eye to future succession. King
         (promoted to Professor in 2018) succeeded as Director of CRAG in 2014 and became
         Deputy Head of Department in 2016. He, along with Bullock (promoted to Professor in
         2016), has undertaken Senior Leadership Training with a view to the long-term
         management of the Department.

 Staff support and development

 The Department considers its collegial environment and approach to development and support of
 staff as crucial to sustaining a thriving research culture. Research time is built into a transparent
 workload allocation model (WAM). Where research time is specified in funding applications, this
 is also built into the WAM irrespective of whether the funder directly covers overheads or salary
 costs. The Department continues to operate a sabbatical system and all academic staff (part-time
 and full-time) are eligible to apply for one semester of research leave every five years and typically
 two members of the Department are on sabbatical in an academic year. All staff have an annual
 appraisal with their managers which focuses on progress towards meeting targets and career
 development. Colleagues within the Department are also invited to attend mid-year reviews to
 discuss progress against targets, and to have one-to-one meetings with the Director of Research.
 As noted in the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, promoting good
 mental health and wellbeing is a core component of good research. During the assessment period
 the Department established the role of ‘wellbeing officer’ (Roberts) who ensures that colleagues
 are aware of wider support mechanisms.

 The Department recognises and rewards staff for carrying out research and achieving impact.
 Colleagues are encouraged and supported in their applications for awards and fellowships. Since
 2014, McCarthy and King have both been awarded the Vice Chancellor’s Researcher of the Year
 award. Bullock, Das, King and McCarthy have received the Faculty Researcher of the Year award,
 Pepper was awarded the Faculty PGR Student of the Year in 2019 and Meadows received the
 Faculty PGR Supervisor of the Year award in 2020.



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Department also encourages exchanges between academia, business, industry and
 public/third sector. Over the assessment period we have increased the number of Visiting
 International Fellows, Visiting Researchers in the Department and facilitated staff secondments.
 For example, Patten Smith (Director at IPSOS MORI) was awarded a visiting professorship from
 2019 and the Department facilitated Elsenbroich’s NCRM-funded secondment fellowship (for risk
 modelling) at the Cabinet Office (2018).

 Members of the Department have influenced University of Surrey policy on staff support and
 development. As well as roles on the University Ethics Committee noted above, Burningham has
 acted as Faculty representative on the University staff survey action group (2016-2018). Hubbard
 chaired the University LGBTQI+ Equality Group and has assisted in the development of greater
 trans inclusion on campus through policy changes and changes to Information Communication
 and Technology (ICT) process. She also sat on the University of Surrey Equality and Diversity
 Committee (for which she was nominated for a Vice Chancellor’s Award for Equality and Diversity).
 Adams has been nominated for the same award in relation to her work on the Race Equality
 Charter Mark Self-Assessment Team. Griffiths is the current Chair of the LGBTQI+ Equality Group
 and has been involved in University Stonewall Workplace Applications and the launch on a new
 Rainbow Allies network. Brooks also conducted a study on flexible working for the University,
 which fed into the Equality and Diversity Committee, and was Associate Dean for the University’s
 Doctoral College (2017-19) with oversight of the development of post-doctoral staff across the
 Faculty.

 Specific support for Early Career Researchers

 Since REF2014 the Department has established an ‘Early Career Champion’ (Bullock) who
 ensures that individuals at the beginning of their research career are made aware of the wide-
 ranging opportunities for development. These include courses aimed at developing leadership and
 management skills and staff are encouraged to attend these. The University of Surrey began
 participating in the Aurora Women’s Leadership Programme in 2013. ‘Springboard’, an award-
 winning, internationally recognised women’s personal development programme, is also available.
 Aurora has been completed by three current members of staff. The Early Career Champion is also
 responsible for ensuring that ECRs feel supported and integrated into the research culture of the
 Department through formal and informal mentoring.

 Working within the framework of the HR Excellence in Research, all staff within the Department
 are offered a mentor/senior colleague and encouraged to meet with them at least twice a year.
 ECRs are encouraged to use their mentor for peer review of papers and research proposals. Peer
 feedback is required of all grant applications prior to submission and many staff act as peer
 reviewers, reinforcing the transfer of expertise between more experienced staff and ECRs. Where
 a grant is unsuccessful, colleagues are invited to discuss this with senior colleagues and the
 Director of Research (for both support and advice on where else to target). Evidencing the success
 of these strategies, since REF2014 colleagues have had considerable success in securing
 fellowship and development grants at an early career stage. For example, a Leverhulme Early
 Career Fellowship (Lohman, 2016), a Philip Leverhulme Prize (Redclift, 2015), two RCUK Future
 Leader awards (Redclift, 2016 and McCarthy, 2015), a UKRI Innovation Fellowship (Barbrook-
 Johnson 2018) and an AHRC award for early career researchers (Elsenbroich, 2014).

 More informally, the Department has continued to encourage more established staff to collaborate
 with early career colleagues, including Research Fellows and PhD students, in submitting bids
 and writing journal articles – for example, Gilbert’s collaboration with Elsenbroich on CECAN and
 its spin-out company CECAN Ltd and McCarthy’s collaboration with Adams (then a Research
 Fellow). In 2017, Lohman (a Leverhulme Fellow at the time), Hubbard (ECR), Griffiths (Wellcome
 Trust Fellow) and Hubbard, L (a PhD student) successfully applied for a BSA Early Career Forum
 event. King mentored them through the application and organisation of the event.




                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Support mechanisms for, and evidence of the training and supervision of, PGR students

 Currently the Department has 30 students registered for a doctoral degree (17 full-time and 13
 part-time). Eighteen of these students are female (60%), which is in line with the sector average
 (62% of women in recent years). Twenty-three (77%) are Home/EU students and twenty (67%)
 are over the age of 30. Recruitment is governed by a postgraduate research admissions policy
 which makes clear that the University is committed to equality of opportunity.

 The 39 doctorates successfully supervised to completion during this period include
 interdisciplinary PhDs and those co-supervised with another Department or University. Table 1
 (below) shows the disaggregated total number of doctoral degrees awarded as reported in REF4a
 for each year of the assessment period.

                                           PhDs                     Research-based
                                                                professional doctorates
  2013-14                                     3                           0
  2014-15                                     9                           0
  2015-16                                     2                           0
  2016-17                                     7                           0
  2017-18                                     7                           0
  2018-19                                     4                           0
  2019-20                                     7                           0
  Total                                      39                           0

 We have actively responded to changes made to PhD funding and especially the ESRC decision
 to change access to Doctoral Training College (DTC) provision in 2015 and the decision to deliver
 all studentships through Doctoral Training Partnerships from 2017. Across this period, students
 within the Department have had access to a departmental research fund to support their research
 with conference attendance and fieldwork costs. The Doctoral College also runs three funding
 competitions and, since 2014, nine students within the Department have been supported by these
 funds. Colleagues in the Department are also proactive in securing alternative funding sources for
 PGR students. For example, Bullock secured a Dawes Trust Bursary in 2015, Gilbert supervises
 students funded by Surrey Country Council, and Brunton-Smith co-supervises a student with
 mathematics who is 50% funded by Surrey Police. PGRs have also been funded as part of larger
 research grants. For example, Lainio on Brooks’ European Research Council grant and Wills on
 CECAN.

 All PGR students are members of the University Doctoral College. The Doctoral College provides
 a framework for monitoring progress with formal assessment within the first 12 to 14 months,
 online reports after each meeting and annual and mid-year reviews. The Doctoral College also co-
 ordinates a range of training modules and runs an annual flagship event for the University’s PGR
 and ECR community. It is a partner institution in the South East Doctoral Training Centre
 (accredited by the ESRC) and a member of the South East Network for Social Sciences (SeNSS)
 – a consortium formed of 10 leading UK universities. Training is also embedded within the
 Department and mechanisms are in place to ensure that PGR students are part of the Department
 research culture. Alongside having at least two supervisors, PGR students have unrestricted
 access to the Department’s leading methods training – including week-long courses on a range of
 methods (e.g. Participatory Systems Mapping, Agent-Based Modelling, Social Network Analysis,
 Discourse Analysis). PGRs frequently present their work in the Department and attend workshops
 organised by the Department PGR Director (Brunton-Smith). They also organise an annual
 research conference and are important members of Department research clusters.

 Since 2014, PGR students have had their work published in leading academic and practitioner
 focused journals, including: Health, (Green) Sociological Research Online (Green, Lainio), The

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Howard Journal of Crime and Justice (Bunce), The Journal of Forensic Psychiatry & Psychology
 (Georgiou) and Policing and Society: An International Journal of Research and Policy (Pepper).
 Lainio has also co-guest edited special issues on creative methods (International Journal of Social
 Research Methods) and students in marketised Higher Education landscapes (Sociological
 Research Online). PGR students have also gone on to experience considerable success across
 a diverse range of careers. For example, Wlasny (2018) is currently a Senior Social Researcher
 in the UK Civil Service and Fenn (2019) is Head of Strategy and Insights at Police Now. Those
 who went on to an academic career include Hope (2014, Lecturer, Southampton), Knight (2016,
 Lecturer, Roehampton), Setty (2017, Lecturer in the Department), Smith (2019, Lecturer,
 Brighton), Seal (2017, Senior Teaching Fellow and Associate Dean, University of Surrey) and
 Pepper (2019, Lecturer, University of Greenwich). Anzola, also joined the staff of the Universidad
 del Rosario following his studies at Surrey (2014) and Rozas Domingo (2017) became a
 postdoctoral fellow at Universidad Complutense de Madrid.

 Evidence of how the submitting unit supports and promotes equality and diversity

 At department level, equality of opportunity is promoted effectively and applies to all research
 activities including bidding, conference attendance, promotion, and flexible/remote working. All
 meetings are held between the core hours of 10 to 4 and the University flexible work policy
 considers a wide range of arrangements (including part-time working, term-time working, job-
 sharing, annualised hours and additional planned unpaid leave).

 There are currently 5 members of Category A eligible staff on fractional contracts. Evidencing
 equality in career pathways, 2 of these colleagues have been promoted since 2014 (Burningham
 to Reader and then Professor from January 2021 and Hine to Professor). Support has also been
 put in place for staff and students returning from periods of leave. This includes policies allowing
 for a phased return to work following parental leave and an expectation within both our maternity
 and adoption policies ‘that teaching and/or administration loads will be reduced for a semester to
 facilitate staff reaching their research targets’. Colleagues within the Department returning from
 extended leave have successfully applied for the Vice Chancellor’s Inclusion and Career
 Investment award for research (the Academic Returners’ Award) worth £5,000. All staff have the
 same access to research support and are eligible for research leave after 5 years irrespective of
 FTE.

 The Department paid considerable regard to equality and diversity in the construction of the
 REF2021 submission. Output selection followed the Code of Practice and guidance set by the
 University’s REF2021 Team. Membership of the output selection panels included suitable
 representation from across the areas of speciality within the UOA and took account of the
 population characteristics of the UOA. Membership was reviewed by the Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion (ED&I) Working Group ahead of scheduled meetings and all attendees completed
 REF2021 ED&I training. A member of the REF2021 Team was present at all output selection
 meetings. Equality Impact Assessments have also been carried out throughout the development
 of the REF submission. These have supported our approach to the attribution of outputs, ensuring
 the selected output profile is representative of the Department’s make-up. Particular attention was
 paid to ensuring gender balance: 56% of the UOA are women and 54% of outputs are attributed
 to women.

 Colleagues within the Department have also played pivotal roles in ensuring that University
 policies support the wellbeing of all staff and students – including those with protected
 characteristics. The Department was the first in the University to develop its own Department
 Equality and Diversity Committee, which monitors compliance with relevant University policies and
 enacts local initiatives which give issues of equality and inclusiveness a high profile. The
 Committee organises events to celebrate, for example, International Women’s Day, LGBTQI+
 History Month and Black History Month. Griffiths started a Rainbow Allies initiative and Hubbard
 and others were part of the team which introduced a permanent ‘rainbow crossing’ on campus
 (2019) as a symbol of solidarity with and commitment to the LGBTQI+ community.


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Department remains committed to advancing equality and diversity. Members of the
 Department have taken up leadership roles within Faculty and University equality initiatives and
 sit on both the Faculty ED&I Committee (Bullock) and University ED&I Committee (Hubbard,
 Griffiths). Colleagues also sit on a range of external bodies focused on promoting equality and
 diversity, for example, acting as an external assessor to HMP Send Equalities Committee
 (Garland).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 A sustained track record of funding generated by staff in Sociology is testimony to the
 Department’s world-class research. Since 2014 the Department has experienced a highly
 successful period of grant capture – with over 50 projects being funded to a value of over £8.87
 million.

 Our strategies for generating grant income and research impact have centred on the following:

   i.    Proactive identification of funding calls through targeted Faculty support, intention
         to bid notifications and appropriate offers of support. Since 2014, colleagues within
         the Department have received support from a Research Facilitation Officer (RFO, funded
         by the University) and a Research Co-Ordinator (RCO, funded by the Faculty). Both the
         RFO and RCO keep staff informed of opportunities as and when they arise. All members
         of the Department are required to complete an intention to bid form before progressing
         with a grant application. This form goes to the Research Facilitation/Co-ordinator Officers
         who then organise formal bid peer review. The form also goes to the Department Research
         Director – who may meet with colleagues to discuss plans and encourage engagement
         with Faculty research officers and mentors – and to colleagues in Research and Innovation
         Services to plan the administrative support and costings required for bids.

   ii.   Building mentoring and informal peer review into the application process. Funding
         bids must undergo formal peer review as part of institutional quality assurance measures.
         Informal mechanisms are also in place to help staff as all colleagues are offered a mentor
         and are encouraged to use this person for informal discussions and review prior to
         submitting their proposal. This system has proved particularly useful for early career
         colleagues as evidenced by successes in Leverhulme, Philip Leverhulme and Future
         Leaders awards. As an early career researcher in the Department, Barbrook-Johnson was
         also supported in his successful UKRI Innovation Fellowship (2018-2020), which aims to
         nurture him as a Future Leader across both industry and the research base. Elsenbroich
         also received an AHRC/ESRC award for early career researchers (2014-2017).

  iii.   Facilitating interdisciplinary/cross-disciplinary collaboration and bidding. A key
         component of our strategy for generating grant income has been encouraging and
         supporting colleagues to build interdisciplinary research applications. Examples include
         the Wellcome Trust-funded FutureSex project (Griffiths, Hubbard, Lohman). The Institute
         of Advanced Studies (IAS), led by Gilbert as its Director, has become a key University-
         wide mechanism for enhancing collaborations across disciplines. Since 2014, colleagues
         have received competitive awards from the IAS to run conferences on topics such as
         ‘Research Methods for Digital Work: Innovative Methods for Studying Distributed and
         Multi-Modal Working Practices’ (Hine), ‘Making Sleep: New agendas for a New Public
         Health’ (Meadows) and ‘Intersections of Ageing, Gender, Sexualities’ (King). These events
         have led to numerous outputs, including an edited collection on Intersections of Ageing,
         Gender and Sexualities: Multi-Disciplinary International Perspectives (King 2019).

  iv.    Responding to short-term government and third-sector calls for proposals.
         Alongside the development of CECAN Ltd – the commercial arm of the ESRC-funded
         CECAN – members of the Department have also carried out short-term research work for


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        partners such as the Department for Education (Brooks), Lankellychase Foundation
        (Shaw), Pargiter Trust (King) and West Sussex County Council (Garland).

   v.   Ensuring a diverse portfolio of funding. We continue to successfully compete for
        support from a diverse range of external funders. As well as government and third-sector
        funders, since 2014 we have been awarded 17 ESRC grants. This includes funding
        awarded to Brooks as co-investigator to the Centre for Global Higher Education (2020).
        Other funders include the Wellcome Trust (x 6 awards), the European Community (x4),
        Innovate UK (x2), the EPSRC (x2), the British Academy (x4), Facebook (Penn) and the
        Foundation for the Sociology of Health and Illness (Meadows).

  vi.   Creating a culture of co-creation. Initiatives have been put in place to ensure that
        research is impactful from the outset. Alongside those things noted in Section 1, this has
        included strengthening links with key local institutions – such as Surrey and Sussex Police
        and Surrey County Council – many of whom are invited to attend policy-focused research
        events hosted by the Department.


 Research funding and links to high quality research outputs

 Colleagues have had their work recognised in numerous ways. For example, Harman, was
 awarded the International Sociological Association RC13’s ‘Young Leisure Scholar Award’ for her
 conference paper ‘Leading the Way? Male Ballroom and Latin American Dancers’ (2016) and the
 Consumer Culture Theory Conference ‘Best Competitive Paper Award’ for her conference paper
 ‘Intensive Mothering in Hard Times’ (2018). McCarthy was awarded the 2014 British Society of
 Criminology (Policing Network) prize and Hine has been shortlisted for the 2020/21 SAGE Prize
 for Excellence/Innovation for her journal article ‘Strategies for Reflexive Ethnography in the Smart
 Home: Autoethnography of Silence and Emotion.’

 Research grants drive many of the high-quality publications produced by staff. As of September
 2020, Brooks’ Eurostudents project (2016-2021), funded by the European Research Council, had
 generated 14 articles; 1 edited collection in press; 2 special issues; 2 book chapters with 4
 forthcoming; and 8 non-academic pieces.

 Infrastructure and University investment in the Department

 The Department has benefitted from University-level initiatives and support. As noted above, this
 has included funding Fellowships (Lohman, Griffiths) and PhD studentships. The University has
 also provided resources for two research centres led by members of the Department and has
 supported the Department through investing in a wide range of CAQDAS packages (such as
 NVivo, ATLAS.ti, MAXQDA, Transana) which facilitate both research and teaching within the
 Department. Institutional support for innovation and capacity building in criminal justice research
 has been further evidenced by the investment of £100k through the UKRI World-Class
 Laboratories programme. This money is being used to upgrade the University’s Moot Room into
 a Court of the Future. Berlusconi and Brunton-Smith have also been provided with access to high-
 powered computer facilities which enable complex analysis of large datasets to be completed
 expediently.

 The Department has also had considerable success in obtaining Faculty and University of Surrey
 seed funding for research and impact activities. Recipients include Adams, Meadows,
 Elsenbroich, Brooks, Hine, Das and Hodkinson and Roberts. Two monographs have been
 produced as a result of these awards (Brooks and Hodkinson 2020 and Hodkinson and Das 2021);
 as well as numerous papers, further grant applications and a Submission of Evidence to the
 Women’s and Equalities Select Committee on the Mental Health of Men and Boys. Burningham
 received £65,000 from the University Global Challenges Research Fund to conduct an


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international survey and King received £15,000 from the University to help develop an LGBTQI+
 Social Housing Resident Pledge Card Scheme.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations, networks and partnerships

 As noted in section 2, wider partnerships include the SeNSS consortium of 10 UK Universities.
 Support is also in place within the Department to encourage effective networks and collaborations
 (see section 3) and national and international academic collaborations underpin much of the work
 in the Department. Collaborative projects include the EPSRC-funded Whole Systems Energy
 Modelling Consortium (WholeSem; 2013-2018, Gilbert) which partners Surrey with UCL,
 Cambridge and Imperial. The CYCLES project (Children and Youth in Cities—Lifestyle
 Evaluations and Sustainability, 2016-2025, Burningham) involves collaboration with partners in
 India, Bangladesh, New Zealand, South Africa, Japan and Brazil. The ESRC-funded Cyber-TNOC
 study (2019-2021, Berlusconi) involves academics from Cardiff University, Università Cattolica del
 Sacro Cuore and the University of Montreal. Over fifty percent of Department published outputs
 have a national or international co-author outside of the Department.

 Engaging with and developing relationships with key research users, beneficiaries and
 audiences

 As evidenced in much of the narrative above, the Department has engaged with a considerable
 range of users, beneficiaries and audiences. Further examples include working with Child Sex
 Education Diaries and Digital Awareness UK on issues surrounding sexting (Setty). Adams and
 McCarthy have worked with the charity Joint Enterprise Not Guilty by Association (JENGbA) to
 review Joint Enterprise cases. Brooks has conducted work with the National Union of Students on
 institutional students’ unions which contributed to national training sessions for sabbatical officers.
 Close working relationships also exist with UK government Departments/agencies such as the
 Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra), the Department for Business, Energy
 and Industrial Strategy (BEIS), the Environment Agency, and the Health and Safety Executive;
 charities and third sector organisations such as Stonewall, Stonewall Housing, Tonic Living,
 Opening Doors London and HouseProud and businesses such as Bromium, Anglian Water and
 Risk Solutions. Outside the UK, the Department has engaged with audiences and publics as
 diverse as the eThekwini Municipality Government (Durban, South Africa) and the Emilia-
 Romagna Regional Government (Italy).

 These relationships with key users, beneficiaries and audiences enable impactful research and
 enrich the research culture. Research users frequently offer student placements or guest lectures.
 For example, Sylvia Lancaster (the founder of the Sophie Lancaster Foundation) gives an annual
 lecture in the Department and in 2019 was awarded an honorary doctorate on the recommendation
 of the Department.

 Engaging with publics and sustainability of the discipline

 The Department has taken a leading role in organising public celebrations of social science.
 Hodkinson, Das, Setty, Burningham and Hubbard have all organised public seminars as part of
 the ESRC Festival of Social Science. Meadows co-convenes the Sociology section of the British
 Science Association and has organised sociology events at its annual week-long Festival for over
 a decade. The Department has also established the role of ‘public engagement lead’ (Menichelli)
 to help facilitate interaction and engagement with stakeholders.




                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wider contributions to the economy and society

 Since REF2014 the Department has continued to make significant contributions to the research
 base, economy and society. Examples of impact not captured in the submitted case studies
 include Burningham’s work with arts-based charities (Feral Spaces and BArts), and schools to
 create interactive events and discussions on how to imagine and bring about a sustainable future.
 Burningham is also an expert panel member for Global Action Plan’s ‘Flickers of the Future’
 competition to encourage young film makers to develop positive drama about sustainable futures.
 Meadows collaborated with policy specialists, psychologists, clinicians and those in recovery from
 alcohol and other drug problems to develop the first patient reported outcome measure for sleep
 in recovery from addiction (2019). This has now been included in the SURE Recovery app. The
 Home Office ‘cost of crime’ policy appraisal toolkit also now includes the carbon footprint of crime
 estimates developed by Brunton-Smith and colleagues.


 Responsiveness to national priorities

 The Department’s strong policy focus means it has remained responsive to national and
 international priorities and initiatives – for example, the FutureDAMS project is examining the
 design and assessment of resilient and sustainable interventions in water-energy-food-
 environment systems (funded by the RCUK Global Challenges Research Fund (2017-2021)). The
 NERC ANTICIPATE project forms part of the Clean Air Programme, which brings together policy
 analysts and policy makers from UK central government, devolved administrations and local and
 regional authorities, stakeholders from business and civil society organisations, and UK based
 academics and researchers to explore the impact of policy initiatives on air quality. The ESRC-
 funded LIPSIT initiative (Local Institutions, Productivity, Sustainability and Inclusivity Trade-offs,
 2019-2021) is helping regional and local policy makers responsible for industrial strategy to make
 good trade-offs between productivity growth, inclusivity and sustainability.

 The Department was also well placed to respond during the early months of the COVID-19
 pandemic, with Hine involved in training over 1,380 people on online methods and Das carrying
 out rapid research on perinatal health and the digital pivot. Between March and July
 2020, Barbrook-Johnson was part of the COVID-19 Community Health and Social Care Modelling
 Team led by the University of Durham. This work is helping decision-makers understand the
 uncertainty around forecast models.


 Wider Influence, contributions and recognition

 Conference organisation
 The Department places considerable value on conference/seminar organisation as a way of
 generating new ideas and collaborations. The Eurostudents team, led by Brooks, ran a conference
 on creative methods (sponsored by the International Journal of Social Research Methodology) in
 June 2018 and another on Students in Marketised Higher Education Landscapes in June 2019.
 Further examples include hosting a British Sociological Association Early Career Forum Regional
 Event centred around sexualities studies (2017, Griffiths, King, Lohman, Hubbard) and an ESRC-
 funded seminar series on gaps in knowledge about LGBT ageing (King 2015). Brooks was co-
 investigator on an ESRC seminar series ‘Thinking the 'Yet to be Thought': an International Cross-
 sectors Seminar Series Exploring Socially Just Education and Inequalities in Education’ (2014-
 2016). Research users and activists have formed a core part of these conferences/seminars. For
 example, in 2016, the Department hosted a free evening public lecture by Dr Lynne Friedli
 (freelance researcher and author of the World Health Organisation report, Mental Health,
 Resilience and Inequalities) and during 2019/2020 the interdisciplinary FutureSex seminars
 involved three activists who are working in the field of sex, gender and sexuality.




                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Editorial Work
 Other activities contributing to the sustainability of the discipline include journal editing. Ethnic and
 Racial Studies continues to be run from the Department and, since 2014, colleagues have edited
 Sociology, the flagship journal of the British Sociological Association (2014 to 2017, King, Neal),
 Ageing and Society (2018 onwards, King) and Sociological Research Online (2012 to 2016;
 Hodkinson and Brooks). Brooks is also an executive editor of the British Journal of Sociology of
 Education and Harman is currently an associate editor of the International Journal of Sociology of
 Leisure. Colleagues in the Department have also sat on numerous editorial boards of journals
 over the past six years. For example, Sociological Research Online (Meadows, Bullock, Brooks,
 Hodkinson), Journal of Artificial Societies and Social Simulation (Elsenbroich), British Journal of
 Criminology (Brunton-Smith, Berlusconi), Journal of Youth Studies (Brooks, Hodkinson), Local
 Environment (Burningham), Journal of Consumer Ethics (Burningham), Ethnic and Racial Studies
 (Garland), Big Data and Society (Hine), Methodological Innovations (Hine) and Trends in
 Organised Crime (Berlusconi). Between 2016 and 2019 Hubbard also served as the book review
 editor and part of the editorial team for Psychology of Women and Equalities Review.

 Service to UK Research Councils, leadership in professional societies and contributions
 to other bodies

 Staff have provided considerable service to UK Research Councils and other funding bodies
 including: Member of ESRC Peer Review College and Commissioning Panel (Brooks, Bullock);
 Member of ESRC large grants shortlisting panel (Hine); Member of the NIHR Doctoral Fellowship
 Panel (Meadows), Member of the Future Leaders peer review panel, (McCarthy, Meadows);
 Member of Council, Economic and Social Research Council Member (Gilbert).

 Colleagues have also continued to hold leadership positions in professional societies including:
 Chair of the ESA Research Network on Sexuality (King); Member of the Governing Council of the
 Society for Research into Higher Education (Brooks); Member of the Royal Statistical Society
 Social Statistics Committee and Secretary for 4 years (Brunton-Smith); Chair of the British
 Sociological Association Climate Change Research Group (Roberts); Management Board of the
 European Social Simulation Association (Elsenbroich) and Chair of the Audience and Reception
 Studies division of the European Communication Research and Education Association (Das).

 Contributions to other bodies include: Member of the Expert Reference Group for Public Health
 England’s evidence review on sleep and health (Meadows); Advisory Board Member for the
 International Network for Hate Studies (Garland); Board Member of the National Centre for
 Research Methods (Brunton-Smith), member of the International Longevity Centre Academic
 Advisory Board (King) and academic advisor to the College of Policing (Brunton-Smith). Gilbert
 has been a member of the following groups and committees: Department for Transport/Defra Joint
 Air Quality Unit Technical Independent Review Panel; Member; Cross-Government Trial Advice
 Panel; Social Science Expert Group, Defra; International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis
 UK Committee; UKRI Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund Healthy Ageing Evaluation Expert
 Group. Setty is currently a leading member of the British Society of Criminology Early Career
 Network, and Hine was a member of the British Sociological Association working group on digital
 research ethics (2016-2017).

 These contributions have been formally recognised. Since 2014 several members of staff have
 received prestigious awards and honours – including Brooks who was chosen as a fellow of the
 Academy of Social Sciences in 2019, in recognition of her work in the sociology of education;
 Arber (now Emeritus) who was awarded the 2017 BSA Distinguished Service to British Sociology
 Award; and Gilbert who was also made Commander of the British Empire (CBE) for services to
 computational social science (2016).




                                                                                                  Page 15
