Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Maxwell Institute for Mathematical Sciences

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 10 - Mathematics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1a. Overview

 The Maxwell Institute (MI) is an internationally leading research centre in the Mathematical
 Sciences. It builds on a long-standing collaboration which combines the research activities in the
 mathematical sciences of the School of Mathematics at the University of Edinburgh (UoE) and the
 School of Mathematical and Computer Sciences at Heriot-Watt University (HWU), forming an
 international hub whose research spans the full spectrum of the discipline and whose influence is
 global.
 Since REF2014, the MI has grown in strength and in depth, using its scale to forge powerful new
 connections to other disciplines, notably through its participation in the Edinburgh City Region
 Deal, specifically the £270M investment in the two universities in Data Driven Innovation (DDI); to
 support a community of early career researchers which includes one of Europe’s largest Graduate
 Schools; and to build a flourishing knowledge exchange community, whose capacity extends
 across major industries and government agencies.
                                                 This major step up of activity has been made
                                                 possible by the MI’s move to its new location in the
                                                 Bayes Centre, opened in 2018. This £40M
                                                 investment in Edinburgh’s city centre supports the
                                                 STEM activity of the City Region Deal in DDI and
                                                 is the base of the Maxwell Institute Graduate
                                                 School, currently training 200 PhD students. This
                                                 spectacular space also hosts the International
                                                 Centre for Mathematical Sciences (ICMS), one of
                                                 the UK’s two flagship centres for workshops,
                                                 established in 1990 as a joint venture of both
                                                 institutions and managed by the MI.
Bayes Centre, central hub of the Maxwell Institute The MI’s research capacity has expanded
                                                 considerably in volume, with the recruitment of 70
 new faculty since 2014 and a 55% increase in FTEs submitted for REF, and in scope, most
 strikingly through a step-change in our statistics and data-science activities. The quality of our
 work over the REF period is widely recognised and evidenced for example by:
       a research income of £39.1M, up by 77% from REF2014,
       the award of 19 major fellowships to our staff, with value up by 127%,
       the award of 2 EPSRC Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs) representing an overall
        investment of more than £11M in PhD training,
       attracting almost £2.5M investment from industry, business and agency partners, for
        collaborations in research, development and innovation,
       the award of more than 30 prizes and honorary fellowships to our staff.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1b. Context and structure

 The MI was founded in 2005 to establish Edinburgh
 as an internationally leading centre for the
 mathematical        sciences,    building  on    the
 complementary strengths of its constituent
 departments and on a history of close collaboration.
 Research activities have been steadily integrated
 since, leading to joint submissions to RAE2008 and
 REF2014 and to major successes in attracting
 infrastructure funding. This integration has
 culminated in the last three years with the creation
 of the Maxwell Institute Graduate School, the
 acquisition of a MI home at the Bayes Centre, and
 the adoption of a new organisational structure,
 centred on four Research Themes that encompass
 the activity of all our groups. These are:
         Analysis & Probability (AP, 34.3 FTEs),
         Applied & Computational Mathematics (ACM, 28.9 FTEs),
         Data & Decisions (DD – including Optimization & Operational Research, Statistics and
           Actuarial Science, 39.9 FTEs),
         Structure & Symmetry (SS – including Algebra, Geometry, Topology and Mathematical
           Physics, 39.6 FTEs).
 Governance. The MI is led by 2 Co-Directors (Cheltsov at UoE and Schroers at HWU) who
 convene the MI Management Committee featuring the 2 Heads of School (Gordon at UoE and
 Pelloni at HWU), the 2 Co-Directors of the Graduate School (Dindos at UoE and Saemann at
 HWU), and the Directors of Impact (Sabanis at UoE and Cairns at HWU). Each Theme is headed
 jointly by two coordinators, one at each institution. These meet regularly as part of Research
 Committees whose work inform the strategic decisions taken by the MI Management Committee.

 1c. Research strategy

 Mission. The MI’s mission is to be an internationally leading centre for the mathematical sciences,
 addressing the challenges of the 21st century. We aim to advance mathematical research and its
 applications, promote work at interdisciplinary interfaces, and deliver research training of the
 highest quality. In doing so, we contribute to the impact of mathematics on society and to its
 increasing visibility as an agent of progress.
 Strategy. To deliver our mission, we have adopted a strategy with three broad objectives:
  (i)       to vigorously develop fields which directly connect to applications, particularly those driven
            by the rapid growth in data science;
  (ii)      to strengthen our world-leading activities in core mathematical science topics;
 (iii)      to invest in early-career staff and graduate students and thoroughly support their
            development.
 Together, these ensure the excellence and sustainability of the MI across the entire mathematical
 science spectrum. To achieve objectives (i)—(iii) our four priorities have been:
           to target infrastructure funding and other large-scale grants, building on our critical
            mass and our successful Science & Innovation centres (Centre for Analysis & Nonlinear
            PDEs 2007-2014 and Numerical Algorithms and Intelligent Software 2009-2014),
           to stimulate applications for fellowships by staff at all career stages, by offering
            extensive support throughout the application process, teaching and administrative relief,
            matching funds when appropriate, and a policy to convert long-term fellowships into


                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        permanent posts,
       to strengthen our impact outside academia by building up capacity in fields directly
        connected to applications, by expanding our links with other disciplines and with business
        and industry, and by investing in professional services that support these activities,
       to expand graduate training in volume and in quality, by investing heavily in studentships
        and in the Bayes Centre, and by seizing opportunities such as CDTs in mathematics and
        in cognate areas.
 The re-organisation of the MI into four Themes has played an important part in the delivery of our
 objectives. The Themes serve as centres for research activities, foster collaborations and enhance
 visibility; their mass and breadth have been crucial in mounting competitive bids for large-scale
 grants.
 Achievements. Our strategy has been rewarded by major successes since 2014:
       Our investment in the most promising early career researchers has led to 7 ERC
        Starting Grants, 7 EPSRC First Grants & New Investigator awards, 1 UKRI Future Leaders
        Fellowship, 1 Ernest Rutherford Fellowship, and 5 Royal Society University Research &
        Dorothy Hodgkin Fellowships,
       Our research leaders have been awarded 2 ERC Consolidator Grants, 2 EPSRC
        Established Career Fellowships and 3 Leverhulme Fellowships,

       We have been awarded two EPSRC CDTs:
            o   the Maxwell Institute Graduate School in Analysis and its Applications (MIGSAA,
                2014-2022) funded by a £5.0M EPSRC grant and SFC,
            o   the CDT in Mathematical Modelling, Analysis and Computing (MAC-MIGS, 2019-
                2028) funded by a £6.1M EPSRC grant, backed by a further £3.6M investment by
                UoE and HWU and £5.5M pledged by over 35 industry and government-agency
                partners,
       We have greatly strengthened areas most closely linked to applications, expanding
        by 19 FTEs in Statistics, 12 FTEs in Applied & Computational Mathematics, 6 FTEs in
        Operational Research and 3 FTEs in Actuarial Science. These include joint appointments
        with Biomathematics & Statistics Scotland (2), and the HWU Schools of Energy,
        Geoscience, Infrastructure & Society (1) and of Engineering & Physical Sciences (1). This
        boost in interdisciplinarity has led to 19 grants worth over £1.8M with Engineering,
        Geosciences, Physics, Informatics, EPCC and the Medical School,
       We have enhanced our external engagement by founding the Statistical and OR
        Consultancy Units, which interface between industry and our experts in mathematical
        statistics and operational research, and by reinvigorating the Scottish Financial Risk
        Academy, an industry-academic partnership dedicated to improving the understanding of
        financial risk, and by appointing three Business Development Executives,
       Our founding partnership in the Alan Turing Institute and the massive expansion of the
        Statistics Theme following an external review in 2013 have boosted our Data Science
        activities, funding 13 Turing Fellows and enabling our participation in the City Region Deal
        in Data Driven Innovation, from which the universities received £270M funding from the
        UK and Scottish Governments in 2018,
       Our investment in the Bayes Centre (£40M, opened 2018) has provided the MI and ICMS
        with dedicated space equipped with state-of-the-art facilities, improving the experience of
        the participants to ICMS workshops and benefitting the entire mathematical science
        community. This has combined with ICMS securing over £4.5M of EPSRC funding since
        2014 and set to receive an additional £1M/year from 2021, doubling its budget,
       Our large investment in PhD training (including £4.4M in MI-funded studentships) and
        the creation of the Maxwell Institute Graduate School (MIGS) have had a transformative

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        impact: they underpin the award of MIGSAA and MAC-MIGS CDTs and our partnerships
        in four other PhD training centres (EPSRC CDT in Data Science, 2014-22; NERC Centre
        in Satellite Data in Environmental Science – Sense 2020-26; NERC DTP Edinburgh Earth
        & Environment 2014-2022; NERC DTP Edinburgh Earth, Ecology & Environment, 2019-
        28). One result has been the rapid growth in our PhD student intake, which more than
        doubled from 22 in 2013-2014 to 50 in 2019-2020 and the current cohort of 200 PhD
        students.
 These achievements are underpinned by strategic developments of each of our four Themes
 which we now describe.

 1d. Research Themes

 Analysis & Probability (34.3 FTEs returned; grant income: £8.75M)
 The Theme groups around 45 researchers including 35 permanent academic staff, working on the
 rigorous analysis of partial differential equations (PDEs) and stochastic PDEs, regularity
 structures, harmonic analysis, geometric measure theory, calculus of variations, optimal transport,
 stochastic processes, and numerical methods. Our strategy has prioritised interactions between
 these areas and an expansion of our capacity in targeted areas of applications: data science and
 machine learning, finance and economics, and communication and energy networks. The award
 of the MIGSAA CDT has been a primary focus driving the development of the Theme,
 underpinning several of its 13 new appointments since 2014: Azzam, Assiotis, Ball, Breit, Bruned,
 Cheyvrev, Haji-Ali, Hickman, Majka, Ottobre , Pocovnicu, Scardia and Schulte.
 Research highlights in Analysis include: classification of rectifiable sets, with impact on free
 boundary problems to the theory of quasicrystals (Azzam); proving emergence and optimality of
 defects in materials science (Ball, Scardia); verifying the linear stability of Kerr spacetimes (Blue);
 development of a theory for Schatten-von Neumann perturbations of Gibbs semigroups (Boulton);
 development of a new concept (‘semiflow selection’) for selecting physically relevant solutions to
 ill-posed PDEs from fluid mechanics (Breit); a groundbreaking duality theory of multilinear
 factorisation of operators (Carbery); the first ever result of finite-time singularity formation for the
 two-phase incompressible Euler equations with surface tension (Coutand); the discovery of p-
 ellipticity and its implications for dimension-free embeddings and PDEs (Dindos); a new regularity
 theory for boundary problems (Gimperlein); the best progress to date on the Fourier Restriction
 and Kakeya conjectures and a resolution of Hormander's longstanding conjecture on oscillatory
 integral operators (Hickman); proving the Chopp conjecture on mean curvature flows
 (Karakhanyan); major developments in the well-posedness of dispersive (stochastic) PDEs
 supported by 2 ERC grants (Oh – Starting followed by Consolidator); the proof of integrability of
 classes of local and nonlocal noncommutative nonlinear PDEs and their realisation as Fredholm
 Grassmannian flows (Malham); and the construction of a linearisation operator at equilibria of
 parabolic p-Laplacian problems (Rynne).
 In Probability, research highlights include: explicit error bounds for approximation by geometric
 sums for stochastic systems (Daly); introduction and analysis of a new class of spatial dynamical
 stochastic models (Foss); major advances in degenerate stochastic parabolic PDEs (Gyongy);
 investigation of the probabilistic coupling technique as a tool for studying convergence rates of
 jump processes (Majka); a bound for the stability region of a standard wireless transmission
 protocol (Shneer); and groundbreaking results in the analysis of stochastic processes with multiple
 equilibria which was awarded the 2019 Whittaker Prize (Ottobre).
 Interdisciplinary and engagement activities have included collaborative projects with Aberdeen
 Standard Investment attracting £115k funding (Sabanis), projects on asset management (Peters),
 on energy, transport and communications networks (Foss, Shneer), on lifespan prognostics for
 electric batteries (Dos Reis), and on automatised trading and execution of complex financial
 products (Siska). We engage strongly with the Alan Turing Institute (Szpruch had a 90% FTE
 secondment as Programme Director for its £12M programme in Finance and Economics, and
 Sabanis is a Fellow). Multidisciplinary collaborations include work on liquid crystals, polycrystals
 and dislocations (Ball), a collaboration with the National Robotarium (Gimperlein) and a project on

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the mathematical modelling of cell therapy resulting in a publication in Nature (Gyongy).
 Applied & Computational Mathematics (28.9 FTEs returned; grant income: £15.3M)
 The Theme consists of approximately 45 researchers, including 29 permanent academic staff. Its
 strategy in the REF period has been to drive expansion along two main axes: computational and
 data-driven methods, and multidisciplinary applications. This builds on an exceptional
 environment, with our participation in the Alan Turing Institute (5 staff are Turing Fellows), the
 presence of the Edinburgh Parallel Computing Centre, the data-science hub that is the Bayes
 Centre, and world-leading research groups in science, engineering, informatics and medicine
 offering outstanding collaboration opportunities. The award of the MAC-MIGS CDT and our
 participation in two EPSRC Programme Grants (Higham, Vanneste) are the most visible rewards
 for our strategy. To realise it, we have recruited 11 staff, including research leaders Higham
 (EPSRC/RCUK Established Career Fellow 2015-2020, Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit
 Award) and Pelloni (FRSE, now Head of School at HWU), and rising stars Teckentrup
 (SIAG/Uncertainty Quantification Early Career Prize and Leslie Fox 2nd Prize 2017), Schratz
 (ERC Starting Grant), Varri (UKRI Future Leaders Fellow, joint appointment with Physics),
 Pearson (EPSRC Postdoctoral Fellow, Leslie Fox 2nd Prize 2015), Cummins (joint appointment
 with Engineering), Bourne, Ptashnyk, Linkmann and Page (Osborne Reynolds Award 2015).
 Research highlights in Computational Mathematics include: new network centrality algorithms,
 based on the theory of zeta functions and matrix polynomials, that avoid the drawbacks associated
 with backtracking walks (Higham); pioneering work on multilevel Markov chain Monte Carlo
 methods enabling the calibration of large-scale PDE models (Teckentrup); forefront Langevin-
 based sampling algorithms that incorporate adaptivity, temperature ladders, memory, and
 configurational constraints (Leimkuhler);        the first iterative solvers for PDE-constrained
 optimization for fluid flow control, imaging problems, pattern formation and chemotaxis (Pearson);
 putting convergence of adaptive time-stepping of stochastic PDEs on firm theoretical foundation
 (Lord); and new Bayesian framework and algorithms for the task of binary classification using a
 graph formulation of semi-supervised learning (Zygalakis).
 In Applied Mathematics, research highlights include: the discovery of simple rules for the genetic
 makeup of growing cell populations (Antal); combining mathematical modelling with experiments
 to determine the mechanisms of RNA transcription elongation (Goddard); improved understanding
 of sea turtle navigation (Painter); resolution of a longstanding contradiction between model
 predictions and data for patterned vegetation (Sherratt); a new mathematical model of the
 spreading of airborne diseases such as Covid-19 during breathing and clinical procedures
 (Cummins); mathematical modelling which directed disease management efforts to control the
 spread of African swine fever and tuberculosis in wildlife populations (White); a new framework
 for the multiscale analysis of stochastic gene expression (Popovic); mathematical modelling of
 Tyndall star initiation, which explains the observation of thin discs (Lacey); uncovering an
 unexpected degree of phase space complexity in collisional stellar systems (Varri); discovery of a
 planar interface that supports multiple Rayleigh waves (Mackay); the first practical implementation
 of uniform asymptotic expansions for integrals with coalescing critical points (Olde Daalhuis);
 development of a new parameterisation of ocean turbulence, now implemented in the NEMO
 community ocean model (Maddison); a new theory of inertia-gravity-wave scattering that explains
 observed kinetic energy spectra in the atmosphere and in the ocean (Vanneste); demonstration
 of the non-universality of large-scale structures in two-dimensional turbulence, shown to arise
 through either first or second-order phase transitions (Linkmann); discovery of the first exact
 coherent structure in a viscoelastic channel flow, explaining the dynamical origins of elasto-inertial
 turbulence (Page); and a new probabilistic framework for Lagrangian uncertainty quantification,
 rooted in information theory and information geometry (Branicki).
 Interdisciplinary and engagement activities in the Theme have transformed our interactions
 with industry, business and government agencies, culminating with the pledge of more than £5.5M
 (including £1.3M direct funding) by more than 35 partners for our successful MAC-MIGS CDT bid.
 Our partners represent a broad array of industries: finance (Aberdeen Standard Investments,
 Moody’s Analytics, Royal Bank of Scotland, Oliver Wyman), computing (IBM, nvidia), technology
 (MacLaren, Leonardo), chemical and biochemical engineering (Akzo Nobel, Biova, Cresset,
 Procter & Gamble, uFraction8, Infineum), energy (Mocean, NM group, Ofgem) and more.

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Examples of recent engagement projects include work on police deployment (Higham with Police
 Scotland), wind-turbine management (Leimkuhler with DNV GL) and metal-grain models (Bourne
 with Tata Steel). In parallel, we have developed collaborations in the life sciences with academic
 departments (UoE Centre for Medical Informatics, Engineering) and with other partners such as
 Scottish National Heritage, Institute of Game, NHS Scotland, and Wildlife Research (Spain).
 Data & Decisions (39.85 FTEs returned; grant income: £7.5M)
 The Theme groups our activities in Optimization & Operational Research, Statistics and Actuarial
 Science. It has benefitted from a large investment over the REF period resulting in its expansion
 from 17 permanent staff in 2014 to 40 in 2020. This investment was driven by the rapidly
 increasing importance of statistics and optimization for data science and machine learning, and
 by opportunities to consolidate our international standing in actuarial mathematics. A core element
 of the Theme’s strategy has been the development of impact through interdisciplinary
 collaborations. Recruitment has been carried out across all seniority levels, from rising stars to the
 newly established Thomas Bayes’ Chair of Statistics (King, FRSE, FLSW), with: Wood (EPSRC
 Established Career Research Fellowship), Anjos (Schoeller Senior Fellow), Lindgren (Elected
 Member of International Statistical Institute), de Carvalho (Young Scientist Prize for The World
 Academy of Sciences, Elected Member of International Statistical Institute), Cetinkaya-Rundel
 (Elected Member of International Statistical Institute), Peters (Young Academy of Scotland, Royal
 Society of Edinburgh), Pereyra (Marie Curie Fellow), Gair (Royal Society URF; President’s Medal
 of the Royal Society of Edinburgh), Elvira (Fulbright Research Fellowship, Marie Curie Fellowship)
 and Oktem (Rutherford Visiting Fellowship).
 Research highlights in Optimization & Operational Research include: a novel orbital branching
 for structured symmetry in unit commitment problems (Anjos); a complete theory of warmstarting
 interior point methods in the column generation context (Gondzio); new tighter error bounds for
 monomial convexification in polynomial optimization (Gupte); new penalty alternating direction
 methods for mixed-integer optimization (Schewe); simplification of inclusion-exclusion on
 intersections of unions in the context of network systems reliability (Garcia); a new algorithm for
 optimization of eigenvalues of Hermitian matrix functions (Yildirim); explaining structural properties
 of Voronoi diagrams in facility location problems with continuous demand (Kalcsics); a variable
 metric forward–backward algorithm for convex optimization (Repetti); stabilising scenario
 decomposition algorithm for stochastic unit commitment problems (McKinnon); solving security
 constrained optimal power flow problems using interior point method (Grothey); parallelizing the
 dual revised simplex method (Hall); assessing the role of nightly rechargeable grid-scale storage
 to power generation capacity (Dent); and providing fluid and diffusion approximations of
 probabilistic matching systems (Buke).
 Research highlights in Statistics include: novel statistical learning techniques for high-dimensional
 classification problems applied to oncology (Cannings); efficient, scalable computational
 techniques applied to problems ranging from malaria control in Africa to energy forecasting in
 France by EDF and farm analytic tools in the US and Canada (Lindgren, Wood); new statistical
 models for the evaluation of criminal evidence used for drugs on banknotes and other forensics
 applications (Wilson, Aitken); development of epidemiological methods recently used to inform
 disease control policy in New Zealand, Australia and Austria (Gibson, Streftaris); the first precise
 estimate of the mean persistence time from endemicity to extinction for a population model in more
 than one dimension (Clancy); and a comprehensive mathematical and computational framework
 for performing uncertainty quantification in inverse problems applied to imaging sciences
 (Pereyra).
 Research highlights in Actuarial Mathematics include the development of new statistical models
 leading to the discovery of anomalies in national population data (Cairns); and development of a
 dynamic mathematical model of cascade genetic testing in families with inherited heart disorders
 (Macdonald).
 Interdisciplinary and engagement activities are at the heart of the Theme. These have been
 boosted over the REF period by a joint appointment with BioStatistics Scotland (Gair followed by
 Newman), a joint appointment with Engineering (Repetti), the establishment of the Centre for
 Statistics which unites data-driven researchers from across the MI and associated institutions, the

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 creation of the Statistical and OR Consultancy Units, and increased activities of the Scottish
 Financial Risk Academy (SFRA). Our external partners include Google, Oracle Labs, NTT, Cargill,
 NHS, EDF, National Grid and the UK, Canadian and American Societies of Actuaries.
 Structure & Symmetry (39.6 FTEs returned; grant income: £18.7M)
 This Theme has 60 researchers, including 40 permanent members of staff. The creation of the
 Theme deliberately brought mathematical physics, algebra, geometry and topology together to
 break down boundaries between disciplines, promote new collaborations between existing
 researchers and attract new members with interests that span disciplines (Ciobanu, R. Davison,
 Sheridan, Dimofte). We have built on our existing strengths in algebra and in geometry, bringing
 them together to lead a £3.4M EPSRC Programme Grant at the interface between algebra and
 geometry (with our former colleagues Wemyss and Bridgeland), we have supported new areas in
 mathematical physics, with novel directions in gravitational physics, holography, and condensed
 matter physics, and we have grown to establish a strong geometric group theory group. Our
 vigorous recruitment has attracted world-class researchers: Adamo (Royal Society URF), Barwick
 (Berwick Prize 2019), Ciobanu, B. Davison (Royal Society URF; ERC starting grant; Whitehead
 Prize 2020), R. Davison (STFC Ernest Rutherford Fellowship), Dimofte, Hartong (Royal Society
 URF), Hollands (Anne Bennett Prize 2018, Royal Society Dorothy Hodgkin Fellowship), Martin,
 Pires, Sheridan (Whitehead Prize 2019, Royal Society URF; ERC starting grant) and Sisto.
 Research highlights in Algebra, Geometry and Topology include: classification of constructible
 sheaves and construction of the first complete invariant of smooth varieties over number fields
 (Barwick); advances in the foundations and applications of stability conditions in algebraic
 geometry (Bayer); solution of the Calabi problem for smooth Fano three-folds using purely
 algebraic approach via K-stability (Cheltsov); proof of the positivity conjectures in quantum cluster
 algebras using cohomological Donaldson-Thomas theory (B. Davison); new constructions of
 HOMFLY-PT link homology using supersymmetric gauge theories and mirror symmetry (Dimofte);
 construction of quotients of ordered groupoids with applications to their homotopical and
 homological algebra (Gilbert); confirmation of a conjecture of Bonnafe-Rouquier that identifies
 Kazhdan-Lusztig combinatorics in colliding points in the rational Calogero-Moser model (Gordon);
 proof that 4M-4 generic intensity measurements of a vector are sufficient to reconstruct the vector
 up to a global phase factor (Hering); introduction of the quantum geometric Langlands topological
 field theory and its use to resolve conjectures of Ben-Zvi, Bonahon-Wong and Witten (Jordan);
 pioneering work on magnitude and magnitude homology, invariants of metric spaces and enriched
 categories that encode subtle geometric information (Leinster); asymptotics of Bridgeland stability
 conditions for three-folds and the differential geometry of the walls (Maciocia); construction of the
 Hitchin connection in positive characteristic (Martens); development of new geometric tools to
 reveal non-positively curved features of large classes of Artin groups (Martin); investigation of
 exceptional rigidity-flexibility phenomena in symplectic embeddings of ellipsoids into toric
 manifolds (Pires); deformation quantisation for symplectic and Poisson structures in derived
 algebraic geometry (Pridham); definition of coisotropic structures for derived stacks and their
 relationship to quantum groups (Safronov); proof of homological mirror symmetry for Calabi-Yau
 and Fano hypersurfaces in projective spaces (Sheridan); computation of primitive ideals in the
 enveloping algebra of the Witt algebra using techniques from Poisson geometry (Sierra); initiation
 of the theory of hierarchically hyperbolic spaces which has grown into its own subfield of geometric
 group theory (Sisto); and development of structure theorems for left nilpotent braces, solving some
 longstanding and some recent open problems related to adjoint groups of rings, to differential
 polynomial rings and to Acons (Smoktunowicz) .
 In Mathematical Physics research highlights include: discovery of a novel description of
 supergravity as a string theory in its own right (Adamo); construction of explicit BPS monopoles
 directly from the spectral curve together with its ground-breaking charge 2 implementation
 (Braden); classification of kinematical Lie algebras and the corresponding spatially isotropic
 homogeneous spacetimes in all dimensions (Figueroa-O’Farrill); discovery of a theory of non-
 standard scaling at first order phase transitions with sub-extensive degeneracies (Johnston);
 construction of a classical Lagrangian for a six-dimensional superconformal field theory which was
 previously believed to be impossible (Saemann); construction of some of the first non-relativistic
 gravity and string theories, and development of non-Lorentzian geometries and their applications

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to fluid dynamics, soft condensed matter and field theory (Hartong); pioneering the extension of
 abelianisation techniques to higher rank flat connections on Riemann surfaces and its relation to
 exact WKB methods (Hollands); classification of all massive infrared phases in the Ising field
 theory (Konechny); discovery of the first example of an asymptotically flat black hole solution with
 lens space topology (Lucietti); uncovering key links between set theoretic solutions of the Yang-
 Baxter equation coming from nil rings and quantum integrability (Doikou, Smoktunowicz); first
 rigorous construction of moduli spaces of fractional instantons on ALE spaces using framed
 sheaves on root toric stacks (Szabo); demonstration that the transport of energy in strongly
 correlated systems is related to the quantum scrambling processes that govern the chaotic
 properties (R. Davison); discovery of the first infinite family of exactly solvable models of magnetic
 skyrmions (Schroers); development of two-dimensional conformal field theory tools to compute
 the quantum entanglement of excited states at finite temperature (Simón); and the first rigorous
 algebraic construction and analysis of Baxter’s Q-operator for an open quantum spin chain
 (Weston).
 Interdisciplinary and engagement activities within the Theme stem from the impact of our
 research beyond mathematics. For instance, we led work packages in two STFC Consolidated
 Grants worth over £3.4M with the Higgs Centre for Theoretical Physics; we are developing
 collaborations with experimental groups at Forschungszentrum Julich in Germany and Keio
 University in Japan on emerging information storage technology; our prediction of a large negative
 thermal magnetoresistance due to mixed axial-gravitational anomaly was confirmed
 experimentally in the Weyl semi-metal NbP; and our work on the interactions of infinite groups
 with theoretical computer sciences answered a 30 year old open question and opened up a new
 area of research which has attracted £0.5M investment by EPSRC.

 1e. Impact strategy

 One of our priorities has been to strengthen our impact outside academia and help address current
 socio-economic challenges. To this end, we put in place a deliberate strategy that consists of:
   (i)   identifying and nurturing activities with potential economic and/or societal benefits;
  (ii)   developing new structures to engage systematically with industries that translate
         mathematics into innovations available to a wide public;
 (iii)   providing effective support to staff engaged in impactful research and translation activities.
 The success of this strategy is evidenced by a 3-fold increase in the number of businesses
 and agencies we interact with, and a 10-fold increase of the average consultancy income
 per year. The strategy has created a supportive environment in which every activity which has a
 potential to create an impact (reaching beyond the REF2021 census date) is encouraged and
 nurtured from the start. Part of our support for early career researchers has targeted impact: we
 have more than 20 match-funded industrially sponsored PhD students; co-funded 2 academic-
 industry partnership postdocs with a £6.4m EU COFUND scheme; established an Impact Time
 policy, which frees up time for younger members of staff (4 so far) to carry out impactful activities;
 provided systematic industrial training for our PhD students, including through the organisation of
 industry-driven sandpits and modelling camps. The rich portfolio of over 35 industry and agency
 partners contributing to the MAC-MIGS CDT is enabling us to scale up this student engagement.
 To ensure that our research reaches beyond the MI, we have invested in 3 Business
 Development Executives all of whom are trained mathematical scientists, and 3 consultants in
 industrial mathematics, statistics and operational research. Together they support the whole
 range of our external engagement activities. Additional support is provided by central University
 services which interact with companies at an institutional level and facilitate industrial
 collaborations by dealing with contractual and IP issues. Our goal is to work on projects that
 combine exciting research challenges with benefits for society and the partners with whom we
 work. We engage with companies at all research levels, from MSc and PhD projects to funded
 postdoctoral or faculty secondments and consultancy, and at various scales, from one-off projects
 (e.g. with Edinburgh Airport) to sustained relationships (e.g. with Aberdeen Standard, Adidas,
 Airbus, Aviva UK Life, AWE, BT, Cargill, Format Solutions, Google, IBM, National Grid, NPIF,
 Oracle Labs, Prudential). Our strategy has enabled us to seize opportunities such as the EPSRC

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Impact Acceleration Account (12 projects for a total of £426K) and to secure a total of almost £2M
 of industrial funding.
 We have focused most of our effort on industries that we identified as offering the best potential
 for engagement or are best aligned with strengths of the local economy. These are:
       Finance: we have reinvigorated the Scottish Financial Risk Academy – under its new
        Director (Peters), SFRA was approved as a Special Interest Group within Scottish
        Financial Enterprise, consolidating its position as a crucial link between industry and
        academia; we nurtured a relationship with Aberdeen Standard Investment which has led
        to a £1M investment in our activities; and we lead the £12M Alan Turing Institute
        programme in Finance and Economics with partners HSBC and Accenture. These
        activities have been supported by investment in staff (Peters), in postdocs (2 funded by
        Aberdeen Standard), and in 4 PhD students.
       Energy: through our Optimization and OR group, we have developed capacity in the
        energy sphere, particularly around security of supply and preventive maintenance planning
        for electric grids where we work with EDF and National Grid, advise government and
        collaborate with Engineering. This work has been supported by the appointments of Anjos,
        Dent, Schewe and Wilson and has attracted £1.65M of research funding. Work in this area
        has led to an impact case study submitted for this REF.
       Pensions and Insurance: our experts in actuarial mathematics guide the policies of
        pensions and insurance sector in the UK and worldwide. Crucial discoveries of anomalies
        in national population and mortality data made by Cairns have influenced procedures used
        by the Office for National Statistics, Prudential Retirement in the US, UK pension funds,
        and UK and international actuarial consultancies such as Milliman. The work of the
        Actuarial Science group (Cairns, Donnelly, Streftaris) has attracted £2.3M of research
        funding from UK, US and Canadian Societies of Actuaries. In 2018 we were granted status
        as Center of Actuarial Excellence by the US Society of Actuaries, the first to be granted in
        Europe. Work in this area has led to two impact case studies submitted for this REF.
       Software: new algorithms developed and implemented by MI staff have delivered software
        used worldwide. The multiple award-winning work of Hall on high performance linear
        optimization (selected as best papers in Mathematical Programming Computation and in
        Computational Optimization and Applications) has yielded industrial impact with Cargill,
        FICO, NTT, Huawei and Google. A current low-cost open-source initiative to develop and
        maintain the HiGHS software will further increase this impact. The work of Loisel with
        OpenGoSim has provided high performance simulation techniques for carbon capture and
        enhanced oil recovery. Our growth in the software space has been stimulated by
        appointments in computational mathematics (Higham, Teckentrup, Zygalakis, Schratz,
        Bourne) and optimization (Anjos, Gupte, Kalcsics, Schewe, Yildirim). Work in this area has
        led to an impact case study submitted for this REF.
       Data analytics: our impact in the area has been amplified by our participation in the Alan
        Turing Institute (with 13 staff awarded Turing fellowships and 3 Turing research fellows
        joining the MI), the creation of the Centre for Statistics with its team of (2 currently)
        Statistical Consultants, and the MI’s contribution to the Bayes Centre and the Edinburgh
        City Region Deal on Data Driven Innovation. More than 20 appointments in data-related
        areas have enabled us to make the most of these initiatives.
 We have had impact beyond industrial applications in areas that include epidemic control, wildlife
 conservation, security and forensics, each of which has led to an impact case study submitted to
 this exercise. In the last few months up to the REF census date, the COVID-19 emergency has
 driven new impactful research on the efficacy of wearing face masks (Cummins). This was the
 only such study in the UK referenced in the UK Government’s Scientific Advisory Group on
 Emergencies (SAGE) report as evidence of mask protection against SARS-CoV-2 and
 subsequently informed a UK Government statement on the widespread use of face masks. The
 work has generated almost 500 news articles and over 80 broadcast clips in 18 countries.




                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1f. Open research

 The MI has actively embraced the Open Research agenda, putting in place ambitious goals and
 rigorous support for Open Access and data sharing. Over the REF period, 95% of the papers
 authored or co-authored by MI staff have been made available immediately on publication through
 Open Access journals or repositories. Most papers have been released earlier as preprints on the
 arXiv, a longstanding open culture amongst our staff which predates the REF open access policy.
 Data Management has become increasingly important for the MI with the expansion of
 computational mathematics and data science. We make our codes and data publicly available
 through University-maintained repositories DataShare and Pure or on GitHub.


 1g. Future strategy

 The Maxwell Institute is now an internationally leading centre for the mathematical sciences and
 their applications. Our future strategy builds on this. We believe in the breadth of the mathematical
 sciences, and will continue to value the range and quality of our research. Through our expertise
 and size, we will support, influence and lead the mathematical sciences community, both in the
 UK and internationally. We will grow our impact, adapting to the changing industrial and societal
 landscape, and using our scale to seize opportunities on short timescales.

 Our strategy since REF2014 has delivered a greatly strengthened and expanded staff. As well as
 developing and enhancing our existing strengths across the discipline, we have already identified
 areas for future growth, in keeping with our broad, inclusive vision of the mathematical sciences.
 These include Energy, Data Ethics, Finance, and the interface between technology and
 mathematics education, with an explicit ambition to become the top UK centre for research in
 Technology Enhanced Mathematical Sciences Education.

 In building MIGS we have created one of the most vibrant and largest Graduate Schools in Europe.
 This has unlocked the energies of the MI, creating new intellectual collaborations and opening
 numerous international partnerships. We will always invest in it, to provide high-quality training for
 all our PhD students at scale, shifting the entire MIGS to the model adopted by the CDTs, whereby
 students are admitted on Theme-based PhD programmes and select their PhD project after having
 experienced courses and projects.

 The value of the mathematical sciences, both intrinsically and as a key to addressing the world’s
 most pressing challenges, is increasingly recognised and our skills, our contributions and how we
 communicate them are more important than ever. We look forward to the future with great
 optimism, for the discipline and for the Maxwell Institute.




                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People

 2a. Staffing strategy

 The staffing strategy of the MI is to
 recruit outstanding mathematicians
 from around the world, based on
 research achievements, or potential
 in the case of early career
 researchers. Our strategy has had
 three main aims: achieve a mix of
 exceptional early and mid-career
 staff, meet the MI’s strategic
 objectives, and improve gender
 balance. This has been achieved
 through a combination of targeted
 recruitment       exercises      and
 opportunistic hires. We made the
 latter possible by establishing
 dedicated schemes giving us the
 agility    required     to    recruit
 exceptional      researchers       at
 short notice.
 The staffing level of the MI has grown markedly in the REF period, increasing by 55% from 93.2
 FTE in 2014 to 144.65 FTE in 2020. We have appointed 70 new academics (see section 1e for
 the new staff in each Theme). In the same period, 22 staff members have retired or migrated
 elsewhere, several of whom have taken their talents into other areas such as the industrial sector
 – for example, former staff member Cruise joined a start-up company in Mathematics in Energy
 Systems (Cambridge). We have strengthened each of our 4 Research Themes, with a particularly
 large expansion in Data & Decisions by 28 new staff including 7 at Chair level (King, Lindgren,
 Clancy, Anjos, Wood, Peters, Oktem). The new area of Technology-Enhanced Mathematical
 Sciences Education has also been introduced with the recruitment of Sangwin for a dedicated
 Chair and Cetinkaya-Rundel. Our recruitment has been resolutely international, with our new staff
 representing 24 countries and 4 continents.
 Fellowships. The success of our recruitment strategy is indicated by the prestigious research
 fellowships awarded to our staff. Major fellowships during the REF period include:
       ERC Consolidator (Bayer, Oh),
       ERC Starting (Bayer, B. Davison, Jordan, Oh, Schratz, Shapiro, Sheridan),
       UKRI Future Leader Fellowship (Varri),
       Royal Society University Fellowships (Adamo, B. Davison, Foscolo, Gair, Hartong,
        Sheridan),
       Royal Society Dorothy Hodgkin Fellowship (Hollands),
       STFC Ernest Rutherford Fellowship (R. Davison),
       EPSRC Fellowships (Higham, Pearson, Wood),
       Marie Curie Fellowships (Elvira, Pereyra),
       Fulbright Fellowship (Elvira),
       Lise Meitner Fellowship (Martin),
       Royal Society of Edinburgh Fellowship (Chumakova).
 We have invested heavily in our own fellowship schemes which attract outstanding early-career
 researchers from all over the world and enable them to pursue independent original work. These

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 schemes are: Chancellor’s Fellowships (2 since 2014) which fund 5-year tenure-track posts
 leading to permanent positions, Seggie Brown Fellowships (4 since 2014) which fund 2-year
 postdoc positions, Whittaker Fellowships which currently fund three early-career researchers in 3-
 year positions, and Bicentennial Actuarial Fellowships, funding two 2-year postdoc positions. Our
 Seggie Brown and Whittaker Fellows typically go on to secure external fellowships (EPSRC, Royal
 Society of Edinburgh) and permanent academic positions, including at Leeds, Paris VI, McGill,
 Alfred Renyi Institute, Sheffield and Kent.
 Visitors. Many mathematicians from around the world visit Edinburgh to collaborate with MI staff
 and to engage with our research activity programme and workshops, including those run by ICMS.
 Notable visitors since 2014 include: Bacceli (Austin), Boyd (Stanford), Dunson (Duke), Ferrari
 (Buenos Aires), Gunzburger (Florida State), Hillen (Alberta), James (Minnesota), Joshi (Sidney),
 Krylov (Minnesota), Madden (Ohio State), Mazzeo (Stanford), Murray (Adelaide), Pardon
 (Princeton), Ramanan (Brown), Sayas (Delaware), Seeger (Wisconsin), Sogge (John
 Hopkins), Stolyar (Urbana-Champaign), Vaintrob (Oregon), Wang (Hefei), Yang (New York) and
 Young (UCSD).
 The MI also organises high-profile lecture series that attract leading figures to Edinburgh. In the
 period 2014-20, the MI Colloquia, a series of distinguished lectures accompanied by specialist
 workshops open to the entire UK community, invited notable figures including Del Moral (INRIA
 Bordeaux) and Zannoni (Bologna). The MI Lectures are intended for a broad scientific audience
 and brought to Edinburgh the likes of Maggioni (Duke) and Hairer (Imperial). The Whittaker
 Colloquia included lectures given by Blake (Alan Turing Institute), Pintz (Alfred Renyi Institute),
 and Witten (Institute for Advanced Studies, Princeton). These events complement our 10 regular
 series of weekly seminars and colloquia.


 2b. Staff development and support

 Early career researchers (ECRs). The balance of ECRs and senior staff achieved by the MI
 enables us to comprehensively support the development and career progression of our junior
 academics. All staff have an affiliation with a Theme, and new staff are assigned a research mentor
 within their Theme – an experienced member of staff who helps them with the transition to their
 academic position by providing guidance for professional development, completion of probation,
 and promotion. All new staff are provided with a thorough induction within their institutions, which
 also offer a selection of training courses aimed at developing their competencies and personal
 and professional capabilities. Examples include the Research Development Programme and the
 Research Futures Programme which foster development of key academic attributes of
 collaboration, interdisciplinarity, innovation and leadership.
 ECRs receive a light administrative load and at least a 50% reduction in their teaching load during
 their first year. They are prioritised as supervisors for the allocation of PhD studentships and are
 offered comprehensive support for grant applications, with a systematic internal reviewing
 process. Applications to EPSRC First Grant/New Investigator Awards are supported by matched
 funding from the MI for PhD studentships and postdoctoral associates. ECRs run an Early Career
 Research Forum and are actively encouraged to take every opportunity for external professional
 development, e.g. the EPSRC Early Career Forum (Ottobre, Pereyra) and the Young Academy of
 the Royal Society of Edinburgh (Peters). All new staff are also encouraged to participate in the
 Scottish Crucible, a scheme for Scottish Universities to equip ECRs with skills in networking,
 creative thinking and innovative research.
 One of the central aims of the MI is to nurture Research Fellows (35 since 2014) and Postdoctoral
 Research Assistants (128 since 2014) to enable them to achieve their potential. The number of
 Research Fellows and PDRAs has been rising fast over the REF period, by 80% from 21 in
 2014/15 to 38 in 2018/19, creating a vibrant community that plays a central role
 in organising seminar programmes and leading numerous working groups. They are supported by
 individual mentors, they have full access to the diverse development activities organised by the
 institutions, and they take advantage of our dedicated support for maximising the impact of their
 research, in academia, industry or society. They also benefit from a systematic policy that gives

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 them the opportunity to undertake modest teaching activities. By these means we offer a broad
 platform for the development of research excellence, of teaching experience and of transferable
 skills. This gives our postdocs the best opportunities for permanent jobs. Members of the MI have
 gone on to have positions at top-level institutions and industry.
 All staff benefit from an annual Performance and Development Review (PDR) conducted by
 designated senior staff. The PDR reviews performance during the previous year and includes a
 forward job plan, providing a mechanism to support research activities including external funding,
 publications, research supervision, and impact. We have introduced numerous financial incentives
 for our staff to apply for grants. The Schools operate a transparent work allocation model which
 takes into account investigator time on grants and PhD supervision. All staff have access to travel
 funds of up to £1.3K/year within their Schools, and teaching and administrative duties are allocated
 flexibly to enable staff to undertake extended research visits or attend conferences. Sabbatical
 and study leave is granted on a regular basis (typically 1 in 8 semesters), with further provisions
 for staff with impact case studies. Additional leaves are granted to staff who secure funding for
 teaching replacement.


 2c. Research students

 An ambition of the MI is to attract the best research students from around the world and help them
 achieve excellence in research, teaching and knowledge exchange. We offer them the highest
 quality of training and support towards their aspirations and careers. The establishment of the
 Maxwell Institute Graduate School (MIGS) in 2017, backed by institutional funding for further
 studentships, has enabled us to achieve this,
 through intensified recruitment efforts,
 enhanced training, and improved research
 and pastoral support. Our investment in the
 Bayes Centre has been central to the
 success of MIGS, providing a physical hub
 that hosts all first-year students and much of
 the research and training activities. Our
 efforts have had a transformative impact on
 the graduate school. Numbers have grown
 from 118 students in 2014/15 to 194
 students in 2019/20; a total of 179 PhD
 students who were supervised by MI staff
 have graduated during the current REF               PhD student social space at the Bayes Centre
 period, marking an increase of 80% over the
 assessment period of REF2014. The award of two EPSRC Centres for Doctoral Training
 (CDTs) – the MI Graduate School in Analysis and its Applications (MIGSAA, 2014-2022) and the
 MI Graduate School in Mathematical Modelling, Analysis and Computation (MAC-MIGS, 2019-
 2028) – evidences the external recognition received by our PhD programme.
 Funding. We offer a range of PhD scholarships: EPSRC DTA studentships (4/year), STFC DTP
 scholarships (1/year), James Watt scholarships (3/year), UoE Principal’s Career Development
 Scholarships (3/year) and UoE School of Mathematics Scholarship (c15/year). MI funding is also
 used to offer partial scholarships and attract external funding, from sources such as the
 Leverhulme Trust, the Royal Bank of Scotland, Adidas, EFI, and the British Geological Society.
 The two CDTs, which combine EPSRC funding, MI matching, and investment by industry and
 agency partners, make a strong contribution to MIGS. MIGSAA will train around 60 students by
 2022; MAC-MIGS will train around 75 students by 2028. The MI is a partner of four other PhD
 training centres (EPSRC CDT in Data Science, 2014-22; NERC Centre in Satellite Data in
 Environmental Science, 2020-26; NERC DTP Edinburgh Earth & Environment 2014-2022; NERC
 DTP Edinburgh Earth, Ecology & Environment, 2019-28) which provide further studentship
 opportunities. Additional PhD students are also supported by research grants (e.g. from the Royal
 Society and ERC) and by schemes from their country of origin (e.g. China Scholarships, Conacyt
 and Conicyt).


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Recruitment. All studentship applications to MIGS are made through an online system, which
 advertises individual research projects as well as general availability of staff for PhD supervision.
 MIGS hosts two recruitment days per year (in December and February) to which the most
 promising applicants are invited. Other promising PhD applicants are invited for a video interview.
 MAC-MIGS, and previously MIGSAA, run dedicated recruitment campaigns tailored to the
 specificities of CDTs. Student excellence and research potential are the primary criteria for
 funding, with secondary factors including the mapping of research projects to the MI’s research
 strategy, the support of newly appointed staff and staff without PhD students, and improving
 gender and ethnic diversity of the cohort.
 Training and support. All PhD students have two designated research supervisors (for whom
 training on PhD supervision is mandatory) who interact closely with them. Each student is also
 assigned a Personal Adviser, a member of staff outwith the student’s research theme who offers
 pastoral support. During the first year of their PhD, all students are co-located at the Bayes Centre,
 where they undertake a 6-month training period focussed on developing key mathematical and
 transferable skills, public engagement, collaborative research and cohort building. Students are
 required to take up to 6 modules which typically comprise an independent reading project plus a
 selection of broad training courses provided through the Scottish Mathematical Sciences Training
 Centre (SMSTC), a consortium of Scottish universities in which the MI has played a central role
 since its inception over a decade ago (Carbery, Duncan and Leinster have each held the post of
 SMSTC Director). The cohort experience of working in groups and following the same suite of
 courses allows our students in their first developmental year to thrive in a well-connected
 environment and avoid working in isolation. Students then mainly focus on their research project
 and relocate to one of the two campuses to enable closer contact with their primary supervisor.
 Throughout their studies, students participate frequently in meetings run at the Bayes Centre, such
 as cohort activities, seminars, Theme meetings and study groups, advanced courses provided by
 Themes, together with workshops, modelling camps and networking opportunities at the ICMS.
 All PhD students are allocated a yearly travel allowance to attend schools and conferences outside
 Edinburgh.
 Progress of PhD students is monitored through regular meetings with their supervisors and the
 MIGS or CDT Directors. All students undergo a formal annual review, and an informed decision
 on progression is made based on a combination of a seminar delivered to an audience of Theme
 members, a written report and a viva conducted by a member of staff other than the supervisors.
 This monitoring provides formal opportunities to discuss academic progress, training needs and
 intended activities for the following year.
 Throughout their PhD, students are required to undertake around 50 hours per academic year of
 transferable skills training. This includes general skills training courses run by MIGS and the two
 universities (such as presentation and writing skills, proposal writing activities), and professional
 development training through MIGS in one of three streams: outreach, teaching, industry. Almost
 all our students participate in teaching activities, and are offered the opportunity to take Learning
 Enhancement and Development Skills (LEADS) courses or Edinburgh Teaching Award (EdTA)
 leading to accreditation by the Higher Education Academy. They lead MI activities such as weekly
 PhD student colloquia and the Edinburgh SIAM-IMA Student Chapter.
 Students enrolled in our CDTs follow a more intensive programme focusing on applications in
 multidisciplinary contexts as well as experience of industrial collaboration. Industrial and agency
 partners provide internships, development programmes and research projects which help
 maximise the impact of students’ work, while academic partners, representing 10 leading
 institutions in the United States and Europe, provide further opportunities for collaborations and
 research visits. The CDTs are overseen by International Advisory Boards who benchmark student
 assessments and training against the highest international standards.
 Student achievements. The quality of our training of PhD students is evidenced by the prizes
 and scholarships they have been awarded, such as: Google Europe Fellowship in Optimization
 Algorithms (Konecny, 2014), LMS Cecil King Travel Scholarship (Crawford, 2018), Scottish Civil
 Engineering Conference Prize (Stark, 2016), SIAM UKIE Prize (Stocek, 2019), EMS PhD Thesis
 Prize (Feyzbakhsh), Hystrix Best Paper Prize 2016-17 (Jones), 2019 Canadian Operational
 Research Society Best Student Paper (Bingane), Sverdrup Award for Young Researchers

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Fuglstad), 2020 MOPTA Competition Fermin Cueto, Gjeroska & Sola Vilalta).
 Many students have continued their research career, taking up postdoctoral positions in
 institutions such as Berkeley (Xie, Fountoulakis), Brown (Shang), Chicago (Matthews), Courant
 (Xie), Duke (Sachs), Harvard (Nicholson), ETH (Shang), Sorbonne (Estrada), Hausdorff Center
 for Mathematics (Tolomeo), IST Austria (Gerencser), Ecole des Ponts ParisTech (Tse), Hamburg
 University (Bunk), Max Planck Institute for Mathematics (Muller), Jacob Blaustein Institute for
 Desert Research (Bennett), UCLA (White) and Flatiron Institute (Plochocka). Some who
 graduated since 2014 have already been successful in securing permanent academic positions
 (Xie in Peking, Moore and Shang in Birmingham, Thomas at Imperial College London, Lau in
 Emory, Fountoulakis in Waterloo, Worthington in St. Andrews, Castro and Swallow in Glasgow,
 Hickman in Edinburgh, Tanner in Stirling). Several of our former PhD students during the REF
 period have moved to the industrial sector, with positions at companies such as Credit Swiss
 (Ying), Legal & General (Mylonas), FINRA (DeBellis), Aviva (Savva) and Collins Aerospace
 (Barnes).


 2d. Equality and diversity

 Equality and diversity are high on the agenda of the MI, with the need to redress gender balance
 in the mathematical sciences the most obvious issue, though not the only one. Of the 63
 appointments over the REF period, 17 are female, including one Head of School (Pelloni). In
 contrast, only one of the 22 leavers in this period has been female (Beck), giving an overall
 increase of female representation among MI staff from 10% in 2014 to 17%. It is the result of
 a series of actions driven by our Good Practice committees to remedy female underrepresentation.
 During staff recruitment, we seek to achieve gender representation in shortlists, interview
 invitations, and shortlisting and interview panels. Unconscious bias and diversity training has been
 recommended for all staff and made mandatory for members of appointment panels. The
 management group at both School and MI level has achieved gender balance, with two female
 Directors of Research and one female Head of Department in the REF period. We are signatories
 to the London Mathematical Society Good Practice Scheme for advancing women’s careers in
 mathematics.
 Both Schools constituting the MI hold Athena SWAN Bronze awards. Dedicated self-assessment
 teams have created an awareness among all staff of the need to change behaviour and culture to
 achieve a more inclusive and equitable workplace. As part of our action plan, we have
 implemented initiatives which encourage all staff to excel and overcomes barriers for female
 careers. All seminars and committee meetings are timed within hours that accommodate those
 with caring responsibilities. Dedicated resources are in place to support staff taking parental leave
 or career breaks to care for dependants, and to enable flexible return to work by reducing the initial
 teaching and administrative loads. We monitor our seminar series to ensure gender representation
 among invited speakers. Each Theme maintains a list of mathematicians from underrepresented
 minority groups that we consult when inviting for seminars and colloquia, and when recruiting. We
 have increased the transparency of our promotion process by organising yearly meetings to
 apprise staff of the process, and by including representatives of the Good Practice committees in
 our promotion committees. This contributed to the successful promotion of 70% of non-
 professorial female staff over the REF period.
 Beyond these targeted actions, we recognise that flexibility and consultation are key to achieve a
 truly inclusive environment. We have applied these principles in the choice of outputs for this REF
 exercise: every submitted researcher had the opportunity of ranking and rating their own papers;
 the rating was then extensively moderated externally and internally by distinct peer-review groups
 whose members all had received unconscious-bias training. Our flexible approach has facilitated
 our adaption to the COVID-19 pandemic, enabling staff to take part in in-person activities at a level
 adapted to their personal risk tolerance. We will build on lessons learnt from the COVID-19
 experiences to implement remote-working practices that accommodate staff with caring
 responsibilities or disabilities.



                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 By bringing up equality and diversity issues in MI all-staff newsletters and emails, we encourage
 discussions as we strive to find optimal solutions. We also take extremely seriously the all-round
 wellbeing of all staff and their feedback on issues that affect it, so that across the MI there is a
 wide variety of flexible working patterns, and distribution of responsibilities. The results of staff
 surveys indicate that this focused attention has had a positive impact in creating an environment
 where everybody is empowered to achieve their aims. For instance, 84% of the respondents of a
 2018 survey among MI UoE staff agreed that ‘everyone is treated on their merits irrespective of
 their gender’ and 77% of those with caring responsibilities agreed that ‘meetings are completed in
 hours that allow them to attend’. In the 2019 HWU staff survey, 82% of staff in the School feel
 respected by their line manager (9% higher than the institutional average) and 77% feel they work
 in an environment where equality, diversity and inclusion are valued (again, 9% higher than the
 institutional average).
 The MI Graduate School plays a full part in promoting cultural change in relation to equality and
 diversity: we are proud of admitting an increasingly diverse cohort of students. Around 65% of our
 PhD students in the current REF period have declared White ethnicity, with 10% Chinese and
 14% other ethnicities. Through our well-established links with the African Institute for Mathematical
 Sciences (AIMS), 25% of the “other ethnicities” PhD students we have admitted in this REF period
 are Black African. MI PhD students founded the Piscopia Initiative, which encourages women and
 non-binary students to pursue a PhD in mathematics and is now represented in 11 UK universities.
 The MI is also involved in two EPSRC Equality, Diversity and Inclusion awards under the “Inclusion
 Matters” call: Evidence-Base; Growing the Big Grant Club, tackling the poor diversity in large-
 scale funding leadership, and Disability Inclusive Science Careers, focused on disability inclusivity
 at early career stage entry to the science sector. We also contribute to activities promoting diversity
 through our management of ICMS which, for instance, hosted the exhibit Women of Mathematics
 throughout Europe, portraying 13 women mathematicians as role models for young scientists. MI
 staff contribute to national and international efforts: Pelloni is a former Chair of the Women in
 Mathematics Committee of the European Mathematical Society and of the equivalent committee
 of the London Mathematical Society on which Gordon also served.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3a. Research income

 Grant income to the MI has
 increased steadily, rising by 128%
 from £22M (REF2014) to £50.25M
 (REF2021, including CDTs). This has
 been achieved through net increases
 in income in each of our four themes,
 with awards to the AP and DD
 Themes each more than tripling in
 total value since 2014.
 Grant portfolio. Our most significant
 funders are EPSRC, STFC, ERC,
 Leverhulme Trust, the Institute &
 Faculty of Actuaries and the Society of
 Actuaries    (USA).    The     income
 generated has been overwhelmingly
 spent on delivering our research
 strategy through support of staff, postdoctoral associates and postgraduate research students.
 Major new grant awards to the MI in excess of £1M during the REF2021 period include:
       STFC Consolidated Grant Particle Theory at the Higgs Centre, 2014-2018 - £2.05M,
       STFC Consolidated Grant Particle Theory at the Higgs Centre, 2017-2021 - £1.47M,


                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       EPSRC Mathematical Sciences Infrastructure Grant International Centre for Mathematical
        Sciences, 2018-2024 - £3.07M,
       EPSRC Programme Grant Enhancing Representation Theory, Noncommutative Algebra
        & Geometry Through Moduli, Stability & Deformations, 2018-2024 - £3.39M,
       EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training Maxwell Institute Graduate School in Analysis & its
        Applications, 2014-2022 - £4.54M (with additional £400K funding from the Scottish
        Funding Council),
       EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training Maxwell Institute Graduate School in Mathematical
        Modelling, Analysis & Computing, 2019-2028 - £6.11M.
 During the REF period, the MI has further participated in two multi-million-pound EPSRC
 Programme Grants (Higham, Vanneste). In addition to the many fellowships indicated in Section
 2, the MI also holds a large portfolio of individual grants supporting specific research projects (157
 grants in this REF period).
 Strategy. Our strategy for generating grant income has been guided by the MI’s four priorities: to
 target infrastructure funding, stimulate applications to fellowships, strengthen impact, and expand
 graduate training. We have put in place support and incentive mechanisms aligned with these: we
 offer incentives (teaching and administrative load reductions) for staff applying for large-scale and
 impact-related grants and have provided more than £3.1M in matching funding for Programme
 Grant and CDT bids. We offer incentives for applying for grants in the form of staff travel-budget
 top-ups. Since 2015, we have extended these to include staff supporting fellowship applications
 by external candidates. In line with our enhanced support for ECRs, we have invested £380K in
 matching funds for First Grants and New Investigator Grants; this has contributed to our staff
 securing over £1.5M of such grants. Grant applications are rigorously reviewed at both the MI and
 institutional level by review teams to ensure the highest quality of submissions. For grant holders,
 PI time and postdoc supervision are accounted for in the staff workload model.
 A key success of our strategy has been the diversification of our grant portfolio through
 international sources. Examples include the US National Science Foundation (Foscolo), Swiss
 Science Foundation (Ciobanu, Sisto), Australian Science Foundation (Ciobanu), German
 Research Foundation DFG (Schratz, Linkmann), US Office of Naval Research (Branicki), US
 National Institute of Standards & Technology (Olde Daalhuis), US Army Research Labs (Elvira),
 Simons Foundation (Sheridan), Institute and Faculty of Actuaries (Cairns, Donnelly), Canadian
 Institute of Actuaries and (American) Society of Actuaries (Streftaris). The MI has also increased
 its collaboration with industrial and financial partners. Examples include: £102K in grants from
 Oracle Labs (Gondzio), £120K from Adidas (Ross), £47K from Unilever (de Carvalho), £23K from
 Airbus (Garcia Quiles), £112K from Cambridge Cancer Genomics (Canning), £115K in multiple
 grants from Google (Gondzio, Hall), £0.5M funding from collaborative projects between industry
 and staff in the AP theme, 12 Impact Acceleration Account projects with matched funding of £132K
 (with Aberdeen Standard Investments £113K), and a £268K project with the Data Science &
 Innovation Theme of Train@Ed, a recent Edinburgh fellowship scheme within the Horizon 2020
 Marie Sklodowska-Curie COFUND scheme.


 3b. Infrastructure and facilities

 Estate. MI staff benefit from estate facilities in three locations and from the £2M invested in our
 buildings over the last 5 years to improve our working environment. At the Riccarton Campus, all
 staff have offices in the Colin Maclaurin Building, a purpose-built space with 3 large fully equipped
 mathematics seminar rooms and a large common room. This site also houses the Global
 Research, Innovation and Discovery centre, a facility supporting enterprise and impact
 development. At the King’s Buildings Campus, staff occupy offices over four floors in the James
 Clerk Maxwell Building, which includes dedicated Mathematics seminar rooms and a large
 common room.



                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our key estate investment since 2014 has been in the Bayes Centre, a new £40M building located
 in central Edinburgh. The building hosts an array of data-science businesses and services in
 addition to the MI which occupies the entire 1000 m2 top floor. We have invested £1.2M in fitting
 out this space to create state-of-the-art facilities for our staff, for around 45 first-year graduate
                                                        students per year, and for the International
                                                        Centre for Mathematical Sciences (ICMS).
                                                        The space contains an open-plan office area
                                                        for 42 PhD students, an 82-seat lecture room,
                                                        and seminar and teaching rooms, all
                                                        equipped to high modern standards. It also
                                                        offers quiet study spaces, group working
                                                        rooms, staff hot desks and a large communal
                                                        area supporting social interaction, lunch and
                                                        coffee breaks. The availability of a dedicated
                                                        MI space, conveniently accessible from both
                                                        the Riccarton and King’s Buildings campuses
                                                        and accommodating a wide range of activities
                                                        – seminars, SMSTC and other advanced
        Main lecture theatre at the Bayes Centre        courses, ICMS and MI workshops, Alan
                                                        Turing Institute events, etc. – has
 transformed interactions between MI staff and created a hub for the mathematical sciences in the
 UK.
 During the COVID-19 crisis, the MI has been at the forefront of the use of technology to support
 the research life of the mathematical community, and ICMS has provided a national platform for
 online mathematical seminars and meetings. We will be making increased use of this
 technological experience to contract the physical space between the three poles of the MI, and
 the MI and the rest of the world. This will allow us also to increase our long-term sustainability,
 mitigating the increase in space and resource required by the fast-growing numbers of occupants
 of the Bayes Centre.
 Centres. The presence of ICMS is a tremendous asset for the MI environment. We manage ICMS
 and support it vigorously, by offering staff time, access to facilities and equipment, and direct
 funding (£50K/year). ICMS plays a vital role for the UK mathematics community, by running
 workshops of high international standing (96 since 2014), hosting visitors for its research-in-group
 programme (102 participants since 2014), and organising a broad range of knowledge-exchange
 and public-engagement activities (e.g. at the Edinburgh International Science Festival, Maths
 Week Scotland and the New Scientist Live). In the last few years, ICMS has been particularly
 active in supporting interdisciplinary research and the engagement of the UK mathematics
 community in UKRI grand challenges. The review of mathematical infrastructure carried out by
 EPSRC in 2015 provides ample evidence of ICMS’s status in the community, with for instance
 83% of the respondents to an associated survey rating it as ‘the key maths infrastructure in the
 UK’. We drove the 2018 move of ICMS to the Bayes Centre which has provided it with state-of-
 the-art facilities and greatly improved the experience of participants to its activities. The success
 of ICMS has been rewarded by continuous support from EPSRC: since 2014, we have been
 awarded two major grants worth £4.7M and will receive an additional EPSRC investment of
 £1M/year from 2021. MI staff benefit from ICMS by attending its workshops and meetings and by
 interacting with the many leading mathematicians that these attract. ICMS supports the wider
 mathematical community by administering the SMSTC PG courses, organising externally funded
 conferences, and managing mathematics journals.
 We play a leading part in several other centres of excellence. We have invested staff time in the
 Scottish Financial Risk Academy (0.2 FTE of a senior academic, and 0.3 FTE of an
 administrative position), and a £1M per annum investment in the Alan Turing Institute with 13
 ATI fellows and 3 flagship projects in the MI. In 2017 we founded the now 77-strong Centre for
 Statistics to build the data-science capacity needed to address key scientific and societal
 challenges. The MI was awarded funding to host and staff the national Actuarial Research
 Centre for 5 years, with additional funding from the US Society of Actuaries (SoA) and the


                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Canadian Institute of Actuaries, and currently we are the only European Institution to hold Center
 of Actuarial Excellence Status from the SoA.
 Support staff. Both the number and scope of research administrative staff have increased over
 the REF period. Two Research Administrators prepare the financial and other technical details for
 all our grant applications. Three Business Development Executives support external engagement
 and control an impact-generation account that helps develop impactful projects. They played a
 pivotal role in trebling the number of companies we interact with and increasing our consultancy
 income by a factor of ten over the REF period. Dedicated members of staff help organise small
 workshops, visits and seminars. Our Information Technology team, handling frontline support, has
 grown to keep up with increasing researcher numbers; two staff have been appointed in Human
 Resources to deal with increased recruitment resulting from our grant success.
 Equipment and facilities. MI staff and PhD students benefit from the use of video-conferencing
 facilities throughout all three locations, which are used for MI-specific activities such as
 broadcasting of seminars, postgraduate training and interactions with external collaborators. All
 staff have access to high-performance computing systems including the ARCHER and CIRRUS
 facilities through the Edinburgh Parallel Computing Centre, the ECDF computing cluster Eddie, as
 well as two dedicated servers at the Riccarton Campus; they further benefit from our £120K
 investment in an NVIDIA GPU machine. The housing of the MI at the Bayes Centre facilitates
 interdisciplinary work, as evidenced by the success of our CDTs which receive continued
 investment from companies. Other resources are available such as those provided through The
 Data Lab, who offer up scholarships and research funding. The co-location of the MI with ICMS
 makes it possible to share all profile-raising activities in terms of external impact and industrial
 engagement, and to engage with our Business Development Executives who are based at the
 Bayes Centre.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4a. Research collaborations

 The internal cohesion of the MI partnership is ensured by a broad array of joint research activities.
 All lectures and events are jointly scheduled and recorded on a central calendar, with many of the
 seminars and dedicated colloquia taking place centrally at the Bayes Centre. We encourage co-
 supervision of all PhD students across the two institutions, irrespective of their primary affiliation
 (in particular, our CDT students receive joint degrees from both institutions). The co-supervision
 of research students is central to our cohesion; it has proved particularly effective in integrating
 new staff members into the MI. Most medium- and large-scale research proposals have
 investigator teams with representations from both universities, and we coordinate research
 strategy and outlook at our regular MI management and research committee meetings.
 Virtually all MI staff are engaged in international collaborations, which have resulted in hundreds
 of research visits to and from the MI over the census period. The MI has also played leading roles
 in several large-scale collaborative projects:
       We lead the EPSRC Programme Grant Enhancing Representation Theory,
        Noncommutative Algebra & Geometry through Moduli, Stability & Deformations with
        partners in Glasgow and Sheffield,
       We led the Horizon 2020 COST Action Quantum Structure of Spacetime (QSPACE) which
        from 2015-19 administered networking activities across 28 European partner countries,
       We have been the only consistently named partner for 3 iterations of an
        EPSRC/CNRS/DFG network (Representation Theory Across the Channel and then Anglo-
        Franco-German Representation Theory).
 We are part of several international networks, such as the Simons Collaboration on Homological
 Mirror Symmetry with partners at Columbia, Harvard, U Penn, Vienna, IHES, Berkeley, Miami,
 Simons Center, Brandeis and MIT, and the International Research Network on Quantum Fields &
 Strings (IRN:QFS) which gathers 80 research institutes across 24 countries throughout the world.
 We led several UK subject networks, such as the GLEN Algebraic Geometry Seminar and Algebra


                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 & Representation Theory in the North (ARTIN), the UK Network on Hyperbolic Equations and
 Related Topics and the Scottish Numerical Methods Network.
 The MI is one of the founding partners of the Scottish Mathematical Sciences Training Centre,
 contributing several graduate courses per semester, and leading one of the 4 streams as well as
 having had the Directorship for 2 years during the REF census period. We contribute to the
 Academy for PhD Training in Statistics. We also provide a biennial course and a representation
 on the Executive Committee of the National Taught Course Centre in Operational Research. Our
 CDTs are sources of systematic international collaborations: MAC-MIGS is the centre of a network
 of academic partners at Brown, Duke, Ecole des Ponts, Norwegian University of Science &
 Technology, Potsdam, Turin, TU Berlin, Vienna UT, Utrecht and TU Denmark, enabling systematic
 research visits.


 4b. External engagement activities

 The MI strongly supports knowledge transfer and outreach, with activities and investment in
 dedicated staff at all its sites. Our key research users include other quantitative disciplines,
 industry, government and other policy makers, and the general public.
 Outreach. We run a broad range of outreach activities, which include annual contributions to
 Maths Week Scotland and to the Edinburgh International Science Festival, each informed by our
 research. We organise regular Maths Circles for children aged 5-16 with over 1,000 annual
 participants, Mathematics Masterclasses for schools, widening participation courses through the
 Sutton Trust, and events with Native Scientist. Staff have been involved in public outreach talks
 at venues spanning the globe (Science & Cocktails, Johannesburg; Pint of Science, Glasgow and
 New York). We offer a Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) on Statistics which attracts around
 10,000 viewers annually, and we support the global use of STACK, an online mathematics
 assessment system, including in Africa in collaboration with charities such as the MasterCard
 Foundation.
 Economy and society. We contribute to the competitiveness of the UK economy through our
 industrial collaborations (see sections 1d-e), through our graduate training, which includes a
 strong component of industry-focused activities (such as the regular industry sandpits and
 modelling camps run by our CDTs MIGSAA and MAC-MIGS), through the Alan Turing Institute
 (with partners that include NHS England, the UK Government, and HSBC), and through the
 Scottish Financial Risk Academy and its network of over 200 financial services companies.
 The MI also makes wider contributions to society. Gordon serves on the Scottish Government’s
 STEM Implementation Group, representing Universities Scotland. This group oversees the
 implementation of the Government’s STEM strategy across all sectors of education and beyond;
 it has been responsible for ensuring the central role of STEM in schools and in apprenticeships.
 We also offer Continuing Professional Development courses in R for users of Statistics, to
 research staff within our Universities, and to public bodies such as the NHS.
 Sustainability of the discipline. The MI is committed to supporting the development of the
 Mathematical Sciences in the UK and abroad, increasing the recognition of their societal impact,
 and accelerating their uptake by industry and government. Through our Graduate School and
 CDTs, we are training PhD students across the full spectrum of mathematics and statistics to
 produce new generations of outstanding young academics, and leaders in the industrial, financial
 and other private sectors.
 The MI is engaged in initiatives to support Mathematics in Africa and the developing world. We
 are highly active in the African Institutes for Mathematical Sciences (AIMS): each year MI staff
 teach intensive courses at AIMS centres in South Africa, Rwanda, Ghana and Senegal, and over
 20 AIMS alumni have come to Edinburgh to do their PhDs in MIGS. Through ICMS, we administer
 the James Clerk Maxwell AIMS Fund, financed by the Scottish Funding Council, which
 compensates departments for the release of staff for AIMS teaching. The MI has been instrumental
 in the national conversation on the benefits of mathematics and on making the case for investment



                                                                                          Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in mathematics research, both as an institute, through individuals, and through ICMS hosting and
 facilitating the national discussion around these themes.


 4c. Contributions to and recognition by the research base

 MI staff contribute to setting the research agenda for the mathematical sciences, nationally and
 internationally, through participation in high-level grant funding committees (EPSRC and Royal
 Society fellowship panels, European Research Council funding committees, Netherlands
 Organisation for Scientific Research NWO panels, German Research Foundation DFG panels),
 by acting as trustees of national and international professional bodies (London Mathematical
 Society, Institute of Mathematics & its Applications, Edinburgh Mathematical Society, European
 Mathematical Society, Royal Statistical Society), on scientific advisory boards (Arnold-Regge
 Centre), and on scientific committees of major international conferences (International Congress
 of Mathematicians 2014, International Congress of Actuaries 2014, International Colloquium on
 Group Theoretical Methods in Physics 2018, Category Theory 2019, Abel Symposium 2019,
 Geometric & Asymptotic Group Theory with Applications 2020, International Liquid Crystal
 Conference 2020).
 The international reputation of our academics gives them opportunities to lead and influence the
 research base. Exemplars of leadership are provided below to give an indication of the breadth
 and depth of their contributions.
 Awards, fellowships & honours. The most significant prizes and awards received by MI staff
 since 2014 are:
       Adams Prize (Bayer 2015);
       American Statistical Association Waller Education Award (Cetinkaya-Rundel 2016);
       Anne Bennett Prize (Hollands 2018);
       Berwick Prize (Barwick 2019);
       Bob Altin von Gesau Memorial Prize (Donnelly 2018);
       Breakthrough Prize in Fundamental Physics (Gair 2016);
       Caroline Herschel Prize (Varri 2019).
       Chauvenet Prize (Leinster 2019);
       EURO Excellence in Practice Award (Schewe 2016);
       Harvard Pickard Award (Cetinkaya-Rundel 2019);
       Honorary Degree from the University of Bucharest (Ball 2018);
       Inaugural Early Career Prize of SIAM Uncertainty Quantification (Teckentrup 2018);
       Institute of Mathematics Prize of the Polish Academy of Sciences (Smoktunowicz 2018);
       International Chinese Statistical Association New Researcher Award (Cannings 2019);
       International Society for Bayesian Analysis Lindley Prize (de Carvalho 2020);
       International Society for the Interaction of Mechanics & Mathematics Prize (Ball 2018);
       J Clarence Karcher Award (de Ridder 2017);
       Kamil Duszenko Award (Sisto 2018);
       King Faisal Prize for Science (Ball 2018);
       Leonardo da Vinci Award of the European Academy of Sciences (Ball 2018);
       Mahony-Neuman-Room Prize of the Australian Mathematical Society (Lawson 2018);
       President’s Medal of the Royal Society of Edinburgh (Gair 2016);
       Robert I. Mehr Award (Cairns 2016);
       Royal Statistical Society Howard Medal (Aitken 2018);
       Shephard Prize (Higham 2020);
       3 Whitehead Prizes (Bayer 2016, Sheridan 2019, B. Davison 2020);
       2 Whittaker Prizes (Bayer 2016, Ottobre 2019);
       Young Scientist Prize of The World Academy of Sciences (de Carvalho 2015);




                                                                                         Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The most notable fellowships received by MI staff include:
       2 Fellowships of the Association of European Operational Research Societies (Anjos 2017,
        Gondzio 2019);
       Fellowship of the Institute of Physics (Mackay 2014);
       Fellowship of the Learned Society of Wales (King 2018);
       5 Fellowships of the Royal Society of Edinburgh (Leimkuhler 2014, Vanneste 2014, Cairns
        2016, King 2018, Pelloni 2020);
       Young Academy of Science Fellowship of the Royal Society of Edinburgh (Peters 2018);
       Senior Fellowship of the Schoeller Research Center for Business & Society (Anjos 2020);
       Simons-CRM Fellowship (Teckentrup 2019).
 Other honours bestowed on MI staff during the REF period include invitations as distinguished
 lecturers such as the EPFL Bernoulli Lecture (Leimkuhler 2016), van Leeuwenhoek Lecture
 (Sherratt 2018), A R Mitchell Lecture (Higham 2019), and the Mary Cartwright Lecture (Pelloni
 2019), and Best Paper Awards in: Journal of Global Optimization (Yildirim 2014); Computational
 Optimization & Applications (Hall 2015); Joint Statistical Meetings Section on Teaching Statistics
 in the Health Sciences (Cetinkaya-Rundel 2015); Mathematical Programming Computation (Hall
 2018); SIGEST Paper in SIAM Review (Teckentrup 2019).
 Plenary & keynote lectures. The plenary and keynote lectures given by MI staff are further
 evidence of our international recognition. These include invited lectures at:
       Abel Symposium (Malham 2016, Bayer 2017);
       Applied Topology: Methods, Computation and Science (Leinster, 2016);
       Biénale Francaise de Mathématiques Appliquées et Industrielles (Pereyra 2019).
       Biennial Numerical Analysis Conference (Higham 2019);
       ∞-categories and their applications (Barwick 2020);
       Category Theory (Leinster 2018);
       Canada Pension Plan Triennial Seminar (Cairns 2018);
       Clay Research Conference (Sheridan, 2014),
       XXI Colloquio Latino Americano de Algebra (Smoktunowicz 2017);
       Effective Methods in Algebraic Geometry (Hering 2017);
       European Actuarial Journal Conference (Cairns 2014);
       3rd European Conference on Queueing Theory (Foss 2018);
       EUROPT 2019 (Gondzio 2019);
       GAMM Microstructures Conference (Scardia 2019);
       Groups, Rings and Associated Structures (Smoktunowicz 2019);
       Harmonic Analysis & PDEs (Wright 2018);
       Householder Symposium on Numerical Linear Algebra (Pearson 2017);
       Indo-UK Workshop on Stochastic Differential Equations & Applications (Gyongy 2015);
       Insurance Risk & Finance Research Conference (Cairns 2014);
       Integrable Systems & Quantum Symmetries (Szabo 2017);
       International Conference on Applied Algebraic Topology (Leinster, 2017);
       15th International Conference on Integral Methods in Science & Engineering (Duncan
        2018);
       International Conference on Special Functions (Olde Daalhuis 2017);
       9th International Conference on Stochastic Analysis & Its Applications (Gyongy 2018);
       XXVIII International Fall Workshop on Geometry and Physics (Figueroa-O'Farrill, 2019);
       International Statistical Ecology Conference (King 2016);
       International Workshop on Stress Test & Risk Management (Peters 2019);
       4th ISM-ZIB-IMI MODAL Workshop on Mathematical Optimization & Data Analysis (Hall
        2019);
       IST Lectures on Algebraic Geometry and Physics (Martens 2018),
       Jubilee Congress for the 100th anniversary of the Polish Mathematical Society
        (Smoktunowicz 2019);
       Liège Oceanography Colloquium (Vanneste 2014);

                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Meeting of the Australian and New Zealand Mathematics Societies (Sheridan, 2014)
       SciCADE 2019 (Schratz 2019);
       SIAM Annual Conference (Higham 2019);
       SIAM UQ18 (Teckentrup 2018);
       Strings & Fields 2019 (Szabo 2019);
       Wave 2015 (Banjai 2015);
       Winter Meeting of the Canadian Mathematical Society (Vanneste 2014);
 Research consortia. In addition to the large-scale collaborative projects mentioned in section 4a,
 MI staff have leadership roles in international and national research consortia including:
       Cairns is PI of the project “Modelling, measurement & management of longevity & morbidity
        risk” (2016-20) involving City University, Aarhus University and Southampton University,
        funded by the Institute & Faculty of Actuaries;
       Dent, McKinnon and Grothey are Co-Investigators on the EPSRC funded Centre for
        Energy Systems Integration (2016-21);
       Garcia, Kalcsics and Gondzio are Co-Investigators on an EPSRC project “IP-MATCH:
        Integer Programming for Large and Complex Matching Problems” with the University of
        Glasgow (2017-2020);
       Gibson was Co-Investigator in the consortium “Modelling animal pathogens: Review &
        adaptation” (2013-16) with University of Copenhagen, Biostatistics Scotland, and the
        Institute of Occupational Medicine, funded by the European Food Safety Authority;
       Gondzio was a Co-Investigator on the EPSRC project “Computational Design Optimization
        of Large-Scale Building Structures: Methods, Benchmarking & Applications with University
        of Sheffield and University of Bath (2016-19).
       Lindgren is a Co-Investigator in the H2020 project “RISE: Real-Time Earthquake Risk
        Reduction for a Resilient Europe” (2019-2022) involving 24 partners;
       Pereyra is Principal Investigator (PI) of the collaborative project “Bayesian model selection
        & calibration for computational imaging” (2020-22) with University College London, Ecole
        Polytechnique Paris, Ecole Normale Supérieure Cachan, and Université de Toulouse;
       Schratz was PI on the Collaborative Research Centre 1173 “Wave phenomena: Analysis
        & numerics” (2015-19), funded by the German Research Foundation DFG;
       Streftaris is PI of the project “Predictive modelling for medical morbidity risk related to
        insurance” (2019-22) involving the University of California at Santa Barbara and
        Southampton University, funded by the US Society of Actuaries;
       Vanneste was the PI on a joint NERC/NSF project “Stimulated Loss of Balance” with the
        University of California, San Diego (2017-2020);
 Conferences, meetings & workshops. Our contributions to the research base include the
 organisation of conferences, programmes, symposia and workshops. Notable contributions by MI
 staff include:
       Abel Symposium (Figueroa-O'Farrill, 2019);
       26th Annual Conference of the International Environmetrics Society (Gibson 2016);
       ESI programme “Higher Structures in String Theory & Quantum Field Theory” (Szabo
        2015);
       FIM workshop “Higher-genus invariants from categorical structures” (Sheridan, 2019);
       GGI programme “Emergent Geometries from Strings & Quantum Fields” (Szabo 2020);
       IAS Workshop on “Homological Mirror Symmetry: Methods & Structures” (Sheridan 2016);
       IMA Conference on Inverse Problems (Pereyra 2019);
       International Conference on Mathematical Analysis & its Applications (Ball 2019);
       ISBA World Meeting (Dos Reis 2018);
       IST Lectures on Algebraic Geometry and Physics (Hering, 2019);
       LMS-EPSRC Durham Symposium “Higher Structures in M-Theory" (Saemann 2018);
       MATRIX workshop “Tropical geometry and mirror symmetry” (Sheridan, 2019);
       MITP Workshop on “Geometry, Gravity & Supersymmetry” (Figueroa-O'Farrill 2017);
       MSRI programme “Higher Categories & Categorification” (Barwick 2020);

                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Noncommutative and non-associative structures, braces and applications workshop
        (Smoktunowicz 2018);
       NYU-Oxford Workshop on Mathematical Models of Defects & Patterns (Ball 2016);
       Simons collaboration workshop “Current advances in mirror symmetry” (Sheridan, 2020)
       Simons Center Workshop “Flat Holography” (Simon 2016);
       Workshop “Non-commutative stochastic analysis” (Chevyrev 2019).
 We regularly co-organise workshops in leading international research centres including the Isaac
 Newton Institute (3 since 2014), Oberwolfach (4), Banff (1), Luminy (1), American Institute of
 Mathematics (1), Hong Kong Institute for Advanced Study (1), and ICMS (more than 40).
 Advisory boards. Our staff contribute to the membership of international and national advisory
 boards, with examples including:
       Chair of Academic Advisory Board for AIMS Ghana 2012-2017 (Schroers);
       Chair of the LIGO Science Group and of the LIGO Collaboration Cosmology Working
        Group (Gair);
       External Assessor for Italian Research & University Evaluation Agency (ANVUR) (Painter).
       Mathematical Editor of the Digital Library of Mathematical Functions (Olde Daalhuis);
       Member of the academic council of the Financial Conduct Authority (Szpruch);
       Member of the Advisory Board for Centre d’Excellence Africain en Sciences
        Mathematiques, Benin (Ball);
       Member of the Coordination Board of the EURO Working Group on Locational Analysis
        (Kalcsics);
       Member of EPSRC Advisory Group Additional Funding in Mathematical Sciences
        (Gordon);
       Member of the External Advisory Board for EPSRC initiative Bayesian Data Science for
        Health (Gibson);
       Member of the International Biometrics Society Editorial Advisory Committee (King);
       Member of the Isaac Newton Institute Scientific Steering Committee (Gordon);
       Members of the Newton Gateway Scientific Advisory Panel (Gondzio, Higham, Lord);
       Members of the REF2021 panel (Higham, Pelloni);
       Member of the Scientific Advisory Board for MRC Centre for Global Infectious Disease
        Analysis (Gibson);
       Member of the Scientific Steering Committee for the Past Earth Network 2015-19
        (Lindgren);
       Member of Scottish Government's STEM Strategy Implementation Group (Gordon);
       Review Member for the Lorentz Center (Lord);
       Scientific Programme Committee for ICIAM 2023 (Higham);
 Professional bodies. MI staff are members of the main professional bodies: London
 Mathematical Society, Institute of Mathematics & its Applications, Society for Industrial and
 Applied Mathematics, Royal Society of Edinburgh, European Mathematical Society, Royal
 Statistical Society, Institute & Faculty of Actuaries, European Women in Mathematics, Institute of
 Physics, European Academy of Sciences.
 Several staff also play key roles on these and other bodies, including:
       Chair of the Institute for Mathematics and its Applications 2016-19 (Higham);
       Chair of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics Committee to select Administrative Officers
        (Bochkina);
       Chair of the Section on Statistics & Data Science Education of the American Statistical
        Association (ASA) (Cetinkaya-Rundel);
       Chair of the Women in Mathematics Committee of the European Mathematical Society
        (Pelloni);
       Elected Member of the International Committee of the AFIR-ERM Section of the
        International Actuarial Association 2009-17 (Cairns);



                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       3 Elected Members of the International Statistical Institute (de Carvalho, Lindgren,
        Cetinkaya-Rundel);
       Elected Member of the Royal Statistical Society Council (King);
       2 Members-at-large of the Council of the London Mathematical Society (Pelloni, Ptashnyk);
       Member of the ASA Data Science Advisory Committee and DataFest Executive Committee
        (Cetinkaya-Rundel);
       Member of the European Mathematical Society Committee for Developing Countries
        (Schroers);
       Member of the Executive Committee of the European Mathematical Society (Pelloni);
       Member of the Executive Board of ISBA (Bochkina);
       Member of the Expert Review Committee for the Bond Report (Lord);
       Member of the Implementation Working Group to develop the national agenda and
        response to the Bond Report for the UK Government (Dent, Peters);
       Member of the International Biometrics Society Council (King);
       Member of the Life Research Committee of the Institute & Faculty of Actuaries (Kleinow);
       2 Members of the Strategic Advisory Team for the Mathematics Programme of EPSRC
        (Gordon, Pelloni);
       President of the Edinburgh Mathematical Society (Gibson);
       President of the International Biometrics Society: British & Irish Region (King);
       President of the UK and Ireland Section of SIAM 2015-17 (Higham);
       Vice-President of the London Mathematical Society (Gordon);
       Secretary Chair of the Bayesian Nonparametric Section of the International Society of
        Bayesian Analysis (ISBA) (Wade);
       Secretary of the Royal Statistical Society Statistics & Law Committee (Wilson).
 Prize & fellowship awarding bodies. Several MI staff have served on prize and fellowship
 committees for some of the most notable awarding bodies, including:
       EPSRC Mathematics Fellowships (Ottobre, Pelloni, Szabo);
       European Academy of Science (Ball);
       Finnish Academy of Sciences (Wright);
       Fudan Prize Committee (Ball);
       London Mathematical Society Prize Committee (Higham, Gordon);
       Newton International Fellowships (Pelloni);
       Okubo Prize Committee (Sherratt);
       STFC Stephen Hawking Fellowships (Schroers);
       Royal Society Fellowships (Ball);
       Royal Society of Edinburgh Fellowship Sectional Committee for Informatics, Mathematics
        & Statistics (Gordon, King, Pelloni, Vanneste);
       Royal Spanish Mathematical Society Francias Prize Committee (Ball).
       Royal Statistical Society (RSS) Prize Committee (King);
 Some staff have assumed the role of Chair or Co-Chair of awarding committees, such as the
 Agreenskills+ Scientific Committee (Gibson), the Gavin Brown Prize Committee of the Australian
 Mathematical Society (Smyth), the Institute for Mathematics & its Applications Leslie Fox Prize
 Committee (Higham) and the RSS Mardia Workshop Prize Committee (Lindgren).
 Editorships. MI staff members are prominently involved on editorial boards of high-profile
 journals, and notably as Editor-in-Chief during the REF census period for Annals of Actuarial
 Science (Macdonald), ASTIN Bulletin (Cairns), Archive for Rational Mechanics & Analysis (Ball),
 Journal of the Royal Statistical Society B (Wood), Proceedings of the Royal Society of Edinburgh
 A (Pelloni), Queueing Systems: Theory & Applications (Foss) and SIAM Review (Higham).
 We also serve as editors or associate editors for numerous international journals including:
       Algebras & Representation Theory (Gordon),
       Analysis & PDEs (Wright),
       Annals of Applied Statistics (Lindgren),

                                                                                           Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Applied Mathematical Finance (Szpruch),
       Atmospheric Science Letters (Vanneste),
       Biometrics (King),
       Bulletin, Journal, and Transactions of the London Mathematical Society (Bayer, Pridham),
       Calculus of Variations & Partial Differential Equations (Ball),
       European Journal of Applied Mathematics (Leimkuhler),
       European Journal of Operational Research (Gondzio),
       Foundations of Data Science (Leimkuhler),
       Geoscientific Model Development (Maddison),
       Groups, Complexity, Cryptology (Ciobanu),
       IMA Journal on Numerical Analysis (Leimkuhler, Higham),
       Insurance: Mathematics & Economics (Cairns),
       Journal of the American Statistics Association (de Carvalho),
       Journal of Complex Networks (Higham),
       Journal of Nanophotonics (Mackay),
       Journal of Statistical Physics: Theory & Experiment (Weston),
       Journal of Physics A (Szabo),
       Journal of Physics Communications (Doikou),
       Methodology & Computing in Applied Probability (Clancy),
       Nonlinearity (Pelloni),
       Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society A (Ball),
       Proceedings of the London Mathematical Society (Barwick, Bayer, Gordon, Wright),
       Proceedings of the Royal Society A (Leimkuhler, Olde Daalhuis, Pelloni),
       Proceedings of the Royal Society B (Gibson),
       Pure & Applied Analysis (Ball),
       Selecta Mathematica (Bayer),
       Semigroup Forum (Lawson),
       SIAM Journal on Matrix Analysis and its Applications (Higham),
       SIAM Journal on Scientific Computation (Lord),
       SIAM Review (Pelloni, Teckentrup),
       SIGMA (Szabo),
       Stochastic Partial Differential Equations: Analysis & Computations (Gyongy),
       Stochastic Processes & Their Applications (Foss),
       Theory & Applications of Categories (Leinster).
 Several MI staff also contribute editorial and management roles for the Proceedings of the Royal
 Society of Edinburgh A and the Proceedings of the Edinburgh Mathematical Society, which are
 both managed through ICMS.




                                                                                         Page 26
