Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Surrey

 Unit of Assessment: UOA 25 Area Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and structure of the unit
 The Department of Politics is a specialised unit with a dual focus on European politics and on
 international intervention, reflecting its historic strengths and its staff base. Having grown out from
 a previous cluster within a School of Languages and International Studies it has long retained a
 strong orientation towards area studies and engaged in multidisciplinary approaches to research.
 Concentrating its activities within its two central areas, the Department has built up a successful
 profile in both, underpinned by significant funding (£525,000 since 2014, equivalent to £48,000
 per FTE, a significant increase on the £14,000 per FTE in REF2014) and a coherent and
 reinforcing research strategy, expressed through its two research centres and three research
 groups. As a result, it now operates as one of the UK’s leading centres of research and public
 engagement within its specialised remit, typified by its award of a Jean Monnet Centre of
 Excellence and its close work with the ESRC’s “UK in a Changing Europe” initiative.
 The European Politics group brings together work on European integration, EU policy-making,
 Brexit, European foreign and security policy, Europeanisation, euroscepticism and European
 gender policy. This is supported by the activities of the Centre for Britain and Europe (CBE), a
 2019 re-formation of the long-standing Centre for Research on the European Matrix (CRonEM),
 with its new title reflecting the shifting weight of research activities.
 The Security and Conflict group is focused on international intervention, humanitarianism, the
 ethics of modern warfare, US foreign policy and more theoretical aspects of international relations.
 The Centre for International Intervention (Cii) provides the base for much of this work, with its
 broad mission of situating intervention in a wider, multidisciplinary context beyond military or
 political activity.
 The Government and Opposition group forms a vital link between the two other groups, with its
 interests in electoral behaviour, party politics, opposition and resistance, populism, negotiation
 and social media. Such activity is central to the overarching departmental approach of treating
 comparative politics and international relations as fundamentally interlinked, with insights to be
 drawn across traditional boundaries and all grounded in a deep engagement with the lived
 experience of people in distinct and diverse parts of the world.
 In all three groups, care has been given to ensure a mix of staff and doctoral students that can
 maintain a good level of internal support and interaction, while also creating a departmental-level
 environment with a high volume of shared activities and events, allowing for free exchange across
 groups and centres. This is then connected to a very active programme of externally-facing
 activities, including collaborations with international academic networks and numerous public- and
 practitioner-facing engagement, through social, broadcast and print media, as well as in-person
 events.
 There is a steady and significant exchange of ideas between the three groups and two centres,
 assisting the School’s mission to be a collegiate home for all researchers. Usherwood, the
 School’s Director of Research, has a supervisory role, encouraging an inclusive research culture,
 promoting school synergies, and facilitating the dissemination of research within the University
 and beyond. The Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences (FASS) supports the Department’s research
 initiatives and facilitates collaborations. FASS also provides dedicated funding for impactful
 research, bidding activities, and PhD scholarships, supplementing Department contributions.

 Research and Impact Strategy
 Meeting assessment period objectives
 In relation to the research plans submitted under REF2014, the Department has made significant
 progress, albeit with some re-orientation and reflection following a major reorganisation in 2015,

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 which focused the Department on its core strengths, over and above growth in major new areas
 of research activity:
    •   Establish the Department as a leading centre for the development of critical
        approaches to the study of the European Union (EU). The Centre for Research on the
        European Matrix (CRonEM), and its successor CBE (led by Hadfield and Middleton), have
        continued to build their profile as centres of research on EU politics throughout the period.
        Notably, Guerrina’s (now at Bristol since 2019) work on gender produced funding for a
        Jean Monnet Chair (2017-19) and the founding in 2018 of the University Association for
        Contemporary European Studies (UACES)-funded collaborative research network
        "Gendering EU Studies", bringing together scholars across Europe. Usherwood’s work
        around the contribution of euroscepticism to Brexit resulted in extensive funding from
        ESRC through the ground-breaking ‘UK in a Changing Europe’ initiative (2016-19), of
        which he was Deputy Director and Senior Fellow and a substantial role in contributing to
        political and public debate on the future of UK-EU relations. This latter work, and the
        changing political context, contributed to a shift from 2016 for CRonEM, with critical
        approaches becoming part of the Centre’s activities and UK-EU politics taking a more
        substantial role. This shift was cemented in late 2019 with the formal launch of CBE and it
        received international recognition with its prestigious award of a Jean Monnet Centre of
        Excellence for 2020-3, one of only two such awards in the UK. With a work programme
        that draws in colleagues from other parts of the University, as well as local, national and
        international stakeholders, this positions CBE very clearly as a major centre of EU studies
        in the UK.
    •   Consolidate Surrey’s position as a centre for the study of international intervention.
        Cii (led by Leveringhaus and Kitchen) has continued to capitalise on its position as the
        leading centre for intervention, with the enlargement of a core of researchers that
        strengthen the existing work of Aaronson in building up an international profile. A number
        of exciting developments testify to the growing and sustainable impact of Cii. First,
        Leveringhaus’ Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship (2016-19) on ethical dimensions of
        changing technologies in combat which has opened up a significant new area of activity
        for Cii, precipitating inter-disciplinary collaborations across the University with the School
        of Law and Engineering Departments, as well raising the profile of Leveringhaus and Cii
        as a nexus of interdisciplinary scholarship interrogating increasing applications of AI and
        machine learning. Second, Kitchen’s Defence and Security Accelerator-funded work on
        strategic net assessment has further established Cii as an important site of applied
        research on wider issues around UK national security and regional geopolitics. Cii’s
        reputation has been further reflected in its selection by the British International Studies
        Association’s Responsibility to Protect (R2P) Working Group to host, in 2019, a major
        international conference on Intervention 20 Years after Kosovo, with further outputs and
        activities planned from 2021 demonstrating the sustainable nature of Cii overall.
 In addition to these central goals, the Department has also sought to ensure that the two primary
 areas of research activity should have a firm cross-linkage, grounded in the work of the
 Government and Opposition group of researchers. This group provides a smaller cluster of work
 that reaches across international and national cases, with innovative practices that cast light on
 key questions and cases. This has been successful in building up a profile around the challenges
 to liberal democracy, be that through Nezi and Van Hauwaert’s explorations of populism, with the
 creation or extension of international networks of researchers, or Kaeding’s unique and impactful
 work on Hong Kong, which is reflected in one of the submission’s Impact Case Studies.
 This reorganisation and refocusing work has also resulted in a much more targeted recruitment of
 new students to match the changing research focus of the Department, including the participation
 of the Department in both ESRC and AHRC Doctoral Training Partnerships. Recent examples
 include individuals working on changing gender regimes caused by Brexit and President Obama’s
 diplomatic policy, both clearly aligned with the agenda of the Department.
 The Department’s strategic approach to research and impact has been channelled through the
 close collaboration of the Director of Research (Usherwood) and the Head of Department
 (Hadfield), both informed by regular one-to-one and group discussions with colleagues. The

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Director works to support the more operational and substantive development of projects and
 collaborations, while the Head is responsible for setting those in the broader context of other
 commitments, notably on teaching. The small size of the Department means the entire staff body
 is included in monthly discussions on research, set within the framework of a Departmental
 meeting. In addition, Centre heads meet quarterly with the Head to review and plan progress on
 programmes of work, so that all levels of research infrastructure are closely coordinated and
 reinforcing.
 The Department has drawn on its long experience in public engagement and dissemination to
 ensure that impact is treated as an integral part of the research process, with staff taking part in a
 dialogue with key stakeholders to build mutual understanding and to maximise the benefits of
 research outputs. Staff work in, and contribute to, an environment where working with
 stakeholders beyond academia is the norm and where support is given to organising activities that
 will facilitate this. The Department encourages and supports staff in creating and developing links
 with other partners locally (e.g., Surrey Chambers of Commerce), nationally (e.g., Foreign Office,
 DSTL, Ministry of Defence) and internationally (e.g., European Commission, World Bank, NATO)
 to undertake consultancy and research activity and also raise awareness of the Department’s
 work. As the submission’s Impact Case Studies both underline, there is a virtuous circle between
 engagement and research, with deepening links with external partners producing opportunities for
 outputs that are both better grounded in evidence and more relevant for practitioner needs. Staff
 with less experience in this are provided with support and guidance in building these relationships
 as well as funding from the Faculty’s ESRC Impact Accelerator Account, and all staff are
 encouraged to treat their work as impactful and keep appropriate records.
 The clear focus of research interests has also helped in ensuring that the role of impact has
 become mainstreamed within the Department, with a very active engagement with local, national
 and international stakeholders; a vibrant social media portfolio; and the use of such work to build
 further research activity and outputs. This work has not simply been performed as an end-point of
 research undertaken, but as a pre-planned and integral part of the entire research process, acting
 as a stimulus for further research and activity, as evidenced in the output submission. The
 continuing work of Cii and CBE in this area – through events and collaborations with key
 stakeholders – places the Department in a position to continue its mission to be a constructive
 and engaged partner.
 Examples of this approach can be found across the Department’s work. Kaeding’s involvement
 with Hong Kong pro-democracy campaigners originated in his research activity, but has since
 grown to include working to inform Parliamentarians in the UK, Germany and Canada, as well as
 the production of a movie documentary that has been entered for international competitions:
 support from internal funding (including the Faculty’s Impact Accelerator Account) helped with
 several of these initiatives, while also giving Kaeding more personal support in developing this
 programme to feed back into academic outputs. Likewise, Guerrina and Chappell’s publications
 on gender and countering violent extremism opened lines into the MoD and DSTL, which then
 produced both direct consultancy opportunities and materials for further outputs, again supported
 by workshop events within the Department. The new programme of public engagement supported
 by the Jean Monnet Centre of Excellence through to 2023 will lay down the next round of this
 work, with a mix of practitioner-oriented discussions and public-facing events that will reflect and
 stimulate further academic outputs from colleagues in CBE. The success of this approach was
 recognised by the University with the 2018 award of Innovator of the Year to Usherwood for his
 work on public and practitioner engagement on Brexit, which simultaneously shared and created
 more conventional research outputs as part of a process of informing public debate.
 Over the next five years, our Department strategy, the sustainability of which will be supported by
 future staff appointments and PhD scholarships, will focus on:
    a) building sustainability and leadership in our areas of research specialisation. Having
       successfully developed two well-respected, thriving research centres, the aim now is to
       develop these further so that they have a durable and impactful presence in national and
       international communities of academics and practitioners. Through the securing of further
       funding, the recruitment of more PGRs and staff, as well as an active programme of public


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        engagement, both Cii and CBE aim to position themselves as agenda-setters in their
        respective areas, convening and leading debate;
    b) increasing our societal impact through creating more formal research co-creation
       partnerships, maximising opportunities such as the Jean Monnet Centre of Excellence and
       the Cii’s collaborations with the Royal United Services Institute and LSE IDEAS to foster
       these;
    c) maintaining the high level of collegiality among staff and PGRs in pursuing this work. The
       experience of this REF cycle has strongly emphasised the centrality of providing mutual
       support and constructive advice. In particular, this will mean ensuring that every individual
       continues to be supported in exploring the potential that their research holds, including
       guidance on building networks of collaborators, securing funding and generating impact.

 Research culture
 The Department has developed a very strong culture of research activity, with the provision of
 mutual support within and across research groups being a central pillar. One consequence of this
 has been the submission of research funding bids by almost every staff member in recent years,
 with an above-average success rate and the involvement of ECRs in major bids (most recently
 with the Horizon 2020 project (2020-23) that involves Middleton in a central role). The relatively
 small size of the Department has proved to be a major strength in creating a mutually-supportive
 environment for this work, allowing for a high level of interaction and support in our research
 activity. Individual research objectives are set within a departmental-level framework outlined by
 the Head of Department and Director of Research within the context of the University’s Research
 and Innovation Strategy and discussed and agreed collectively, with flexibility to ensure that as
 opportunities arise for funding, outputs or impact these can be managed and supported
 appropriately. This includes ensuring that all staff comply with university and sector requirements
 and expectations on open access: staff receive regular training and briefing on new initiatives and
 requirements, and have been early adopters of ORCID identifiers and Google Scholar profiles,
 while all outputs for the period are available on the University’s Surrey Research Insight (SRI)
 repository. In so doing, the Department tries to continually build its collective activity, making it
 more resilient and adaptable to changing circumstances, as seen with the reconfiguration of data
 collection during the Covid-19 lockdown.
 The often-contentious nature of the subject matter under consideration by staff has meant that
 integrity has an important position within the research culture. Members of staff have not only
 followed and promoted best practice within their own research and that of their supervisees but
 have also been active within Faculty and University Ethics Committees, and have contributed to
 the progressive reforms of these bodies during the reference period. More generally, the
 recognition of the sensitive nature of many of the research topics dealt with by the Department
 has instilled a strong culture of responsible engagement with the full range of collaborators and
 user groups: part of the success of the Department’s engagement agenda has been due to our
 commitment to being evidence-led, impartial and respectful of the variety of opinions that are held.

 2. People

 As a small, specialised Department, Politics is particularly concerned with the contribution of, and
 support for, every member of staff and doctoral student body. This is not simply reflected within
 its structures and processes, but also within the wider culture of the unit, where minimal hierarchies
 and high levels of communication are the norm.
 Staffing strategy and staff development
 The Department was part of the School of Social Sciences (with Sociology) during 2014-16, with
 most functions and structures being retained at departmental level and fully used once the
 Department returned to its standalone status in summer 2016 after a reorganisation led to the loss
 of a number of staff.
 The base of Category A eligible staff at the end of the reference period consists of 6 Lecturers, 2
 Senior Lecturers, 2 Professors, all on permanent contracts (of these, 2 Lecturers became Senior

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Lecturers and 1 Senior Lecturer became Reader immediately after the end of the period, following
 a promotion round in 2020 that was delayed because of Covid). Of these current staff, 5 Lecturers
 (Kitchen, Leveringhaus, Middleton, Nezi, Van Hauwaert), 1 Senior Lecturer (Guerra) and 1
 Professor (Hadfield) have joined the Department since 2014, from a range of British and European
 universities, which indicates the extent of the Department’s ability to attract high-quality
 researchers.
 The strategy for recruitment has been to consolidate existing research strengths, while
 simultaneously expanding these to provide more coverage and co-ordination. Thus, Van Hauwaert
 and Nezi have brought extensive expertise in quantitative and qualitative methodologies
 respectively, while Hadfield’s work in European security policy builds on the Department’s existing
 capacity in foreign policy analysis. Guerra’s work on euroscepticism has strengthened the CBE’s
 work in this field, just as Kitchen and Leveringhaus have provided a significant expansion of Cii’s
 capacities.
 Alongside full-time positions, the Department has also gained a number of visiting staff, including
 Prof. Sir Mike Aaronson (former Director General of Save The Children UK, working with Cii), Prof.
 Susan Scholefield (former Chair of the UK’s Civil Contingencies Secretariat, working with Cii and
 CBE) and Prof. Jamie Shea (former NATO Deputy Assistant Secretary General, working with Cii
 and CBE). Prof. Marie Breen Smyth retains an Emerita position. The two Centres are further
 bolstered by a range of associates, including Senior Fellows for CBE and additional external
 experts for Cii.
 Recruitment and promotion have been used in combination to take consideration of leadership
 and administrative duties, with all staff taking on significant roles: Hadfield took over the position
 of Head of Department from 2019, and Usherwood’s promotion to Professor in 2019 came
 alongside work as Director of Research; while Exadaktylos has become Reader at the end of 2020
 while Director of Learning & Teaching (and after a period as acting Head). In all cases, the line
 manager and other senior colleagues have supported individuals in developing their careers, not
 least through the Senior Colleague system.
 However, the relative weighting of the Department to junior staff through most of the reference
 period has meant that there has necessarily been much emphasis on ensuring a high level of
 support and encouragement for research and impact, using a number of key approaches:
    •   Protecting time for research. The University’s Workload Allocation Model (WAM)
        provides a mechanism for balancing workloads equitably across staff and for strategic
        planning in regard to research. Staff designate one day per week for research, when they
        have no teaching or administrative commitments, and efforts are made as far as possible
        to group teaching in one of the two semesters, so that there is an extended period when
        research can be pursued more fully. This has been a key part of the achievement of getting
        all staff submitting funding bids and have space to produce outputs. All staff are able to
        apply for Research Council fellowships and other funding that provides for buy-outs (as
        with Usherwood’s position with “UK in a Changing Europe”). In all cases, successful
        funding with research time allocations are counted within the WAM and appropriate
        adjustments to other roles are made. All staff are also able to apply for research leave, in
        line with the departmental policy of requiring a plan of research for that period; in the most
        recent example, this led to Chappell’s completion of a number of projects that have been
        included in the outputs, as well as the groundwork for submissions in the next cycle.
    •   Providing mentoring and community support. All ECRs and new staff in
        Lecturer/Senior Lecturer positions have 3-year probation periods, during which time staff
        are allocated a Senior Colleague within the Department outside of their line management,
        with whom they meet regularly to discuss all elements of their work, including research.
        This has also produced some new collaborations, as with Usherwood and Thompson’s
        work on identity, supported by Faculty pump-priming funding. All funding bids receive peer
        review within the Faculty prior to submission, and also usually receive additional reviews
        within the Department too. Unsuccessful bids are discussed with the Director of Research
        to consider any feedback and possibilities for reworking for submission to other funders.
        Colleagues regularly present draft outputs in Departmental seminars and seek peer

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        comments from within their research groups prior to submission. Staff have access to
        Faculty- and University-level courses and training in research and leadership, as well as
        to regular briefings from major research funders on forthcoming calls. The Department
        runs at least one full-day awayday per year on research matters, with activities to
        encourage research group collaboration and cross-departmental engagement. The
        Faculty organises an annual Festival of Research, in which departmental members have
        presented work and developed connections with colleagues in other units (e.g., on Artificial
        Intelligence and ethics or the challenges of Covid to conducting research).
    •   Using the annual appraisal system to support research. The annual appraisal system
        for staff with the Head of Department takes stock of progress in the previous year and sets
        targets for the coming period. These cover funding bids, outputs and impact activities in
        relation to research, but driven very much by individuals’ situations and plans. These
        appraisals sit within a rolling system of informal review by the Head of Department to
        ensure staff are working within a supportive environment, where adjustments can be made
        to particular circumstance, not least in regard to wellbeing and good mental health. This
        process has been useful in identifying specific areas for intervention, such as increased
        support for funding, which has in turn produced marked improvements in success rates for
        several colleagues.
    •   Supporting research, dissemination, engagement and impact activities. All staff have
        had access to an individual annual funding allocation of at least £500 for research activities
        (conference fees, purchase of research materials, etc.), with further funds available
        competitively for helping to achieve critical targets and are encouraged to participate and
        present at national and international conferences and workshops. Faculty pump-priming
        and seed funding has also been a key source of support, which has directly helped in
        creating outputs, such as the £10,000 for a survey on attitudes towards Brexit in 2018, and
        supporting ECRs. Staff are also very active in research networks, including several
        instances of setting up new networks to support emerging fields; the Department has
        provided some match-funding to help with these, in addition to the individual funding. The
        extensive social media presence of the Department is co-ordinated by several staff, with
        new staff provided with training and feedback on blogging, podcasting and vlogging, all
        alongside University-level training on media interviews, which has been taken up by over
        half of all staff.
    •   Building research into teaching and vice-versa. Many modules on both undergraduate
        and Masters programmes reflect current research interests of staff and in recent years
        there has been a growing use of students-as-researchers. This has included students
        coding campaign materials or simulating contemporaneous negotiations, providing them
        with insights into the research process and material for subsequent outputs. The Teaching
        Fellows in the Department are also encouraged to undertake pedagogic research (a
        requirement of their formal duties) and this is treated as part of the Department’s research
        activity, with several Category-A staff also active in this field.
    •   Being a community of researchers. The size of the Department means that there is a
        strong culture of sharing successes and working through challenges; much use is made of
        communal spaces to hold informal discussions and unblock problems. In addition, staff
        have put themselves into various roles within the Faculty and University, including
        membership of Ethics Committees (Middleton, Thompson (now Manchester since 2018))
        and leading on cross-cutting themes (Leveringhaus on AI and ethics). This engagement
        has been recognised with Usherwood winning the inaugural University Innovator of the
        Year award (2018), and Leveringhaus securing the Faculty Innovator the following year.

 Specific support for Early Career Staff
 Within the Department, early-career staff are closely involved in the research activities of the
 research groups, with senior colleagues provided guidance and support. The Senior Colleague
 system for new early-career staff has provided an effective starting point for many of these
 mechanisms, with the small size of the Department further enhancing the sharing of ideas and


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development of these staff members, not least through the regular discussion of work in research
 seminars. One marker of this has been the on-going success in ensuring that they have been
 involved in developing funding bids (both as CIs for more senior staff and as PIs in their own right),
 reflecting the Department’s commitment to facilitating the development of individuals’ research
 careers and to the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.
 The Department works closely with the University’s Doctoral College, established in 2016 to
 provide for the academic and professional development of postgraduate researchers and Early
 Career Researchers. This includes departmental representatives meeting regularly with Doctoral
 College representatives and extensive participation by departmental ECRs in Doctoral College
 events, both for training and network development. An example of the value of this has been the
 leading role played by Departmental PGRs in establishing and running the Surrey Arts &
 Humanities Research Group (facilitated and funded by the Doctoral College), with a seminar
 series and exchange of practice across a wide range of disciplines.

 Support, training and supervision of PGR students
 The Department considers its PGR students as an integral and essential part of its research
 community. There are currently 11 full-time and 4 part-time PGRs, as well as 1 student co-
 supervised with other departments or Universities, with 18 completions since 2014: the current
 and historic profile of PGRs has been at least 60% female, and over half coming from prior study
 or work outside the UK, as fits the research activity of the Department. There has been a consistent
 number of completions throughout the reference period, with over 2 per year, reflecting the
 continuing success of the efforts to build this arm of the Department’s work.
 The Department’s commitment to securing high-quality PGRs is reflected in the success of recent
 years in securing internal competitive funding for scholarships and grants; currently 4 PGRs are
 covered by these, representing an investment by the Faculty and University of roughly £60,000
 per year. This success has been driven by the engagement of supervisors with potential PGRs
 prior to formal application in ensuring a good fit with expertise and in developing research
 proposals. The broadening range of scholarships available from the University, notably in the
 context of the current Research and Innovation Strategy, has allowed the Department to match
 these better to individual’s situations.
 PGRs are supported within the Department by their supervisors (at least two per student (at least
 one of whom has previously supervised to completion)), with whom there are meetings at least
 every month and often more frequently. Those starting their doctorates must take research
 methods modules on the Department’s Masters programmes if they do not have prior experience,
 and may take further modules to develop or enhance skills or substantive knowledge, in addition
 to the individualised work done with supervisors. There are annual reports on progress, which are
 reviewed by the PGR Director (Nezi), where action points can be addressed by the appropriate
 individuals and structures within the University. The Department runs PGR-specific events
 (including in the context of participating in the ESRC and AHRC Doctoral Training Partnerships),
 including professional and careers training and research presentations, but also regularly asks
 PGRs to present their work to the Department as a whole in the research seminars, in order to get
 a wider range of feedback and give them experience; many PGRs have also presented work in
 the Faculty’s annual Festival of Research and the ESRC’s Festival of Social Science. PGRs have
 dedicated space within the Department, with their own desk and computer.
 This all sits within the structures and support provided by the Doctoral College and University, not
 least under the Research & Innovation Strategy that has considerably bolstered the wider
 environment for PGRs and early-career staff. Departmental PGRs have been active in the
 development of Doctoral College work in the social sciences, helping to establish research
 communities in the social sciences and organising further training and events. The Doctoral
 College also monitors the annual review process and the progression to full PhD status that occurs
 within the first 15 months of registration; the latter is organised by the Department and considers
 progress to date and planning for the remaining time, and is an essential pre-condition for any
 PGR wanting to take on teaching duties within the Department.



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Former PGRs have gone on to various careers, including full-time positions in British and
 European universities (e.g., Cooke (Warwick); David (Leiden)); work with the British Civil Service,
 national governments elsewhere and International Organisations. Those continuing in academic
 positions (approximately half of those completing in this REF cycle) have maintained on-going
 links with the Department, including on research activity as with Wright (Newcastle) or Chrona
 (King’s College London), further embedding the relationships that they developed during their time
 at Surrey.

 Supporting & promoting equality and diversity
 The Department has long been involved in work on equality and diversity, with Guerrina taking on
 the role of the University’s first Academic Director of Equality, Diversion & Inclusion (ED&I) in
 2018. Discussion of equality and diversity is undertaken by the entire staff in departmental
 meetings, since we recognise that this needs to be a central part of maintaining the constructive
 and supportive work environment we have created. In recognition of this, the Department is
 working towards an Athena SWAN submission in 2021. Staff are encouraged to make use of the
 options for flexible working under the University’s policy, including adjustments in working hours
 due to family and health commitments and parental leave arrangements. Since REF2014, all
 formal requests for flexible working have been successful, and have ensured that colleagues have
 had the necessary time to balance the full range of their personal and professional commitments,
 as seen for example with the rapid reintegration of staff returning from maternity leave. In addition,
 the Department has a strong culture of providing mutual support for more immediate adaptations,
 with a ‘buddy system’ for covering teaching and administrative obligations in emergencies.
 In research, departmental planning takes full account of equality and diversity issues in ensuring
 no staff have inequitable workloads and that requests for grouping teaching into one of the two
 semesters per year are met as much as possible within the constraints of the curriculum.
 Applications for study leave are not based on seniority or on FTE, but the merits of individual
 research plans presented.
 The Department paid considerable regard to equality and diversity in the construction of the
 REF2021 submission. For example, and following the published code of practice, output selection
 was conducted at UOA level output selection panel meetings held in accordance with guidance
 set by the University’s REF2021 Team. A member of the REF2021 Team was present, and ED&I
 Working Group members were invited. Membership of the output selection panels included
 suitable representation from across the areas of speciality within the UOA and took account of the
 population characteristics of the UOA. Membership was reviewed by the ED&I Working Group
 ahead of the meetings taking place and all attendees completed REF2021 specific ED&I training.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding and links to high quality research outputs
 Since REF2014 the Department has secured over £525,000 in research funding, from a variety of
 sources.
 Funding from the ESRC has supported projects in a number of the Department’s research areas,
 including the framing of intervention in Global North and South perspectives, work-life balance in
 the recession, and the development of Brexit. In all cases, funding has supported both research
 outputs and facilitating the generation of wider academic and practitioner debate.
 Usherwood’s roles (2016-19) as Senior Fellow and Deputy Director of the ESRC’s “UK in a
 Changing Europe” programme resulted in both immediate research outputs and the enhancement
 of the Department’s wider capacities in relation to research on UK-EU relations and to public
 engagement. In addition to original research on the social media campaigning of groups in the
 2016 referendum and on the negotiating processes of the UK’s withdrawal from the EU, there was
 also a very active and wide-ranging programme. This included several hundred interviews to
 media outlets including most UK national newspapers, BBC television and radio, numerous
 European newspapers and TV stations, and international outlets such as CNN; briefings and
 training sessions for British and European politicians, diplomats and civil servants; giving evidence

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to Parliamentary committees; and briefings to civil society groups (such as the National Council
 for Voluntary Organisations) and multi-national businesses.
 The recently-started participation in a Horizon 2020 project (2020-22) on EU asylum and refugee
 policy draws several members of the Department (Exadaktylos, Middleton, Usherwood) into a
 multidisciplinary project, combining ethnographic fieldwork in Greek transit camps, quantitative
 surveying of civil society organisations and a lead role in the public engagement strand. The
 collaboration with jurists, sociologists and political theorists reflects on the interest of department
 members in siting their own work within the broad range of approaches to area studies, as well
 being testament to the added-value that they can bring to a major project of this kind.
 Funding from other sources includes the Ministry of Defence, the Koch Foundation and the
 European Commission (including the Centre for Britain and Europe’s successful award of a Jean
 Monnet Centre of Excellence).

 Strategies for generating grant income
 On income, the strategy of recent years in the Department has proven successful in generating
 both a strong volume of bids and a good success rate. Potential calls are identified and noted by
 both individual researchers and the Director of Research (Usherwood), with the latter providing
 individual support on formulating proposals as appropriate. Faculty and University support is also
 brought in at an early stage, in order to ensure the maximum possible time for development, formal
 and informal peer review, prior to submission.
 Staff have a high level of standing interaction with counterparts outside of the Department and
 University and have made repeated use of this to build inter-disciplinary and inter-institutional bids:
 recent examples have included the mobilisation of Surrey-based public and private sector
 stakeholders in ESRC and Research England projects by Hadfield and the production of several
 funding bids with the Department of Sociology on the policy effects of Brexit. Importantly, where
 bids are not successful, there is internal review with the PI to consider the potential for reworking
 materials for use elsewhere and to reflect on how to improve submissions in the future for
 particular funders.
 As noted in Section 1, impact is considered as an integral part of the research process, and staff
 are regularly invited to consider how they can use their existing networks beyond academia to
 generate new points of research activity. In particular, there is a recognition that the development
 of lasting relationships means having the flexibility to work on multiple projects simultaneously,
 and that these can stimulate and sustain the creation of future work: the examples of Exadaktylos’
 connection with the World Bank, Hadfield’s local cluster and Kaeding’s work on Hong Kong
 demonstrate the value of this approach in building more durable income sources.

 Facilities
 The Department’s research has generated increasingly complex demands on technologies: staff
 working with larger datasets and with remotely-hosted materials are supported by the University’s
 central IT services. Staff requirements for library resources are discussed on a regular basis with
 the Department, with individual research needs being accommodated as much as possible, and
 supported by the Departmental library liaison (van Hauwaert) and a designated library staff
 member.
 In 2020, the Department moved into new offices, with new facilities for video-conferencing and the
 production of content for public engagement activities, as well as spaces for collaborative work for
 both staff and PGRs
 Furthermore, the Faculty and University provide a number of systems that support research
 activity, all of which are habitually used by Departmental staff:
     •   Skills development support: Research and Innovation Services runs regular training and
         information events on bid-submission, open to all staff (including ECRs and PGRs), with
         regular presentations from major funders;



                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Financial support: The Faculty has a pump-priming scheme, to allow staff to develop
        proposals, generate impact and access academic events. Seven staff have received five
        awards since 2015, resulting in a number of research outputs, dissemination and impact
        activities. Notable among these has been the support for Kaeding to produce his movie
        “Black Bauhinia”, which opened up a major new avenue of public engagement. From 2019,
        this has been bolstered by the start of the ESRC Impact Accelerator Account, with 4
        awards made to staff;
    •   Support for bid development: The Faculty has also introduced an annual Research
        Fellowship scheme to provide teaching buy-outs, to allow more time for research activities.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The Department considers collaboration and engagement to be central to its work. This is driven
 by an understanding that the full value of research can only be realised by working with others,
 both within and alongside the academic community. Staff are encouraged and supported both to
 develop and to make full use of such connections, as reflected in the substantial number of
 activities that they undertake. The Department has provided funding, training and mentoring for
 these activities, recognising the potential they carry for sharing existing research and for
 generating new research opportunities.
 As the Department’s reputation for research excellence has grown, so too have colleagues
 recognised the importance of providing intellectual leadership in public and political debates,
 particularly given the contentious nature of many of the topics involved. The shared values of
 being evidence-led, impartial and accessible to a wide range of users has been a key part of our
 success on this front: from Brexit to terrorism, populism to human rights, colleagues have
 demonstrated how academics in general can become a more valuable and valued part of the
 discussion in our society.

 Collaborations, networks and partnerships
 The structure of the Department has long encouraged colleagues to be very active in building and
 maintaining linkages with partners elsewhere: the combination of focused expertise and small size
 has meant that targeted collaborations have been both viable and productive for all involved. As
 outlined below, research on European studies has underpinned the development of wider links
 with UK Government and Parliament, EU bodies, business and civil society, while expertise in
 intervention has made the Department a key collaborator with foreign policy and defence
 organisations. To take just two examples, Usherwood was one of a small handful of university-
 based individuals invited to be part of the European Commission’s Brexit Think Tank Group, and
 Kaeding has been instrumental in the institutionalisation of UK Parliamentarian’s work on Hong
 Kong in recent years. This work has in turn supported the securing of funding (e.g., the Horizon
 2020 PROTECT project and the Jean Monnet Centre of Excellence) that enhance the capacity of
 the Department to turn partnerships into both research outputs and impactful activities.

 Work with the economy
 The emergence of Brexit as an issue from 2016 has meant a rising level of interest in the impact
 of political decisions on economic activity. The Department’s expertise in this area has been
 sought out by a number of businesses, both locally and beyond: Exadaktylos’ work with the World
 Bank has resulted in reforms to legislation that have had a material impact on the tourism sector
 in Greece, as discussed in one of the submission’s Impact Case Studies. Hadfield has led on work
 to produce briefings by CBE on the impact on businesses and other economic operators, as well
 as engaging with the local Chambers of Commerce and Local Enterprise Partnerships to identify
 particular impacts. Usherwood has provided expert contributions to scenario planning activity on
 the British economy undertaken by Shell in 2019, as well as speaking on the impacts of Brexit on
 the fashion industry for Fashion Roundtable (2019).




                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Work with society
 The Department has worked with a wide range of partners on a variety of issues. This has been
 the main part of its collaborative activities, as seen in the diversity of what it has done:
    •   Evidence to Parliament: Departmental research touches repeatedly on points of public
        policy, and staff have taken a pro-active approach to contributing written and oral evidence.
        Chappell sat before the Lords EU External Affairs sub-committee and Commons Foreign
        Affairs committee, to discuss Brexit effects on the EU’s Common Security & Defence
        Policy; Usherwood has sat before the Commons Exiting the EU committee and the Public
        Affairs and Constitutional Affairs committee on Brexit issues; Kaeding has given evidence
        on Hong Kong to the Commons Foreign Affairs Select Committee; Exadaktylos has
        contributed to the work of the Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology.
    •   Work with political parties and government: The crossover of research with political life has
        been particularly evident in recent years, as the Department’s profile in its core areas has
        grown and relationships have developed. Guerrina and Chappell worked with the
        European External Action Service, and the UK Ministry of Defence on gender
        mainstreaming; Kitchen has presented work to the Treasury and advised Surrey County
        Council on counter-terrorism. Usherwood has provided briefings to politicians and officials
        from British, Australian, New Zealand, Swiss, German and Scottish governments since
        2017 on Brexit, taught several masterclasses run by the Foreign Office for the Civil Service
        since 2018. More locally, Hadfield has led a significant piece of consultancy work for Surrey
        County Council on managing the effects of Brexit on the county, which has led on to work
        in 2021 on a place-based growth plan.
    •   Work with international organisations: Much of the research undertaken has had European
        and international dimensions, so staff have sought to make connections beyond the UK
        wherever possible. Exadaktylos provided consultancy to the World Bank on legal reforms
        in Greece; Usherwood has been a member of the Brexit Think Tank Group of the European
        Commission; Hadfield has advised the OECD on higher education in Europe.
    •   Work with civil society groups and charities: Kaeding’s work has resulted in various strong
        links with groups in Hong Kong, Taiwan and the UK, supported by his key role in
        institutionalising relationships, as discussed in his Impact Case Study. Usherwood has
        given briefings and talks on Brexit to Universities UK, GuildHE, National Council for
        Voluntary Organisations; Usherwood, Guerrina, Hadfield and Middleton have spoken
        repeatedly for local study groups and associations (including U3A, Probus, Rotary) on their
        areas of research specialisation. This engagement has also been important in opening up
        lines of further research, notably with Hadfield’s developing activity on the localised
        impacts of events such as Brexit.
    •   Work with the media: Many staff give media interviews to print, broadcast and online
        providers working locally, nationally and internationally, as a means for contributing
        evidence-based, informed input to public debates. Usherwood’s work with “UK in a
        Changing Europe” since 2016 has resulted in several hundred such interviews alone, as
        well as repeated media briefings and contributions to that programme’s materials. Hadfield,
        Exadaktylos and Middleton have all developed profiles as reliable and knowledgeable
        experts in their fields. Middleton and Usherwood were shortlisted for the PSA’s Total
        Exposure media pitching events (2016-8), the latter twice;
    •   Work with social media: The Department was an early adopter of social media, both to flag
        up new research outputs and to build conversations with different audiences. There has
        been a regular blog running throughout the REF period and an active presence (both
        departmentally and via individual staff) on Twitter. Since 2015, Usherwood has run the A
        Diet of Brussels podcast on Brexit, to which has been added a weekly Vlog in 2018. He is
        also co-manager of the Active Learning in Political Science blog, which publishes research
        on learning & teaching and reaches a global audience of 10,000s a week. Within the CBE,
        two separate vlog series, including the Jean Monnet-funded ‘Bridge to Brussels’ series
        area a key part of the Department’s European-facing outputs. All of this work has had

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        considerable effects in raising the profile of the Department’s research activity and has
        generated multiple requests to staff for further discussion or briefing, as well as embedding
        the Department within the public debate on contemporary issues.

 Work with the research base
 The research specialisations of the Department have produced particularly close activities in the
 fields of European politics and international relations. Of particular note has been:

 Leadership roles:
 The Department encourages staff to shape the academic environment around them, in part by
 taking on leadership within existing organisations and structures. As a result, the Department’s
 colleagues have been extremely active in the various bodies that shape debates across its
 research interests. Usherwood, David and Exadaktylos have all been members of the committee
 of the UACES during the reference period, with Usherwood also being Treasurer (2016-9), while
 Wright was chair of the British International Studies Association’s (BISA) Postgraduate Network
 (2014-6) while a PGR in the Department; Exadaktylos is co-convenor of the ECPR Standing Group
 on Political Methodology (2013-) and committee member of the Political Studies Association (PSA)
 Greek Politics Specialist Group (2011-); Kitchen is Treasurer of the BISA US Foreign Policy
 Working Group (2013-) and its Convenor for 2020-21; Leveringhaus is Convenor of the BISA
 Special Working Group on Responsibility to Protect. Aaronson was Chair of the Strategic Advisory
 Group of the Global Challenges Research Fund (2016-19).

 Building networks and event organisation:
 Staff have been very active in establishing new connections among academic colleagues
 elsewhere and in organising events to support further work, especially since their work has broken
 into new territory that lacks organisation. Usherwood and Guerrina have both founded and led
 UACES Research Networks, on euroscepticism (2011-) and gender respectively (2018-); Van
 Hauwaert is the lead of the Global Public Opinion Project; Leveringhaus is Deputy Lead on the
 AI@Surrey network at the University, which has begun to generate new cross-departmental
 collaborations on research activity; Kitchen organised workshops on AI in warfare (2019) and IR
 theory (2020) through Cii, in collaboration with LSE IDEAS; Kitchen and Leveringhaus co-
 organised a workshop on Kosovo (2019), through work with BISA. Hadfield has used the recent
 (2020) Jean Monnet Centre of Excellence funding for CBE to build a programme of events and
 social media work to ensure that the Centre will maintain a high profile in the field for the coming
 period.

 Keynote presentations and guest lectures:
 The relevance of staff research within the discipline is reflected in the large number of high-profile
 presentations given in the period. Usherwood has given keynote and plenary lectures at the PSA
 annual conference (2019), UACES annual conference (2016), Danish Political Studies Association
 annual conference (2016), and at the Universities of Bristol, Southampton, Padua (all 2020),
 Göttingen (2019), Southampton Solent (2019), Braga (2018) and Antwerp (2016), as well as the
 European University Institute (2017). Exadaktylos was plenary speaker at the 2018 International
 Conference on EU Studies and the University of Exeter; Hadfield has spoken in 2019 at the
 European University Institute’s State of the Union conference, the Jean Monnet 30 Years
 Symposium, the Institute for Commonwealth Studies and the OECD/EU Global Education Industry
 Summit; Leveringhaus spoke to the Martens Centre for European Studies (2018), the Carnegie
 Foundation (2019) and British Academy/Leverhulme Trust (2020) on ethics and robotics; Kitchen
 gave invited talks at the Institute for Diplomacy and International Governance (2020) and the Joint
 Services Command and Staff College (annually since 2018). This extensive range of activity will
 continue into the next REF period, as staff continue to produce topical and impactful outputs:
 several commitments have already been rearranged into 2021, as a result of Covid-19.




                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Journal editing:
 Editing is taken as an important part of research work, and all involved have used the opportunity
 to promote new agendas within their fields as well as to facilitate the publications of ECRs: nearly
 50% of staff hold some editorial position at the census date. Chappell co-edits European Security
 (2015-) and has given regular sessions on publishing for ECRs; Exadaktylos, Guerrina and
 Massetti (now Trento, since 2018) co-edit the Journal of Common Market Studies Annual Review
 (2017-); Guerra is co-editor Political Research Exchange (2019-), with Van Hauwaert an associate
 editor; David (now Leiden, since 2015) was editor in chief of Journal of Contemporary European
 Research (2014-20), with Usherwood on the editorial board (2013-). All staff have been very active
 reviewers for academic journals and funders (including ESRC, British Academy, Leverhulme,
 British Council, World Bank and various European national research bodies) during the period.

 Fellowships:
 Usherwood was an ESRC Senior Fellow (2016) and Deputy Director of the ESRC’s “UK in a
 Changing Europe” programme (2017-9); Kitchen is Visiting Fellow at LSE IDEAS (2019-2022);
 Exadaktylos and Guerra regularly teach at the College of Europe as visiting professors (2015- and
 2018- respectively).




                                                                                             Page 13
