Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Liverpool John Moores University
 Unit of Assessment: UoA 12 Engineering
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Unit context and structure
 New research management structures have been developed, based around well-embedded
 Research Centres/Institutes (RCs/RIs) over the assessment period. Research activity in
 UoA 12 has been conducted through four research strands: GERI (General Engineering
 Research Institute), LOOM (Liverpool Logistics, Offshore and Marine Research Institute),
 MEMARC (Mechanical Engineering and Materials Research Centre), and RCEEE
 (Research Centre for Electrical and Electronic Engineering). These are based within
 LJMU’s Faculty of Engineering and Technology from which UoAs 9, 11 and 13 are also
 returned in REF 2021. In this submission, 48 Category A staff members are returned, 10 of
 whom are from GERI, 16 from LOOM, 10 from MEMARC, and 12 from RCEEE. 15 of those
 returned were appointed as ECRs.
 In 2014, the Faculty undertook a strategic review with the aim of achieving sustainable
 research in engineering and technology. The Unit’s strategy has been to focus on core
 research areas with established research groups and support new academics through
 targeted financial support of both PDRAs and PhD studentships (internal research funding
 of £2.5m from the Faculty has been invested over the assessment period). Overall, the
 research in this Unit has achieved the target set over the 2014-20 period in terms of
 research publications, a vibrant research environment and academic and industrial impact.
 The number of FTEs returned in REF2021 has increased to 47.2 from 31 in REF2014. The
 research publications produced over the assessment period include 650 SCI-cited journal
 papers (150% increase compared to the previous REF period), 100 other journal papers,
 300 conference papers, 30 invited book chapters, and 10 research monographs. Over the
 assessment period, the returned members have generated £15m of external income
 (£8.83m spent), supported 95 PhD completions, managed 50 PDRAs, and achieved a
 substantial level of international visibility. The returned members have also achieved
 significant impact in industrial sectors through the application of their research.
 The Unit’s vision is to deliver fundamental and applied research within its core areas that
 make significant contributions to the knowledge base, and leads directly to a beneficial or
 positive influence on the economy, society, public policy or services, culture, the environment or
 quality of life.
 The Unit’s research and impact strategy over the assessment period was to:
  Target expertise at technological applications addressing distinct regional/national/global
     challenges, government priority areas and societal need, focusing on its core research areas
     of Advanced Materials and Manufacture, Maritime Technologies, Electric Drives,
     Microelectronics, and Energy and Sustainability.
  Establish research partnerships with both the academic community and industrial sectors.
  Develop and deliver single, multi- and inter-disciplinary research projects.
  Increase capability in core research areas through both internal and external support.
  Invest in high quality research infrastructure and equipment.
  Increase the PGR population in key research and application areas.
  Develop/increase knowledge transfer to end users.
 Evidence of the delivery of the overarching strategy is shown below by activity within each of the
 four research strands.
 GERI – GERI comprises 3 professors, 1 reader and 6 lecturers/senior lecturers (2 ECRs), and is
 led by Harvey. GERI is a world-class centre for research in the fields of manufacturing and
 measurement technology. It can trace its history back over 40 years with an international
 reputation in research in areas of advanced manufacturing and optical metrology. It offers a
 unique skills and knowledge portfolio that links these two areas and this enables it to tackle
 challenging interdisciplinary research problems. Over the assessment period, GERI has

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 benefited from infrastructure and capital investment of over £2m. GERI’s research focuses on: 1)
 high speed optical metrology, 2) new fusions of microscopy techniques, 3) laser micro-
 machining, 4) laser surface processing, 5) functional surfaces, 6) high efficiency grinding
 technology, and 7) advanced manufacturing with particular reference to problems that arise in
 industrial practice. GERI has coordinated a H2020 project DigiArt (Burton as coordinator,
 €2.35m, 2015-19) and a number of externally funded projects (e.g. EP/N022998/1, £330k, 2016-
 19) over the assessment period.
 LOOM – LOOM is led by Wang and comprises 3 professors, 2 readers and 11 lecturers/ senior
 lecturers (7 ECRs). A distinctive strength of LOOM’s research is the security and risk-based
 design/operation of large ships, offshore installations, port systems, maritime logistics and air/rail
 operations. More recently, LOOM has developed two new research interests from the
 appointment of 3 ECRs. One area is offshore renewable energy (EU-funded ARCWIND, €400k,
 Bashir) and the other is aircraft modelling, drone technologies and real-time simulation
 (EP/P030009/1, £365k, 2018-22 & EU Clean Sky 2 award/831969, €180k out of €3m allocated
 to the Unit, 2019-21, Lu). The support and funding from industry, government agencies,
 charitable organisations, EPSRC, EU and internal sources have enabled the development of a
 number of highly novel and flexible assessment tools to facilitate the design and operation of
 large maritime and other transport systems. Over the assessment period, LOOM has
 coordinated 4 EU-funded research training networks supported by €4m of funding, and
 participated in another 9 EU-funded projects with a total funding of €3m to the Unit.
 MEMARC - MEMARC is led by X. Ren and I. Jones. 11 MEMARC researchers include 2
 professors, 1 reader and 7 lecturers/senior lecturers (4 ECRs). MEMARC conducts research into
 fracture and contact mechanics, wave propagation in lattices and microstructures, thermal
 fatigue and thermal striping, finite element modelling and design, fluid dynamics, materials
 development and processing, and dynamics and autonomous systems. The research work has
 covered areas relevant to a number of key industrial sectors (e.g. energy and nuclear) and
 emerging multi-disciplinary research areas (e.g. sport technology and health care). The research
 work in the mechanics of engineering and biological materials has been supported by
 investment in a modern materials and structural testing laboratory. It has also been supported by
 1 EU-funded research network, 2 incoming fellowships (coordinated by X. Ren), the Nuclear
 Security Network and industrial sources (e.g. International Nuclear Services). MEMARC’s
 research has been enhanced by the appointment of 3 ECRs in two emerging research areas.
 One area is additive manufacturing/3D printing of metals and understanding the links between
 manufacturing and material properties, with funding from the US Air Force Office of Scientific
 Research (£150k, 2018-20, Tammas-Williams). Another area is the modelling of turbulent flows
 in renewable energy generation (EP/S037292/1, £260k, 2020-23, Seddighi).
 RCEEE – RCEEE is led by Levi and J. Zhang and includes 4 professors, 3 readers and 5
 lecturers/senior lecturers (2 ECRs). RCEEE has achieved a substantial international reputation
 and played a significant role in the international arena in the areas of “Multiphase and multi-
 motor drive systems” (Electric Machines and Drives) and “Qualification of VLSI devices and
 materials” (Microelectronics) during the REF period. The research in electric machines and
 drives focuses on innovative research topics related to multiphase electric power generation and
 power electronics for electric vehicles. The research in Microelectronics focuses on three key
 issues of IoT and AI (power, cost, and security) through joint projects with world-leading
 organisations such as IMEC, ARM, and Synopsys. One indicator of RCEEE’s achievements is
 the large number of research papers published in IEEE Transactions (over 70) and at the
 flagship conferences - IEDM/Symposium of VLSI Technology (15) - since 2014. RCEEE’s
 research has been supported by a number of external funding sources including EPSRC (e.g.
 EP/S000259/1, £378k; EP/M006727/1, £350k; EP/L010607/1, £518k; EP/I012966/1, £463k;
 EP/I038543/1, £200k; EP/T026022/1, £487k awarded to J. Zhang, W. Zhang and Levi) and
 Innovate UK (e.g. £255k, “Smart Industry 4.0 ready power controllers”; £220k, “A smart
 production management system” awarded to Ateeq) since 2014.
 The four groups within the Unit have worked collaboratively to conduct joint research
 programmes of multi/inter-disciplinary research challenges while members of each research
 group are encouraged to develop their own individual areas of expertise, where appropriate. For
 example, Sharp (GERI) and Seddighi (MEMARC) have jointly won an InnovateUK grant of

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 £396k allocated to LJMU in collaboration with Sandon Global Engraving Technology Ltd (2019-
 21). Collaboration between researchers within the Faculty and across faculties is actively
 encouraged (e.g. through joint PhD studentships and grant applications). For instance, ship
 simulator-based research in the Unit has collaborated closely with the psychophysiology group
 (Fairclough) in the Faculty of Science, with 3 jointly-supervised PGRs investigating how human
 error can be estimated and reduced.
 There have been significant increases in research income, staff and PhD students and
 investment in research infrastructure and equipment. As some of the Faculty’s most senior
 Experienced Researchers, with the knowledge, experience and foresight to drive the Unit’s
 research and impact strategies, the named RC/RI Leads (pp 1-2) represent their respective
 research groups on the Faculty Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee (FRKEC),
 which convenes every 2 months and is chaired by the Faculty Associate Dean – Research
 (ADR). The ADR (Wang) is a Faculty Management Team member and the Faculty
 representative of the University Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee (URKEC).
 New research collaborations at regional, national and international levels in line with the
 Unit’s research and impact generation policy have resulted in a more vibrant research
 environment. Interdisciplinary synergies with other groups at LJMU have been actively
 exploited. For example, maritime safety research has been linked to cyber security research
 in Computer Science and Mathematics to improve safety in ship design and operation; and
 materials engineering researchers have collaborated with the Research Institute for Sport
 and Exercise Sciences to enhance athletes’ performance. The relevance and value of the
 Unit’s interdisciplinary research approach is evidenced by the coordination of 7 EU
 FP7/H2020 projects and hosting of 1 ERC research grant, and also by the establishment of
 a £5m Materials and Manufacturing Research Base between LJMU’s Physics, Engineering,
 Computer Science and Sports Science disciplines.
 Strategic plan and goals for research and impact
 In line with the University’s research and knowledge exchange strategy, the Unit has built
 upon the successes achieved, using the research management structures and capabilities
 that have been developed in the Unit to focus on providing innovative applied engineering
 and technology solutions to national and global challenges. The Unit has developed its
 infrastructure and knowledge base to provide researchers with an environment in which to
 maximise the impact of research, and to enhance the sustainability and vitality of research.
 The Unit’s strategic research and impact plan has eight key objectives:
  Engage with government, industry and academic partners to identify and address key
      national and international research challenges.
  Develop single-, multi- and inter-disciplinary research programmes in a range of
      engineering applications.
  Attract internationally-leading research talents and develop key engineering research
      areas through growth in the number of academic staff, contract researchers and PhD
      students.
  Provide research leadership and a diverse environment that supports researcher career
      development, recognizes achievement and rewards success.
  Invest in and maintain a high-quality physical environment that provides researchers
      with the facilities and equipment required to support ambitious research programmes.
  Operate a sustainable business model to support research activities.
  Enable rapid transfer of research outcomes to business, the economy and society for
      impact generation.
  Contribute to public awareness of engineering and technology research.
 New and/or extended collaboration has been developed with regional high-profile innovation
 initiatives (see pp14-15 ‘Interdisciplinary and collaborative research’), particularly in the
 sectors of Renewable Energy, Safety and Sustainability, Health and Manufacture,
 Mechanics and Materials, Transportation, Electric Drives, and Micro-electronics. The Unit
 has created new groups of excellence in key research areas (e.g. autonomous systems


                                                                                          Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research) to train the next generation of research leaders and to promote knowledge
 exchange. The Unit’s PGR community has increased through an expansion of industry co-
 funded studentships and by establishing three new dual PhD programmes with leading
 overseas institutions (e.g. the University of Malaya). This has been aided by Faculty-wide
 Research Seminars, the Unit’s monthly Research Presentations, and the annual Faculty
 Research Week where industrial users and internal researchers are regularly invited for
 collaboration and impact generation. The Unit has benefited from investment in
 new/upgraded equipment/infrastructure, including a Ship Operations laboratory, and the
 £5m redevelopment of the James Parsons campus where all four engineering Research
 Centres/Institutes in this Unit are housed.
 Knowledge exchange, impact generation and staff support
 Significant effort has been invested in transferring the Unit’s research knowledge to industry.
 The Unit formalised its impact strategy in 2014, building on its experience of active knowledge
 transfer to industry over the past two decades. The Unit has continually encouraged all members
 to be actively involved in impact-generating activities. Strategy objectives achieved over the
 assessment period include: 1) the engagement of industrial partners in the Unit’s research
 activities, 2) supporting financial impact-generating activities for knowledge exchange, 3)
 building partnerships through academic secondments to industry and hosting industry specialists
 in the Unit, and 4) prioritising areas for knowledge exchange. Jenkinson, the first Professor of
 Enterprise appointed at LJMU, has led such knowledge exchange activities with other members
 actively involved in the Unit. Each year, five or more of the Unit’s members have been, and
 continue to be supported, either by internal or external funds for industrial secondments of one
 to six months for impact-generating purposes, with more details provided in Sections 2 and 4.
 The Unit utilises a list of industrial organisations to prioritise collaboration that leverages the
 greatest impact. This list has been updated on an annual basis with each organisation having a
 designated contact. Although the majority of such organisations are local or within the UK, the
 international element is integrated into the research projects’ impact-generating plans. For
 example, maritime safety-related impact-generating activities have been and continue to be
 conducted internationally with industrial organisations (e.g. COSCO and China Shipping Group)
 because on-going collaboration and ship operational activities largely take place in the Far East.
 The types of impact delivered to and through these industry collaborators have included:
  Economic impact: Innovative industrial processes and products; increased productivity,
      turnover and employment; and reduced industry waste and costs.
  Environmental impact: Efficient utilisation of energy sources.
  Quality of life impact: Contribution to public policy; public safety; improved health products;
      and improvement of transport efficiency and safety.
 The research has had a direct quantifiable impact on regulatory and public policy, and the
 practices and activities of industrial organisations and services. The following exemplifies
 knowledge exchange, impact generation and staff support:
  A systematic decision-support methodology, together with a series of associated sector-
      specific models, has influenced industrial practice by shaping a goal-setting regime for
      maritime systems operations. The range of organisations influenced by the research has
      included regulatory and classification bodies (e.g. HSE), maritime operators (e.g. Shell) and
      consulting companies (Risktec), in the UK and internationally. The research, supported by
      external grants (£2m from EU, RCUK, industry and HSE) and internal grants (i.e. LJMU’s
      pump priming fund of £200k to Loughney) has led to the development of HSE guidance on
      avoiding offshore installation-ship collisions and improving the current capabilities of
      equipment able to warn of a potential collision. 184 offshore oil and gas platforms on the
      UKCS and 1,327 worldwide have benefited from these guidelines since 2019 (REF3-ICS1).
  Based on commercial instruments, the micro-electronic research team developed a number
      of advanced characterisation techniques that require technique-specific programs and
      hardware setups. The research outcomes have been used by Tektronix, embedding them
      into their semiconductor parameter analyser. Up to September 2019, 3,145 such analysers
      had been shipped together with the instrument to world-wide customers. The industry has

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     formed a consortium, based at IMEC, Belgium, whose members include Intel (US), ARM
     (UK), Samsung (Korea) and Toshiba (Japan). Each company has its own assignees based
     at IMEC. The micro-electronic team had one researcher based at IMEC (50% funded by the
     University), who took part in the daily R&D activities of the consortium from 2016 to 2019.
     This offered a direct bridge between the Unit’s micro-electronic research team and the
     consortium. The Unit’s research has impacted the development work in terms of material
     selection, structure evaluation, and performance optimization (REF3-ICS2).
    Transportation/logistics research has been supported extensively by industry-academia
     funding (including DfT and InnovateUK), as well as funding from the EPSRC, EU, Newton
     Fund and various charities (£5m in grant value to LJMU in total). The resulting decision-
     aiding tool (Nguyen and Yang) has led to greener, more efficient and more sustainable
     transport and logistics since 2017: 1) Reduced costs (up to 23%) and emissions (up to 19%)
     in the Ports of Liverpool; 2) Improved rail performance and passenger experience (helping
     Merseyrail to monitor four of its busiest stations (24 million passengers annually)); and 3)
     Supporting active travel options (walking and cycling) in the Liverpool City Region (LCR) by
     providing data/analysis to both users and local authority operators to reduce GHG emissions
     (REF3-ICS3).
  The research on abrasive mass finishing (MF) is industry-focussed, inherently cross-sectoral
     and multi-disciplinary (Batako, Chen and Morgan). The research attracted a number of
     significant external grants (£1.5m from InnovateUK and industry). The knowledge transfer
     has led to impacts including: 1) A £2.5m factory built in the UK for high-volume production of
     the product, with improved production efficiencies; 2) A wider product offering as well as
     increased sales revenue, with a value of £1.2m in the first two years of production (2017-19);
     and 3) A method of finishing that is cleaner and more environmentally sensitive than any
     other available process technology, with a cost saving of 40%. Landis-Lund has used the
     developed High Efficiency Deep Grinding (HEDG) technology in its twin crankshaft grinders
     worldwide since 2013, with the grinding cycle time reduced by 50% (REF3-ICS4).
 The Unit’s research and impact strategy for the next REF cycle is to broaden its collaborative
 culture for excellent impactful research; to extend its critical mass for enhanced research
 productivity and capability to tackle complex multi/inter-disciplinary research issues; and to foster
 research agility to embrace emerging research challenges and impact opportunities within its
 expertise areas. More specifically, the Unit will continue its research and impact approaches to
 develop fundamental solutions and integrate these into impactful applications. In particular, the
 Unit will invest more research efforts in the areas of green and intelligent transport, dynamic and
 autonomous systems, renewable energy generation, microelectronics and IoT security,
 manufacturing and measurement technology, and big data analytics in engineering applications.
 Open research environment and research integrity culture
 The University supports open access (OA) publication to make research available to the widest
 possible audience. Since May 2015, the Faculty Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee
 (FRKEC) has consistently promoted the requirement that all Faculty research-active staff adhere
 to this process. The research outputs produced by the Unit over the assessment period have
 been OA-compliant and deposited through the University's institutional repository. There is a
 Faculty SharePoint for the deposition, sharing and reproducibility of the Unit’s research data,
 with internal and external users having different levels of access. The University also has a data
 repository to ensure that the Unit is compliant with the UKRI Concordat on Open Research Data.
 Moreover, projects typically create their own websites (e.g. DigiArt) to disseminate research
 findings (e.g. through project reports for open access, and sharing unrestricted data to
 encourage further research).
 A research integrity culture is fostered by the University Code of Practice for Research (last
 updated 2020/next review 2021) and promoted in new staff and PGR inductions. The Unit has a
 rigorous procedure in place for external grant applications, which have to be reviewed by two
 experienced researchers internally before submission. General guidance on good practice in
 research and specific guidelines for studies involving human participants, human material or
 personal data and animals is promoted widely. The University Research Ethics Committee
 (REC) implements governance arrangements to oversee the conduct of the Faculty’s REC. The


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Faculty-based REC provides oversight, guidance and advice on the ethical implications of
 research proposals. Electronic records of all ethics applications are lodged in the Faculty’s
 SharePoint. Zero allegations of research misconduct have been registered in the Unit during the
 assessment period.
 Section 2 - People
 Staff strategy
 Staff recruitment and retention are at the heart of the Unit’s research strategy. This is achieved
 specifically through the recruitment of internationally excellent researchers and provision of an
 excellent working environment that supports researchers’ career development, recognises
 achievement, and rewards success. Nineteen of the academic staff returned in the Unit (around
 40% of the returned staff) have been recruited into the core research areas since REF2014.
 Fifteen of them are early career researchers (ECRs); fourteen were recruited from universities in
 Denmark, Korea and UK while one was appointed from industry. New academic staff
 appointments were supported by start-up packages to fund PhD studentships and appropriate
 equipment purchases, as well as providing upskilling and pump priming funding. Also provided
 are competitive University scholarships and Faculty scholarships, with priority given to new staff
 and ECRs in core research areas (typically 10 to the Unit each year).
 The demographic profile of the Unit is such that over 80% of the current staff members are
 expected to be returned in the next REF, facilitating current and future management to secure
 the sustainability of the Unit.
 Staff Development within the Unit is a key aspect of creating a vital working environment that
 allows researchers to fully realise their potential. The Unit provides a wide range of
 mechanisms to both support and develop staff engaged in research throughout their careers.
 The Unit engages in a comprehensive range of opportunities for all researchers (including
 PGRs) to develop their personal, professional and career management skills through the
 University’s award-winning ACTivator programme. The regular courses offered include
 “Building Blocks of Impact”, “Ready Steady Publish”, “Collaboration that Counts”, and “Pitch
 Perfect”. Online bookable services are also available for all researchers. For PGRs and
 PDRAs, there are further Researcher Development training courses offered on a quarterly
 basis, including “Researchers: Introduction to Your Support Network”, and “Women
 Researcher Retreat”. There were around 200 attendances to the courses by the UoA staff
 between 2016 and 2020. At Faculty level, experience-sharing workshops were organised 3 or 4
 times a year where experienced staff share their good practice and lessons learnt with other
 staff in terms of successful grant applications to funding bodies. The Concordat has operated a
 robust action plan delivered through a Concordat Task Group and overseen by the URKEC.
 The performance of the staff development programme was recognised by the EU HR
 Excellence in Research Award in 2012 that was successfully retained following biennial
 reviews in 2014, 2016 and 2018.
 Research staff joining the Unit participate in a formal induction process of preparation for their
 job role, providing them with the opportunity to learn about the University and their local
 working environment. In the Unit, each ECR has been assigned one mentor to review his/her
 performance, set objectives for the coming year and define a learning and development plan.
 Annual PDPR is monitored throughout the year and formally reviewed at the following year’s
 meeting. This process is formalised by the FRKEC. All new staff are initially allocated reduced
 teaching and administrative loads to enable them to develop their research and establish
 personal research teams. They are given priority in the allocation of internal funding through a
 number of schemes such as impact generation, pump priming, equipment support and
 studentships. For those applying to ECR-targeted funding programmes such as EPSRC New
 Investigator Grants and UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships, ECRs are guided and supported by
 mentors, the head of the Research Centre/Institute, and Research & Innovation Services, who
 provide detailed advice and feedback during proposal preparation. Four of the Unit’s ECRs
 were successful with their first grant application during the REF period (e.g. EP/S037292/1,
 £260k, 2020-23, Seddighi).
 The Unit also encourages continuing career development for established staff within the Unit.
 Funds are allocated to support new research initiatives and develop research links with

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 industry partners in the core research areas. Staff are fully supported by the Unit when
 applying for Research Fellowships that allow them to focus solely on research and will make
 suitable provision to cover teaching and administration duties during these periods. One
 example is an ERC Consolidator Grant of €2m awarded to Yang. This 5-year award (2020-25)
 has allowed the researcher to develop a new research team in resilient container supply
 chains.
 Examples of the success of the Staff Development programme in the Unit include:
  Dordevic: Upon completion of his PhD, he was appointed a lecturer at LJMU in 2013 and
     then promoted to Reader in 2018. He leads research on control of three-phase and
     multiphase converters. As PI, he has won an EPSRC First Grant (EP/P00914X/1, £101k,
     2017-18), further competitively awarded funding from the EPSRC Challenge Network
     (CN/FEAS/BIPED, £121k, 2018-19), and an industry-financed project with LionSmart
     GmbH, Germany.
  Lu: He joined LJMU as a lecturer in 2017, following seven years as a research fellow at
     Liverpool University from 2007 to 2014 and less than two years as a lecturer at the
     University of Central Lancashire from 2015. He has since led a research team of four
     members in Aircraft Modelling and Real-time Simulation, funded both externally
     (EP/P030009/1, £366k, 2018-22; European Aviation Safety, RoCS, €180k out of €3m to Lu,
     2019-22) and internally by the University and Faculty.
  Nguyen: After 4 years’ postdoctoral research at the University of Birmingham and LJMU,
     he was appointed as a lecturer at LJMU in 2011 and then promoted to Reader in 2015. He
     is leading a research group on optimisation/simulation, data analytics, and machine
     learning, which focuses on maritime, transport, logistics, IoT and smart city problems. As
     PI, he has won external funding of £1.8m, including “COINS: Customer-Operational
     Information System for Stations” (Ref.-971641, £265k, 2018-20) and “IRIS: Information
     system for railway station staff” (Ref.-971752, £330k, 2020-21).
 The University invites applications on an annual basis for conferment at Reader and Professorial
 levels. Over the assessment period, three of the submitted staff members were conferred with a
 Professorship (Yang-2014, W. Zhang-2014, Morgan-2015) and three were conferred with a
 Readership (Nguyen-2015, Ji-2018, Dordevic-2018). Academic staff members’ teaching duties
 are re-allocated for sabbaticals, ranging from a few weeks to twelve months (e.g. Yang’s
 industrial secondment of six months at DfT in 2018).
 PGR Recruitment
 The Unit has a mechanism for attracting self- or externally-funded students, particularly from
 overseas, including students from Brazil, China, Nigeria, and Saudi Arabia. Funding bodies
 include industrial and university sponsorships, the governments of China, Kuwait, Malaysia,
 Nigeria, Panama, Saudi Arabia and Turkey, Commonwealth Scholarship Committee and EU’s
 Marie Curie schemes. In addition, the Unit has the following specific PGR programmes:
  Match funding for industrial PhD research. The University/Faculty offers 50% match funding
     (10 provided).
  Dual PhD programmes. The Faculty provides 50% match funding (6 provided).
  Faculty scholarships that support projects aligned to the Unit’s strategic research areas,
     fundamental research, and exceptional students (30 full scholarships).
  LJMU’s scholarships for exceptional students (20 full scholarships).
  Industry-funded projects. Partner companies include ABS, Babcock, BAE Systems, Bibby,
     HSE, Lloyd’s Register, National Nuclear Laboratory Ltd., Nigerian National Petroleum
     Corporation, Maersk Line, NHS, Peel, QinetiQ, BMW-Munich, Ingeteam-Spain, Rolls-
     Royce, Serco Group and Shell (20 PGRs).
 PhD vacancies are advertised in standard HE recruitment websites (e.g. jobs.ac.uk and
 FindAPhD.com). The Unit’s staff also present information on PhD opportunities to students at
 international partner institutions. The Unit has run several programmes to encourage
 applications for PhD Scholarships from its own undergraduate students each year. Examples
 include informing final year MEng students directly through email/internal advertising of


                                                                                           Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 available scholarships and encouraging participation in funded Summer Internship
 programmes as an introduction to research and research careers, and integrating research
 study modules into the core curriculum. An online application system is used to follow up
 applications and provide feedback to applicants. The University also runs pre-sessional English
 language programs for international students.
 PGR Support and Monitoring
 The Unit’s PGR population has increased significantly during the REF period, rising from 35
 FTEs enrolled in 2013-14 to 70 FTEs enrolled in 2019-20, an increase of 100%. The Unit’s
 PhD completions have increased by 139%, from 68.5 (REF 2014) to 95 over this assessment
 period. The Faculty Research Degrees Committee (FRDC) Chair and PGR Coordinator (Yang)
 directs a range of activities and programmes (below) to ensure that these students are fully
 supported in their studies and career development within a vibrant PGR student culture and
 community.
 A robust formal procedure is in place to monitor and support student progress throughout the
 PGR period. Each student is required to complete an annual Postgraduate Monitoring Report,
 in which the PhD researchers review and detail their research progress, and training and skills
 development; while the supervisors provide requirements/expectations for training and skill
 development, ethical approvals, supervisory arrangements and PGRs’ position for completing
 their target, feedback on performance, and recommendations. The researcher and supervisors
 will then formulate a joint declaration before the report is passed to the FRDC for approval,
 which independently monitors student progress. This includes advice associated with the
 research process as well as guidance on training and development.
 Training and secondments
 All PGRs are encouraged to develop their research for presentation at national and
 international conferences and seminars. Student presentation skills development is facilitated
 by research presentation events within the research groups and participation in the more
 formal annual Faculty Research Week, attended by students, staff and external visitors from
 industry. Poster presentations for first year PGRs are required and podium presentations to
 highlight potential research impact are also encouraged. A panel of academics and
 industrialists assesses the presentations and prizes are awarded to all year groups. Each year,
 3 awards are given in each of the categories of Best Potential Impact, Best Poster, Best Paper,
 Best Elevator Pitch and Best Oral Presentation. Each year, the Faculty’s Prize comprises five
 awards for Best PhD Thesis. PGRs are also encouraged to enter national and international
 research competitions and many have been successful. Examples include the award of the
 GALP Datathon Data Science competition (Pieroni, €25k, 2019), the Best Paper Award at
 EvoApps (Yazdani, 2018), Best Paper Award at the IEEE-LISS (Alghanmi, 2017), Best Paper
 Award of the IEEE Industrial Electronics Society (N. Bode, 2016), Best Paper Award by the
 IEEE Industrial Electronics Society for a paper authored by a research student (Subotic, 2016),
 Association of British and Turkish Academics’ Doctoral Researcher Award (Ma, 2015), and
 Best Paper Award at QR2MSE (Qu, 2015). PGRs are encouraged to become involved in a
 range of academic activities under the supervision of academic staff, including the
 development of teaching skills in laboratory and tutorial environments.
 Through a variety of joint training arrangements and secondments in other organisations,
 PGRs in the Unit have gained the necessary skills for their career development in academia
 and/or in industry. In particular, these opportunities have helped bridge knowledge gaps
 between science and engineering, and between fundamental study and applied research.
 Exposure to different cultures and environments has also provided opportunities for ECRs and
 PGRs to collaborate with external researchers to experience and tackle different challenges.
 The Unit has co-ordinated the following UK and FP7/H2020 EU-funded training networks
 involving over 60 of the Unit’s PGRs and ECRs:
 1. EU H2020, €1,417,500, 2017-21, RESET - Reliability and Safety Engineering and
      Technology.
 2. EU H2020, €1,324,800, 2019-23, REMESH - Research Network on Emergency Resources
      Supply Chain.
 3. EU FP7, €384,300, 2012-16, REFERENCE - Risk Assessment and Decision Science.

                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. UK BIS, £300,000, 2015-17, Digital innovation research in maritime logistics.
 5. EU FP7, €590,000, 2013-17, ENRICH - EC-China Research Network for Integrated Supply
     Chains.
 6. EU H2020, €504,000, 2019-23, i-WELD - Integrated Modelling of Duplex Stainless Steel.
 In addition, the Unit has also participated in another 4 research networks for PhD and staff
 training:
 1. EU H2020, €180,000 (of €517,500) to the Unit, 2017-21, PRIGEOC - Partnership for
     Research In Geopolymer Concretes.
 2. EU H2020, €170,200 (out of €961,400) to the Unit, 2019-23, ENHANCE - Enhancing
     human performance in complex socio-technical systems.
 3. EU H2020, €211,500 (out of €1,116,000) to the Unit, 2018-22, GOLF - Integration of Global
     and Local Agri-Food Supply Chains Towards Sustainable Food Security.
 4. EU, H2020, €170,000 (out of €777,400) to the Unit, 2019-23, REACTIVE: Reliable
     Electronics for Tomorrow’s Active Systems.
 Forty external industry and academic partners have signed agreements for research training
 with the Unit, through both internal funding and external funding listed above. The partners
 include Politechnika Slaska (Poland), Junet Oy (Finland), Cedrat Technologies S.A. (France),
 National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, Technical University of Malaysia (Malaysia),
 Mahidol University (Thailand), Tsinghua University (China), University of Science and
 Technology Beijing, and Paton Electrical Welding Institute (Ukraine). Over 40% of the Unit’s
 PDRs and ECRs have spent one to nine months with overseas collaborators using the above
 external and internal funding. Examples of secondments include four months at Mahidol
 University for Li (LOOM) and six months at the University of Phayao (Thailand) for Tang
 (MEMARC). In addition, PGRs and PDRAs are encouraged to undertake industrial
 secondments funded by both external and internal funding. Ten PGRs and 5 PDRAs have
 spent from one to six months at industrial organisations (e.g. Sivori had a secondment of four
 months at Kongsberg, Norway in 2019). PGRs’ career development has been integrated into
 such training opportunities, striking a balance between research originality and applicability. All
 completed PGRs have experienced a smooth transition into their subsequent career path and
 many of them have taken up management positions in their organisations (e.g. Al-Yami who
 graduated in 2016 is the Head of the Department of Nautical Science at King Abdul-Aziz
 University, Saudi Arabia).
 Support for knowledge transfer and impact generation
 The Unit has implemented several staff development/motivation programmes related to impact
 and external knowledge transfer, including:
  Training courses and mentoring in burgeoning knowledge transfer activities.
  Bi-weekly drop in sessions with Research & Innovation Services.
  Annual impact generation awards to staff (three each year).
  Targeted appointment of Visiting Professors/Researchers from industry (ten appointed
     including five visiting professors).
  The Faculty pump priming and impact generating fund (£100k allocated to the Unit each
     year).
  Ring-fenced time for industrial collaboration.
 Examples of the Unit’s support for impact generation
  1. The Mass Finishing (MF) Abrasive Product research has been supported through a time
      allowance (from Feb. 2014 to Jan. 2015) to the key researchers to work with Potters-
      Ballotini, Glass Technology Services and Rolls-Royce (turbine blade finishing). This has led
      to a new factory built in the UK for high-volume production of the product. The new product
      has led to improved production efficiencies, a wider product offering and increased sales
      revenue.
  2. A partnership has been formulated between Merseytravel and the Unit, brokered by the
      University’s Knowledge Exchange team and supported by a time allowance of 6 months

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       from July to Dec. 2019). This has led to novel sensors and artificial intelligence techniques
       (developed by Nguyen’s team) being used across the six local authorities of the Liverpool
       City Region.
  3. Loughney was 50% supported by the Faculty over nine months (lecturer grade 8, from Apr.
       to Dec. 2018) to develop the HSE guidelines on avoiding offshore installation-ship collisions
       and improving the current capabilities of equipment able to warn of a potential collision.
       Benefits to the offshore oil and gas platforms have included cost savings from the reduced
       risk of the demolition/removal of damaged installations after a collision.
  4. One researcher (Ji) was supported by the Faculty’s pump prime funding (£40k) to
       undertake a two-month secondment (Oct. and Dec. 2018) at Mindray and Panasonic
       Semiconductor Solutions Co. Ltd., to develop a defect-based True Random Number
       Generator (TRNG) and its commercialization. The TRNG harvests the randomness of
       natural phenomena in hardware without using an algorithm, which has been used in IoT
       security systems, leading to a UK patent (GB2571546).
 Equality and diversity
 The Faculty’s designated EDI Champion (Johnson) ensures Unit-level equality and diversity
 policies and practices are aligned with those of the University as a whole. Each member of the
 staff is required to complete an online training course on the issues of equality and diversity
 annually. Among 48 Category A staff returned to this UoA, 52% are from BAME backgrounds;
 3 are women, two of whom have been appointed as lecturers since 2014 (i.e. Shahrokhi and
 Liu). All academic and research staff are eligible to access a range of family-friendly options
 (e.g. maternity, paternity and adoption leave; parental, compassionate, domestic and personal
 leave). They are also entitled to take sabbatical research leave (e.g. Yang took a sabbatical
 leave of three months in 2019). On average, most senior members of the Unit have each
 produced slightly more outputs than junior colleagues, although it is worth noting 4 ECRs (e.g.
 Tammas-Williams) have performed excellently in this aspect.
 All training and support programmes are consistent with the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers and respect equality and diversity. Research leadership
 development is fully encouraged at all career stages through collegiate and collaborative
 working across institutional, national and international borders.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Research funding portfolio
 By 2019-20, the Unit had more than trebled its annual research income to £5m, compared to
 2013. The cumulative research funding for the REF period to 2020 is £15m. The Unit has co-
 ordinated 7 EU FP7/H2020 projects and participated in 14 EU projects (e.g. INTRADE,
 WEASTFLOWS, BLUEPORT and EMPORIA4KT). The current portfolio of secured external
 grants (over £10m) is 4 times higher than in 2013. Specifically, GERI has coordinated a H2020
 project DigiArt (€2.35m, 2015-18) and led 3 InnovateUK projects. LOOM has coordinated 4 EU-
 funded research training networks (with a total funding of €4m), hosted 2 standard EPSRC
 grants and 1 ERC grant, and 3 InnovateUK projects. MEMARC has led 1 EU training network, 2
 H2020 MSCA Fellowships and 2 EPSRC grants. RCEEE has hosted 7 EPSRC and 2
 InnovateUK grants totalling £2.5m.
 Investment in New Facilities and Equipment
 Major investments in new facilities and existing facilities upgrades have been made since
 REF2014. These investments align with the vision of the Unit and with the key research areas of
 GERI, LOOM, MEMARC and RCEEE. They align with the strategic staffing strategy described in
 Section 2.
 There have been partnerships with external organisations for research with the Unit. A Maritime
 Knowledge Hub has been formulated with an investment of £10m from Wirral Council, Peel
 Ports, LCR Strategic Investment Fund and the University. The research facilities include a state-
 of-the-art 360-degree ship-handling simulator and an engine room simulator with an additional
 investment of £5m. The Sensor City and Sensor Platform (a University Enterprise Zone)
 launched in November 2017 is backed by the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial
 Strategy (BEIS) and the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF). The overall investment

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for this project was over £15m and provides access to the most sophisticated sensor and IoT
 technology. Equipment on-site includes a £250k machine that produces curved printed circuit
 boards – the only one of its kind in the UK in public hands. The Prototype Development
 Laboratory and Virtual Reality Suite also house a diverse range of state-of-the-art electronic,
 electrical, mechanical, optical, virtual reality and 3D printing equipment, which is available for
 prototype design, development and testing carried out by its in-house laboratory team. There
 have been 3 designated technical support staff with responsibility for maintaining these facilities.
 The Manufacturing Technology Centre has established its first outreach facility (over £6m
 investment from MTC and LJMU). It was hosted at LJMU from 2015 to 2019 but following a
 significant expansion of its operations it has moved to a larger facility on the Liverpool Science
 Park campus (close to the Unit location). The Unit’s researchers have access to all equipment in
 the MTC facility, which includes prototype end effectors and manipulators, Stewart Platforms,
 adaptive and dynamic work holding, and ‘Factory-in-a-Box’ type process lines. Furthermore, the
 University has invested in the following new facilities and equipment.
 High Performance Computing (HPC): In 2016, the Unit invested £250k to have two relatively
 small, 112-core and 244-core HPC computer clusters. Various commercial and in-house
 software including CHAPSim CFD, OpenFOAM, Flexsim, DNV-GL Sesam, Ansys-Fluent and
 Abaqus are currently run on the cluster by the researchers undertaking simulations in the areas
 of CFD, offshore renewables, materials, laser technologies, naval architecture, fire and smoke
 modelling, system dynamics, and astrophysics. In 2018, the Unit invested a further £250k to
 enhance the HPC facility with1000 Intel Xeon Gold (Gen10) cores @ 2.5 GHz, a RAM of 13 TB,
 high speed (100G) infiniband interconnect (for parallel jobs with high communication loads) and
 1 PB of storage of connected storage. In 2019/2020, the Unit has further invested £450k to
 enhance the HPC through adding a “Tier-3” facility to facilitate diverse research computing
 applications and to act as a development bridge from desktop computing to the national (Tier-1)
 and international (Tier-0) HPC research facilities available to UK academics via Archer, DiRAC
 and PRACE. The facility can be used both as a “work farm”, capable of running many
 independent computing tasks simultaneously (e.g. image processing), and as a massively-
 parallel computer capable of running individual jobs (e.g. fluid dynamics calculations). It
 comprises 1,280 AMD Rome processing cores in 20 high-density HPE Apollo compute nodes,
 networked with the high-bandwidth, low-latency HDR Infiniband fabric. The facility has a total
 memory footprint of 10TB and a long-term storage capacity of 1.5PB provided by a parallel
 BeeGFS filesystem.
 Human Error Assessment Laboratory: This laboratory has been established through £2m
 EU/University/Faculty funding over the assessment period. It is shared between LOOM and the
 Research Centre for Brain and Behaviour in the Faculty of Health. Dedicated facilities available
 to researchers include: EEG facilities, road simulators, ship bridge and engine room simulators,
 twelve experimental testing booths, a sleep-over rest room and other specialised laboratory
 facilities (e.g. motor skills). The laboratory is also equipped with a state-of-the-art functional
 near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) device (additional investment of £200k from the Faculty) for
 human error studies in both road and waterborne transport. It has a capacity of high-density
 imaging and multi-distance tomographic recording with 32 opcodes and 48 channel recordings.
 10 researchers in road, rail and marine transport risk assessment and in the design and
 operation of large engineering systems have regularly used this laboratory. An example of the
 use of such facilities is Sivori’s PhD research on “Maritime simulation-based stress-induced
 analysis and mitigating methods while applying fNIRS” (2019-22), funded by both the University
 and EU (H2020 ENHANCE). Another example is Symes’ research on “Simulator Based Human
 Error Assessment Using Functional Near Infra-red Spectroscopy”, funded by the University.
 MarRI-UK has recently provided the lab with £200k to investigate “Lookout awareness of
 distractions in ship operations”, 2019-22.
 Drone Research Laboratory: This laboratory houses “off-the-shelf” and custom in-house-built
 drones for a wide array of applications that range from the mapping of archaeological sites to
 counting orangutan populations. The laboratory has been established with the Faculty’s
 investment of £1m and with the support of EU (H2020 DigiArt, €2.35m) and EPSRC funding
 (EP/T015403/1, £574k). The Drone Technologies and Sensing (DTS) research area combines
 some of the latest research from GERI in the field of state-of-the-art drone technology. The

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research in this area has developed and worked with many optical sensing technologies,
 including bespoke Structured Light Fringe Projection Systems for 3D surface measurement,
 Interferometry and Advanced Microscopy. Areas of current drone-related research activity
 include: 1) new optical stereo photogrammetry techniques for precision 3D measurement from
 UAVs; 2) the development of LIDAR techniques in UAV operations; and 3) aerial gas sensing
 using drones. Facilities include a Bruker Contour GT-K 3D optical white light interference
 microscope, a GFM MikroCAD Premium Optical Surface Profiler, with Motorised X, Y, Z Stages,
 an Optonor VibroMap1000 TV Holography/ESPI System and bespoke and novel 3D Structured
 Light Optical Measurement Systems. The laboratory has been used by 10 researchers in the
 areas of conservation, drone development, forensic science, search and rescue, regulation and
 standards, 3D modelling and mapping and localisation. One example is Cliffe’s PhD research on
 “Use of drones to enhance geography education fieldtrips”, funded through the University
 scholarship scheme.
 Materials Laboratory - This laboratory has been established since 2014 through the
 University’s STEM capital investment of £5m, for research in areas of new materials
 development/characterization, modelling and applications with a direct link to manufacturing and
 product design. The main facilities include a modern materials preparation sub-lab, a material
 testing sub-lab (Digital Image Correlation systems and a micro/nano in situ testing system with
 an environment chamber), materials characterization facilities (e.g. X-ray diffractometry facilities
 and residual stress analysis), key facilities in general engineering and manufacturing and
 modern metrology facilities. Engineering and physics simulation software is provided, including
 CFD, ABAQUS, ANSYS, COMSOL Multiphysics, Thermo-Calc Software, USPEX and CASTEP
 codes. The materials facilities support research in new materials development (novel meta-
 materials, new welding materials, etc.), new environmentally-friendly manufacturing processes
 and computational materials modelling at different scales. The interdisciplinary research has
 developed an internal partnership with the Faculty of Science (Sports Science, Pharmaceutical,
 etc.) and collaboration with over 30 external universities and companies. The materials works
 have supported many SMEs and large companies (e.g. Serco) through Industry 4.0 and EU and
 international projects in the UK, US, EU and Far East. 15 researchers have used the laboratory
 each year over the assessment period.
 Enhancement in specialist research infrastructure and facilities
 The University and Faculty have invested in upgrading the Unit’s research facilities with an
 internal investment of over £3m since 2014. Typically, 70% of the cost of updating research
 facilities has come from the University/Faculty and 30% from external funding (e.g. STFC, ERDF
 and EU).
 Advanced Optical Metrology Laboratory - This is equipped with stabilised dark room facilities,
 two standard dark rooms, project prototyping and rig building bays, five large optical surface
 tables, a range of lasers, optical equipment, cameras, sensors and detectors. Other facilities
 include a Wyko white light interferometer, a Uniscan laser measuring station, a Comet
 FeinFocus Tiger X-ray Inspection Station, and a high speed, super resolution “pixel shifting”
 CCD camera system. Five researchers have regularly used the laboratory each year.
 Cell Metrology Laboratory - It is equipped with an Asylum Research molecular force probe
 atomic force microscope (MFP-3D), Zeiss laser scanning confocal microscope (LSM510), Zeiss
 Axiovert microscope, and a custom, in-house designed and built single optical fibre-based laser
 trapping system for cell manipulation. This cell metrology suite also has a dedicated, fully-
 equipped cell culture laboratory located immediately adjacent to it. Between 3 and 4 researchers
 have regularly used the laboratory each year.
 Advanced Manufacturing Laboratory - It is equipped with a number of state-of-the-art
 machine tools (e.g. Modified J&S Dominator Grinder, Ultramat Cylindrical Grinder, J&S SAAM
 Universal Grinder, Bridgeport 5-Axis Machine Centre, Low-temperature Precision Grinder and a
 mass finishing unit with vibratory feeder). It also has a small, dedicated local metrology facility in
 an ante-room equipped with Talysurf, Talyrond, laser size measurement, comparator, etc. Five
 researchers have regularly used this laboratory each year.
 Laser Surface Micro-Machining and Processing Laboratory - It is equipped with three optical
 benches, a range of lasers including a 20W 100pS IR Fibre laser, an 8W 532nm DPSS NdYVO4

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 nS pulsed laser, a 20W nS pulsed 1064nm fibre laser, 350W pulsed YAG laser, and a 400W CW
 fibre laser. Precision CNC tables and galvanometric scanning heads provide high-speed flexible
 beam delivery. Around 5 researchers have regularly used this laboratory each year.
 Electric Machine and Drive Laboratory - It is equipped with the most-up-to-date research
 equipment and is oriented towards multiphase machine and drive testing and development.
 Funding of over £300k from the Faculty and RCIF has provided the laboratory with further pieces
 of equipment, such as a three-phase to nine-phase matrix converter, four RT-boxes from PLECS
 with associated software, full PLECS software license, a twelve-phase induction machine, a six-
 phase permanent magnet synchronous machine with non-sinusoidal flux, FPGA development
 board, lithium based batteries with a charger, etc. 10 researchers have used the experimental
 facilities in their research in areas of multiphase drives and power electronics.
 Micro-Electronic Laboratory - It has acquired wafer level microelectronic probe stations,
 accessories and semiconductor device analysing equipment with the support of £500k from the
 University, EPSRC and RCIF. The existence of this facility was instrumental in securing
 research funding of over £1m from EPSRC during the assessment period (e.g. EP/S000259/1,
 £378k; EP/M006727/1, £350k; EP/L010607/1, £518k). 8 researchers have used the facilities in
 areas of micro-electronic research.
 Consultancies and professional services
 During the REF period, consultancy income for the Unit was £1m and grew by 200%. Clients
 during the REF period included: MoD, QinetiQ, Risktec, Shell, HSE, MCA, Peel Ports, Rolls-
 Royce, MTC, AECOM, Dublin Ferryport, PERSGA, Greenport (Vietnam), Conway Maritime
 Trust, Southport and Ormskirk Hospital, Transport for the North, AO.com, ARUP Consulting,
 MMI Engineering, Merseyrail, Merseytravel, Peloton, Vauxhall, UK DfT, Transport Systems
 Catapult, and Hi-Tech Steel Services. The income generated was reinvested in research
 students, and facilities in support of the Unit’s research impact strategy for growth.
 Supporting impact-generating activities
 Close involvement with the Unit’s local and international industrial advisory committees has led
 to a clear emphasis on impact by the members of the Unit. While the members included in this
 submission have actively expanded their existing impact generation, much effort has been made
 in developing new industrial impact in both traditional research areas and some emerging
 research areas (e.g. sports materials). For example, a further direct collaboration with BAE
 Systems (Samlesbury) has demonstrated the efficacy and comparative performance of the new
 glass media on the finishing of selected Additive Manufacturing (AM) aerospace components (M.
 Morgan of GERI). The research data was an important reference in the context of their (BAE)
 recent investment in a dedicated AM production facility and helped shape their high energy
 finishing and post-processing manufacturing strategy.
 The Unit has an agile approach to responding quickly to industrial needs. The Unit has
 appointed 5 industry-based Visiting Professors to facilitate knowledge transfer and impact
 generation (e.g. Davies from Lloyds Register and Cooper from Risktec). Industrial impact has
 been generated through their active input to the dissemination of research outcomes (e.g. “HSE
 Guideline for Effective Collision Risk Management for Offshore Installations” with the help of
 Davies).
 The Faculty has a scheme dedicated to giving a commensurate reduction in
 teaching/administration duties to each academic member for industrial impact-generating
 activities. The Faculty has also provided funds to support academic member industry visits for
 possible impact generation and to attend national and international sector conferences. The Unit
 has covered the annual membership subscription for four professional groups (e.g. Mersey
 Maritime Group representing the regional maritime cluster of more than 1,700 businesses).
 Furthermore, the Unit has organised impact-generating workshops with invited industry
 specialists. The Unit has been operating quarterly research seminars since 2014, with a number
 of industry specialists invited depending on the theme. Industrial speakers make presentations
 at such monthly seminars on a regular basis (e.g. Toye, AECOM) to complement the
 discussions of on-going research. The Unit, along with the Faculty, has been leading the
 development of research/industry practice-informed teaching/learning activities such as the


                                                                                         Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘Design Week’ (1 week per semester), where industry speakers deliver guest lectures on current
 industrial needs and practice.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Support for research collaboration
 The Unit has a lively research culture, promoted through monthly seminar programmes held by
 GERI, LOOM, MEMARC and RCEEE (promoting interdisciplinary opportunities). In all such
 events, eminent international academics and industrial researchers (e.g. Psaraftis, Technical
 University of Denmark, and Kane, Texas A&M University, USA) are invited to give presentations.
 Secondments of staff to leading research centres and industry have taken place. These
 secondments have been funded by both external funding (e.g. EU FP7 Marie Curie
 REFERENCE, ENHANCE, H2020 MSCA RESET, REMESH, GOLF, ENHANCE, PRIGEOC, i-
 WELD and REACTIVE) and internal funding (e.g. the Faculty’s pump priming and impact
 generating schemes). Examples of such secondments include W. Zhang’s 6-month secondment
 at IMEC (funded by the Faculty’s Promising Researcher scheme) and X. Ren’s secondment of
 three months at Tsinghua University, China (supported by PRIGEOC).
 Collaborative research is strongly promoted and supported at all levels in the Unit and Faculty,
 and is underpinned by the University’s Research & Innovation Services, which coordinates
 initiatives to stimulate internal collaborative working and facilitates external engagement by
 providing a supportive service in all matters pertaining to intellectual property, patents,
 commercialisation and legality of contracts. The Unit has also benefited from the match-funding
 of collaborative activities with industrial partners from the University and Faculty. Examples
 include 2 PhD projects (e.g. with AECOM) match funded by the University, and another 8 PhD
 projects (e.g. with NHS) by the Faculty over the assessment period. The Unit has also received
 match-funding for 8 PhD researchers on 4 dual PhD programmes with Mahidol University
 (Thailand), Wuhan University of Technology (China), University of Malaya (Malaysia) and Xian
 University of Science and Technology (China). Within the University, collaborative projects have
 been established with colleagues in the Business School and the Faculty of Science on topics
 including: use of drones in biodiversity; digitalization and display of cultural artefacts; human
 factor assessment in sports science; sports analytics and digital marketing; quality management;
 and machine learning in computational galaxy formation and cosmology. Research & Innovation
 Services and Library & Student Support services jointly organise Research Café events to
 encourage inter-disciplinary networking and to increase the visibility of research internally,
 particularly amongst student populations (four times each semester). Each event regularly
 attracts 30-40 researchers from the Unit.
 Interdisciplinary and collaborative research
 The research conducted in the Unit is interdisciplinary in nature and as a result requires national
 and international collaboration and cooperation with researchers in the relevant areas. As part of
 its strategy, the Unit have therefore developed a strong network of collaborations locally,
 nationally and globally, working with some of the best-recognised teams in the Unit’s key
 research areas.
 Maritime Knowledge Hub - The Maritime Knowledge Hub is gearing up to be a global centre of
 excellence within the UK (Maritime 2050), providing a national base for marine engineering
 research, development and decarbonisation as well as high-level technical skills training and
 business accelerator space.. The University is a strategic partner and Unit researchers have
 used this platform for external collaboration and impact generation. For example, a project
 “Liverpool City Region Green Sustainable Travel Corridors” was developed with ERDF funding
 (e.g. “Sustainable Green Travel Corridors”, 2019-21, £680k allocated to the Unit, Nguyen) and
 with ESF funding (e.g. “Maritime SuperSkills”, 2016-19, £738,800 allocated to the Unit,
 Jenkinson).
 Sensor City and Sensor Platform – The successful delivery of Sensor City since June 2017
 and the LCR 4.0 ERDF project based within it has led to the development of a knowledge base
 where support is given to industrial organisations committed to the development of sensors and
 IoT. Technical assistance offered includes data automation, embedded electronic systems
 integration, 3D concept design and digital marketing. One example is the collaboration with the
 Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine with the support of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (overall funding over £2m). The sensor technology has been deployed internationally to help
 reduce the burden of disease such as malaria, and more recently to initiate a sensor platform to
 detect neglected diseases. The sensor platform demonstrations have also led to successful MoD
 projects that are moving into a second phase, and continued work with Alder Hey Children’s
 Hospital. Work is also underway with developing sensor platforms for the utilities industry and
 with numerous SMEs within the region by integrating them for IoT solutions supply chains.
 Materials and Manufacturing Research Base with the MTC - This has been formulated
 following the opening of a new MTC in Liverpool to support manufacturing growth and innovation
 in the region. The Advanced Manufacturing Technologies (AMT) research area in the Unit has a
 rich history and has produced world-leading results for its research in manufacturing,
 measurement and metrology. The most established section of the team is rooted in abrasive
 technologies, such as grinding, but more recently has excelled at developing vibratory surface
 finishing using recycled glass. Electronic manufacturing has been represented at LJMU through
 several UK government- and European-funded development schemes for companies, to help
 implement new technologies such as surface mount technology, lead-free solder and to meet
 regulations such as Electromagnetic Compatibility. The research base provides a unique skills
 mix to help solve any industrial or academic problem. Examples of current project areas include:
 1) lifetime reliability assessment and prognostics of manufactured automotive electronics; 2).
 non-destructive testing and sensing; 3). sustainable superfinishing using vitrified recycled glass;
 4). novel application of vibration during grinding, digital manufacturing and Industry 4.0; 5)
 advanced laser processing and texturing for anti-fouling, cell harvesting, and aerospace
 composites; and 6) laser polishing of Additively Manufactured components. A range of national
 and international companies have been attracted to work with AMT, including: ABL, Delphi,
 Element Six, Finishing Techniques, Holroyd, Ford, JLR, Kistler, Neuteq, QinetiQ, Rolls Royce
 and Vibraglaz. The well-developed research laboratories have a range of specialist equipment.
 The capabilities range from general purpose machine shop facilities to advanced digital
 manufacturing and measurement systems. Many of the AMT systems are novel in-house
 designs and/or supplemented by unique measurement and signal processing expertise.
 Collaborative projects
 During the period 2014-2020, the researchers within Unit have coordinated 6 FP7/H2020
 projects, and participated in 14 EU-funded projects. 10 multi-partner EPSRC-funded projects
 were won worth over £4m. The research topics funded through such EPSRC grants include:
 Electronic Devices & Subsystems; Materials Characterisation; High permittivity dielectrics;
 Aerodynamics; Mathematical fundamentals of Metamaterials for multiscale Physics and
 Mechanics; Conservation Ecology; and Environment. 10 InnovateUK projects have been
 awarded totalling £2m. The research topics include: Information Systems for Railway Stations;
 the Next Generation of Anilox Rolls; Augmented Reality Maritime Content Platform; healthcare;
 secure communications in the era of IoT; 5G Testbed; 3D visualization for capturing security
 requirements and compliance reporting; Additive Manufacturing; and microwave induced plasma
 technology.
 Key research users and beneficiaries
 The main beneficiaries, user groups and audiences for the Unit’s research include: aerospace
 engineering and aircraft manufacturers, classification societies, engineering manufacturing
 industry and service providers, logistics providers, micro-electronic system designers, nano-
 materials designers, national and international regulatory bodies, offshore renewable system
 designers and operators, oil and gas companies, port operators, public policy bodies, renewable
 energy companies, rail operators, maritime stakeholders, UK and EU public and society, and
 utility companies.
 Supporting relationships with industry
 The Unit has close relationships with industry, which has enabled identification of the research
 needs and knowledge transfer to industrial users and active engagement in the transfer of
 knowledge to industry. Over the assessment period, the Unit has undertaken 10 KTP projects
 (£1.5m grant awards) with a number of SMEs such as Uplec Industries, Immersive Interactive,
 Colas, Beverston Engineering, Rapid Prototyping Systems Ltd, AMF Precision Engineering and
 United Automation. One example is the project with CAL International for the design of a real-

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 time tracking and mapping system (£242k, 2019-22, led by Johnson). Wider contributions have
 also been made to benefit different communities and end users from the Unit’s research. For
 example, the LCR 4.0 project (Together-for-Manufacturing, £2.5m ERDF funding allocated to the
 Unit from 2016 to 2019) has benefited 300 SMEs in the Liverpool City Region such as GeDap,
 and led to GVA of £31.1m generated and the creation of 50 new jobs (according to an
 independent summative assessment). The project was acknowledged by the Financial Times as
 one of the top 100 digital influencers globally. Another example is the Unit’s Research Outreach
 project funded by ERDF (£2.37m, 2013-18) to engage a wide spectrum of industrial partners in
 low carbon technologies, environment management and renewable energy. More than 50 SMEs
 were supported in the technology-assisted improvement of their products and services through
 pilot and feasibility studies and the provision of additional dedicated personnel resources from
 the Unit.
 The Unit has taken every possible opportunity to increase its industrial impact. The members
 submitted in this Unit have been given training from the Faculty on how to achieve industrial
 impact through regular seminars (e.g. the Transport Knowledge Transfer Network scheme).
 Such professional training and education programmes have been reviewed on an annual basis,
 taking suggestions from the industrial advisory committees. For example, acting on a suggestion
 by an industry member from Peel Ports, the Unit ensures that its 3-D port simulation project
 takes into account the Liverpool 2 (deep water container terminal) project’s design plans.
 Contribution to the discipline
 The returned members in the Unit have actively contributed to shaping the national and
 international research landscape during the REF period.
 Fellowships - Levi: IEEE Fellow; Election as a Foreign Member of the Academy of Engineering
 Sciences of Serbia, 2015; Guo and Xang: EU MSCA Individual Fellowships; Yang: ERC
 Fellowship.
 Awards and prizes – Gomm: Best paper award at CompSysTech’14. Levi: Outstanding
 Achievement Award from the European Power Electronics Association, 2014; “Professor Istvan
 Nagy Award” of the Power Electronics and Motion Control Council, 2018; Appointment as a
 Distinguished Lecturer by the IEEE Power and Energy Society, 2018; Nguyen: Best paper
 award from ICTIS’19. Wang: Award for Risk Reduction in Mechanical Engineering from IMechE
 in 2018; RINA – Lloyd’s Register Maritime Safety Award for Lifetime Achievement; ‘Outstanding
 Contribution to Marine Safety’ award for 2017 from IMarEST. Yang: Best Paper Award from
 ALRT’15, QR2MSE’16, IAME’17, 7th IEEE-LISS’17, Emerald Literati Award Highly Commended
 Paper 2018. J. Zhang: “Best Paper Award” of 26th IEEE-IPFA-2019.
 Chief Editorships of journals – Levi: IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics; IET Electric
 Power Applications. Associate/Deputy Editorships – Dordevic: IET Power Electronics; Levi:
 IEEE Transactions on Energy Conversion. Wang: Journal of Marine Science and Technology;
 Journal of Marine Engineering and Technology. Yang: IMA Journal of Management
 Mathematics; Asian Journal of Shipping and Logistics. Yu: International Journal of Automation
 and Computing.
 30 special journal editions including: Johnson: International Journal of Distributed Sensor
 Networks, 2014. Levi: IEEE Trans. on Industrial Electronics, 2016. Nguyen: Lecture Notes in
 Computer Science, 2014, 2015, 2016. Wang: Journal of Risk and Reliability, 2019.
 Keynote & plenary papers – Harvey: VCAS 2020. Levi: ElectrIMACS 2014, IEEE-ISIE 2014,
 4th EFEA 2016, 12th IEEE-CPE-POWERENG 2018, XI INDEL 2016, ICEMS 2019, IEEE-
 EUROCON 2019. Johnson: 3ICT 2018. I. Jones: 10th ESMC2018 K. Jones: IT-2017.
 Loughney: WTC’19. Lu: 45th IQR’19. X. Ren: ACM 2017, GMEE2019, Mechanical Engineering
 2020. Wang: 24th ESREL’14, 3rd ICTIS’15, MSAS’16, 4th ICTI’17, 2nd MSSS’17, 2nd
 ICSRS’17, 10th ICIME’18 & IHIP’18, 11th ICIME’19 & 2nd IHIP’19. Yang: 6th LISS’16, 5th
 ICTIS’19, MSSS 2020. J. Zhang: IEEE-CSTIC 2015.
 Participation in national or international advisory, review, funding, standards or planning
 bodies - Jenkinson: Advisor on the Ports and Terminals Advisory Group for UK Trade &
 Investment. Johnson: Member of the ‘IEEE UK&I Women in Engineering Committee’ since
 2015, Executive Committee Member of the Rail Research UK Association (2014 to 2018). Levi:
 Served on “GEV9-Industrial and Information Engineering” panel for the national research

                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 assessment exercise (VQR 2011-14) by the Italian National Agency, 2016. Wang: Member of
 the IMO Formal Safety Assessment Experts Group. Yang: Advisor of the UK Government for
 Science on “Future of the Sea” programme.
 Organisation of international conferences (general/programme/technical chairmanships) -
 Dordevic: IEEE-IEMDC 2019, IEEE-IECON 2019. Johnson: IEEE-PIMRC 2017, HTAS’19,
 GIoTS 2019. Levi: IEEE-IECON 2014, IEEE-IECON 2016, IEEE-IECON 2018. Nguyen: 13th
 EvoSTOC’16, 20th EvoApplications’17, 21st IES’17. X. Ren: ACM 2017, Mechanical-
 Engineering2020. Wang: 4th ICTIS’17; 2nd MSSS’18, 5th ICTIS’19, 5th ICSRS 2020. Yang: 3rd
 ICTIS’15. W. Zhang: INFOS 2019, ICSICT 2018.




                                                                                   Page 17
