Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Southampton

 Unit of Assessment: 27 English Language & Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context
 English and Film is a dynamic, agile and supportive research community. This joint submission
 recognises a shared history of innovation, our collaborative and collegial culture, and a forward-
 looking strategy. We are an engaged community of critics, theorists, historians and creative
 practitioners whose sustained commitment to bridging critical and creative practice shapes our
 unique research profile. Our world-class expertise across literature and film has pioneered
 multimedia creativity and textuality (animation, scriptwriting, curation, sound), global cinema
 and world literature (studies crossing Asia, Africa, and Europe), reception and adaptation
 theory (gender, cultural memory, performance, translation), and cultural histories of
 knowledge (ecology, economics, maritime studies, science). Equality, diversity and inclusive
 policies have been crucial to sustaining this vibrant research culture, from supporting staff
 research and promotion to well-being and flexible working.
 At 32.6FTE (35HC), our overall size remained broadly consistent across the census period, but
 staffing is now more evenly balanced across gender and discipline. Significant new
 appointments across both departments offset several retirements, particularly in English. The
 male-female ratio of REF-eligible staff is almost even (18M: 17F), and international staff now
 make up half of our research base. We reflected the significant growth and increased
 prominence of Film by submitting it in one UOA (in 2014, one colleague was submitted with
 Music; two with Modern Languages).
 We have a longstanding practice of developing careers, research projects, and co-supervisions
 across the two departments. Our REF2014 strategies saw increased commonality: both
 disciplines aimed to increase the scope and diversity of our outputs and establish creative and
 socially-engaged approaches. These have borne fruit. We published 45 books, including 23
 monographs. We authored seven innovative creative works, from experimental documentary
 films to multilingual plays. We hosted 17 externally-funded research projects and grew our total
 research income by 52% (£1,351,427 cf. £883,510 in REF2014). A 145% increase in PhD
 completion rates (62.5 cf. 25.5 in REF2014) and a 200% increase in visiting research fellows (27
 cf. nine in REF2014) underpin our thriving community.

 1.2 Structure
 English and Film sit within the School of Humanities, part of the Faculty of Arts and Humanities.
 A University restructure in 2019 included the Winchester School of Art within the Faculty,
 allowing further collaborations with creative and critical practitioners. A Head of Research (HoR),
 an Impact and Enterprise Champion, an Ethics Officer and a Head of Department (HoD) oversee
 research in each discipline. This team devises and delivers the research strategy, aligning
 between departments wherever helpful, and contributes to the Faculty Research, Enterprise, and
 Ethics Committees. Our vibrant research culture is enabled by seven interdisciplinary research
 centres, five of which are led by colleagues from English and Film, and all host regular seminars,
 work-in-progress workshops, conferences, awaydays and prestigious named public lectures
 (§2.3, 4.2, 4.3) (Fig.1).



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




      Figure 1. Faculty structure indicating research centres associated with the Unit
 1.3 Research Strategy
 Our strategic aims during this REF cycle were to develop pioneering interdisciplinary
 research, embed the creative alongside the critical in our practice, and promote open
 cultures of research through the digital humanities.
 1) Interdisciplinary research: We fostered challenge-led research through collaborations with
 social scientists and with environmental, marine, health and computer scientists. We supported
 this work via ECR appointments renewing our expertise in these fields (§2.1); innovative internal
 study days (‘Friction’, ‘Relationality’, ‘Mediating China’); leading on the Faculty-wide Advanced
 Research Seminar Series (‘Technologies of Visual Culture’, ‘Alternative Economics’,
 ‘Bellicosity’), and providing tailored departmental support for colleagues hosting major
 international, cross-disciplinary conferences (‘Victorian Environments, ‘Doing Women's Film and

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Television History’). We offer strategic involvement in external hub projects (Mazdon’s role in
 UCL-led dementia project at the Wellcome Trust) and promote cross-Faculty collaborations
 (Morton participated in a WUN collaboration in the Business School on the role of digital
 technologies in the transnationalisation of indigenous movements; S.Jones, O’Doherty and
 Kerr are active in SMMI, Southampton Marine and Maritime Institute, and led on major bids in
 2020 to the UK Climate Resilience and the Citizen Science Collaboration Grant programmes).
 2) Critical and Creative Practice: We achieved our second aim by appointing researchers who
 built on our strengths as creative practitioners, collaborators and curators (§2.1). This has helped
 us develop exhibitions of national significance (Hayden’s AHRC ‘Voices in the Gallery’) and
 produce experimental creative works, from film-poems (Hoare’s 2019 collaboration with Ben
 Wishaw and Adam Low, ‘I was a dark star always...’) to curated community poetry performances
 (May’s ‘The Stevie Project’, Chichester Festival Theatre).
 3) Digital Humanities and Open Access: We achieved our final aim by developing innovative
 ways of using technology to increase the accessibility of our work. The University’s Open Access
 (OA) policy exceeds UKRI/REF requirements and is supported by University-wide resources
 (REF5a, §2.4). As well as producing publications with licences maximising reuse and
 accessibility (Bending, de Bruin Molé, Hayden, Marsh, and May), we support open-access
 research platforms. Staff are members of open access editorial boards (Brazil) and subject
 associations (May) that actively explore the future of alternative publishing methods. Within the
 University we contribute to Open Library for Humanities subsidies and supported our PGRs to
 establish the interdisciplinary online scholarly journal Romance, Revolution, and Reform.
 This commitment to making research more transparent, collaborative and efficient underpins our
 modes of dissemination. Clarke’s project ‘The St Thomas Way’ uses ground-breaking methods
 linking digital mapping with multimedia medieval sources, curated for public users as well as
 scholars. Cobb’s ‘Calling the Shots’ created 14 OA data sets showing gender inequality in the
 film industry by race, job title, and overall budget. O’Doherty was interim PI on Mellon- and
 AHRC-funded phases of the award-winning international Pelagios project, developing Open-
 Source systems for annotating and visualising place references in early geospatial documents of
 the Holy Land. Hammond and BA Fellow Shep created an interactive digital portal to explore
 materiality and local memory around Southampton’s book trade. Bergfelder’s CI role in ERC-
 funded ‘STUDIOTEC: Film Studios’ project recreates historic film studios using geospatial data
 analysis and VR technology.

 1.4 Future Research Strategy
 We aim to extend the reach of our expertise in environmental, maritime and economic
 humanities. We will also continue to support creative-critical practice and digital innovations.
 These ambitions will be supported through the externally funded projects that have already
 launched us with some energy into the new cycle.
 S.Jones’ work with the SMMI contributed to ‘Intelligent Oceans’, a major Leverhulme Doctoral
 Scholarships scheme that was awarded in late 2020. The international aspirations for our
 interdisciplinary work will be enabled by Primorac’s network, The Textual Worlds of South-
 Eastern Africa (AHRC, £44K, 2021), and Hunt’s role as CI in The Visible Crown: Queen
 Elizabeth II and the Caribbean (AHRC, £800K, 2021). Our creative-critical expertise gains
 impetus from May and Hayden’s Leadership Fellowships which involve working with
 practitioners to develop innovative and accessible cultures (Invisible Mentors, £183K, AHRC,
 2020; Voices in the Gallery Two, £199K, RCUK/UKRI Innovation, 2021).


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our work with the digital humanities will be catalysed by Marsh and S.Jones’ founding of a new,
 centrally funded, University Strategic Interdisciplinary Research Institute: Southampton
 Institute for Arts and Humanities (REF5a, §2.6). SIAH brokers the cross-institutional
 partnerships necessary for large projects and has received significant internal and external
 investment. £80k of University HEIF funding for pump-priming projects, along with £140k from
 the World Class Labs Fund and £710,000k from the Capability for Collections fund (CI Marsh,
 AHRC, 2021), will enable a significant step-change in our capacity. This funding is supported by
 the Hartley Library’s digital scholarship team and will strengthen our work with archives
 (digitisation and data handling) and across a range of creative and immersive media (data
 visualisation and work in VR and 3D).

 1.5 Impact Strategy
 We revised our impact strategy in 2014, designating two Impact Champions across English and
 Film to encourage our researchers to be change-leaders and to build on our work in innovating
 new models of knowledge exchange (§2.1). This sustained work developed our world-leading
 expertise in this field, which gained recognition from the National Co-ordinating Centre for Public
 Engagement (NCCPE), International Digital Humanities Awards and the AHRC (three of our
 projects have featured as models on the AHRC’s website and in its reports for government).
 Our ICS reflect the three areas of shared expertise that have defined our strategic priorities:
 heritage (Remaking Places), policy and practice in the creative industries (Calling the
 Shots), and using cultural texts to change the debate (Show Me the Money):

 1) Heritage: Our research has transformed curatorial practice, from locative technologies
 developed through the Leverhulme-funded StoryPlaces, to the digital story-telling devices we
 designed for the Overground Festival at Crystal Palace, to our collaboration with Tudor House
 Museum, which embedded city archives into their online provision. These relationships are deep
 and broad: we played a leading role in transforming Chawton House (CH) as it gained a new
 place in the heritage landscape. Our work gave the organisation new audiences and networks
 (Bending’s ‘Women Writing Art’ conference went from CH to the National Gallery in 2017; Dow
 and Simpson’s Jane Austen MOOC gave c.40,000 users in 100 countries virtual access to the
 institution).
 2) Policy and practice in the creative industries: Our critical engagement with the creative
 industries has changed policy and practice. Hayden’s ‘Voices in the Gallery’ RCUK Innovation
 Leadership Fellowship altered how professional curators, practitioners and audiences
 understand the role of text and voice in gallery practice. Cheung was invited to the China Film
 Education and Industry Forum in Xiamen to share her expertise on the UK film industry with
 industry film professionals.
 3) Using cultural texts to change the debate: Our creative practice continues to shape public
 debates. Placey’s plays changed the understanding of youth culture in the performing arts. Girls
 Like That (Best Play for Young Audiences, Writers' Guild of Great Britain Awards, 2015) is a set
 text on the drama GCSE curriculum and was performed in Parliament for the YoungMinds Vs
 campaign. Its French translation won 3 international awards for most influential contemporary
 play for young audiences. Orange Polar Bear, a multi-lingual collaboration in English and Korean
 on environmental themes, prompted a workshop series on young people and climate resilience
 in Korea and the UK. Hoare, a leading public voice on marine environmental issues, was
 commissioned to write over 100 articles for The Guardian, New Statesman, Sunday Times, and
 Daily Mail. A 2016 article on sperm whales stranded on the North Sea was shared 7,500 times.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 His MobyDickBigRead project, which included contributions from Sir David Attenborough and
 David Cameron, had over 10,000 listeners, generating substantial charitable donations to the
 Whale and Dolphin Conservation Society. Baum’s autobiographical documentary film The New
 Man (co-directed with Josh Appignanesi, 2016) was screened at the London School of Hygiene
 and Tropical Medicine and the Tavistock Clinic. It is used by activist groups and organisations
 such as Raising Films, CALM and Best Beginnings and for midwifery and psychotherapist
 training.

 1.6 Future Impact Strategy
 From 2021 onwards we aim to grow our expertise in knowledge exchange by expanding our
 productive relationships with the heritage, cultural and creative industries. We also aim to
 provide rigorous and evidence-led advocacy of the importance of our cultural interventions,
 especially around civic regeneration. Marsh and May’s Towns and the Cultural Economies of
 Recovery: A New Multidisciplinary Mapping (AHRC, £120K, 2021), a scoping project for the
 AHRC, proposes new creative and evaluative methodologies. This ambition is also supported by
 our participation in SIAH’s Knowledge Exchange Network. SIAH worked closely with the
 University’s Public Policy Unit in launching Reset 2021, a series of policy-focused webinars that
 include regional and national cultural policy makers and practitioners.

 1.7 Research Integrity
 The UOA benefits from the Faculty’s commitment to research integrity, helping further refine
 institutional processes that ensure all research at Southampton complies with the highest
 standards of research ethics (REF5a, §2.8). The latter includes a rigorous review process,
 ensuring relevant research proposals are reviewed through the University's online research
 ethical approval system, ERGO2. The Faculty Research Integrity Champion chairs the Faculty
 Ethics committee and offers training to help staff and students understand the principles of
 research ethics. RI is embedded in our research culture. It is a standing item on departmental
 boards and managed by each department’s Ethics Officer. We have also influenced RI policies
 in the wider University. Bull was an integral part of the Faculty's development of an ethics policy
 that included secondary data, specifically social media and audience research. Cobb's oral
 history research recordings with women filmmakers required a bespoke consent and copyright
 agreement. Written in consultation with the University's legal office it is now used as a template
 across the Faculty.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy
 Since 2014, our recruitment strategy has sought to sustain the vitality and innovation of our
 research base and to regenerate our departments. The retirement of three senior teaching
 fellows allowed us to increase our research-intensive staff. Additional moves to other HEIs or
 sectors enabled us to appoint 14 colleagues during the REF period (a 25% increase in staff
 recruitment from the previous REF period). This helped build an increasingly diverse staff base
 and revitalised our research community. We appointed all ECR staff to permanent posts in this
 cycle with a view to long-term succession planning in key areas. Our enhanced external
 research income has also increased postdoctoral appointments, including posts supported by
 the AHRC (Webster, Shave, Wreyford), the Leverhulme (Hunt), the Bosack Kruger Foundation
 (Simpson), and the ERC (Halsall).



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our REF2014 staffing strategy was to prioritise practical creative work and extend expertise in
 knowledge exchange and outward-facing research, which we have addressed in three ways:
     1) We have invested in practical and creative work through a series of strategic
     appointments combining literature and film, including drama (Boguszak, Fakhrkonandeh),
     contemporary writing and visual culture (Brazil, Hayden), silent film (Bull, Cook) and
     audio-visual aesthetics (Bull, Carroll, Schultz). We consolidated our longstanding
     expertise in early modern literature (Hawkins, Ossa-Richardson) and created a critical
     mass in nineteenth-century studies (Kerr and Pizzo join Hammond and Brown).
     2) To extend our knowledge exchange and outward-facing research expertise, we prioritised
     innovative and externally-engaged research areas in all new appointments, including petro-
     chemical literature (Farkhrkonandeh), environmental studies (Kerr, Pizzo), creative-critical
     approaches (Hayden), and transnational media industries and policy research (Cheung, H.
     Jones). New colleagues also strengthened the international scope of our expertise, from
     East Asian film and media (Cheung, Schultz) to European cinema (Bayman, Bull, Cook).
     3) Our new Head of Creative Writing post (2014) further supports our REF2014 strategy to
     embed practical creative work in our research. It led to a 50% increase in Creative Writing
     PGRs (from 18 to 27), better collaboration between creative writing staff and University
     strategic research initiatives, and sustained collaboration with Arts Council England,
     including an annual city literature festival, ‘SO:To Speak’.
 We increased support for part-time and flexible working at all career stages, from Professorial
 Fellows to postdoctoral researchers. This helps staff with caring responsibilities, allowing
 colleagues to develop their research and creative expertise both on and off campus, including as
 filmmakers, dramaturgs, and festival curators. This support helped us to capitalise on
 colleagues’ contributions to the creative economy (Hoare, Baum), while close networking
 ensures we retain strong working relations with former staff (Clarke, Clery).
 As well as recruiting staff whose research contributes to our impact strategy, our staffing strategy
 supports and rewards the effective delivery of impact by giving teaching remission for colleagues
 developing ICS or gathering impact data. Research that generates significant impact is valued in
 the promotion process (Cobb, Hayden). Considerations of EDI underpin the deployment of our
 resources for impact: additional administrative support was given to our three female ICS
 authors to enable them to combine this work with other academic citizenship duties.
 We diversified our major administrative roles, moving to job-shares for key roles (sometimes
 working across the two departments). This allows part-time staff to contribute to strategic
 decision-making, enables colleagues to continue research while undertaking administrative
 duties, and pairs mid-career and senior colleagues. Extending leadership roles supports our
 commitments to promoting junior staff and to the long-term sustainability of our departments. We
 also demonstrate research leadership beyond the UOA: Mazdon and subsequently Marsh held
 the position of Associate Dean (Research and Enterprise), shaping School, Faculty and
 University policies.

 2.2 Mentoring and Staff Development
 We have robust mentoring cultures. All colleagues benefit from regular mentoring meetings.
 These pairings promote collaborative peer working regardless of level, prioritising the
 connections that cross research centres or periods. Our commitment to mentoring extends
 beyond the institution to national and international networks (Bergfelder’s training sessions on


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 publishing and PG masterclasses across China and Brazil; Hunt’s doctoral training sessions on
 publishing and interdisciplinarity for PGRs in the UK and Amsterdam; May’s ECR mentoring for
 the 2017 English: Shared Futures conference; S.Jones, Brown and Brazil’s interdisciplinary
 mentoring for the Fulbright Forum; Jordan’s mentoring for a Holocaust Educational Foundation
 at Northwestern). Mentoring itself emerged as a key area of research for our latest projects
 (S.Jones, May), reflecting its centrality to our culture.
 Mentors can direct colleagues towards the University-wide development and training offered by
 CHEP (Centre for Higher Education Practice) and research resources provided by Vitae. The
 University is a signatory of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. A
 Concordat Champion ensures that this commitment is meaningfully embedded in our working
 cultures. The Staff Development Unit provides a variety of research training modules and senior
 and mid-career colleagues have access to leadership training. We facilitate opportunities for
 placements to stimulate exchanges with third-sector bodies. From 2014-19, Dow was seconded
 to CH as CEO and we have deepened connections with cultural organisations through roles as
 trustees (Winchester Poetry Festival), external advisors (Tudor House), and sponsors (Artful
 Scribe) (§1.5, 4.2).
 All colleagues have annual appraisals, and meet regularly with HoRs to develop research ideas,
 review goals and publications. These are documented via an online-system, and undergo
 Faculty-wide moderation (REF5a, §3.1). Our appraisal culture encourages colleagues to be
 ambitious, and connect with researchers across centres, periods, disciplines, and institutions.
 We benefit from a 1 in 7 semester Faculty research leave provision for all research-active staff
 (part-time and full-time). We count maternity/paternity/parental, compassionate and sickness
 leave as ‘in-service’ to offset the impact these circumstances can have on colleagues’ careers.
 Applicants for leave are advised by the HoR and HoD and encouraged to meet with mentors
 throughout the leave period. Formal and informal work-in-progress sessions help colleagues
 develop research leave plans towards our shared research strategy. Collaborative teaching
 models enable us to give colleagues one-two days a week for research during term-time.

 We are also keen to protect colleagues from the pressures of contemporary research culture,
 many of which have been amplified by Covid-19. We responded with alacrity to the Wellcome
 Trust’s 2020 ‘What Researchers Think about Research Culture’ and collaborated with the
 Faculty's ECR, Concordat and RI champions to host a series of ‘Research Cafes’. These
 engaged specifically with the implications of the national lockdowns for research and allowed us
 to ensure that the Faculty appraisal and mentoring processes were amended to offer appropriate
 support. We remain vigilant about the effects of this crisis on our research cultures.

 2.3 Support for ECR and career development
 As part of the University’s commitment to Concordat, the Centre for Higher Education Practice
 gives particular support to ECRs, offering University-wide training and networking activities
 (REF5a, §3.6). This support is complemented by a range of local activities and practices. With
 ECRs making up over 45% of the UOA, all senior staff actively supported junior colleagues,
 either by mentoring or bearing additional administrative or teaching duties to increase ECRs’
 research time. Probation is a key process for nurturing research culture. ECRs work with a
 senior colleague for the first two years of appointment, meeting every three months to review
 plans, targets, and refine projects and publications. This can be extended to three years when
 junior colleagues need additional support or reduced by three months in the event of exceptional
 achievement, aiding early promotion. ECRs from English and Film also contribute to the

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Faculty’s ECR network (H.Jones is currently ECR rep for Humanities), sharing research,
 networks, and strategies with colleagues and benefitting from additional mentoring by Level 7
 staff across the Faculty. The network offers bespoke training to ECRs on developing
 publications, research ethics and grant writing.
 ECRs are granted 25% teaching remission for the first two years of appointment. This enables
 them to develop ambitious new interdisciplinary research grants that respond to our research
 and impact strategy (Hayden’s AHRC-funded project, Fakhrkonandeh’s work on petro-
 chemical literature) and bring their first monographs to completion (Brazil, Bull, Carroll, Cook,
 Hayden, Ossa-Richardson). The Faculty’s Strategic Research Fund prioritises ECR projects
 and gives ECRs their own research allowance. It also has a dedicated ECR research
 publications fund for permissions and open-access costs.
 Postdoctoral researchers also receive mentoring from senior colleagues. They are encouraged
 to develop leadership and enterprise initiatives, supporting their careers in and beyond the
 academy. As a postdoctoral assistant for StoryPlaces, Hunt (2013-16) led a series of museum
 outreach events in Bournemouth, Southampton, and London: she now works in an engagement
 role for the National Trust. Webster, postdoctoral assistant on the City Witness project,
 developed a follow-on project on Monastic Wales and was appointed to a medieval history
 lectureship at the University of Wales. Shave’s work on the History of Financial Advice project,
 including her role in an ESRC IAA ‘teacher-scholar programme’, concluded with a permanent
 appointment at the University of Lincoln. Wreyford used the experience gained in Calling the
 Shots while employed as Research Associate for the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Creative
 Diversity.

 2.4 Research students
 1) Funding, training and supervision: We have a growing and well-integrated cohort of PGR
 students. The expanded diversity of our staff helped attract an internationally broad and well-
 balanced PGR community (the proportion of doctoral degrees awarded to women increased
 from 31% in 2013-14 to 56% in 2019-20). Our overall PhD-submission rate increased from 25.5
 in REF2014 to 65.25 in this cycle. The University’s PGR milestones and supervisory-report
 system supports existing department strategies to encourage timely submission of successful
 doctoral projects. Research students are provided with desk space and laptops as well as free
 printing, copying and inter-library loans. They can also apply to the Faculty Graduate School for
 up to £750p.a. for conference attendance, research costs and external training.
 We revised our PGR application and allocation process, making it more transparent and open.
 All staff were able to read and comment on applications and attention to EDI issues was
 embedded in this practice. Our PGR application process for teaching permits UG teaching only
 where it develops the PGR’s career and when sustained mentoring is in place, including
 departmental and Faculty training sessions, teaching observation, and completion of the
 University’s Orientation-to-Teaching-and-Demonstration (OTD) course. We substantially revised
 the University’s existing OTD provision and delivered it for PGR students across our Faculty
 since 2014.
 We significantly increased the percentage of funded students and 85% of all candidates received
 funding. The received funding from a wide range of sources. We are one of only nine universities
 to be awarded postgraduate scholarships in the Humanities by the Wolfson Foundation and six
 of these were awarded to PGRs in the UOA. We received 12 studentships from the AHRC in this
 cycle, ten from the South West and Wales DTP and a further two from AHRC-project grants.

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Support for PGRs included 22 internal studentships (19 Vice-Chancellor/Presidential, one
 Archival, two Maureen Taylor awards). Ten of our international students, drawn from Europe,
 Africa, Asia and America, received funding from their own governments.
 Our strategy to increase graduate outcomes led to our investment in the Excel Internships
 scheme, funding student internships in local and national businesses, and establishing
 relationships with new partners (e.g. City Eye). A dedicated section of the Careers Service runs
 targeted PGR events, and the Graduate Passport career development programme complements
 their academic training. Our PGRs research in a collegial and supportive department and
 become ECRs who also contribute to the health of the discipline (Egan’s contribution to ECA
 forums and University English panels; Watkins’ position as Chair of Early English Drama and
 Performance Network).
 Doctoral supervision is collaborative, involving two or three supervisors, regular monthly
 meetings and progression reviews. This enhances ECR’s supervisory skills while protecting their
 research time, helping them to develop publication profiles to attract doctoral students while we
 maintain our completion rates. The University’s Doctoral College run over 100 training sessions,
 tailored to specific needs and covering all aspects of professional development, from impact
 (funding in Humanities, public engagement at festivals) to personal development (managing your
 career, job interview preparation). This training is complemented by Humanities-specific
 research training, including book history and researching film archives workshops and coaching
 on presentations. Training needs are reviewed each term with supervisors. Close engagement
 with the University’s Public-Engagement-with-Research unit (PERu) ensures students develop
 public-facing projects and benefit from opportunities to enhance their research skills (e.g.
 Veldhuizen’s palaeographic editorial work for the international Records of Early English Drama,
 Owen’s public policy placement for the National Forest). PhD supervisors complete dedicated
 training modules, which are refreshed every three years.
 2) Creative engagement and collaboration: Our culture of creative engagement and
 collaboration with academics benefits our PGR students (Stagg’s ‘Shakespeare in Shoreditch’
 co-production with the Museum of London Archaeology), which leads to further success in
 external funding grants (New York Public Library, Shakespeare Birthplace Trust, Society for
 Renaissance Studies), international awards (Kitremoili’s Best Paper prize for 2020 ACM
 Hypertext conference, Daniell’s BSECS President’s Prize), and postdoctoral funding. Five of our
 PhD students were awarded Leverhulme ECRs in 2020 increasing the national visibility of our
 students.
 Creative writing students are frequently established authors, making significant contributions to
 the literary and cultural economy (Gateley’s The Secret Surfer, nomination for Stanford Travel
 Prize; McGavin was Hampshire Poet). PGRs produce high-quality monographs, creative
 outputs, and peer-reviewed publications during their candidature (Smith’s Nietzsche and
 Modernism; Brown’s Lynwood). In 2018, our doctoral research attracted the Doctoral College’s
 Directors’ Award for Humanities for outstanding contribution to the PGR community (Scott), and
 best research poster (Veldhuizen). In 2019, Bolton secured University funding for the
 interdisciplinary journal-in-a-day initiative.
 PGRs play a major role in our research culture, working with staff and outside experts in themed
 research conferences (‘Neighbours and Strangers’, ‘Adventurous Wives’, ‘Missing Women’), and
 running reading groups and events supported by research centres (e.g. ‘Failure’ group in
 CMCW, ‘Mediating China’ in CIFR, co-organised with PGRs) or competitive Faculty funding


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 rounds (‘Women’s Writing and Modernity’). We encourage our doctoral students to engage
 actively with colleagues across disciplines through the Doctoral College (Tan’s collaboration with
 Health Sciences) and to enrich their own research cultures. PGR students secured funding from
 Screen for an annual postgraduate symposium, matching student presentations with an invited
 renowned keynote panellist.
 PGRs participate alongside academic staff, co-chairing panels at international conferences
 (Patston with Marsh, Ostrowska with Williams). Our enterprising and creative practice also
 supports innovation: Eleanor Houghton, co-supervised with History, is a consultant on Charlotte
 Bronte for the BBC, a curator at Haworth Parsonage, and sold her design illustrations at the
 Morgan Library, New York; Ao Chen was awarded a British Council travel grant to attend the
 premiere of his short film Red (2019) at the 23rd Winterthur International Short Film Festival,
 screened in competition at the Annecy International Animated Film Festival.
 Opportunities to collaborate across disciplines, to work directly with academic staff, and to
 communicate research in innovative ways (Three-Minute Thesis competition) led to notable post-
 doctoral successes across the world, including permanent academic positions at institutions from
 the University of Oxford (Stagg) to Southeast University, China (S.Chen). Egan, who was
 awarded a Southampton Digital Humanities small grant, has a full-time academic position at
 Lancaster; Watkins, who co-ran a symposium with O’Doherty (2016), has a permanent position
 at Derby; Witcombe, who worked with The Brilliant Club on University access, now lectures at
 Bath Spa; Nhan Luong, who received a gold award in our postgraduate research showcase, was
 awarded the British Academy Newton Fund Mobility Grant (2018); Liu, who ran a cross-
 disciplinary photography exhibition for our doctoral festival, is a permanent lecturer at Xiamen
 University; Smyth, who was funded by, and worked closely with Cobb on, Calling the Shots, has
 a permanent lectureship at the University of Essex.

 2.5 Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI)
 An integrated approach to EDI underpins all our activities. All researchers and PhD supervisors
 receive EDI training. Completing an EDI audit has become standard practice when making
 research-related decisions, including allocating funding, creating supervisory teams, and
 supporting colleagues in applying for research roles and promotion. The UOA is active on the
 Faculty EDI Committee and is also represented at both Professorial and ECR level on the
 University’s REF EDI committee, contributing to policy and training materials. Our processes for
 reviewing and selecting outputs was reflexive, transparent and shared within both departments
 as part of improving our collaborative cultures. We ensured a representative balance of
 reviewers, across seniority, gender and discipline. The UOA ran additional EDI audits and
 unconscious bias training as part of its REF preparations. Its benchmarking analysis of outputs
 revealed the work of female colleagues was assessed as highly, or higher than, male
 colleagues. The selection of outputs for submission reflects this longer-term approach to EDI
 (49% of outputs were written by women).
 Promotions to Professor (Hammond, Spencer) and Associate Professor (Burns, Baum, Cobb,
 Cheung, Hayden) supported our longstanding commitment to gender equality (there was a 54%
 female to 46% male ratio in promotion). This was also key during a period of sustained staff
 recruitment which was split 50% female to male. However, a voluntary staff-severance scheme
 in 2017, in addition to four senior women colleagues accepting academic posts elsewhere,
 adversely affected gender balance at Level 7 towards the end of the census period. The UOA is
 pro-actively addressing this as a priority beyond REF2021 by leading a school-wide mentoring


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 scheme for women colleagues at all levels. While our staffing has been broadly statistically
 representative across the cycle we seek ways to ensure future staffing increases our diversity.
 We are also keen that these issues remain high on the university agenda and Jones and
 Primorac’s contribution to the University’s work towards the Race Equality Charter is particularly
 important in this regard.
 This belief in the importance of a fair and equal workplace is apparent in much of our academic
 citizenship. Williams is a committee member of the University’s Pulse LGBT+ Staff Network,
 Cheung and Morton contribute to the School-level application for an Athena Swan award,
 building on the University’s existing Silver accreditation. Cobb was awarded the WiSET+ Annual
 Award given to individuals in the University who make an outstanding contribution to supporting
 and advancing women in academia. Our research practice is pioneering new approaches to
 inclusion in the creative industries (Hayden's curation of the #WIP Queer Art Project digital
 exhibition in 2020). English and Film helped to inform and rewrite the University’s policy on
 parental leave, prompted by a colleague in a same-sex partnership applying for adoptive leave.
 During the census period we supported ten parental leaves, including two extensions of fixed-
 term contracts including and beyond the leave period. Colleagues on parental leave are offered
 up to ten ‘Keeping-In-Touch’ days: these are tailored to the individual and can happen remotely,
 providing guidance on research projects, new department initiatives, and enterprise
 opportunities. We offer colleagues returning from parental leave a lighter teaching load in their
 first semester of returning to work. Department meetings and work-in-progress sessions are
 scheduled to ensure all staff with agreed flexible working requests can attend.
 Both departments have long histories of collegial care and attentiveness and a period of
 substantial change in the University prompted innovative administrative changes to maintain this
 support. 55% of FTE staff in English and Film now have caring roles or are on part-time
 contracts, prompting a major revision of departmental processes. We have moved to allocating
 roles via ‘expressions of interest’, avoiding ‘pre-selection’ by line managers. Where departmental
 activity involves weekend working (open days, outreach activities), we offer alternative
 arrangements for staff with caring responsibilities. Our central International Office provides
 tailored support for international staff, including mentoring and practical support. International
 visitors (BA Visiting Fellows, Visiting Scholars) are invited to all departmental research events
 and centre activities and contribute to a range of local outreach projects, embedding them in our
 civic and research community. Where research activities rely on knowledge of local or national
 contexts, we provide dedicated University-level support, such as SUPI (Schools and Universities
 Partnership Initiative) training on how to engage effectively with secondary schools.
 In the event of staff ill health, we work closely with Occupational Health to support phased
 returns. This includes periods of home working during recovery, the purchase of new office
 equipment (Dragon software), and wider policy changes to support healthy working. As well as
 supporting initiatives such as Time-to-Talk Day, we benefit from First Support and the
 University’s drop-in hub. We also develop our own collegial and responsive forms of support.
 During a time of institutional change, we set up and worked directly with a local counsellor who
 provided free drop-in sessions for colleagues off-campus. Wellbeing is also a key focus for the
 University’s research and Arts and Culture strategy and ongoing collaborations with external arts
 partners are underpinned by the University’s Community Health and Wellbeing hub.




                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income
 Our 52% increase in research income for the current REF period ensures the sustainability of
 current and future research priorities. Prestigious grant successes were achieved across English
 and Film, while also demonstrating our commitment to collaborative and interdisciplinary work
 beyond the humanities.
 1) External research income
 The largest of our AHRC-funded projects, Calling The Shots: Women and Contemporary Film
 Culture in the UK, 2000-2015 (PI Cobb, £590K), came from a collaboration between colleagues
 in English and Film. Other major projects include STUDIOTEC Film Studios: Infrastructure,
 Culture, Innovation in Britain, France, Germany and Italy, 1930-60 (Co-I Bergfelder, €2,500K
 ERC), The History of Financial Advice (PI Marsh, £360K, AHRC), Voices in the Gallery (PI
 Hayden, £185K AHRC), and StoryPlaces (Co-I Jordan and May, £183K Leverhulme).
 Our knowledge exchange and archival research are also sustained by external funding.
 Examples include Show Me the Money: The Visual Image of Finance (Co-I Marsh, £89K,
 AHRC), Pilgrimage into the Past: Walking the Medieval March of Wales (PI Clarke, £69K,
 AHRC), Shep’s Visiting Fellowship, Fluid Geographies and Global Mobilities (in collaboration
 with Hammond, BA, £33K), Music: Narration and Laboratory Experiments (Co-I Donnelly,
 £20K, Erik Philip Sorensen Foundation), The Jewish Gothic (Co-I Jordan, £14K,
 BA/Leverhulme), Sites of Commemoration (PI Schultz, £2K, BA), Wissenschaft (PI Brown, €3K,
 ESSE), and The History of Financial Advice: A Teacher-Scholar Programme, (PI Marsh, £9K,
 ESRC).
 Colleagues have either begun or completed a number of fellowships across this cycle. These
 include Hunt’s England’s Republic: The Lost Reign, 1649-1660, (Leverhulme, £40K), Clery’s
 Romantic-Era Women Writers and the Question of Economic Debate, (Leverhulme, £124K),
 Dow’s Women Writers and the Romantic-Period Novel in Britain and France (Leverhulme,
 £40K), Baum co-directed The New Man in 2016 following an award in November 2013
 (Wellcome Trust, £10K).
 The increased importance of collaborative working is reflected in the substantial in-kind benefits
 from partnership income. This includes a £7.2 million ACE investment in the city-centre arts
 venues, including three NPOs subsidised by the University. Further funding of £157K (2016-8)
 and £173K (2019-2021) was secured by Artful Scribe for their two SO:Write projects, including
 £176k from ACE across the five-year period. These support our annual city literature festival,
 internships for Film and English PGR students, and joint writers-in-residency positions at
 regional theatres and galleries. The Bosack Kruger Foundation provided £451K during the
 census period to fund our research at Chawton, including salaries for Dow (2014-19), Simpson
 (2016-20), and support for Chawton’s visiting fellowship scheme.
 Our innovative creative practice gained recognition by significant grant and alumni funding,
 including a £30K alumni donation to support new research in creative writing via PG
 scholarships, and a £20K award from Granta to Baum and Appignanesi for editing ‘The Politics
 of Feeling’. Pedagogic research is also an important part of our portfolio; significant funding
 included: Supporting Student Agency and success in HE and beyond through the development
 of assessment feedback skills (Co-I Spencer, £100K); and Maximising Student Success Through
 The Development of Self-regulation (Co-I Spencer, £1K).

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2) Internal Research Income
 We also accessed a wide variety of smaller and internal funding streams to support global
 collaborations and public engagement. These include Global Partnership Awards (Bending,
 ‘Transatlantic Landscapes and Enlightenment Communities’; Clarke, partnership with China
 University of Hong Kong); Faculty grants to support publication and conference costs (Brazil,
 Hammond, Hayden, Pizzo, Cook, Carroll, Bayman); Education Enhancement Awards (Burns,
 ‘The Writing Centre’ and ‘Writers in Conversation’; Hayden, ‘Entropics’ poetry reading Series);
 PERu funding (Mackenzie and Clarke, ‘Remaking Maps of the Mind’; Jordan, ‘Jewish/non-
 Jewish Relations from the Ancient to the Modern World’; May, ‘Writing in the Community’; Clery,
 ‘A Celebration of Mary Wollstonecraft’; Hayden, ‘Interruptions/Disruptions’).

 3.2 Facilities and infrastructure supporting research and impact
 Our success in generating research income is underpinned by a strong collegial, organizational,
 and operational infrastructure. All grant bids are peer-reviewed by a panel of experts drawn from
 recent grant holders at both departmental and Faculty levels. We benefit from Faculty-wide
 training sessions which are often delivered by major funders (GCRF, AHRC, ACE). We also host
 or collaborate with funders to deliver this training (May ACE) or contribute to funders’ strategic
 consultations on future planning (Marsh AHRC). We ensure colleagues can access University
 support for impact, including ring-fenced impact funding, ESRC IAA accounts, and the expertise
 of our Public Policy and Public Engagement units (REF5a, §2.3).
 Administrative support for costings and grant management is provided by a central Research
 and Innovation Services team (REF5a, §1.5) and a Faculty finance office, with designated staff
 advising on grant opportunities and applications. A central marketing team advises on the public
 dissemination of research, with staff dedicated to Humanities. Staff are provided with computing
 facilities and support, on and off campus, office space, and photocopying. The University’s
 technical support offers training in research-orientated software.
 The Hartley Library holds a comprehensive library for Literature and Film and subject librarians
 ensures it remains relevant. The Special Collections Division houses some 6.5 million
 manuscripts and 50,000 printed books. The Parkes Library (the largest collections of Jewish
 archives in Western Europe) and the Cope Collection (of regional maritime environments) are
 particularly rich resources. (§REF5a, 1.4) In addition to the support of the digital scholarship
 team (§1.4) the Library provides advice and support on developing data management plans,
 bibliometrics and open-access research publications.
 The Faculty devolves an annual budget of approximately £30K to English and Film, providing
 research funds to cover individual staff expenses and support conferences and workshops. The
 Faculty also has a Strategic Research Fund, with an annual budget of £45k, to fund pump-
 priming for larger projects. Both schemes have two spending rounds each year and funds are
 allocated through a fair and transparent process. EDI considerations, especially around
 conference trips and research visits, are integral to this process. At a local level, senior staff are
 encouraged to consolidate departmental and Faculty research awards with retained income
 spend, allowing ECRs priority access to funds (§ 2.3, 2.5).




                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations, networks and partnerships
 Our capacity for building and sustaining successful partnerships is evident from the scale of our
 projects. Our participation in research networks leads to dynamic international activity and leads
 to further grant activity and impact. Bending’s work on landscape and garden history involved a
 partnership with the University of Melbourne, supported through the WUN/ Southampton Global
 Partnerships Fund, leading to a bid (with Bygrave) to the Australian Research Council.
 Bergfelder’s advisory role for the Centre for the Study of Globalization and Cultures, University
 of Hong Kong, led to a symposium co-organised with Schultz on ‘Theorising Arts Cinemas’ at
 the Universidade de Sao Paulo, Brazil. Brown established a new partnership with English
 colleagues at the University of Hamburg, including visiting fellowships, postdoctoral exchanges
 and cross-period workshops at both institutions. He won a European Society for English Studies
 Project Grant to develop the partnership into an AHRC-GRF application. Clery’s contribution to
 the AHRC network Creative Communities 1750-1830 helped establish the network ‘Women in
 Book History 1660-1832’ with scholars in North America. O’Doherty’s involvement in the Pilgrim
 Libraries Leverhulme International Network led to a series of online articles; she is now
 developing a major European COST-Action bid on the cultures of Europe’s historic routes.
 We created multiple opportunities to engage with diverse communities and publics. Clarke used
 a British Academy International Partnership to share heritage, conservation, and interpretation
 methodologies with colleagues at the Institute of Ethiopian Studies. Contacts with academics
 and filmmakers developed by Bergfelder in Addis Ababa created an audience for his
 contributions to African Cinema and Human Rights. Placey’s scriptwriting collaboration with Ko,
 Sun-Duck, led to a multilingual theatre symposium. Jordan’s archival unearthing of Norman
 Collins’ 1943 radio play No Luggage, No Return led to a new BBC broadcast for the 2017
 Holocaust Memorial Day This was supported by the Parkes Institute and we have been active in
 their programmes aimed at colleges, adult learners, interfaith and community groups. Our
 outreach work was also supported by Southampton Education Forum, the largest schools
 network in South England, which held a workshop on queer re-writing, led by Hoare, May, and
 Placey. Our local English Teachers’ Network, set up in 2012 through an HEA grant, continues to
 share good practice and research-led teaching activities. We used Faculty funding to broker new
 external relationships, hosting the Hampshire Libraries Children’s Book Awards and Poetry Slam
 from 2020.
 These networks are further supported by the 18 visiting positions held by our staff during the
 census period. These include competitive fellowships at renowned libraries (Huntington Library,
 Dumbarton Oaks, Lewis Walpole Library) and universities (including NYU, Sydney University,
 Canterbury University, NZ, Dongguk, South Korea, and Zambia Open University). International
 scholars also make a rich contribution to our research community, including Phyllis Lassner
 (Northwestern), Southampton’s Diamond Jubilee International Visiting Fellow (2014-17); Jennifer
 Milam (Melbourne); Grace Musila (Stellenbosch); and Sydney Shep (Wellington, NZ). Advance
 planning ensures audiences and students at all levels benefit from these exchanges: events
 include Shep’s Prince lecture (2018), Lassner’s interdisciplinary symposium, and Musila’s lecture
 on Afropolitanism. We hosted a further 24 international scholars from China, Iran, Iraq, and
 Eastern Europe from 2014-20. These visiting scholars are invited to all department and Faculty
 events and associated with relevant research centres, often developing their own cross-
 disciplinary initiatives (the 2019 symposium ‘Reading Locally, Thinking Globally’ on creative


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 writing in China, was co-curated by a Visiting Fellow from Northeast Forestry University). We
 have co-hosted 40 visiting fellows a year in partnership with Chawton: these have helped
 international scholars complete over 100 monographs and research articles based on Chawton’s
 archival holdings.

 4.2 Contribution to the economy and society
 We make a substantial contribution to society and to local and national economic activity in the
 three major areas outlined in our impact strategy. Our expertise in heritage led to sustained
 involvement in festivals, our knowledge of creative and cultural policy put us at the forefront of
 civic regeneration, and our ability to change debates through cultural texts prompted
 substantial enterprise and consultancy work.
 1) Festivals have given us the opportunity to be innovative, allowing diverse audiences to
 rethink our collective literary and cultural heritage. Our involvement ranged from curating
 discussions of post-Brexit identity via contemporary film (Bayman, Eastleigh Film Festival),
 designing symposia to uncover the work of nineteenth-century novelist Lucas Malet (Pizzo,
 Charles Kingsley 200 Festival), performing poetry with Zoë Wanamaker (May, Cheltenham
 Literary Festival), and planning commemorative events for Mayflower 400.
 Our curation is collaborative and interdisciplinary. Clery co-curated the national celebration of
 Mary Wollstonecraft with Mary on the Green and Mary Wollstonecraft Philosophical Society,
 while Hoare participated in multi-event art installations and performances, gallery and arts
 festival curation (‘Neptune’s Grotto’, Nantucket Whaling Museum), and documentaries for BBC4
 (Philip Hoare’s Guide to Arctic Whales). M. Hammond’s 12-year collaboration with musician Neil
 Brand led to new compositions and performances for silent films at Glastonbury Music Festival,
 the Midnight Sun Film Festival, and the Tromsø International Film Festival, the Royal Albert Hall
 and Barbican Arts Centre.
 Our international expertise has changed understanding of festival as cultural practice, from
 Primorac’s talks on literary culture at the Ake Arts & Literature Festival, Nigeria and the National
 Arts Festival in South Africa, to Cheung’s talks on global cinema at the International Film
 Festival Forum, Xiamen University and the 28th China Golden Rooster and Hundred Flowers
 Film Festival, to Torbay’s ‘The Tale,’ a festival co-devised by Hoare with arts collective
 Situations, turning ten miles of Devon coastline into a series of site-specific performances.
 2) Civic regeneration is a cornerstone of our research strategy: we have clear and ambitious
 aspirations to make Southampton a hub through the Capital of Culture bid. Partnership working
 includes collaborations with Artful Scribe (resulting in a writer-residency at Sea City Museum), a
 grant from Southampton Cultural Development Trust and approximately £20K generated through
 commission for Mayflower 400 commemorations. A PERu grant enabled us to deliver a two-
 month CPD workshop series, ‘Writers in the Community’ (2018), giving local writers and PGR
 creative writing students the skills and confidence to secure national funding for community
 writing projects.
 On campus, Heads of both Departments are active members of the University Arts Strategy
 committee and our expertise in creative writing, film, theatre and the visual arts allows us to build
 strong links with Arts at University of Southampton institutions, including the Nuffield
 Southampton Theatres (NST), now part of the MAST Mayflower Studios, Turner Sims Concert
 Hall (TSCH) and, especially, the John Hansard Gallery. We work with other universities and non-
 HEI partners in the region to deliver public projects and frame new research questions. We
 contributed to a £4.9 million AHRC iHeritage Creative Clusters bid and now lead the Coastal

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Creatives Network of universities working on the digital creative industries that emerged from it.
 Other collaborations with colleagues at Southampton Solent, University of Bournemouth, and
 University of Winchester, have prompted joint planning of public events and literature evenings,
 building further capacity for regional events and for our central role in planning Southampton’s
 City of Culture Bid for 2025.
 The University’s MOU with Arts Council England is strengthened by four existing awards within
 English and Film, and we advise regional cultural organisations looking to become National
 Portfolio Organisations. Former Creative Writing MA student Matt West runs a regional literary
 development agency that has mentored local writers, supporting them to win international
 publishing agreements (Penguin, Trapeze).
 Our public events build new civic communities and enrich existing ones. Hayden’s ‘Entropics’
 (2017- ), held in the city centre, is an ongoing experimental poetry performance series that
 regularly attracts audiences of 60; performers have included Maggie O’Sullivan, Redell Olsen,
 and Jay Bernard. M. Hammond’s research on early twentieth-century local cinema culture led to
 a series of screening and performance events co-organised with Cook and Williams, including
 an original score for Dawn (1928), Stephen Horne’s live accompaniment for The Guns of Loos
 (1928) and Metropolis (1927), and an event on silent film and the home front at TSCH as part of
 our ‘Great War: Unknown War’ series (2014-18). ‘Writers in Conversation’ (2015-), a public
 interview series between Burns and contemporary authors, regularly brings audiences of over a
 hundred to the NTS to hear writers including Helen McDonald, Jennifer Egan, and Gary Younge
 and expanded considerably when moved online in 2020-21. Our annual F.T. Prince Memorial
 Lecture, now in its 8th year, gathers similar-sized audiences to hear readings by leading
 contemporary writers such as Tjawangwa Dema, Kei Miller and Daljit Nagra.
 3) Our timely contributions to public debates engage policy makers, cultural activists and
 journalists, strengthening our economic contribution through enterprise and consultancy.
 Jordan sat on the Cabinet Office Holocaust Memorial Foundation committee and acted as a
 consultant to the Prime Minister’s Holocaust Commission, the Imperial War Museum, and the
 V&A. Hammond was a consultant for the Tudor House Museum; M.Hammond was a BBC
 consultant on film and the First World War; Bayman was an archive consultant for Kim
 Longinotto documentary Shooting the Mafia; Cook was research consultant and on-screen
 interviewee for BBC4 documentary Secrets of British Animation; Bull collaborated with the
 Swedish Film Institute as a curator of an exhibition on the Swedish title-sequence designer Alva
 Lundin's work. Our students have benefitted from this culture, taking up paid opportunities
 through the University Arts Ambassadors scheme to promote and deliver various city-wide
 cultural activities, from interviewing Nick Serota to previewing new exhibitions.

 4.3 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline and wider influence
 We sought to maximise our contribution to the sustainability of research in English and Film by
 raising our public profile, exploiting digital and diverse media for research dissemination, and
 supporting the next generation of scholars through conferences, professional networks, schools
 consultancy, and world-leading interdisciplinary publications. We increased our contributions to
 academic publishing over the census period, peer reviewing and refereeing for over 50 journals
 and 20 high-profile publishers including OUP, CUP, Michigan, Princeton and Yale. This enabled
 us to share good practice and new trends in the field and to establish future strategic links for
 colleagues, collaborators, and PGRs. From 2014-2020, we delivered 218 invited keynotes and



                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 lectures at major conferences nationally and internationally and organised over 30 events,
 colloquia, and conferences across our four research areas:
 1) Multimedia creativity and textuality Our support for practice-led research also involves editing
 and commissioning contemporary writers: Baum co-edited a special issue of Granta, on ‘The Politics
 of Feeling’ (2019), including contributions by Olga Tokarczuk, Hanif Kureishi, and Hisham Matar. We
 facilitate new research in animation studies, sound culture and the moving image through
 conferences and academic editorship: Carroll and Donnelly co-edit ‘Music and the Moving Image’
 for Edinburgh, and organised the Ludomusicology conference (2016); Donnelly is a steering-group
 member for the AHRC project, Fifty Years of British Music Video. Our ECRs make key contributions:
 Cook co-organised an ‘Animation and Archives Study Day’ at the University of Notre Dame in
 London (2018); Brazil facilitated workshops on publishing for ECRs for the British Association of
 Contemporary Literary Studies and developed research podcasts for the English & Media Centre;
 Hayden has written for exhibitions of painting, sculpture, photography, video and experimental film in
 the UK and Ireland, has performed poetry in the UK, Ireland, US, Germany and the Czech
 Republic, and has been commissioned by artists and organisations including LUX, Holt/Smithson
 Foundation.
 We also contribute to the national and international research infrastructure of the field. We
 participate in world-wide research networks, mentoring new researchers (CARMEN), and
 national organisations supporting the discipline: May was Treasurer for University English (2015-
 7), and is UK representative to the European Society for the Study of English (2018-). Our work
 connects academic with key partners for our future vitality, such as May’s panel for University
 English with English Heritage and ACE. The module ‘Creative Writing in Schools’ mentored over
 200 young people to teach creative writing at KS4/5.
 2) Global Cinema and World Literature: Southampton supports leading research in global
 cinema and world literatures, through professional associations, conferences, and publications.
 Founder and leading contributor to the first ever national subject association in Screen Studies,
 BAFTSS, Bergfelder is an editor for Screen and Transnational Cinemas (Edinburgh), and co-
 edited a new edition of The German Cinema Book (2020); Bayman reshaped the public
 understanding of post-war Italian cinema through conferences on Rome, Open City (Warwick,
 2015) and Anna Magnani (Turin, 2019), and co-edited a collection on global cinema, Journeys
 on Screen (2018); Cheung sustains the transnational reception of cinema from China and Hong
 Kong via conference papers and invited talks. Complementing research in global cinema,
 Southampton’s world literature researchers fostered new approaches to the cultures of the
 global South. Primorac co-edits the Boydell and Brewer ‘African Articulations’ monograph
 series, showcasing new research on African cultures, including books on West African literature
 and the cinema of the Mozambican Revolution.
 As well as acting as editorial board members for New Formations, Wasafiri, Law and
 Humanities, and Journal of Commonwealth Literature, presenting invited papers at conferences
 in Harvard, and research seminars in NYU and Frankfurt, we co-edit special issues of
 international journals. Building on AHRC-funded research on the Indian Ocean (2007-10), Jones
 guest-edited the special issue of Interventions, ‘Law and Lawlessness in the Indian Ocean’
 (2014). Following a series of events at Southampton and Senate House, London (2014), Morton
 co-edited a special issue of Research in African Literatures on Achebe’s Arrow of God with
 Primorac (2019). As well as peer-reviewing promotion applications at peer institutions, staff
 served on advisory panels for prestigious research projects supported by HERA (Bergfelder,
 2013-16), and the Leverhulme Trust (Jones, 2014-present), and reviewed grant applications for


                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 national and international research councils (AHRC, ESRC, Canada Research Council,
 Deutsche Forschungsgesellschaft, the Leverhulme Trust, and the Czech Science Foundation)
 3) Adaptation and Reception Theory and History: We shape and sustain current debates in
 the field, by editing journals and world-leading publications, participating in significant panels and
 talk series and organising international conferences. Cobb serves on the editorial boards of
 Adaptation (OUP), Film Criticism (Michigan), and the book series, Visionaries (Edinburgh) and
 was the main organiser of the 2018 conference ‘Doing Women’s British Film and Television
 History’ (partially funded by the AHRC). Scholar of popular adaptation and posthumanism, De
 Bruin-Molé co-organised the 2016 British Association of Victorian Studies conference and
 serves on editorial boards for book series with Bloomsbury and Brill. Jordan supports research
 into the reception of Holocaust representation in Hollywood cinema and British television: as co-
 editor of Holocaust Studies, a founder and executive committee member of the British
 Association of Holocaust Studies, and a key member of Southampton’s Parkes Institute.
 Historian of early film reception, M.Hammond delivered invited lectures on Chaplin and the
 Great War, including a BA public lecture; he also co-organised three live music to silent film
 events for an AHRC-funded project at the University of Kent. We also contributed to comparative
 research in the field: Michael Williams was an invited member of a reception studies panel at
 the American Comparative Literature Association conference, Chicago (2020), and H.Jones
 delivered a paper on audience engagement with European film at the European Network for
 Cinema and Media Studies conference (2016).
 4) Cultural Histories of Knowledge: Our interdisciplinary research in cultural history is
 supported by major contributions to the national and international research environment. Some
 of these activities include leadership of major subject associations: Dow is Vice-President of the
 British Association of Romantic Studies (2019); Clarke is programming committee member of
 Anglo-Saxon Studies for the Leeds International Medieval Congress, the leading medieval
 studies conference in Europe. Our researchers organise conferences, panels and workshops,
 drawing together cultural historians from across periods and disciplines: Bull co-organised a CSI
 Series Finale Workshop at Oxford Brookes (2015), with participants across six countries; Pizzo
 organised ‘Victorian Environments‘ (2017); Clarke and O’Doherty organised ‘Neighbours and
 Strangers’ (the Medium Aevum conference, 2017).
 We sustain research in cultural history by supporting the publication of new interdisciplinary
 scholarship: Marsh co-edits Palgrave Studies in Literature, Culture and Economics; Clarke edits
 Places and Spaces: Medieval to Modern (Arc Humanities Press); Bending serves on the
 editorial board of Studies in the History of Gardens and Designed Landscape and co-edits the
 Chawton Library Series (with Bygrave), which currently exceeds 100 volumes. We peer-review
 articles on literature, economics, science, and the environment for journals such as PMLA,
 Huntington Library Quarterly, Textual Practice and Tulsa Studies in Women’s Literature and
 advise on research projects (Clarke for the Leverhulme-funded ‘Landscapes of Anarchy’ and
 ‘Gascon Rolls’ projects; Dow for the Leverhulme International Network ‘Women's Literary
 Culture and the Medieval Canon’). Our research stimulates wider public dialogue about cultural
 identities: coverage of Baum’s Feeling Jewish and The Jewish Joke included a feature article in
 Times Higher Education, excerpted chapters in The Guardian and New York Times, and a
 conversation event with Zadie Smith in New York.




                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Conclusion
 Our collegial and dynamic research environment informs our local, national and international
 contributions. King’s Gold Standard letter from the AHRC Peer Review College (2019) noted the
 exceptional commitment we make to the vitality of our subject’s research culture. An
 attentiveness to the diverse audiences both addressed and excluded from cultural conversations
 is evident both in the awards we support, as in Primorac’s judging for the Caine Prize for
 African Writing, and the awards we win, from Clery’s British Academy Rose Mary Crawshay
 Prize for Eighteen Hundred and Eleven (2017), to the BAFTSS Best Journal Article (2018) prize
 for Cobb and Wreyford’s ‘Data and Responsibility: Towards a Feminist Methodology for
 Producing Historical Data on Women in the Contemporary UK Film Industry’.
 During national lockdown in 2020 we redoubled our commitment to cultural engagement
 (Chawton Lockdown Literary Festival, May 2020), collaborative research (weekly PGR online
 research seminars), digital innovation (Ancient Mariner Big Read, an international multimedia
 online re-imagining of Coleridge’s poem broadcast over forty nights), and external collaboration,
 brokering new projects with both local cultural organisations (God’s House Tower) and national
 policy-makers (NESTA). While this was an exceptional period, it demonstrates the agility,
 imagination and collaborative energy we have shown throughout the last six years
 REF2014 praised the ‘world-leading quality of support for staff, including attention to issues of
 equality and diversity and support for career progression’ (UOA 29), and commended English
 and Film for creating an environment ‘conducive to the production of world-leading research’
 (UOA 28 and 29). This achievement was continued and enhanced across all areas of expertise
 to create an energetic and collaborative research environment. Our founding of the Southampton
 Institute for Arts and Humanities in November 2020 will capitalise on this vitality, extending our
 longstanding commitment to equality and diversity, and bringing renewed expertise and ambition
 to our global, national, and civic cultures.




                                                                                           Page 19
