Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Ulster University

 Unit of Assessment: UOA4

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and structure
 The Psychology Research Institute (PRI) at Ulster University (UU), founded in 1972, has a
 sustained track record of developing research leaders through excellent support networks, a
 focus on advanced research methods and applied psychological research. The PRI includes
 a diverse team of independent researchers (N=34), contract researchers (N= 12) and PhD
 researchers (N=73) with expertise in complex statistical research methods, qualitative
 approaches and experimental research techniques.

 Since REF2014, a £1.3 million infrastructure investment has helped the PRI transform its
 capability to develop, lead and deliver internationally renowned, interdisciplinary research
 through the creation of state-of-the-art research laboratories but also the implementation of a
 robust framework to nurture and develop research talent, with a particular focus on PGR
 students.

 The research strategy, underpinning PRI, saw the prioritisation of mental health research
 within UU with further significant internal strategic investment (>£1M) giving rise to a new Institute
 of Mental Health Sciences (IMHS). The success of this approach is evidenced through a
 significant increase in staff submitted to REF, large-scale grant funding and an increase in
 the number of PhD completions (see Table 1).

 Table 1: Key changes in PRI during REF2021 cycle
  Assessment period            REF2014                 REF2021                 % change

  Submitted staff              22                      31.4                    43

  Income (spend)               6,448,521               10,503,976              61.5

  PhD Completions              46                      65.55                   42.5


 Our research and impact strategy addresses national and global priorities in mental health (e.g.
 effective diagnoses and care pathways), health-related behaviours (e.g. understanding e-cigarette
 use) and important issues facing children and young people (e.g. outcomes of growing up in the
 care system). We aim to provide robust evidence to influence policy and practice across the globe
 by:

    1.   Understanding psychological processes, precursors and supports for mental health.
    2.   Using psychological theory to generate interventions to promote physical health and well-
         being.
    3.   Investigating the psychological and social development of children and adolescents to
         ensure better outcomes for all.

 Our research portfolio has significantly expanded through major initiatives that align to our aims
 including:



                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1. Significant strategic investment (>£1M) in a faculty-wide interdisciplinary Institute of
 Mental Health Sciences (IMHS) that encompasses research on child and adolescent mental
 health (McSherry, Kirby, Murphy, Adamson, Houston), precursors to mental health (Shevlin,
 McBride, Bunting) and novel interventions (Ennis, O’Neill). In addition, the approved £28.55m
 capital investment in a new School of Medicine, including a graduate entry medical course, will
 bolster our research in health services implementation and interventions.

 2. Our researchers lead the behavioural sciences work-package of the UKRI-Global Challenge
 Research Fund (GCRF, £5.7m in total) funded SAFEWATER project that aims to develop usable
 technology to improve rural communities' access to safe drinking water (Gallagher, Keenan).
 Leavey leads the Administrative Data Research Centre (ESRC, £2.2m) that enables research
 to inform policy for service planning and provision (Ferry, Rosato).

 3. Securing significant investment from the Department of Health to UU (£1.7M with matched
 funding to Queen’s University Belfast) for the creation of an interdisciplinary Academic Paediatric
 Cardiology Department with specific focus on the epidemiology of childhood coronary heart
 disease, impact on family functioning and associated developmental outcomes (Simms).

 Since REF 2014, researchers have published 499 journal articles, 15 conference papers and
 11 editorials/commentaries, with an average citation rate of 15.3 per output. Researchers also
 published 2 books, 21 book chapters and 22 commissioned reports. 22.4% of our journal
 articles are in the top 10% of cited psychology publications world-wide (Scopus). Armour
 and Shevlin are rated in top 2% of most cited authors within his field (Science-Matrix
 classification). Grant income has risen from £6.5m to £10.5m (61.5%) in the REF2021 period,
 with 159 research grants awarded within the current reporting period. Our research is global, with
 50.3% of our publications including international co-authors. The calibre of our researchers
 has been recognised through prestigious awards from sector relevant bodies (See Section 4).

 Research and Impact Strategy

 Throughout the REF2021 period we aimed to develop our research programmes by building on
 the strengths we evidenced in REF2014, focusing on mental health sciences. Our research
 programmes align with the University's strategic research themes of “Healthy Communities” and
 “Social Renewal” (REF5a; Section 1) providing excellent opportunities for interdisciplinary
 collaboration. Strategic aims during the REF2021 cycle were:

        1. Increase investment in research infrastructure by leveraging internal and external funds
        2. Recruit and nurture new academic staff with expertise in mental health research and
            experimental methods
        3. Diversify and increase our research income base and ensure these funds translate to
            real-world impact
        4. Ensure transparency in decision making and equality for all researchers
        5. Develop and support our contribution to Open Science practices
        6. Support and develop new research leaders

 The PRI places team-based research programmes at the centre of its working practices. PRI
 Research Director (RD; Simms) works collaboratively with the Head of School (HoS; Giles)
 to create a vibrant and inclusive research environment. The PRI was structured into three

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 recognised research groups (RRGs: Psychological Epidemiology and Mental Health, Health and
 Wellbeing and Peace, Conflict and Equality). Following REF 2014, the PRI performed a
 comprehensive internal review (involving RD, Professoriate and Visiting Professors), to tighten
 and align existing RRGs into three new “research themes” that also closely align with the global
 research challenges identified by the United Nations Global Issues (such as Children, Health
 (and well-being) and Ageing). The three new research themes are “Children, Young People and
 Schools”, “Mental Health” and “Health and Ageing”. This means that researchers within the
 PRI are not only directly aligned to strategic research priorities at the university level, but also at
 national and international levels.

 The “Children, Young People and Schools” theme includes researchers focused on child and
 adolescent development in social contexts and is led by Cassidy. Researchers within this
 theme use a wide range of experimental methods (e.g. eye tracking, child-friendly experimental
 designs), large scale surveys, and qualitative research methods. They also collaborate
 internationally on large-scale, interdisciplinary studies that aim to elucidate factors that impact on
 child development in order to improve outcomes globally. For example, CONCEPTION (Simms,
 £1.06m, H2020) involves 60 European partners and will document the impact of in utero and
 breast milk drug exposure on neurodevelopment outcomes; while EPPIFAST (Cassidy,
 McLaughlin, £400k, ESRC, BBSRC) is a randomised control trial investigating the long-term
 impact of extended folic acid use on psychosocial and cognitive outcomes in early and mid-
 childhood.

 More broadly, the theme explores psychosocial and health development in child and
 adolescent groups, including play behaviours, social emotional development in school-aged
 children, diet and sexual health outcomes (Cassidy, McLaughlin & Davison). The theme is also
 recognised for its research on educational and mental health outcomes of children growing up in
 care. McSherry leads the “Care Pathways and Outcomes study” (£210k, ESRC), a world-
 leading 20-year longitudinal study of children in care and adopted from care. This study has
 been widely cited in policy, including the British Association of Social Work (BASW) adoption
 enquiry (2017); The Northern Ireland Family Justice Review (2017); the UK DfE report on
 outcomes from child abuse and neglect (2017); and the UK DfE report on the foster care system
 in England (2017). Cassidy and McLaughlin also examine socioemotional development in
 looked after children. McDowell studies interventions to improve educational outcomes of
 children who are in care or who have intellectual disability (£75k, Sharland Foundation).
 Simms uses cognitive experimental techniques to understand mathematical development and
 developmental conditions associated with poor mathematical performance and broader
 cognitive outcomes, with a specific focus on children born preterm and evidence synthesis
 (£62k, Nuffield Foundation). Simms and external collaborators developed an open-access
 resource to train education professionals on the potential long-term impact of premature birth
 on development and achievement which has been used by approximately 14,000 users globally
 and received the British Association of Perinatal Medicine (BAPM) Gopi Menon Award 2020
 for ‘Excellence in Research or Innovation’. Keenan and Gallagher use behavioural
 analytics, focusing on furthering our understanding of autism, but also adapt behavioural
 principles to other applied settings (such as techniques to improve uptake of safe water
 practices in developing countries, £5.7m, GCRF).

 The Health and Ageing theme includes high-profile pharmacologists, health psychologists,
 experimental psychologists and epidemiologists focused on understanding and promoting

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 healthy ageing and is led by Brick. A critical component is the international and applied nature
 of the research. New appointments (during the REF cycle) Craig and Kennedy apply virtual
 reality and neuroscientific techniques to understand movement and rehabilitation associated
 with Stroke and Dementia. Craig successfully launched a start-up company, INCISIV Ltd., to
 embed her scientific know-how into technologies to be used to measure and improve movement
 performance in sport and health. Kennedy was commissioned by Stroke Association NI to
 investigate the long-term impact of stroke resulting in the “Struggling to Recover” report that
 has formed the basis of the Department of Health’s response in “Reshaping Stroke Care -
 Saving Lives, Reducing Disability” (2019). An initiative that is driving improvements in
 rehabilitation and long-term support for people affected by stroke. Brick uses cognitive techniques
 to investigate physical activity adherence and endurance behaviours, and in collaboration with
 Craig and Kennedy applies these approaches with vulnerable populations.                   Simpson,
 Dunwoody, Mallet and Giles apply behaviour change techniques and mixed methods to
 understand health related behaviours, such as walking for exercise (NIHR, £270k), physical
 activity for cancer rehabilitation and e-cigarette use (NI Heart, Chest and Stroke, £116k).
 Simpson, along with McConville, also assesses the cognitive and broader psychological
 impact of food supplementation (£77k, ALPRO Foundation). Norwood, Kim and Leslie use
 animal models of disease to investigate psychobiological underpinnings of cognitive decline,
 specifically in relation to Alzheimer's disease. Barnes-Holmes is a world-renowned pioneer in
 Relational Frame Theory and the primary developer of the Implicit Relational Assessment
 Procedure (IRAP), which bridges our research strengths in behavioural sciences and cognitive
 psychology.

 The Mental Health theme includes globally recognised experts in mental health sciences
 and led by McBride and closely aligned with the Faculty’s IMHS. Bunting, Ennis, Ferry and
 O’Neill research mental health and related physical health outcomes and suicidal
 behaviour. The long-standing collaborations with the WHO World Mental Health (WHO-WMH)
 survey which has generated internationally impactful research which has been expanded to
 include a new focus on university student mental health. This WHO-WMH International College
 Student (WMH-ICS) initiative is led by Harvard University. A strength of this research team is the
 use of secondary data and complex statistical techniques (such as structural equation
 modelling, latent profile and transition analysis and network analysis) to assess the efficacy of
 mental health interventions. Using these statistical techniques, McBride, Murphy and Shevlin,
 and partners from Sheffield University and University College London have led a new
 longitudinal mixed-methods research on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on
 psychological and social outcomes (£30k). ESRC reviewers for this award commended the
 early pump-priming of data collection from PRI funds that demonstrated institutional
 support, forethought and commitment to the research.

 Armour, Murphy and Shevlin conduct research on the nosology of complex trauma and the
 development of PTSD and psychosis leading an international Doctoral Training Programme
 (£675k, H2020) on applied trauma research. Armour leads The Northern Ireland Veterans’
 Health and Well-being Study (£396k Forces in Mind Trust; £69k The Royal British Legion). A
 ‘Veterans’ support office’ was established following recommendations from the study and the
 role of 11 local council ‘veterans champions’ was clarified and renamed in order to improve
 support for veterans in the community. Shorter investigates profiles of addiction and effective
 interventions (Public Health Agency, £35k), with a strong focus on service-user involvement
 and use of lived experiences to inform research programmes. McBride also researches

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 addictions and severe mental health, for example the use and efficacy of community
 treatment orders (£8k, NIHR). Lagdon investigates the long-term impact of domestic and
 sexual violence on mental health outcomes in the broad population and student groups.
 Lagdon’s research on policing response to domestic violence in Northern Ireland (NI)
 including “Every Voice Counts” (2015) and “If Everybody Helps” (2018) reports are cited as
 some of the committee stage evidence supporting the Domestic Abuse and Family
 Proceedings Bill. Adamson, Houston and Kirby investigate the complexities of mental health
 issues in adolescent populations and the impact of school-based interventions to improve
 mental health outcomes, specifically around the areas of trauma-informed practice (£38k,
 DfE), education focused on safe-guarding (£41k, NSPCC) and anti-bullying campaigns.

 Researchers in this theme (Adamson, Ferry, McBride, Murphy, Rosato, Shevlin) have success
 in the ESRC Secondary Data Analysis Initiative (SDAI). Interdisciplinary research teams
 including researchers from nursing and education, have harnessed administrative data to further
 understand prevalence and variation in antidepressant prescribing (£123k), universalism in
 relation to Learning Disability (£155k) and take a population accountability approach to
 Special Educational Needs (£162k). Research in this theme also focuses on assessing efficacy
 of large-scale interventions, such as the impact of resilience training on children and
 adolescents in a post-conflict society, interventions to support student mental health and the
 use of chatbots for text-based mental health delivery (O’Neill, Ennis, Campbell, Kirby: £590k,
 Special European Union Programme Board, SEUPB; O’Neill, Ennis: £638k, Interreg/CHITIN).

 The Bamford Centre for Mental Health and Well-being is also situated within the Mental Health
 theme and is directed by Leavey. The Bamford Centre is renowned for its use of administrative
 data to further our understanding of health and well-being and its primary aim is to inform policy
 and the subsequent provision of effective health services. The Bamford Centre has secured
 sustained funding from the ESRC for the Administrative Data Research Centre NI (ADRC-
 NI, £2.2m in total, ESRC; Bunting, Leavey, O'Neill) which has allowed it to produce impactful
 research outputs and the comprehensive training of future research leaders. The ADRC-NI
 is a collaborative venture with academics at Queen’s University Belfast (QUB) and the NI Statistics
 and Research Agency with an interdisciplinary focus (e.g. psychology, geography, nursing and
 public health). A senior research fellow (Rosato), research fellow (Ferry) and four research
 associates (Cooper, Curran, McAnee, Robinson) all work within the Bamford Centre. Building
 on these partnerships with key external health agencies we have recently (October 2020) secured
 funds from the Health and Social Care (HSC) Trust for a data analyst who will respond to
 stakeholder (e.g. commissioners, headteachers, charitable organisations) enquiries on the
 £815k HSC funded Child and Adolescent Mental Health and Well-being Census data that
 was carried out in collaboration with the Mental Health Foundation (McBride, Murphy, Shevlin).
 Leavey also leads a number of large-scale, international studies assessing the impact of social
 isolation on healthy ageing and the use of technology and intergenerational interventions
 to improve outcomes (Leavey; £330k, Northern Periphery and Arctic Programme of the
 European Union; £335k, Public Health Agency).

 Upholding high standards of research integrity and transparency

 Staff in the PRI are committed to high ethical standards and conduct research with integrity.
 53% of staff are members of the British Psychological Society, ensuring that the society’s
 standards are embedded in our values and practice. Furthermore, 100% of researchers have

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 completed the mandatory Research Integrity training course provided by UU. The PRI has a
 dedicated ethics committee, chaired by Dunwoody, that operates under the guidance of
 colleagues from Research Integrity (See Section 2, and REF 5a; Section 2). Ethics panel members
 conduct peer review of ethics applications and provide expert advice on policy, research
 practice and governance. Any application with vulnerable populations or novel interventions
 are scrutinised at the University level UU Research Ethics Committee. All research involving the
 NHS must be submitted to the Office for Research Ethics Committees-NI (OREC-NI) for ethical
 clearance. The PRI, and UU more broadly, provides secure data storage services for hard and
 soft copies of data.

 The PRI is also committed to open and reproducible research practices and have launched an
 Open Science policy, which built on specific training in these practices. Several PRI researchers
 are experts in the use of secondary data analyses which has historically required the pre-
 registration of research questions, hypotheses and analysis plans. Therefore, there has
 been an ongoing and increasing commitment to the accessibility of data for reanalysis and
 the pre-registration of objectives and hypotheses for our primary data studies. Staff within the PRI
 use the Open Science Framework with undergraduate and postgraduate students to
 increase knowledge and accessibility to systems that encourage open and transparent
 scientific practices. The PRI Open Science policy also aligns more broadly with the Open
 Access initiative of the University (REF 5a; Section 2). PRI researchers recognise and value
 that their research should be openly accessible to all. Researchers are encouraged to publish
 in open access outlets, with ringfenced PRI funds to support this initiative. A dedicated
 executive administrative assistant supports researchers to ensure that their outputs meet
 compliance regulations for accessibility of publications to the wider academic community
 and the general public. The RD has made significant contributions to the development of UU
 Open Science Policy and associated resources (REF 5a; Section 2). UU is a signatory of
 DORA and supports the principles of the Leiden Manifesto and the Metric Tide, thus these
 values are reflected in many of the practices in the PRI including workload management and
 support with career progression.

 Developing and delivering impact

 Our research impact is underpinned by several key factors. First, the PRI has focused on applied
 psychological research since its inception in 1972, our long heritage of impactful research that
 aims to improve societal outcomes ensures that a culture of impact is deeply embedded in
 our teams’ approach to research and PRI processes. Second, researchers ensure that Patient
 Public Involvement (PPI) is a core component of our research programmes. Therefore,
 research impact is an integral component of our research processes. For example, the
 Pathways Project (McSherry) has co-developed research proposals with key stakeholders
 such as foster carers, children and young people who have experienced care settings and
 statutory organisations while the Developing Mind Network (O’Neill) facilitates co-producing
 research identified and prioritised by young people, their caregivers and relevant services.

 Third, the RD actively supports impact generating activities by ring-fencing funds for training
 on impact planning (e.g. through Fast Track Impact) and impact related activities (e.g.
 stakeholder engagement events, production of policy briefing documents). All PRI members are
 welcome to attend this training (including PhD researchers). Researchers actively disseminate
 their skills and knowledge associated with impact through research away days and in-house

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 seminars. Thanks to our commitment to impact training, all staff are well equipped to identify
 clear impact goals and build pathways to impact. This is evidenced by our research being able
 to make societal impact within relatively short timeframes (as evidenced by Impact Case
 Study 3, led by Shevlin). Our commitment to impact is exemplified by the appointment of O’Neill
 by the NI Executive as the Interim Mental Health Champion for NI, announced in June 2020
 with the appointment commencing in August 2020, with the remit to ensure stakeholder
 engagement and evidence-based practice and policy-making. This prestigious appointment was
 based on O’Neill’s research expertise and recognition of her long-standing commitment to
 advocacy and community engagement.

 Impact case studies for REF2021 were identified through a series of PRI-wide events in which
 researchers described the tangible impact their research has generated. Impact Case Study
 leads have time dedicated within the PRI workload model to recognise their efforts. The RD and
 Faculty Impact Officer meet regularly with REF2021 Impact Case Study leads to provide
 feedback, support and identify needs. The PRI has also invested in a Post-Doctoral Research
 Assistant who provides support on research-related activities, including impact generation
 and Impact Case Study data gathering. Three impact case studies that epitomise the long-
 standing and impactful research of the PRI have been selected for submission:

 Impact Case Study 1: Developing psychological services and addressing the mental health impact
 of the Conflict in NI
 Impact Case Study 2: Changing Policy and Practice in Suicide Prevention
 Impact Case Study 3: ICD-11 Complex Posttraumatic Stress Disorder: Introduction of a new
 psychological disorder and a tailored diagnostic assessment tool

 Public engagement

 We have a strong commitment to public engagement within the PRI, with numerous researchers
 contributing annually to local and international public events (e.g. ESRC Festival of Social
 Sciences; Northern Ireland Science Festival; Silesian Science Festival, Poland). A number of our
 researchers (Brick, Kennedy, O’Neill, Simms) have successfully secured both internal and
 external funding to support dissemination, knowledge transfer and public engagement
 activities. We acknowledge that impact related activities are time-consuming and as a result, the
 PRI workload model fully recognises public engagement, outreach and stakeholder
 engagement activities. This working environment practically supports researchers to ensure that
 their research reaches the right audience and that their work can generate meaningful
 benefits for society at large.

 Future strategic research and impact plans

 The PRI has undergone a significant transformation since REF2014. A key strategic
 development was consolidating the School of Psychology from a two-campus entity (based
 40 miles apart) to a one-campus entity in September 2019. This significant change was an ideal
 opportunity to reassess and enhance the PRI’s research direction and profile. Consolidation
 has enabled the coherent planning and development of a vibrant research infrastructure and
 culture (See Section 3). The PRI has used research theme group meetings, theme leader
 planning events and whole team away days to agree on the following strategic research goals
 for our future:

                                                                                           Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1. To provide a supportive and inspirational research environment to facilitate excellent
 research:

 Throughout the REF2021 cycle investment has enabled eight new permanent appointments,
 bolstering our research strengths in mental health, behavioural neuroscience and social
 psychology. Our future goals are to ensure further investment in staff through securing funds
 for new academic posts, increasing internal bespoke training opportunities for staff (e.g.
 through expansion of our Statistics Summer/Winter Schools) and providing opportunities for
 staff to receive research and career development support (e.g. through research theme
 meetings, increased uptake of sabbaticals and coaching).

 2. To foster strong collaborative and interdisciplinary relationships to secure large and
 sustainable grant income:

 The restructuring of our research activity into three clear themes has enabled us to identify
 synergies across individual research programmes to ensure collaboration within the PRI. This has
 been particularly important for early career researchers (ECRs), providing relevant mentoring,
 ring-fencing PhD studentships for new staff and collaborative opportunities. Our future goals
 include further strengthening these teams through the careful use of funds to pump-prime grant
 application ideas (through a transparent process), utilise funds to support networking around
 large grant calls (e.g. through hosting sandpit events within the PRI) and developing a database
 of participants who are keen to be involved in PPI activities, thus ensuring that we can be
 highly responsive to grant calls. Our work will be closely aligned with the new School of Medicine
 which will allow us maximise our existing research collaborations with national healthcare
 providers and extend our collaborative relationships to include new key partners.

 3. To produce research with national and international relevance with clear impact:

 The PRI has a long-standing commitment to undertake applied research with a clear focus on
 impact generation. By hosting international researchers, symposia and conferences we have
 increased our international profile and the global reach of our research programmes. Our future
 goals are to foster an environment in which knowledge transfer and impact is increasingly
 respected. We will do this by regularly communicating how PRI research is having impact
 through bi-monthly email communications, by celebrating “unsung impact” through a mini
 showcase of our impactful work to the university, and through increased investment in supporting
 researchers to share their research on an international basis through conference and
 workshop attendance. We will continue to engage in training with internal experts and
 external organisations on achieving impact. Ongoing research programmes will be supported
 financially by the RD to ensure their impact generation, specifically, the Northern Ireland-wide
 Child and Adolescent Mental Health and Well-being Census (as part of £815K survey with data
 collected by Perceptive Insights, Health and Social Care Trust) and Our Generation resilience and
 mental health intervention for young people for a post-conflict society (£590k, Special European
 Union Programmes Body, SEUPB).




                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Our staffing strategy has achieved our goal of attracting and retaining researchers through
 substantial investment in appointments, resulting in eight new academic staff joining the PRI.
 These appointments strategically build on our established successful programmes of research in
 REF2014 in Mental Health (N=2) and expand the PRI in terms of experimental methodologies in
 relation to Health and Ageing (N=4), and Children Young People and Schools (N=2). We have
 successfully secured appointments across the academic career scale (Lecturer: N=4;
 Reader: N=2; Professor: N=2), providing diversity in the career profile of the PRI. Overall, the
 academic staff profile is well balanced across all career levels (Professor= 35.3%, Reader=
 8.8%, Senior Lecturer= 17.6%, Lecturer= 32.4%, Research Fellow= 5.9%) indicating
 sustainability and continuity in the PRI workforce. The profile of career levels within the School
 also reflects the commitment to equality with progress being made over the REF period in
 terms of the promotion of females into more senior leadership positions (See Section 2.2).
 Our first ever female HoS (Giles) was appointed in 2015 and our first ever female RD (Simms)
 was appointed in 2018. Armour (established researcher) was appointed to the role of Associate
 Dean for Research and Impact (ADRI) in the Faculty of Life and Health Sciences in 2017.

 The PRI supports career progression for all researchers. Nine staff have been promoted
 during the REF2021 period (Senior Lecturer: Gallagher, Simpson; Reader: Armour, McBride,
 Shorter, Simms; Professor: Armour, Cassidy, Murphy). We have a vibrant and growing body
 of ECRs in new academic appointments (N=4) and currently have 12 contract research staff
 within the PRI. The commitment to contract research staff development is evidenced by the
 transition of a proportion of these staff to permanent contracts within the REF2021 period,
 one to Research Fellow (Ferry), one to Senior Research Fellow (Rosato) and one to Reader
 (Shorter). All researchers are mentored by staff within the PRI and can also avail of a faculty-
 level mentoring scheme. The unit implements the University’s Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers’ principles with annual opportunities for advancement, regular
 training and development.

 In the first year of appointment new researchers have a reduced teaching load to ensure they
 can establish their research programme, and their workload is increased in a phased manner
 over the second year. New staff are initially provided with a “buddy” to support them with any
 practical needs they may have but are assigned an official mentor by the RD and HoS within
 six months of appointment. New appointments are also allocated a funded PhD studentship to
 pump-prime their research activity within their respective research theme. A staff handbook
 provides new appointments with information about staff development opportunities provided
 within the institution. All staff have access to PRI funds to support conference attendance,
 training needs and laboratory equipment support. Following the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework, probation and biannual appraisal processes and meetings enable
 Training Needs Analyses (TNAs) and goal setting to be completed, support to be identified and
 a coherent plan of work to facilitate staff in their career progression.

 The university facilitates a wide-ranging professional researcher development programme,
 which includes training for researcher development, mentoring and PhD researcher
 supervision. 82% of our staff participated in university-level training and support

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 programmes over the REF2021 period. Researchers are supported, both financially and
 through time allocated in the work-load model, to engage with external development
 programmes, such as AURORA (x3 members of staff), Post Graduate Certificates in Advanced
 Statistics (x 1 member of staff) and gaining at least Associate Fellowship of the HEA (76.5% of
 staff; with 29.4% Associate Fellowship, 58.8% Fellowship and 11.8% Senior Fellowship).
 Succession planning is also built into the principles of the PRI’s workload. All major
 administrative roles are four-year positions, these are rotated through the team with
 mentoring provided. Within the PRI a mixture of early (Brick, Norwood), mid (Dunwoody,
 McBride, Shorter, Simms) and established (Cassidy, Leavey) career staff have major leadership
 or administrative roles.

 An institution level sabbatical policy was introduced in 2018 and is implemented at the Faculty
 level. Academics can apply for one term of sabbatical leave (one semester in duration) within a
 REF period. Careful planning of the sabbatical is carried out in conjunction with the RD and ADRI
 with specified objectives. PRI staff who have availed of this opportunity have significantly
 expanded their research networks, developed large grant applications and produced multi-
 author outputs. Researchers can also apply to the ADRI for up to 120 hours of teaching relief
 in relation to arising grant applications, providing time for researchers to focus on time-limited
 opportunities. In addition, researchers are aware that the PRI senior leadership team has a
 flexible approach to workload management and can approach the HoS and RD to discuss
 changes in workload in response to specific grant calls. Therefore, the PRI workload model
 is used responsively to maximise arising opportunities to secure research funds.

 Contract researchers are integral to the PRI. Currently, there are twelve contract researchers
 within the PRI. A contract researcher forum meets once a semester to provide a
 communication mechanism for any queries from the group. In addition, an academic member of
 staff, Davison, is the contract researcher advisor, acting as a point of contact for any queries
 from contract researchers. Contract researchers have access to PRI funds to support career
 development opportunities, such as networking support or funds for open-access publication.
 Contract researchers contribute to School Board, research away days and the PRI seminar series.
 The RD is a member of the HR Excellence in Research committee that plans and implements
 action plans to improve career outcomes of contract researchers.

 Visiting Professors are also strategically appointed and reviewed within the PRI. These
 appointments are used to ensure solid collaborations between academic institutions or key
 public agencies (see Table 1). Visiting Professors provide mentorship for staff in specific
 subject topics, methodological advances, provide strategic advice on research
 development, policy transfer expertise and broader planning for the PRI.




                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Table 1: Visiting Professors during 2014-2021


  Prof Stephen Joseph            Prof Gerard Cunningham          Prof Gerard Lynch
  Professor of Psychology        Independent clinical            Consultant Psychiatrist
  University of Nottingham       psychologist                    Northern Health and Social
                                                                 Care Trust

  Prof Bill Flack                Prof Robin Davidson             Prof Roger O’Sullivan
  Professor of Psychology        Head of Clinical Psychology     Director of Ageing Research
  Bucknell University            Services                        and Development
                                 Belfast City Hospital Trust     Institute of Public Health in
                                                                 Ireland

  Prof Seeromanie Harding        Prof Rory O’Connor              Prof Nicola Doherty
  Professor of Social            Professor of Health             Consultant Lead Clinical
  Epidemiology                   Psychology                      Psychologist
  King’s College London          Glasgow University              Western Health and Social
                                                                 Care Trust


 PhD researchers

 Currently, 73 PhD researchers are registered within the PRI. During the REF2021 period 99 PhD
 researchers have graduated from our programme. In relation to PhD completions over the
 REF2021 period 25 (27%) were funded by the Department for Economy scholarships, these
 studentships can only be accessed by applicants that meet UK residency status and target the
 development of local research talent. Other studentships were more broadly available for both
 local and international students: 10 were funded centrally through UU Vice Chancellor’s
 Research Studentship scheme, 3 by H2020 Marie Curie Sklodowska Fellowships and one
 Health and Social Care Research and Development Doctoral Fellowship. We also
 supervised a large number of self-funded PhD researchers (N=60). According to PRES2020
 PhD researchers reported 92.6% overall satisfaction with their experience in the PRI. This is
 substantially higher than the UK overall reported average (80%) and the UK unit-specific
 average (84%). PhD researchers specifically highlighted the supportive research environment,
 excellent supervision and training opportunities.

 The UU Doctoral College (REF 5a; Section 2) was launched in November 2017. The Doctoral
 College provides support and training for PhD researchers throughout the university and is
 serviced by 12 dedicated staff. PhD researchers’ progression is supported and monitored
 through assessments at 3 months post registration, 9 months post registration (at which transfer
 to PhD researcher is completed) and subsequent assessments at 2 years and 3 years. The
 assessment at 3 years acts as preparation for the viva voce when academics not involved in the
 thesis are able to engage with the candidate in academic debate. At all points in this timetable,
 academics who are not involved with the PhD supervision provide objective and supportive
 feedback.

 Following completion of annual training needs assessments with their supervisory team, PhD
 researchers formulate a training plan. A cornerstone of UU Doctoral College is accessibility to
 excellent training through the Researcher Development Programme (informed and guided by

                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Vitae Researcher Development Framework) to develop PhD researchers’ methodological
 expertise, communication skills and impact potential (REF 5a; Section 2). The UU Doctoral
 College facilitates an annual Festival of Research during which PhD researchers can showcase
 their research and develop research dissemination skills. The institution also invests in
 communications training for PhD researchers around the 3 Minute Thesis (3MT®) competition.
 In 2020, a PRI PhD researcher, Nolan, won the university-wide 3MT® and progressed to the
 national stage of the competition. Specific psychology-related skills are addressed within the
 PRI through bespoke training courses focused on theoretical rigour, cutting edge
 methodologies, writing for publication and developing employment prospects. Access to
 advanced statistical training is provided through the PRI’s annual Statistics Summer School
 (covering complex statistical analyses techniques). All DfE and VCRS funded PhD researchers
 are allocated £2.7k research training budget over the period of their studentship to support any
 additional bespoke training needs and conference attendance.

 PhD researchers also attend and present at fortnightly research seminars and associated
 discussions. With infrastructure developments within the PRI, PhD researchers have access to a
 range of advanced facilities to develop specific and transferable skills for research careers. At
 PRI level, we invested substantial internal funds in 2018-2019 to develop two dedicated PhD
 researcher office spaces, and these serve as hubs for PhD researchers to collaborate and
 support one another, and to ensure that our PhD researchers are central to the PRI research
 environment.

 The PRI has a Postgraduate Tutor (McBride), a dedicated administrative role that is recognised
 in our workload model. The Psychology PhD Researcher committee meets on a quarterly
 basis and provides a communication structure for the RD and Post-graduate Tutor to support
 requested developments. PhD supervisors are provided with training on supervision, and a
 particular focus of the PRI is the development of our PhD researchers for future careers in
 research. During this REF cycle 19.6% of our journal outputs were co-authored with PhD
 researchers and 15.2% of outputs were first authored by PhD researchers, evidencing the
 excellent training and career development opportunities that PRI staff provide. The quality and
 support provided to our PhD researchers has been recognized through the award of prizes (e.g.
 Frost: UK Psychological Trauma Society Conference poster award; Kahn: NIBPS conference
 poster award; Timlin: NIBPS conference poster award), travel awards (Collins: British
 Neuroscience Society; McLafferty: National Conference of University Professors) and
 competitively won fellowships (Flood: College of Radiographers Doctoral Fellowship). Over this
 REF period our PhD graduates have been appointed to numerous academic institutions in
 both research associate/fellowship positions (e.g. McGeady, McGlinchey, McAnee, O’Neil:
 Queen’s University Belfast; Cahoon, McParland: University College Dublin) and academic
 (McHugh: Letterkenny Institute of Technology, UU; McParland: Queen’s University Belfast;
 McElroy: University of Leicester; Norwood: UU) positions. In addition, a number of our PhD
 graduates are employed in broader research focused agencies (e.g. Hitchens, McBride:
 Northern Ireland Statistics Research Agency; Gamble: Public Health Agency; Morning: Verbal Arts
 Centre).

 In addition to the PhD programme, academics in the PRI (Leslie, Barnes-Holmes) also lead a
 Faculty-wide master's in research (MRes). This programme has successfully run for 9 years
 under the leadership of Leslie. This programme provides students with an opportunity to develop
 their academic and research skills, increasing their exposure to interdisciplinary

                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 approaches to research and supporting the research training pipeline across the Faculty.
 Many MRes students have used this training opportunity to successfully bolster their PhD
 studentship applications, e.g. Duncan securing PhD funding (2020 intake) within the PRI.

 Equality and Diversity

 The PRI is a supportive and inclusive environment. Both the RD and HoS have made
 substantial commitments to the Athena SWAN process through their contribution to the SoP
 committees, ring-fencing budgets to support related activities, ensuring that the Chair of the
 Athena SWAN panel is a recognised administrative role in the PRI workload model and
 ensuring Athena SWAN is a standing item on School Board meetings. The SoP was awarded an
 Athena SWAN Bronze award in 2016 (led by Simms) and the application for a Silver award
 was submitted in November 2020 (led by Kennedy). The ethos of Athena SWAN has been
 outworked within the PRI and has enabled cultural change and increased staff progression
 over this REF cycle (see Section 2.1). Staff in the PRI are expected to be on campus three
 days a week during term time, with flexible working hours encouraged. In addition, the
 University renewed the Institutional Level Bronze Award in 2017, with Simms being a
 steering committee member and assisting in writing the submission (REF 5a; Section 3).
 Kennedy is now the AS Champion within the PRI, and she sits on the university wide
 “Returning Carers Scheme”, which provides financial support to those returning after a period
 of absence for caring responsibilities, and University Athena SWAN Champions’ committee.

 Through the School-level Athena SWAN application process three main issues were
 highlighted and have been addressed. Mentoring was identified as a priority, therefore all new
 members of staff and staff who have requested mentors engage in a mentoring programme
 within the PRI. Staff can also avail of a faculty-level scheme through which they can be paired
 with a mentor external to the PRI. In addition, issues relating to workload transparency were
 highlighted. Clear and transparent workload modelling was developed in conjunction with the
 staff team and the final model was communicated across the team at School Board in
 October 2019. This model recognises teaching and supervisory load as well as all research
 related activity (grant writing, output generation, stakeholder engagement, outreach, PhD
 researcher supervision). Staff are allocated from one to up to three days per week dedicated
 research time depending on their level of research activity. The SoP has also developed a Team
 Charter to ensure that excellent working relations, equality and diversity are upheld. Diversity
 and inclusivity are valued, actively promoted and embedded in all research processes and policies
 as outlined in the UU Code of Practice (CoP), which places people at its centre, and ensures
 barrier free processes to maximise inclusivity and participation in REF. The CoP was used to guide
 identification of SRR staff and selecting outputs for REF2021.

 During this REF period five members of staff have taken periods of maternity leave (Campbell,
 Kirby, McBride, O’Neill, Simms). The HoS and RD have ensured that these periods of leave have
 been managed sensitively and returning from leave has been planned to ensure these staff
 members experienced a phased return to a full workload. Any requests for flexible working
 have been facilitated. The PRI supports staff returning from any carers leave through a reduced
 teaching load for the semester following the period of leave. The PRI is proud of its 100%
 return rate from periods of leave. All of these staff have successfully applied for financial support
 from the university “Returning Carers Scheme” (up to £2.5k), which has funded conference
 attendance, research assistance and additional laboratory costs. Our staff have been supported

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to attend conferences accompanied by young children and partners to ensure that parenting
 roles are not detrimental to access to these vital events. More broadly, the PRI ensures equality
 of access to support funds for research support and conference attendance by using open calls
 for support applications, with clear criteria for prioritisation of funds.

 Our research portfolio has a clear focus on mental health and well-being. This research base
 influences our research culture with the HoS and RD ensuring that staff well-being is a
 priority and that individuals with protected characteristics are treated with equity and reasonable
 adjustments are ensured, specifically in terms of ensuring workload balance, and access to
 financial support for career development. The PRI also has regular events open to PhD
 researchers and staff to support well-being such as informal staff gatherings (e.g. coffee
 mornings, quizzes), events to encourage physical activity (e.g. marathon relay teams, campus
 walks) and our staff contribute practical clinical skills to broader staff well-being training
 (e.g. stress management).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 The PRI has increased grant income by 61.5% over the REF2021 period (see Table 1)
 emphasising the successful implementation of our research strategy. The PRI’s focus on
 collaborative research programmes has ensured a diverse income stream totalling £10.5m
 with £4.4m from research councils. Funding sources reflect the broad reach and scope of the
 PRI research portfolio with a total of 159 competitively awarded grants, including research
 councils (N= 22), European Union (N= 10), Charitable trusts (e.g. Nuffield Foundation= 50),
 Health and Social Care Research and Development (N= 32) and Government Departments
 (N= 23). Strategic grant awards for an international consortium for Doctoral Training
 Programmes and Network grants have particularly enhanced the vibrancy and sustainability of
 our research environment.

 Strategic university-level investment in 2018 has considerably strengthened the PRI’s
 capability to collaborate both internally and externally through the development of the new
 IMHS with significant institutional investment. This initiative has generated three full-time
 academic positions within the PRI (2 x Readers: McSherry, Shorter, 1 x Lecturer: Lagdon)
 along with additional appointments in Biomedical Sciences, Sport and Public Health. These
 academics, lead both national and international collaborations in conjunction with key
 stakeholders (such as mental health charities, AWARE, Samaritans, and local health and social
 care trusts), are leading national and international collaborations. This new Institute aligns
 closely to the PRI’s high-quality interdisciplinary, applied mental health research. In 2019,
 the introduction of a University-wide annual Interdisciplinary PhD studentship competition
 significantly benefited the PRI, with an additional two studentships being awarded to our
 academics through this mechanism. It has allowed interdisciplinary research collaborations
 with colleagues in the creative arts and computer sciences to be formalised.

 Infrastructure

 During the REF2021 period there has been substantial infrastructure investment into the PRI,
 including a £1.3m development of advanced laboratory facilities to support our new research


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 initiatives and interactive teaching spaces. These laboratory spaces facilitate collaborative working
 both within and outside the PRI. Due to the collegial environment within the PRI, laboratory
 spaces are seen as PRI resources and are shared across academic, contract and PhD
 researchers. We also have an online booking system for 12 experimental cubicles and 8 social
 skills suites. Department for Economy (DfE) funding allowed us to increase research capacity
 by purchasing new, and updating existing, equipment. The strategic investment in
 experimental research equipment over this REF cycle (~£250k between internal faculty funds and
 DoE) has helped redress the balance of the PRI’s research capacity. This has enabled growth in
 experimental research whilst maintaining investment in mental health sciences,
 predominantly by focusing on large-scale secondary data analysis projects, a historical
 strength in the PRI (see below).

 Significant investment in our research environment over this REF cycle allows our researchers to
 benefit from excellent in-house provision for computational modelling, experimental methods,
 developmental science and neuroscience. Our collaborations across the institution also gives
 our researchers’ access to additional state-of -the-art neuroscience technology (i.e. 306
 channel Elekta Neuromag TRIUX magnetoencephalography) based within Computer
 Sciences and wet-lab environments in Biomedical Sciences.

 There are a number of specialist laboratories within the PRI: A) The Human Performance and
 Exercise Laboratory contains a h/p/cosmos Quasar Med treadmill, on-line metabolic and
 cardiovascular analysis capabilities (Cortex Metalyzer 3B Spiroergometry system), and biological
 measurement facilities (capillary blood analysis: Lactate Pro 2 test meter). This laboratory is
 recognised as a core facility within the institution to allow easy research collaborations across the
 university (particularly Sport Science and Biomedical Sciences) and with external organisations.
 B) The Cognitive Neuroscience Laboratory contains brain stimulation equipment including a
 Magstim stimulator that allows for the investigation of brain activity using magnetic stimuli and
 HDC tDCS kit which allows for the modulation of brain excitability. The lab contains both wired
 and wireless Electromyography (EMG) equipment, allowing for the recording of muscle activity
 from a range of muscles to be recorded, and this can be used within the lab or in conjunction with
 other labs, i.e. The Human Performance and Exercise Laboratory. The B-ALERT EEG system
 provides multiple options for data synchronization, data quality monitoring, and feedback of brain
 activity. A fully immersive, interactive virtual reality set-up includes the HTC Vive Pro Eye Head-
 mounted display with integrated eye-tracking and five body motion sensors to track bodily
 movements in real time. Equipment can be shared across both the Human Performance and
 Exercise and the Cognitive Neuroscience Laboratories which makes a unique, interdisciplinary
 collaborative research facility within UU. C) The Behavioural Insights Laboratory includes 3
 eye trackers (2x SMI and 1 x TOBII Spectrum with TOBII glasses). In addition, a full TEA Biometric
 kit is also interfaced with the TOBII eye tracker, including GSR, ECG recording capacity. D) The
 Data Analytics Centre includes an ESRC-funded Safepod (a secure data setting, £30k, ESRC).
 The SafePod contains CCTV camera fittings, high speed internet access and two work-stations
 which ensures secure and remote access to high level data. The SafePod is supported by PRI
 technical and administrative staff and is associated with ten academic members of staff (mainly
 from the Mental Health research theme), six contract researchers and related PhD researchers.
 Due to COVID-19 the installation and operation of this facility was delayed. However, this facility
 investment builds on our success with ESRC funding of ADRC-NI and SDAI and ensures that our
 researchers have on-site access to sensitive administrative data whilst also maintaining data
 security.

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In addition, twelve dedicated experimental cubicles provide testing facilities for cognitive,
 behavioural and social psychology experiments. A further eight Social Skills Suites are fully
 equipped with high resolution video and audio recording for behavioural and experimental
 recording. These spaces are also used for interviews and focus groups for qualitative research.
 One room is also equipped as a child-friendly KidsLab for research with toddlers and their
 families; this room includes one way glass for viewing participants and digital recording equipment.

 Research support

 The PRI aims to develop and nurture research excellence. PRI researchers are supported by
 a dedicated research administrator and two research technicians. Support is also provided to
 academics through Research and Impact (R&I) is a vital source of assistance, training and advice.
 Members of the PRI have developed strong working relationships with R&I who provide advice
 and support to identifying funding sources, producing costings, and advising on grant
 management and consortium building. The PRI is supported by both a Faculty level grant
 acquisition manager and an impact officer. Specialist support is also available for specific
 funding calls such as SEUPB, Innovate UK and GCRF with staff being offered financial support
 for strategic meetings, writing assistance and feedback on applications. R&I also offers pump
 priming funding focused on specific calls such as GCRF or inter-disciplinary research
 incentives, this support has directly contributed to funding success through GCRF (Simms,
 £252k). Centrally organised training enables researchers to develop their skills in grant acquisition,
 writing for publication, communication and impact through the Professional Researcher
 Development programme (REF 5a; Section2). This infrastructure enables access to excellent
 training and resources for researcher development. The PRI hosts a vibrant bi-weekly seminar
 series that showcases ongoing research in the School, including that by PhD researchers,
 and hosts external speakers with the overall aim to generate research ideas and collaborations.
 These seminars have continued online throughout the course of the COVID-19 pandemic to
 maintain connections across the PRI.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations

 Our research collaborations encompass partners from 39 different countries and numerous
 Centres of Excellence (e.g. Centre for Mathematical Cognition, Learning Disabilities
 Observatory, MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit, Public Health England, The Danish National
 Centre for Psychotraumatology, UK Centre for Tobacco and Alcohol Studies). Bunting, Ennis,
 Ferry and O’Neill’s contribution to the WHO World Mental Health Survey Initiative (led by
 Harvard Medical School) has developed substantially over the past 15 years and has recently
 expanded to World Mental Health Surveys International College Student Project.
 McLaughlin and Cassidy are partners in a NIHR funded Public Health Interventions Research
 Studies Team (PHIRST) initiative, one of 4 across the UK, in partnership with colleagues in
 University of Hertfordshire.

 Our national and international prestige has been recognised by our successful participation
 in Doctoral and Post-Doctoral training schemes and networks. Shevlin, Murphy and
 Armour secured European H2020 training network funding for The Collaborative Network
 for Training and Excellence in Psychotraumatology (CONTEXT, £675k). The training network


                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 involved academic collaborators across Europe, including University of Southern Denmark and
 Trinity College Dublin, and third sector organisations such as the Dublin Rape Crisis Centre,
 the Red Cross and Spiritan Asylum Services Initiative (Spriasi). The aim of this network was to
 build capacity and expertise and foster innovative practice in the area of global
 psychotraumatology. The innovative approach of placing 12 PhD researchers within third
 sector organisations throughout the lifetime of their studies enabled meaningful and impactful
 research studies to be delivered within the timeline of the grant. McDowell is a partner in the
 Sharland Foundation Developmental Disabilities Applied Behaviour Analysis Research
 Impact Network, a network of UK academic institutions working in partnership with the charitable
 sector, with an associated three Post-Doctoral researchers (UU: £75,360). This network has
 been used as a best practice model for the Welsh Government when developing strategic
 research networks. Brick leads the RESIST (Research-evaluated Endurance Strategies
 Intending to Support Training) that brings together experts based in the UK and Europe who
 focus on the psychology of endurance activity. The BPS-funded research working group includes
 members from St Mary's University, University of Wolverhampton, University of St Mark and St
 John, University of Essex, Edge Hill University, and the University of Bologna and has produced
 a number of key outputs, public engagement events and an online resource for endurance
 exercise participants.

 Our researchers have successfully secured GCRF funding to build international networks and
 deliver impactful research on issues that affect ODA countries. Keenan and Gallagher lead
 the behavioural sciences component of the GCRF Safewater project (£5.7million) that aims to
 develop, test and ensure uptake of clean water solutions. This transdisciplinary project
 includes researchers from Biomedical Sciences, Engineering, Business and Law at UU in
 collaboration with academics from University of Medellin (Colombia), the University of Sao Paulo
 (Brazil) and non-governmental organisations Centro de Ciencia y Tecnología de Antioquia
 (Colombia), and Fundacion Cantaro Azul (Mexico). Simms leads Home Environments for
 Learning Mathematics (HELM, £252k) which investigates the impact of the home
 environment on mathematical development with partners from the Cuban Neurosciences
 Centre (Cuba) and University of Chihuahua (Mexico) with key partners of the Departments of
 Education in both Mexico and Cuba. This network aims to develop novel techniques to understand
 the home environment using ecologically valid methods in ODA countries.

 The PRI is committed to working in partnership with the charitable sector. Therefore, we
 have a suite of large grants that work closely with our partners and stakeholders. O’Neill, and
 Ennis lead an interdisciplinary team (including colleagues from Computer Science and
 Biomedical Science) leads Future Minds engagement project (£100k, MRC/AHRC/ESRC)
 working with service providers (e.g. Youth Action NI and NI Youth Forum) who engage with
 young people and young adults. The aim of this project is to set future research priorities within
 children, young people and young adult’s mental health. O’Neill, in collaboration with Ennis,
 Campbell and Kirby, also leads the PRI contribution to Our Generation (€712,025, SEUPB).
 This project works in partnership with Action Mental Health, Donegal Youth Service, Co-
 Operation Ireland, Youth Action NI, Youthwork Ireland and PlayBoard NI on a cross-border
 and cross-community basis to deliver and evaluate interventions that support the mental and
 emotional wellbeing and build resilience of children, young people, and their key contacts
 (n=36,000), whilst contributing to peace building within local communities in NI and the border
 counties of Ireland.



                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Throughout this REF cycle our researchers, at a variety of career stages, have been
 recognised with national and international awards: Chaim Danieli Young Professional Award
 for Excellence in Research in Traumatic Stress (Armour), Young Minds in Psychotraumatology
 Research Award (Armour), BACB: Michael Hemmingway Award (Keenan), SABA, International
 Dissemination of Behavior Analysis Award (Keenan, Leslie), Autism Speaks: International
 Advocacy Award (Keenan), British Council/ Newton Fund Brain Injury Fellow (Kennedy), BPS Neil
 O’Connor Award (Simms). Simms and external collaborators were awarded the British Association
 of Perinatal Medicine (BAPM) Gopi Menon Award 2020 for ‘Excellence in Research or Innovation’.
 Leslie was appointed as a Fellow of the Association for Behavior Analysis International. Craig
 currently holds a Royal Academy of Engineering Enterprise Fellowship.

 PRI researchers have also served as presidents or chairs of impactful international
 organisations: Keenan: President of the European Association for Behaviour Analysis (2020-
 2022), Cassidy: Chair of the Division of Health Psychology, BPS.

 Our researchers also hold a number of visiting positions at international institutions:
 Professorships: University College Dublin, Ireland and Masaryk University, Czech Republic
 (Keenan), University College London (Leavey), University of Southern Denmark (Shevlin);
 Fellowships: University of Lincoln (Brick), University of Maastricht (Leavey), University of
 Warwick, UK (McBride), Australian National University (Shorter) and Lectureships: University of
 East Anglia (Kennedy).

 The PRI have hosted 12 researchers for extended research visits over the REF period from
 institutions across the globe: Kennedy: Dr Michael Grey (University of East Anglia, September
 2019); Kirby: Professor Myron Belfer and Dr Kirsty Stark (Harvard University, June 2017); Leavey:
 Professor Seeromanie Harding (KCL, September 2017), Professor Thomas Prohasks (George
 Mason University, December 2018 and June 2018), Professor Kelly Aschbrenner (Dartmouth
 College, June 2018); Murphy: Dr Filippo Varese (University of Manchester, December 2019),
 Professor Richard Bentall (University of Sheffield, November 2019), Dr Philip Hyland (Maynooth
 University, October 2017), Dr Frederique Vallieres (Trinity College Dublin, October 2017); Simms:
 Professor Jo-Anne LeFevre and Professor Chris Herdman (Carleton University, March- July
 2016).

 Researchers in the PRI have served on the editorial boards on a variety of respected
 international academic journals including: Addiction (McBride), British Journal of
 Developmental Psychology (Simms), British Journal of Educational Psychology (Simms), British
 Journal of Health Psychology (Shevlin), Child Abuse Review (McSherry), Clinical Child
 Psychology and Psychiatry (Shevlin), Drugs, Education, Prevention and Policy (Shorter), EC
 Gynaecology (Simpson), Frontiers in Neurology (Kennedy), International Review of Sport and
 Exercise Psychology (Craig), International Journal of Psychology and Psychological Therapy
 (Barnes-Holmes), Journal of Affective Disorders (McSherry), Journal of Criminal Psychology
 (Adamson), Journal of Sports Science and Medicine (Brick), Journal of Traumatic Stress
 (Statistical Editor: Shevlin), Social Psychiatry and Psychiatric Epidemiology (McBride) and Social
 Psychology Review (Campbell). In addition, PRI researchers have guest-edited special issues:
 British Journal of Developmental Psychology (Simms), Child Abuse and Neglect (McSherry),
 Children Australia (McSherry), European Journal of Psychotraumatology (Murphy), Frontiers in
 Neurology (Craig), Irish Journal of Psychology (Shevlin), Journal for Learning Development in
 Higher Education (Giles), Journal of Criminal Psychology (Shevlin), Journal of Religion, Mental

                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Health and Culture (Leavey), Journal of Addiction (Leavey), Journal of Public Mental Health
 (Leavey). McSherry has recently been appointed as Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Child and
 Adolescent Trauma, with additional associate editors from the PRI.

 PRI researchers provide expert advice through being members of advisory panels:
 McSherry: NI Public Health Agency Health and Wellbeing of Looked After Children Committee
 and Scottish Government Advisory Panel regarding national returning children home for care
 scheme. Shorter: New Strategic Direction in Alcohol and Drugs Policy Steering Group, Institute of
 Public Health in Ireland North South Alcohol Policy Advisory Group; Simpson: Tobacco Strategy
 Implementation Working Group – Public Health Agency; Kennedy: UK Stroke Forum Steering
 Group). Leavey: Chair of the international review panel of The Irish Longitudinal Study on Aging
 (TILDA). Campbell: Mental Health and Psychosocial Support in Humanitarian Crises: Setting
 Consensus-Based Research Priorities for 2021-2030. Craig: quality assessed a number of
 Doctoral Programmes at European institutions through international panel membership (University
 of Rijeka, Croatia, University of Zagreb, Croatia, University of Talinn and Tartu University,
 Estonia). Cassidy: NI Impact Forum on Adult Learning report on Adult Learning: Health and
 Wellbeing.

 PRI researchers have contributed to the broader scientific community by organising
 national and international conferences hosted or co-hosted by UU: British Psychological
 Society Developmental Section 2016 (Simms), British Psychological Society Division of Sport and
 Exercise Psychology 2018 (Breslin, Brick), Dementia, Transforming the Journey: Prevention,
 Treatment and Quality of Life 2018 (Simpson), International Association for Suicide Prevention
 2019 (O’Neill), International Clinical Trials Methodology 2017 (Shorter), Mathematical Cognition
 and Learning Society 2020 (Simms), Psychological Society of Ireland Division of Behaviour
 Analysis 2014-2020 (Leslie) and Psychology Health and Medicine 2015 and 2018 (Cassidy,
 McLaughlin, Simpson).

 Our researchers have also been recognised through invited keynotes at prestigious
 conferences including: Brick: Italian Society of Motor Science and Sport (2019, Bologna,
 Italy), BPS East Of England Branch Conference (2019, Cambridge, UK); Craig: International
 Symposium on Computer Science in Sport (2019, Moscow, Russia), European Conference on
 Visual Perception (2018, Trieste, Italy), European Congress of Sport and Exercise Science
 (2017, Nottingham, England), European Conference of Sports Sciences (2016, Vienna,
 Austria); Keenan: Association for Behavior Analysis International (2015, San Antonio, USA),
 International Summit and Conference Behavior Analysis and Autism in Higher Education (2018,
 Stockholm, Sweden); Kennedy: UK Stroke Forum (2014, Harrogate, UK); Leavey: Royal
 College of Psychiatry Annual Conference (2019, London, UK), International Association of Law
 and Mental Health (2019, Rome, Italy); Leslie: Sixth Sarasota Symposium on Behavior Analysis
 (2018, Sarasota, USA); Association for Behavior Analysis International (2018, San Diego,
 USA); McSherry: UK Association of Educational Psychologist (AEP) annual conference (2016,
 Belfast, Northern Ireland); Shevlin: Treating Trauma of the Troubles (2015, Belfast, UK);
 Shevlin: BPS Crisis, Disaster and Trauma Conference (2019, London, UK); Simms: BPS
 Developmental Section (2016, Belfast, UK).




                                                                                          Page 19
