Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Glasgow

 Unit of Assessment: 17 Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The University of Glasgow has a distinguished history of business and management research,
 beginning with the Chair in Moral Philosophy established in 1727. This position, held by Adam
 Smith from 1752-1764, marked the birth of Political Economy at Glasgow. Today, the Adam Smith
 Business School is research-led, professionally-focused, and triple-accredited. We build on our
 history through our civic, national and international roles. We focus on the study of the production
 of goods and services and their relations with law and government, and the creation of personal
 and collective well-being.

 Context and structure

 The current School was created in 2010 when the departments of Accounting & Finance,
 Economics, and Management Studies were brought together to respond to the growing complexity
 of 21st century business education. Since then, our objectives have been to consolidate
 departmental integration, expand the scale and scope of research, teaching, and connections with
 practice, and to enhance student and staff experience. These objectives contribute directly to the
 University’s aim “To bring inspiring people together and create a world-class environment for
 learning and research, empowering staff and students to discover and share knowledge that can
 change the world”.

 Our achievements have been significant and sustained. The School is now a triple-accredited
 provider of undergraduate and postgraduate business education and a centre of excellence in
 research and impact.

 Together these achievements have increased the attractiveness of teaching programmes to
 students (1,657 UG, 1,995 PGT in 2019/20) and made the School a stimulating and prestigious
 community for doctoral students (193 PGR) and academic staff (197). The comparable numbers
 for 2012/13 were as follows: 1,428 UG students; 1,462 PGT students; 98 doctoral students; 114
 academic staff.

 The School realises its research and teaching strategies through the separate and collaborative
 engagements of a matrix of subject groups and research clusters. The former (Accounting &
 Finance, Economics, Management) manage teaching programmes and academic staff, freeing
 the latter to focus on research, development and impact. Our commitment to a research-led
 curriculum provides distinctive research drivers not only of specialist electives taught by leading
 scholars, but also core modules informed by the latest knowledge.

 Research strategy 2014-2020

 Our research objectives since 2014 have been to continue to develop the research
 establishment, increase the scope and quality of outputs, intensify the impact on communities of
 policy and practice, diversify income and expand the postgraduate research community. Our
 strategies and structures have been focused on developing our governance to provide a
 supportive high-achieving research culture for staff and doctoral students that makes the School
 a rewarding community to be part of.

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Again the achievements have been sustained since 2014. As the following sections testify, REF-
 eligible staff have increased from 93 to 134, the portfolio of outputs, as measured by publication
 in internationally recognised journals, has expanded, impact on policy and practice now has
 extensive reach and significance (well beyond the nine submitted Impact Case Studies), research
 income has increased in volume and sources, and the doctoral student community has increased
 from 98 to 193.

 Research governance. Our research strategy is founded on the role of research clusters in
 developing a research community and enhancing funding, quality, dissemination and impact. We
 have also strengthened the coordinating role of the School’s Research, Scholarship and
 Knowledge Exchange Committee (RSKE) and links with the College of Social Sciences’
 College Assessment Panel (the REF oversight and governance group).

 Research impact. The strategic prominence of impact on policy and practice reflects our
 commitment to improving the civic, national and international communities in which we live and
 our responsibility to achieve impact in return for public funding. We thus appointed Impact
 Champions from the start of the REF period, and through workload allocation allowances, annual
 performance reviews and promotion criteria (see Section 2) we also incentivise engagement with
 research users and communities of practice. Most experienced research staff had already
 developed strategies of engagement with their relevant practice communities; others, especially
 Early Career Researchers, are encouraged to draw on this experience, as well as being advised
 by Cluster Leads and research support staff in order to realise their impact. The REF2021 Impact
 Case Studies have been developed through the School’s research leadership to exemplify impact
 across the range of specialisms and policy and practice communities that have benefited from our
 research.

 Research resources. Our strategy for building these resources has included providing explicit
 incentives for securing external grant income, concentrating appointments in areas of research
 strength and providing dedicated administrative support for research clusters. Although more
 teaching-only appointments would release more time for research, the proportion of academic
 staff on such contracts has increased only modestly since 2014, with the current level
 (approximately one-fifth) reflecting our strategic view of the optimal research and teaching balance
 in a research-led business school.

 Research governance through research clusters

 To promote a vital and sustainable research culture, research clusters operate within the
 framework set by the RSKE Committee, which advises the School’s Executive Committee on
 research-related issues in the School’s strategy. Cluster Leads are ex officio members of the
 RSKE Committee which also serves as a forum for information sharing.

 The cluster model itself was adopted during the REF2014 period when eight clusters comprised
 the two submissions (Economics; Business and Management Studies). The three additional
 clusters in REF2021 (Applied Economics, Entrepreneurship Development & Political Economy,
 and Services & Operations Management) reflect the School’s expansion and integration.

 The clusters share research values that emphasise inclusion, collaboration, internationalisation,
 external engagement and impact. All academic staff are members of one cluster, regardless of
 their contractual status. By this means, clusters help staff on Learning, Teaching & Scholarship

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (LT&S) contracts to fulfil their scholarship obligations (essential for research-led teaching) and
 keep open the possibility of future contract change to include research if desired. Doctoral students
 are also members, which helps their integration into the research community. Staff and research
 students often attend events organised by other clusters, reflecting and facilitating the inherent
 interdisciplinarity of individual and team research in Business and Management Studies.

 Through workshops and individual advice, the clusters support their members to secure external
 funding, produce high-quality outputs, carry out editorial and reviewing roles at leading journals,
 collaborate with other institutions, and forge international and national impacts in the public, private
 and charitable sectors (see Section 2). Clusters run collective events, such as academic seminars
 with external visitors, paper development workshops, meet-the-editor sessions, internal staff
 presentations of work-in-progress and training sessions.

 One organisational benefit of the cluster model in a large business school is shared research
 leadership. Each cluster has a Lead and Alternate (Senior Lecturer-level and above), with
 administrative support provided by the School. Clusters smooth research management and
 maximise success in internal grant applications (e.g. Impact Acceleration Account Awards,
 Knowledge Exchange Grants and Charitable Trusts) and external funding bids. Decisions by the
 Head of School and the College Dean of Research on which applications to support rely
 considerably on the prior work of Cluster Leads.

 The School is not prescriptive about research topics, but the clusters have developed their own
 distinctive strategic fields, research portfolios and communities of practice with which they interact
 and to which they contribute knowledge and practice.

 ACCOUNTING conducts research on statutory, regulatory and policy-related topics, including in
 relation to the accounting profession, corporate governance, corporate insolvency, financial
 reporting, and public sector accounting. Critical and interpretative approaches to research are
 strongly represented. The Adam Smith Observatory of Corporate Reporting Practices was
 established in 2020 as a research hub on global practices. Two UoA17 Impact Case Studies
 (David Heald and Catriona Paisey) come from this cluster.

 APPLIED ECONOMICS concentrates on generating societal impact by influencing business and
 public policy interventions based on rigorous evidence. It addresses issues such as poverty,
 inequality, migration, climate change and crime, and develops thinking in labour, development,
 health and financial and behavioural economics. Research crosses conventional disciplinary and
 methodological boundaries to engage with related disciplines, such as sociology, law, history,
 psychology, politics and health studies. One of UoA17’s Impact Case Studies comes from this
 cluster (Sayantan Ghosal and Theodore Koutmeridis).

 ENTREPRENEURSHIP, DEVELOPMENT & POLITICAL ECONOMY investigates how wealth is created and
 used for society, and how and why people, charities, businesses, and governments create new
 ventures. Working with such groups, cluster members seek to understand what these activities
 mean for people and society in order to create better outcomes. Their research is funded by
 governments, charities and private business, enabling them to make connections across the whole
 of society. Two UoA17 Impact Case Studies (Andrew Cumbers and Colin Mason) come from this
 cluster.




                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 FINANCE aims to promote world-leading research on corporate finance, quantitative finance,
 banking, asset pricing, and behavioural and household finance. The research seeks to impact on
 the way policymakers and financial institutions operate. The cluster engages strongly with financial
 institutions in the European Union and with central banks, including the European Central Bank,
 the Bank of England and the Bank of Portugal.

 HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT & ORGANISATIONAL BEHAVIOUR explores the different needs and
 priorities of multiple stakeholders in and around the workplace. Cluster members draw on different
 levels of analysis in exploring current theory, policy and practice-driven issues. Researchers work
 closely with companies, government agencies, employers and charities to contribute to debates
 on diversity and inclusion, organisational trust, leadership, the workers’ voice, and the regulation
 of work and employment.

 INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS & ENTERPRISE engages with and meets the needs of practitioners of
 internationalisation in Scotland and beyond through interdisciplinary research and allied teaching
 programmes. It has extensive international links with researchers, small and medium-sized
 enterprises (SMEs), multinational corporations and policymakers. The cluster is active in the
 management of the Academy of International Business UK and Ireland Chapter with three cluster
 members serving on its Executive Board (Pavlos Dimitratos, Margaret Fletcher, Rose Narooz).

 MACROECONOMICS studies issues of interest to society within Scotland, the UK and internationally.
 With links to policymakers, the cluster has explored responses to rising income inequality,
 business cycles, the financial crisis and the ongoing pandemic. Researchers have developed
 analyses of international taxation, economic development, asset markets and financial frictions,
 and the national and international coordination of monetary, fiscal and macro-prudential policy.
 They also study issues in macroeconomic forecasting, modelling, and big data. Two UoA17 Impact
 Case Studies (Céline Azémar; Campbell Leith and Charles Nolan) come from this cluster.

 MARKETING produces high quality research in the areas of marketing management, consumption
 and markets, and technology and analytics. More specifically, researchers explore topics such as
 branding, consumer behaviour, ethics and sustainability, and the digital transformation of
 marketing practice. Cluster members work in collaboration with policy and professional groups
 across government, NGOs and business to translate research into knowledge exchange and
 impact on practice. One of UoA17’s Impact Case Studies (Deirdre Shaw et al) is led from this
 cluster.

 MICROECONOMICS focuses on theoretical formal modelling, with expertise in decision theory, game
 theory, mechanism design, implementation and bargaining. Members study market failures arising
 from asymmetric information, default and miscoordination of expectations, as well as non-
 traditional markets such as electronic commerce, or markets without money such as reputation
 systems on the internet and the assignment of students to schools. They apply their methodology
 to the empirical analysis of oligopolistic markets, behavioural poverty traps, disease prevalence,
 crime and copyright. The cluster is a member of the Coalition Theory Network.

 SERVICES & OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT seeks to understand how to manage change, innovate
 and create value within operations and organisational systems. It aims to add value to systems
 that transform resources, driving innovation in science, technology, engineering and management.
 It conducts interdisciplinary research in manufacturing, telecommunications, healthcare, and the
 financial and third sectors using archival research, modelling, testing and application-based


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 tools. Members collaborate with other leading researchers, policymakers and professionals, as
 well as industry, commerce, government and the third sector.

 STRATEGY & TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT focuses on the development of strategy within a
 technologically-grounded context. Cluster members research business models; systems and
 strategy; risk, resilience and environmental management; managing adverse events in healthcare;
 storytelling and strategy; cybersecurity, insider threats and information security; and strategy and
 organisation in SMEs and creative industries. The cluster has developed links with the chemical
 industry, high-tech firms and local government partnerships. One of UoA17’s Impact Case Studies
 (Denis Fischbacher-Smith) comes from this cluster.

 Support for interdisciplinary research

 Our clusters empower scholars to develop research portfolios that respond not only to the
 requirements of their own disciplines, but also the interdisciplinarity of the wider business and
 management environment. They support research with members of other clusters, with colleagues
 from other Schools in the University, and with researchers in universities across the UK and the
 world.

 Some of our research is inherently interdisciplinary where the topics cut across the disciplinary
 boundaries within Business and Management: e.g. Nuran Acur and Stephan von Delft on digital
 transformation in firms; Denis Fischbacher-Smith on risk and resilience; David Heald on fiscal
 transparency; Yvonne Joyce on accounting and legal interaction in insolvency regulation; Yingru
 Li and John McKernan on the philosophical foundations of accounting and human rights; and
 Deirdre Shaw, Andrew Cumbers and Robert McMaster on sustainable food production and
 distribution in economically deprived areas.

 Other interdisciplinary research collaborates with other University of Glasgow Schools: e.g. Nuran
 Acur with Muhammad Imran (Engineering) on COVID-19 mobile testing in Glasgow; Thomas
 Anker with Sara MacDonald and colleagues (Health and Wellbeing) on media representations of
 cancer risk factors; Konstantinos Angelopoulos with Rebecca Mancy (Health and Wellbeing) on
 the impact of COVID-19 on income and health inequality; Denis Fischbacher-Smith with Alan
 Jardine (Medicine) on haemodialysis vascular access provision in Scotland; Alvise Favotto with
 Kelly Kollman (Politics) on corporate social responsibility; Sayantan Ghosal and Theodore
 Koutmeridis with Michele Schweisfurth (Education) on disadvantage and participation in
 accountability processes; David Heald with Tom Mullen (Law) on the effects of Brexit on UK
 devolution; and Yee Kwan Tang with Chong Li (Engineering) on combating energy poverty in
 Bangladesh.

 Support for impact

 All research-active colleagues are expected to adopt sustainable and collaborative models of
 engaged scholarship with communities of policy and practice. Thus, ‘Knowledge Exchange and
 Impact’ is one of the five dimensions used for the annual staff Performance & Development
 Reviews; promotion criteria give parity to outputs and impact; and workload model allocations
 have also been given to those staff closest to impact.

 The College of Social Sciences has administered ESRC Impact Acceleration Account block-
 grant awards, which have been awarded to 21 UoA17 researchers during the REF period. This
 has resulted in work aimed at improving the quality of youth employment, facilitating machine

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 learning for financial technology, discovering future biotech business models, and improving trust
 in digital services, to name but a few. The projects have also facilitated relationships with
 companies such as ArrayStream Technologies and Arnold Clark Automobiles. The Business
 School runs impact workshops, and the College Impact Officer provides bespoke advice on
 pathways to impact, particularly in the context of external grant applications. Through their
 research clusters, impact-seeking staff can access the experience of colleagues and research
 support staff. Impact-generating activities are recorded in each cluster’s annual report, informing
 Business School priority-setting, and they constitute documents of record for internal and external
 assessment processes.

 These arrangements have supported not only the development of Impact Case Studies (of which
 the School is submitting nine) but also the broad programme for achieving impact from
 collaborative research with communities of practice (see Section 4). The reach and significance
 of impact extends beyond the submitted case studies in business enterprise and management,
 the professions, public policy, governance and finance, and community sustainability to others
 including:

    •   Jeanette Findlay’s research has influenced policy debates on the provision and financing
        of lifeline ferry services in Scotland
    •   Alan McGregor’s research for the European Commission underpinned the evaluation of
        the €75 billion 2007-14 European Social Fund programme across all EU-28 member states
        and thereby influenced the design of the 2015-2022 programme
    •   Ioana Moldovan’s research influenced IMF policy in Botswana and Haiti
    •   Emmanuel Mourlon-Druol’s historical analysis has influenced policy debates on the
        future of the Eurozone
    •   Georgios Panos’ EU-wide research on financial literacy has increased policymakers’
        awareness of social disadvantage
    •   Georgios Sermpinis and Charalampos Stasinakis’ research on hybrid trading models
        has enhanced financial trading performance
    •   Sabina Siebert’s study of the relationship between space and function has contributed to
        the parliamentary decision-making process on the restoration of the Palace of
        Westminster.

 Research integrity and open research

 The School has enthusiastically embraced the research integrity and open research agendas. We
 have appointed a School Integrity Champion and a School Integrity Adviser, both available to all
 staff to discuss ethical issues and concerns over research integrity. Training in this area is required
 for all PGRs and participants in the Early Career Development Programme (see Section 2).

 Our open research strategy supports impact objectives, seeking full compliance with REF2021
 requirements and going beyond in relation to output types not currently subject to them. The
 University of Glasgow has invested in Library staffing for this purpose, using the package
 ‘Enlighten’ (based on Eprints open source) which directly feeds into academic staff pages and
 other University research systems. During this REF period, UoA17 has increased Open Access
 for articles from 24% (2014) to 96% (2020). The comparable figures for all outputs are 14% and
 87%. In addition, 100% of REF-eligible staff have an ORCID which is also displayed on their staff
 web page.



                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Moving to the next phase

 The School provides a stimulating and supportive environment for a community of scholarship that
 has grown (to 134 REF-eligible staff in July 2020 from 93 in October 2013, of whom 68 were
 submitted in REF2014), is more internationally diverse (25 nationalities) and has an improved
 gender balance (48 females and 86 males, see also Section 2). We have increased the breadth
 and depth of our research and development portfolio, our research income and the doctoral
 student community, and enhanced our impact on civic, national and global communities of
 practice. All these goals have been consistent with our traditions and the requirements of the
 business environment.

 In the next phase we intend to consolidate this progress and extend it through planned capacity
 increases in operations and strategic management. In this we have to respond to two sets of
 factors. The first is the new University Research Strategy, whose message - that “we will
 succeed both as individuals and as a university by working in teams, building on each other’s
 ideas, and supporting the careers of those around us” - is centred on “collaboration, creativity, and
 careers” to value the quality of what we do over its quantity and recognise different contributions
 to research. The second is the changing business and management research environment that
 includes the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy and international
 postgraduate student markets.

 Our abilities to adapt and respond quickly to emerging community needs and to research
 opportunities have been demonstrated throughout the COVID crisis:

    •   Paul Ahn is researching the COVID-19 response of the South Korean Centre for Disease
        Control and Prevention
    •   Konstantinos Angelopoulos is assessing the impact of COVID-19 on income and health
        inequality
    •   Alena Kostyk is leading a project on the use of virtual reality to support the economic
        recovery of the Scottish tourism sector
    •   Yingru Li is co-investigating the Chinese government’s containment measures and their
        societal impacts
    •   Ronald MacDonald has devised an ambitious programme for the post-COVID-19
        recovery of the Scottish and UK economies
    •   Alan McGregor is undertaking action research to support the post-COVID-19 economic
        strategies of Glasgow City Council and Scotland’s Enterprise and Skills Strategic Board.

 As part of our wider response to COVID-19 as a civic business school committed to contributing
 to economic and social resilience in Glasgow and Scotland, we have developed a webinar series
 on the importance of sustainability and responsibility in the way business and the economy
 respond to the pandemic. The series aims to bring together specialists from academia, industry
 and professional bodies via live webinars.

 Broader strategic considerations include securing grant income by reviewing the changing sources
 of funding suited to our specialist areas, building ever closer relationships with other disciplines
 and communities of practice, and emphasising more applied research and impact as intrinsic to
 research and development. We have already gained advanced signatory status for the United
 Nations’ Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME) initiative in 2020, and have


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 thus joined a global community of business schools committed to supporting and enacting social
 and environmental change through our teaching, research, and practice. We also plan to make
 more use of Professors in Practice, honorary appointments, stakeholder advisory groups and co-
 producers from policy and practice communities. Sustaining the School as a research-led
 institution will thus involve building on our engaged scholarship with civic, national and
 international partners.


 2. People

 The School is committed to developing and sustaining a diverse and dynamic research
 community. Our commitment encompasses the personal and professional development of all staff
 and research students, the promotion of inclusiveness, equality and diversity in articulating
 differing perspectives that challenge the status quo, and the nurturing of teaching and research
 links with national and international communities of scholars, government, the voluntary sector
 and professional and corporate bodies. In applying the University’s comprehensive staff
 development policies and practices, we have adopted a multi-faceted approach supporting
 equality and diversity, staff development, research staff support, and the development of
 postgraduate researchers. Our objective has been to enhance research agility and secure
 research sustainability and impact through retention and support. Our achievements during this
 REF period confirm that investment in people and cultural processes brings individual and
 collective rewards.

 Our academic staff

 Figure 1 shows the staffing profile at the REF2021 census date. The head count of 134 results
 from the dual strategy of retention and capability development (most staff recruited late in the
 REF2014 period have stayed) and vigorous external hiring in line with our objectives. Outstanding
 researchers support interdisciplinary collaboration within the School, across the University and
 with external partners, helping to increase external grant income and have an impact on policy
 and practice.

 Reflecting the demands of being a multi-purpose business school, the proportion of REF-eligible
 staff in promoted posts (Senior Lecturer and above) is high, at 72%, while professors constitute
 45% of the head count. Significant progress has been made on gender balance and action
 (described below) has been taken to address the imbalance at Senior Lecturer/Reader and
 Professor grades. At the REF2021 census date, 28% of submitted professors are female, in
 comparison with 19% at REF2014.

 Of the 134 REF2021-eligible staff, 50 were submitted to REF2014, the continuity percentage of
 all REF2014 submittees to REF2021 being 74%. Of the 20 continuing staff not already at
 professorial level, 14 have since been promoted, including 6 to professorships. In total, of the 87
 promotion applications considered during the REF period, 66 were successful (76% success rate).
 These numbers confirm the dual strategy of developing the research capabilities of current staff,
 in addition to judicious external hiring to deliver the School’s strategy. There are 25 nationalities,
 with 38% of staff having UK nationality, 31% having an EU nationality, and 31% a nationality from
 another part of the world. Females constitute 36% of staff; 26.1% of staff are declared to be Black
 and Minority Ethnic; and 1.5% declared a disability.




                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                Figure 1: REF-Eligible Staff Profile at 31 July 2020
                      60

                      50

                      40
          Headcount




                      30

                      20

                      10

                      0
                           Grade 7 Lecturer Grade 8 Lecturer   Grade 9 Senior   Grade 9R Reader   Grade 10
                                                                  Lecturer                        Professor

                                                          Female      Male



 Building on the precedent of part-time Research-Only appointments during the REF2014 period
 (Craig Burnside and Patrick Verwijmeren in Finance; Trevor Buck in International Business and
 Enterprise; and Robert Chia in Strategy and Technology Management), a similar appointment has
 been made in Accounting (Lee Parker). Their contributions help to raise publishing aspirations
 and provide invaluable mentoring advice, supporting their cluster leadership.

 During the REF period, the Business School has systematically recruited seven new staff to
 achieve critical mass in the strategically important field of Applied Economics: three Lecturers
 (Michele Battisti, Anwen Zhang, Tanya Wilson), one Senior Lecturer (Theodore Koutmerides), one
 Reader (Dimitris Christelis) and two Professors (Eugenio Proto, Alex Trew). These new
 appointments expand expertise in health and education economics (Zhang), migration and labour
 markets (Battisti), family and labour economics (Wilson), inequality and crime (Koutmerides),
 uncertainty and household finance (Christelis), economic geography and economic history (Trew),
 and economic development and experimental economics (Proto). They enhance the potential for
 interdisciplinary collaboration, gaining research resources, and impacting on policy.

 The Business School has also invested in areas of research strength through major external
 recruitment and internal promotions at all career stages. External recruitment has been made to
 Chairs in Accounting (Chandana Alawattage, David Heald), Finance (Cathy Chen), Human
 Resource Management and Organisational Behaviour (Kathleen Riach, Rosalind Searle and
 Melanie Simms), International Business and Enterprise (Mehdi Boussebaa), Marketing (Ozlem
 Sandikci Turkdogan) and Strategy and Technology Management (John Crawford).

 Promotions of Business School staff to Chair have been made in Accounting (Ioannis
 Tsalavoutas), Finance (Georgios Sermpinis, Serafeim Tsoukas and Dimitri Vinogradov), Human
 Resource Management and Organisational Behaviour (Sarah Robinson and Sabina Siebert),
 International Business and Enterprise (Emmanuel Mourlon-Druol), Macroeconomics (John
 Tsoukalas), Marketing (Anna Morgan-Thomas and Cleopatra Veloutsou), and Services and
 Operations Management (Nuran Acur). Such appointments and promotions and those of others
 at different stages of their careers demonstrate the Business School’s success in strengthening
 and rewarding its research capability.


                                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality and diversity

 Our staffing strategy is designed to forge an inclusive community of scholars by attracting,
 recruiting and developing researchers from a wide range of backgrounds. While the School does
 not identify or define individuals according to their protected characteristics, we provide support
 for academics at all ages and stages in their career, recognising that they have a wide range of
 different needs. Examples of this support include menopause awareness sessions, support for
 preparations for retirement, promotion of the LGBT+ Network (founded in 2007 as one of the first
 in Higher Education in Scotland), and promotion of the Disability Service (for those with physical
 disabilities, learning difficulties and other medical conditions).

 As well as the increasing international diversity of the School, the most significant progress has
 been in gender equality, recognised when we received Athena SWAN Charter (bronze). While the
 School benefits from staff undertaking internationally recognised research in gender and diversity
 in organisations, female entrepreneurship, gender discrimination in labour markets, and women’s
 experience of leadership in various education systems, working towards the Athena SWAN award
 has highlighted the ways in which we can improve our culture, environment for research and
 scholarship, student diversity, recruitment, and retention and promotion of female colleagues.
 Specific internal gender-related changes include:

 •   Increased female proportion of REF-submitted staff from 25% in October 2013 to 36% in July
     2020
 •   Widened choices in parental leave available to staff when planning for the birth or adoption of
     a child, or when requiring time off to support their children
 •   Increased female membership of the External Strategic Advisory Board from 27% in 2017-18
     to 43% in 2020.

 Notwithstanding this progress, we recognise that challenges remain, and we have enacted
 changes to improve equality and diversity more generally, including:

 •   Creating a School Staffing Committee consisting of Head of School, Head of Subject Groups,
     Head of Professional Services, College HR adviser and a member of the University
     recruitment team
 •   Strengthening equality statements in recruitment material, highlighting the School as an
     inclusive environment for career development, and including diverse staff profiles to
     encourage under-represented groups to apply (a particular issue at Senior Lecturer/Reader
     and above)
 •   Challenging internal search committees to identify lists of potential candidates from under-
     represented groups and actively encourage applications
 •   Highlighting the School as an inclusive environment for career development and progression,
     and including diverse staff profiles in recruitment material
 •   Organising annual promotion workshops on criteria and processes
 •   Developing the Performance & Development Review to address equality and diversity in
     progression planning
 •   Establishing the alternate system for school committees, enabling early career staff to gain
     leadership and committee experience
 •   Enhancing transparency and inclusion in all appointments to internal leadership positions
     through open advertisements and encouragement of applications, including among
     colleagues acting as alternates, with a formal interview and selection process.

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Throughout our preparations for REF2021 we have embraced the equality and diversity
 requirements of the University’s Code of REF Practice, including:

 •   Distancing the REF leadership team from line management responsibilities so that REF
     decisions have no impact on career progression
 •   Scoring outputs in minuted formal meetings of the UoA17 Outputs Scoring Committee, which
     has nineteen members (ten males and nine females), all of whom are researchers of high
     standing
 •   Making final decisions on submitted outputs at minuted meetings of the UoA17 Outputs
     Selection Committee (three males and two females)
 •   Making final decisions on submitted Impact Case Studies at a minuted meeting of a panel
     including Head of College, College Dean of Research, and UoA17 Impact and Deputy Impact
     Champions (three females, one male).

 Staffing strategy and staff development

 The School is integrated into a well-developed University staffing strategy that, commensurate
 with a leading research-intensive institution, provides high professional standards in recruitment,
 induction, performance development and review, and promotion to support all staff. Through our
 staff programmes and general communications colleagues are aware of existing and emergent
 strategic priorities and the funding opportunities for staff development in the recurrent annual
 budget.

 A development from the Athena SWAN action plan has been a new three-week staff induction
 programme for academic staff which began in 2020. All new staff meet their Head of School, Head
 of Professional Services and Head of Subject, in addition to key members of professional services.
 They are also allocated a ‘buddy’ (distinct from the mentor for Early Career Researchers) and
 complete a questionnaire at the end of the induction programme, so that further improvements
 can be made.

 The strategy and accountability for staff development operates principally through the University’s
 annual Performance & Development Review (P&DR). Academic staff self-assess their own
 performance on the five dimensions of Research and Scholarship; Knowledge Exchange and
 Impact; Learning and Teaching; Leadership, Management and Citizenship; and Esteem. Staff are
 then graded, normally on an agreed basis but with the possibility of appeal, with final scores
 determined at University level. Thus, the P&DR provides the assessment of overall performance
 while the research clusters support staff research and impact creativity.

 In 2013 the University introduced a comprehensive Early Career Development Programme
 (ECDP) for newly appointed academic staff which supports them in developing their skills and
 careers. Learning and development opportunities in research, teaching and other aspects of the
 academic role are provided; a mentor to provide support and advice is allocated; annual objectives
 are set, enabling academics to develop the abilities and achievements evidenced at their
 appointment, with a view to meeting the criteria for promotion within a defined timescale. Cluster
 meetings and seminars with distinguished external speakers provide staff development
 opportunities, for example in presenting draft papers and responding to those of established
 researchers. Of the 134 REF-eligible staff, 36 have been on the ECDP during the REF period,
 with 11 enrolled at the census date.


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Promotion is determined through well-defined University criteria. Staff at all levels who meet those
 criteria are promoted on merit; there are no quotas on grade proportions. In Figure 2 the outcomes
 of the internal promotion procedures during the period 2014-20 are summarised. Grades 7 and 8
 are Lecturer grades, Grade 9 denotes Senior Lecturer, 9R is Reader, and P is Professor. On the
 basis of anonymised data which include reapplications, 76% of applications were successful, of
 which 70% of male and 85% of female applications were successful.

 The vertical lines in Figure 2 separate the promotion application results into Early Career, Mid-
 Career and Mature Career. Recruiting Early Career Researchers with high potential is then
 followed by systematic mentoring to progress them from Lecturer Grade 7 to Grade 8. The aim is
 that all staff successfully make this transition. Mid-career promotions from Lecturer to Senior
 Lecturer (G9) and Reader (G9R) depend on performance against appropriate well-specified
 criteria. Success rates for such applications are unsurprisingly lower, but success can come later
 on re-application. Figure 2 shows that female staff have out-performed males at most of the higher
 promotion steps.

 Mature-career promotions to Professor depend on achievement against appropriately demanding
 benchmarks. The nineteen such promotions recorded in Figure 2 demonstrate the internal
 promotion route in use. Internal staff can also be candidates for externally advertised posts.


                Figure 2: Outcomes of Internal Promotion Applications 2014-2020
        20
             Early Career                      Mid Career                          Mature Career
        18
        16
        14
        12
        10
         8
         6
         4
         2
         0
             Female Male G7 Female Male G8   Female   Male G8   Female   Male G9   Female    Male G9
             G7 to G8 to G8 G8 to G9 to G9    G8 to   to G9R     G9 to   to G9R    G9 to P    to P
                                              G9R                G9R

                                      Successful      Unsuccessful


 The Business School has also drawn on the University’s Lord Kelvin Adam Smith (LKAS)
 Fellowship scheme, designed to accelerate the careers of future research leaders. For example,
 after working as a Research Associate in Economic and Social History on an ESRC-financed
 project on international banking regulation, Emmanuel Mourlon-Druol won an LKAS Fellowship
 (2013-16) in the Business School, then secured a Lectureship (2016) and Senior Lectureship
 (2017), before appointment as Professor of International Economic History (2019). This example
 demonstrates how University and Business School structures and culture nurture and reward
 exceptional achievement.




                                                                                                       Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Combined with a well-developed Workload Allocation Model that promotes research and impact,
 the transparency to all academic staff of this annual Model provides reassurance of equitable
 treatment and seeks to identify problems at an early stage. The Model reflects University norms
 and expectations in allocating one-third of time to research, which can be increased through buy-
 outs from overhead-bearing external funding.

 For research staff, study leave, travel and output support is provided. Although not an entitlement,
 the expectation is that staff will successfully apply for study leave on the basis of one semester
 within three years or two semesters within six years. Cluster Leads are usually involved in the
 preparation of applications based on a programme of work, outputs and impacts that will benefit
 both the individual and the School. Of the 134 staff submitted to UoA17, 47 have taken study leave
 during the REF period or have approvals for future study leave. Some colleagues defer their study
 leave because of managerial responsibilities, family commitments or until entitled to a full year’s
 leave. Conferences and research travel have been supported by generous annual funding
 entitlements for staff, up to £5,000 in a financial year to supplement external grant funds. Writing
 retreats provide quiet, dedicated time for a small number of academic staff and PhD students to
 work on their current papers. Copy-editing, funded by the School, speeds up and increases the
 chances of success of journal submission.

 The Business School supports multiple weekly seminar series, as well as meet-the-editor events
 and hands-on workshop opportunities. We hosted 124 research seminars in 2017/18, 109 in
 2018/19 and 67 in 2019/20. Cancellations due to industrial action and COVID-19 impacted our
 most recent seminar schedule. However, taking events online facilitated participation from outside
 Glasgow. Some seminars are held jointly with Law and Economic & Social History, enabling
 interdisciplinary collaborations.

 Our successes in developing staff throughout their careers are attributable partly to University-
 level structures and partly to the commitment of clusters, especially leadership teams, to mentor,
 guide and encourage. In a large business school, pro-active decentralised support within well-
 defined Human Resources systems helps colleagues to fit into communities of scholarship,
 enhance their capabilities, obtain promotion and develop leadership skills.

 Postgraduate research students

 Postgraduate research is driven by the eleven research clusters, and the recruitment process,
 which includes outreach activities addressed at UG and PGT populations as well as online
 activities, directs potential applicants to specific clusters and personal academic websites. We
 encourage potential supervisors to engage with applicants by providing feedback on applications,
 assessing candidates and project quality, and interviewing candidates. Each PhD researcher is
 allocated a minimum of two supervisors. Once accepted, PhD researchers join a cluster and
 engage in its training opportunities, seminars, and workshops. The PhD programmes are
 managed by the Director of Postgraduate Research (Anna Morgan-Thomas) and six subject
 convenors with administrative support.

 The School supports PhD activity through investment in staff, infrastructure and facilities. The
 Workload Model allows 100 hours per year for each FTE PhD, shared between two supervisors.
 Since PhD supervision is recorded in teaching, supervisors can receive a discount in their teaching
 allocation of up to 300 hours a year, thus encouraging staff to contribute to formal PhD
 development.


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In line with ESRC requirements, the formal training programme addresses subject-specific
 knowledge, research methods and broader skills development. Development funding of £2,000
 per student supports external training which includes conference participation. Separate funds
 support primary research (up to £3,000 per award) and employability (up to £500 per student).
 Students have extensive access to secondary data through paid subscriptions with major
 providers. The many job opportunities include internships and Graduate Teaching Assistants for
 whom training is dedicated. The quality of our PGR environment permits the School to host ESRC
 PhD studentships, 27 having been won during the REF period. Further externally funded
 scholarships include the China Scholarship Fund, Cairncross and CREATe.

 Individual scholars in home disciplines initiate collaboration, but we also encourage the
 development of a culture of collaboration and co-production in the postgraduate research student
 community and in the professional training in which the School is involved. We are a member of
 the Scottish ESRC Doctoral Training Centre/Partnership (Scottish Graduate School of Social
 Science), a formal collaborative programme for research training. Research clusters contribute to
 collaborative training activities across Scotland including summer schools, subject conferences
 and advanced training courses.

 Training includes two MRes degrees (in Management and Economics), specialised Masters
 courses (in all subjects) as well as advanced PGR courses. The 1-year MRes in Management is
 able to accommodate 1+3 ESRC scholarship holders, while the University offers a number of full
 scholarships for the 2-year MRes in Economics programme. An annual budget of £33,000 funds
 external scholars to deliver in-house training for PGRs. PhD researchers access training in generic
 research skills and broader researcher development opportunities provided centrally by the
 University. The School promotes all such opportunities through a yearly PGR brochure, the latest
 edition of which covers over 120 courses.

 Admissions and progress

 The sustained emphasis on quality is also reflected in figures concerning PhD admissions and
 completions. Figure 3 shows the strong growth of doctoral student numbers from 119 (2013-14)
 to 193 (2019-20). This growth reflects not only our strategy of growing the doctoral student
 population but also the greater supervisory capacity that is now available. As a result, the School
 has a large, expanding and internationally diverse doctoral programme. Over the REF period
 doctoral students came from 66 countries. In 2019-20, 27.5% come from China, 15.0% from other
 parts of Asia, 19.7% from the European Union, 18.1% from the UK, 6.7% from the Americas, 4.7%
 from the Middle East and 4.1% from the former Soviet Union. The gender balance has improved,
 with 49.2% female in 2019-20, compared with 39.5% in 2013-14.

 Student progress is monitored by the School’s Director of Postgraduate Research and the PhD
 convenors. All doctoral researchers are required to attend an annual progress review (APR) within
 their research clusters that scrutinises their progress and provides impartial assessment and
 feedback. Participation in training is integral to the progress review. The APR itself evaluates the
 researcher’s work through a meeting with a committee including the supervisor(s). A satisfactory
 evaluation is necessary for progress to the next year of study.




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                 Figure 3: UoA17 Population of Doctoral Students
                        200
                        180
                        160
                        140
                        120
               Number



                        100
                         80
                         60
                         40
                         20
                            0
                                 2013/14    2014/15     2015/16     2016/17    2017/18   2018/19   2019/20

                                                 Female          Male   Undeclared



 Awards

 During the REF period there were 199 graduands, as shown by academic year in Figure 4. Of
 those, 36% were female and 64% were male. The number of graduations has increased strongly
 during the REF period, doubling between the first and the final year. They came from 57 countries.
 In terms of nationality analysed by region, 25% came from China, 19% the rest of Asia, 16% EU,
 13% the UK, 12% the Middle East, 9% Africa, 5% Americas and 1% Australasia.


                                          Figure 4: Doctoral Degrees Awarded
                       40

                       35

                       30

                       25
              Number




                       20

                       15

                       10

                        5

                        0
                                2013/14    2014/15     2015/16     2016/17    2017/18    2018/19   2019/20

                                                     Female      Male   Unknown



 The Business School expects that doctoral students will complete within the prescribed period
 (four years for full-time and six years for part-time) but there are some students who do not achieve
 this. A problem with a large proportion of non-UK students is that funding and visas expire, so that
 the final stages sometimes have to be completed away from Glasgow and are complicated by the
 return to full-time employment.



                                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Of students enrolling in 2011-12, 82.8% have achieved their doctoral award. The figures for
 following years are 88.6% of 2012-13 entrants; 82.1% of 2013-14 entrants; 82.5% of 2014-15
 entrants; 69.7% of 2015-16 entrants; and 58.3% of 2016-17 entrants. The percentages for the
 later years will increase over time.

 Although most of our doctoral students are full-time, we have a small number of part-time students.
 The ability of local students to study part-time contributes to achieving the University’s civic
 responsibilities to Glasgow and Scotland and to the School’s diversity objectives. The School
 actively encourages applications from older, mature students who tend to bring industry-relevant
 experience. These applicants are typically in employment, have sustained careers in industry and
 have significant family commitments. All the above increase the likelihood of drop-out and non-
 completion. These risks are mitigated by offering remote training opportunities, providing access
 to community-building events (trips, dinners, social activities, student conferences etc) and giving
 robust support. Providing the opportunity for further study for this under-represented population
 widens access and diversity; this is more important than the metric of completion rates.

 The School encourages doctoral researchers to publish their work at any point of their PhD and
 has adopted an optional journal article thesis format to encourage publications while safeguarding
 timely doctorate submissions. Co-publication with supervisors is similarly encouraged as an
 important component of collegiality and capacity development. Staff members who have published
 with their PhD students include Mario Cerrato, Pavlos Dimitratos, Adina Dudau, Anna Morgan-
 Thomas, Sabina Siebert and Cleopatra Veloutsou. This approach enhances student publishing
 skills and increases their employability.

 Another strength of the PhD programme is our graduates’ successful record of subsequent
 employment. They find employment in government, academia, or industry within a short period of
 time, with notable destinations including the European Central Bank, the Central Banks of Mexico,
 Hong Kong, Ireland, and Saudi Arabia, the IMF and UN country offices, and many prestigious
 universities in the UK and abroad.

 The increase in student numbers and improvement in completion rates reflect the way doctoral
 researchers are fully integrated into the research community and the approach taken to
 recruitment, supervisor development, PGR training, PhD formats and progress reviews.

 Responses to COVID-19

 The School recognises that strategies for development will need to address the differential impacts
 of COVID-19 on working methods and facilities, and the changed circumstances in which staff and
 students work both on University premises and at home.

 COVID-19 affects PhD activity both directly and indirectly. Direct impacts on research activity
 include academic discontinuity, disruption and the loss of productivity caused by the pandemic
 and lockdowns. Indirect effects include wider implications for individuals such as physical and
 mental health, additional care needs, financial and non-financial hardship.

 The resulting disruption is expected to have an impact on timelines for doctoral projects and in
 some cases may necessitate a change of research focus or scope. Mitigation measures have
 been put in place, including:



                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Timely assessment of disruption for individuals through Annual Progress Reviews which were
     conducted virtually in April-May 2020
 •   Online training on alternative methods of data collection and alternative thesis formats
 •   Financial support including immediate access to hardship funds
 •   Unfunded short-term extensions of studies of up to 6 months (from March 2020 onwards)
 •   Fully-funded scholarship extension available to all doctoral students in their third year of study
     (F/T or part-time equivalent) who experienced a disruption to their studies (from August 2020
     paid retrospectively).

 The effectiveness of these measures will be closely monitored until the pandemic is over.

 As will be shown in the following section, the Business School’s commitments to, and investments
 in, staff and postgraduates are supported by the development of the infrastructural environment
 in which they work.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Realising the strategy and structure set out in Section 1 through the people described in Section
 2 requires an infrastructure that supports research staff to produce high-value civic, national and
 international outcomes. The Business School objective has been to enhance research income
 and other resources.

 Income generation

 During the REF period, Business School staff submitted 513 external research funding
 applications for £60,066,384, of which 188 (37%) were awarded a total of £8,138,663. The spend
 in the REF period (“HESA Income”) was £5,843,659. This achievement is the result of a strategy
 since REF2014 by the University, the College of Social Sciences and the School that has included
 encouragement of ECRs and mid-career staff to bid for grants and enhanced staffing of College
 Research Project Coordinators. The latter support applicants including with grant application
 workshops that take them through the stages from initial conceptualisation to submission.

 Within the School our strategy has also enhanced the role of cluster leadership in stimulating and
 submitting applications for external funding. In addition, reflecting strategic agility, we have
 specifically sought to overcome the difficulties faced by Business and Management Studies in
 accessing UK Research Council funding by successfully diversifying our income sources including
 from the EU, charitable foundations and professional institutes. Applying for external funding is
 one of the pillars of annual Performance & Development Review and one of the criteria for internal
 promotion (see Section 2). Our new procedures are more hard-headed about chances of success,
 given that applications consume resources and repeated failures, even in highly competitive bids,
 are demoralising.

 Figure 5 shows the distribution of external grant applications by value and main category of funder.
 During the REF2021 period, the main targets for grant income by value have been the BEIS
 Research Councils, the European Union and UK-based charities. The arrangements described
 above, together with strong recruitment, have facilitated a larger number of grant applications by
 more staff.



                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Of the 513 external grant applications, 34% of applications (55% by value) were made to BEIS
 Research Councils and Royal Academies. Applications for EU funding accounted for 8% of
 applications and 26% by value. Applications to UK-based charities have been large in number
 (21%), usually for smaller application amounts (11%) than for Research Councils or the EU. Where
 applications have been unsuccessful, the policy, where practical, has been to seek alternative
 sources of external funding.




 Figure 6 shows UoA17 awards by value for each of the years of the REF period. After a
 disappointing first three years, performance in the second half of the period was much stronger.
 The success of large applications to the EU was an important factor, followed by awards received
 from BEIS Research Councils.


                         Figure 6: External Research Funding by Value,
                                       2013-14 to 2019-20
          £2,500,000


          £2,000,000


          £1,500,000


          £1,000,000


            £500,000


                 £0
                       2013-14   2014-15   2015-16   2016-17   2017-18   2018-19   2019-20



 Figure 7 demonstrates the steady growth of external funding over the REF period, and its year-
 by-year composition. Total spend over that time was £5,843,659 (“HESA Income”), with 37.5%
 coming from BEIS Research Councils and Royal Academies, and 28.0% from EU sources.

 Spend on EU-financed projects has grown impressively, while Research Council funding has
 fluctuated but is substantially higher at the end of the period than at the beginning. The School’s
 strategy of exploiting access to EU programmes, bolstered by its interests in policy-oriented
 research and the strong representation within the School of non-UK EU researchers, has been
 very successful. The continued access to EU funds is welcome but post-Brexit uncertainty will

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 require future efforts to focus on Research Councils, UK government and industry. Moreover, the
 experience of application procedures and of successful applications for small grants (for example
 from UK-based charities and professional bodies), together with recruitment of researchers with
 track records of grant awards, has strengthened our competitiveness.




 These achievements are not just about financial numbers but, as the following sketches of
 prestigious awards demonstrate, constitute exciting research on high priority commissions
 conducted by highly regarded researchers.

 European Union funding

 Driverless Cars: Nuran Acur, Stephan von Delft and Robbie Paton joined the European Space
 Agency, the UK Space Agency and O2 to develop the next generation technology for driverless
 cars. Working with the University of Oxford, satellite operator Hispasat and start-ups, the Business
 School team will complement the development and research of new business models, technology
 management and policies needed to successfully commercialise this new technology. Glasgow
 researchers have received £440,640 as part of the large-scale ‘DARWIN’ project.

 Global Remunicipalisation: Andrew Cumbers received a European Research Council
 Advanced Grant totalling £1,564,971 for research on cities taking formerly privatised assets,
 infrastructure and services back into public ownership. He was also awarded £257,875 by the
 European Commission’s Horizon 2020 programme for the mPower project, which explores new
 forms of municipal ownership and citizen participation in moving from carbon-based energy to
 renewables. mPower comprises the University of Glasgow, Platform (UK), Transnational Institute
 (Netherlands), Energy Cities (EU-wide), Institute for Political Ecology (Croatia), University of the
 Basque Country (Spain) and Carbon Co-op (UK).

 EU Agenda for Change: Niall Mackenzie, Dominic Chalmers and Jillian Gordon won a
 European Horizon 2020 Marie Sklodowska-Curie Innovative Training Network grant for
 ‘Legitimation of Newness and Its Impact on EU Agenda for Change’. This European Training

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Network combines new legitimation perspectives, theories, approaches and methods to learn how
 best to interpret and respond to newness, committing to and ensuring a positive social impact.
 The total value of this partnership project with three European universities (Aalborg, Denmark;
 Oulu, Finland; Halmstad, Sweden) is £3.9 million, with Glasgow’s share £727,083 over four years
 from January 2020.

 Origins of EU Instability: Emmanuel Mourlon-Druol received a European Research Council
 grant of £1,195,005 for his EURECON project that looks at the origins of the issues that are
 currently troubling the EU by investigating the period between the creation of the European
 Economic Community in 1957 and the decision in 1992 to create a European single currency.

 Financial Literacy: Georgios Panos received £186,885 from the European Commission for his
 PROFIT project on promoting financial awareness and stability. The project’s goal is the promotion
 of more responsible and prudent personal financial behaviour.

 Community Food Hub: Deirdre Shaw and Andrew Cumbers received £161,482 from the
 European Social Fund for their Community Food Hub project to investigate issues of sustainability
 management through the development of community gardens and local food spaces as ways of
 contributing to more sustainable forms of production and consumption in urban areas.

 UK Research Councils and equivalent

 Economic Democracy: Andrew Cumbers and Robert McMaster received £191,658 from the
 ESRC for their ‘Transforming Public Policy through Economic Democracy’ project. Its aim was to
 explore the relationship between levels of economic democracy and key public policy goals in
 promoting sustainable economic development and social justice. The research led to the creation
 of an Economic Democracy Index to test several critical relationships between economic
 democracy and key public policy goals.

 Land Reform: Aldo Elizalde was awarded a British Academy Post-Doctoral Fellowship of
 £254,234 for ‘Land Reforms, Ethnic Groups, and Long-Run Development in Latin America: A Case
 Study of Mexico’. This project aimed to challenge prevailing wisdom regarding the institutional
 capacities of Indigenous groups in influencing policy locally and, through this, development
 outcomes.

 Accountability through Participation: Sayantan Ghosal and Theodore Koutmeridis received
 £518,842 from the ESRC for work on ‘Disadvantage and Participation Accountability Processes:
 Theory and Evidence from School Development and Management Committees in Karnataka,
 India’. The project aims to develop a conceptual framework to examine how poverty,
 marginalisation and exclusion impact on the beliefs and agency of parents and to assess the
 impact of a pro-poor accountability framework.

 Historical Origins of International Economic Relations: Emmanuel Mourlon-Druol received
 £219,727 for ‘The Uses of the Past in International Economic Relations’ project. The Humanities
 in the European Research Area (HERA) partnership awarded €1,193,318 to this project, with the
 UK portion originating from the Arts and Humanities Research Council. The overall project is led
 by Catherine Schenk (University of Oxford) and international partners are from Sweden (Uppsala
 University), Switzerland (Université de Genève), and Spain (University Carlos III Madrid).



                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Mexican SMEs: Rose Narooz and Pavlos Dimitratos were awarded £95,552 by Newton Fund
 Institutional Links/British Council for research on ‘Networking, Innovation and Internationalisation
 of Mexican SMEs’. The project aims to gain new insights into the barriers to internationalisation
 for SMEs in Mexico and includes collaboration with Tecnológico de Monterrey and EGADE
 Business School.

 Ethics in Consumption: Deirdre Shaw received £30,053 from the ESRC for the Ethics in
 Consumption Seminar Series. She collaborated with colleagues from Royal Holloway, the
 University of Leicester and the University of Melbourne to host eleven interdisciplinary seminars
 at institutions and third-sector organisations across the UK and Peru on the subject of consumption
 ethics and sustainability.

 Examples from other funders

 Tele-Medicine in Indonesia: Nuran Acur and Stephan von Delft’s project, ‘Targeting Non-
 communicable Diseases through Interactive Health Ecosystems in Indonesia’, received £48,483
 from the British Council. Bringing together expertise in medicine, management studies, social
 sciences and information and communication technologies from organisations in Indonesia, it
 seeks to improve healthcare in rural areas by combining healthcare and data analytics in a novel
 way to develop an interactive digital health ecosystem for the screening and management of non-
 communicable diseases such as diabetes.

 Corporate Responsibility: Alvise Favotto received £54,305 from the Leverhulme Trust for
 research into ‘Responsible Lobbyists? Corporate Social Responsibility and Public Policy’ with
 Kelly Kollman (PI, School of Social and Political Sciences). The project seeks to assess if there is
 a link between firms’ investment in corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities and their access
 to policymakers in the British political system.

 Skills Development: Alan McGregor was awarded a total of £101,355 from Skills Development
 Scotland for research projects related to employment and training, including modern
 apprenticeships and regional skills strategies for Glasgow and the Clyde Valley, Aberdeen City
 and Shire, Edinburgh and South East Scotland, and West Lothian.

 Trust in Biomedical Science: Sabina Siebert was awarded a British Academy Mid-Career
 Fellowship in 2016-17 (£124,531), to work on trust in biomedical science. This addressed whether
 there has been a decline in trust in scientists, and if so, what can be done about it.

 Glasgow-Warsaw Dekaban-Liddle Foundation (University of Glasgow Chair: Sabina Siebert)
 is a collaboration between UofG, the University of Warsaw and Piast Institute (USA). The
 Foundation funds (up to a maximum of £11,000) exchange visits by Polish and Glasgow scholars
 to gain wider experience of economic theory and practice. This has resulted in research
 collaborations with colleagues at Gdańsk University of Technology, Opole University of
 Technology and University of Warsaw.

 Charitable Trusts specifically supporting the Business School

 James Cusator Wards Trust funds visiting academics and small research projects in the
 Accounting and Finance clusters (£303,446 in REF period). The MacFie Bequest named after
 Alexander MacFie, the Adam Smith Professor of Political Economy (1945-1958), contributes
 £10,000 annually towards the funding of the Bonar MacFie Chair in Economics and has enabled

                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 distinguished speakers from Economics and Management to visit the Business School and share
 their research.

 Physical infrastructure

 Towards a purpose-built Business School building

 The School is currently located in the iconic 19th century Gilbert Scott Building which dominates
 the West End of Glasgow. The School premises comprise high-quality academic offices and
 research seminar rooms. The School also has a range of dedicated PhD rooms with individual
 workstations. The University has imaginatively renovated and made available additional space
 within the building. However, the existing building is no longer large enough to accommodate the
 growth of the Business School’s staff and students.

 A dedicated new purpose-built home for the School has therefore recently been approved adjacent
 to the main campus, with entry planned in autumn 2023. The new building aims to enhance the
 learning experience of taught postgraduates with classroom and support facilities consistent with
 the School’s learning and teaching strategy and worthy of a world top-100 University; to provide a
 welcoming environment for corporate and policy connections to support learning and teaching
 programmes, learning experience, and collaboration in research; and to provide a stimulating
 environment for research and scholarship for the faculty.

 Organisational infrastructure

 The operational support mechanisms for research are provided by College, School and Cluster
 within University-wide frameworks established by Research & Innovation.

 College

 The Research Support Office of the College of Social Sciences, created in 2016, provides support
 for researchers from project inception to completion, dealing with online applications and project
 and financial management. The Office also offers integrated impact support, including planning
 and training. Its creation, reporting to the College Head of Professional Services with academic
 leadership from the College Dean of Research, has simplified and accelerated the internal
 approval processes, and increased the chances of success for individual applications.

 Business School

 Our ‘Connect Team’ of 18.6 FTE within the Business School’s Professional Services staff
 strengthens the research environment by providing support for research, accreditations, rankings,
 marketing, communications and events. Research specialists service the work of the clusters,
 including their regular meetings and seminars, and provide in-house knowledge and advice to
 researchers. The Research Cluster Coordinator manages all aspects of research support within
 the School, assisted by a Research Cluster Assistant and an Administrative Assistant. The team
 works closely with counterparts in the College Research Support Office and the Enlighten/Open
 Access Team in the University Library. In addition, researchers are supported by events staff who
 manage large events held in the School (including conferences), as well as finance staff who book
 travel and arrange conference attendance.




                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Data management is a key strategic priority for the School and has improved thanks to the support
 provided by the Research Team and its use of ACADEM accreditations software. Each cluster is
 responsible for submitting an annual report based on its members’ activities during the past year
 (e.g. outputs, presentations, professional memberships, etc). The Research Team supports this
 task by recording research activity throughout the course of the year. It also provides research
 data to support our School accreditations.

 The Research Team manages our research social media platforms, including a Twitter account
 (@ASBSresearch). These forums publicise research activities and staff achievements and allow
 staff to share their work with both members of the public and other researchers, potentially leading
 to future collaborations. The Research Team also manages the Business School’s working paper
 series which facilitates early dissemination of research results. In addition, the School’s
 Communications Officer publicises news stories on the real-world impact of staff research as well
 as noteworthy individual achievements. This support widens the reach of colleagues’ work.

 Facilities

 Through the University Library, that provides excellent facilities for staff and research students,
 we have access to IT and library database facilities such as Amadeus, Bloomberg, Business
 Source Premier, Croner-iLibrary, Eikon, Datastream, EconLit, Emerald, Fame, FT.com, JSTOR,
 S&P Global Market Intelligence, MarketLine Advantage, Statista, Passport (Euromonitor), OECD
 iLibrary, OECD Statistics, ScienceDirect, Scopus, SAGE Business Cases, SAGE Research
 Methods, UK Data Service and Web of Science. In recent years there has been significant
 investment in the fabric of the Library buildings and in audio-visual and IT equipment to ensure
 they meet a high specification. The University is part of a Scotland-wide purchasing consortium
 (SHEDL) that provides timely access to all major e-journals and e-book collections. Additionally,
 there is a wide range of software to ensure that quantitative (e.g. Qualtrics) and qualitative (e.g.
 NVivo) methods are accommodated. The Library hosts the Scottish Business Archive which
 contains valuable collections used for research by accounting and business historians.

 These infrastructural facilities are integrated with staffing support (see Sections 1 and 2) to realise
 the Adam Smith Business School’s research strategies (see Section 1). As Section 4 sets out
 below, they have combined to make possible significant achievements, including distinctive
 collaborative contributions to the research base, our economy and society, and the way we live.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research distinctiveness in the widest Glasgow tradition of Political Economy is referenced in
 contributions to the stock of knowledge on the economy and society. Nuran Acur’s work on the
 Connected Digital Health Innovation System for COVID-19 (CODIS) and that of Mehdi Boussebaa
 on internationalisation strategies and practices of professional service firms contribute to
 knowledge on the production of goods and services; David Heald’s work on the transparency of
 public finances and that of Andrew Cumbers on alternative forms of public ownership add to what
 we know about relations between law and government; Colin Mason’s work on the development
 of high-growth firms and that of Denis Fischbacher-Smith on risk management contribute to the
 creation and protection of personal and collective well-being.

 The School’s research also helps improve the well-being of its communities at various levels,
 including the civic (for example, Deirdre Shaw et al’s work on Glasgow community gardens), the

                                                                                                Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 national (for example, Campbell Leith and Charles Nolan’s work in establishing the Scottish Fiscal
 Commission) and the international (for example, Emmanuel Mourlon-Druol’s work on historical
 economic analysis of the future of the Eurozone).

 In all these, staff strive for enlightened research that questions traditional and perceived
 orthodoxies and searches for contemporary understanding while endeavouring to establish new
 meaning and collaborative solutions to the challenges of an increasingly complex socio-economic
 environment.

 Engaged scholarship: A culture of discipline, collaboration and co-production

 The public conception of researcher has often been expressed as the singleton scholar. However
 romantic that image may be, it rarely depicts the reality of today’s search for understanding of the
 complexities of business and management. Our approach is engaged scholarship, the hallmarks
 of which are discipline, collaboration and co-production, specifically:

      •   Individual disciplinary scholarship and constructive enterprise
      •   Engagement with the academic community of business and management through
          journal editorships and learned society leadership
      •   Collaboration with other disciplines and subdisciplines
      •   Engagement with communities of policy and practice both as a source of knowledge
          and reciprocally as a means to improve the way we live.

 Our research expresses both the Business School’s commitments and the aspirations of the
 University in:

     •    Contributing to the vitality and sustainability of Business and Management Studies
          through our culture of engaged scholarship, and our staffing strategy that recruits into
          and socialises this culture (see Sections 1 and 2)
     •    Providing opportunities to disseminate research findings to policymakers, professional
          bodies and managers, and increase the potential for research impact
     •    Ensuring that the principles of research co-production are integral to the ways in which
          research is supported
     •    Developing and sustaining networks of research support that bring practitioners into
          contact with the research community.

 Collaborative academic research

 Building this collaborative research base has involved active engagement with a wide range of
 institutions of higher education, civic, national and international research users and networks, and
 professional and learned societies. The following paragraphs provide some examples.

 In addition to collaborations within the School and across the University, we have extensive staff
 collaboration with colleagues in higher education institutions across the world. The following
 examples illustrate its breadth and depth: Australia (Robert McMaster with Sydney and Kathleen
 Riach with Melbourne); Canada (Katherine Duffy with Toronto); Denmark (Rob Dekkers with
 Aarhus); Finland (Mehdi Boussebaa with Hanken School of Economics, Helsinki); France
 (Danture Wickramasinghe with Paris Dauphine); Germany (Cathy Chen with Humboldt); Ireland
 (Martin Beirne with Trinity College Dublin); Italy (Adina Dudau with Bocconi); Netherlands


                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Stephan von Delft with Amsterdam); New Zealand (Trevor Buck with Victoria University
 Wellington); Russia (Constantine Sorokin with New Economics School, Moscow); Sri Lanka
 (Sonja Gallhofer with Colombo); Sweden (Colin Mason with Lund); Switzerland (Eugenio Proto
 with ETH Zurich); and USA (Céline Azémar with Columbia, Dimitris Christelis with Stanford,
 Takashi Hayashi with Georgetown and Hervé Moulin with Harvard).

 These links are reinforced by distinguished visiting speakers. During the REF period, the Adam
 Smith Distinguished Speaker Series included Daniel Hamermesh (IZA Institute of Labor
 Economics), Charles Manski (Northwestern) and Adam Posen (Petersen Institute for International
 Economics). External presenters at cluster seminars included Francis Bloch (Paris School of
 Economics), Stephen Broadberry (Oxford), Judy Brown (Victoria University of Wellington), Frank
 Eich (Bank of England), Yves Gendron (Laval), Bill Megginson (Oklahoma), Katharina Pistor
 (Columbia), Roy Suddaby (Liverpool and Victoria), and Douglas Sutherland (OECD). ‘Meet the
 Editor’ sessions included Gloria Barczak (Northeastern University), V. Kumar (Georgia State) and
 Linda Price (Oregon).

 Learned societies

 As part of the development of a collaborative research base, staff are or have been leading
 members of learned societies, including:

      •   Anna Bogomolnaia: Member, Council of the Game Theory Society (2019 – present)
      •   Sara Carter: Convenor, D3 Sectional Committee on Private Sector Leadership, Royal
          Society of Edinburgh (2019 – present)
      •   John Crawford: Member, A3 Sectional Committee on Organismal and Environmental
          Biology, Royal Society of Edinburgh (2016 – present)
      •   Richard Dennis: Member, Executive Committee of the Society for Nonlinear Dynamics
          and Econometrics (2014 – 2017)
      •   Pavlos Dimitratos: Chair, Academy of International Business (UK & Ireland) (2017 –
          present); Track Chair on ‘International Business’, British Academy of Management (2014
          – 2016)
      •   Theodore Koutmeridis: Member, Royal Society of Edinburgh’s Young Academy of
          Scotland (2014 – 2019)
      •   Colin Mason: Member of the Nominations Committee, Academy of Social Sciences
          (2009 – 2015)
      •   Hervé Moulin: President, Game Theory Society (2018 – 2020)
      •   Sarah Robinson: Co-Chair, British Academy of Management’s Critical Management
          Studies track (2016 – present)
      •   Rosalind Searle: Lead Convener, European Group for Organizational Studies (EGOS)
          standing working group (SWG) on Organizational Trust (2011 – 2016)
      •   Sabina Siebert: Trustee and Deputy Chair, Society for the Advancement of Management
          Studies (2017 – present)
      •   Ioannis Tsalavoutas: Treasurer, Financial Accounting and Reporting Special Interest
          Group of the British Accounting and Finance Association (2009 – 2019).

 Grant-awarding bodies

 Colleagues also contribute to Business and Management research as members of grant-awarding
 bodies:


                                                                                         Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


      •   Sara Carter: Leverhulme Trust Research Awards Advisory Committee (2011 – 2018)
      •   Christian Ewald: Grant Assessment Panel of Australian Research Council (2016 –
          2019); Grant Assessment Panel of Carnegie Trust (2014 – 2017)
      •   Sayantan Ghosal: ESRC Capability Committee (2015 – 2018) and its replacement
          ESRC Strategic Advisory Network (2018 – present); ESRC Peer Review College (2010
          – present); Advisory Board of the Campaign for Social Science in Scotland (2016 –
          present)
      •   Campbell Leith: ESRC Grant Assessment Panel (2014 – 2018)
      •   Sabina Siebert: ESRC Grant Assessment Panel (2018 – present); Independent
          Research Fund Denmark Assessment Panel (2018 – 2019)
      •   Arjunan Subramanian: ESRC Peer Review College (2011 – present); EPSRC Peer
          Review College (2011 – present).

 Journal editorships

 In addition to all staff undertaking journal reviews and most being members of editorial boards,
 key editorships of leading journals include:

     •    Thomas Anker: Editor-in-Chief, European Management Journal (2016 – 2018)
     •    Craig Burnside: Member of the Editorial Board, American Economic Review (2011 –
          2020)
     •    Andrew Cumbers: Managing Editor, Urban Studies (2005 – present)
     •    Christian Ewald: Managing Editor, Quantitative Finance (2015 – present)
     •    Colin Mason: Founder and Co-editor, Venture Capital: An International Journal of
          Entrepreneurial Finance (1999 – present)
     •    Hervé Moulin: Co-editor, Economic Theory (2015 – present)
     •    Lee Parker: Joint founding Editor of Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal (1987
          – present)
     •    Georgios Sermpinis: Senior Editor, Decision Support Systems (2014 – present)
     •    Deirdre Shaw: Section Editor (Consumer Ethics), Journal of Business Ethics (2017 –
          present)
     •    Sabina Siebert: Editor-in-Chief, European Management Journal (2015 – 2017)
     •    Melanie Simms: Editor-in-Chief, Work, Employment and Society (2015 – 2017)
     •    Cleopatra Veloutsou: Joint Editor-in-Chief, Journal of Product and Brand Management
          (2013 – present).

 Collaborative international conferences

 Complementing regular academic seminars held by the clusters that attract distinguished
 speakers from the UK, Europe and across the world, the School has hosted collaborative
 international conferences including:

     •    European Workshop on General Equilibrium Theory, 16-18 June 2016
     •    22nd Coalition Theory Network Workshop, 11-12 May 2017
     •    International Research Society for Public Management Workshop, 6-7 November 2018
     •    75th Congress of the International Institute of Public Finance, 20-23 August 2019
     •    Bourdieu Symposium on Organisation and Management, 29-30 August 2019


                                                                                          Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •    47th Academy of International Business UK & Ireland Chapter Conference, 2-4 April 2020
          (postponed to 6-9 April 2022 due to COVID-19)
     •    British Accounting & Finance Association (BAFA) Accounting Education Special Interest
          Group (SIG) Annual Conference, 20-22 May 2020 (postponed to 19-21 May 2021 due to
          COVID-19)
     •    European Academy for Standardisation Conference, 10-12 June 2020 (postponed until
          June 2022 due to COVID-19).

 Collaborative postgraduate research and professional training

 The School has also developed collaborative arrangements for postgraduate research and
 professional training which include the following (see also Section 2):
      • Scottish Graduate School of Social Science pathways
      • ESRC Scotland Doctoral Training Partnership, Scottish Graduate School of Social
          Science
      • Tests of Professional Expertise and Relevant Expertise Examination Panels of the
          Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland, through which Accounting researchers
          contribute to the quality of professional training.

 Collaborative relationships with communities of practice

 As research user communities have their own requirements, colleagues are encouraged to
 engage with practice and acquire professional memberships in order to validate their standing
 within practitioner networks and their ability to identify real-world problems and opportunities. This
 has not only stimulated invitations to deliver keynote presentations but also led to co-produced
 research and support for grant applications.

 Staff have strong links with professional practice, including professional bodies, corporates and
 public sector organisations. The outputs of this research are influencing policy at the highest levels
 at home and abroad and have had impact on the fiscal architecture of Scotland and the UK.
 Researchers have also provided tailored technical assistance to central banks around the world
 and to the private sector, and are shaping policies that will affect the lives of some of the most
 disadvantaged citizens of the developing world.

 Staff are proactively ensuring that research has impact by embedding Knowledge Exchange (KE)
 across the entire portfolio and into strategic decision-making processes. The School has
 supported the development of several research networks that offer the potential for Knowledge
 Exchange and Impact. These include activities around finance, economic and regional
 development, human resource development, risk and resilience, security management,
 healthcare and international business. KE and Impact is an integral part of the annual appraisal
 process, promotion criteria, and the professorial zoning process, which is a clear indication of its
 importance (see Section 2).

 Staff have further enhanced and invested in professionalising external engagement and marketing
 functions, the aim being to leverage corporate connectivity by better deploying the existing and
 emerging knowledge transfer and policy guidance capabilities. In addition, staff are networking
 with alumni in exploring civic, national and international relationships in an effort to develop more
 impactful relationships through existing and emerging stakeholder networks.



                                                                                               Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The communities of collaboration and co-production that these engagements have developed
 include a wide range of private and public actors. The submitted Impact Case Studies illustrate
 some of the successful long-term relationships developed by colleagues with these communities
 of practice. Along with related collaborations, they include:

      •   Andrew Cumbers on the Board of the Jimmy Reid Foundation
      •   Denis Fischbacher-Smith with the Security Awareness Special Interest Group on risk
          management
      •   David Heald as a witness to the House of Commons Procedure Committee and the
          Scottish Parliament Finance and Constitution Committee, and as member of HM
          Treasury User Preparer Advisory Group on government financial reporting
      •   Colin Mason with the OECD and European national governments on high-growth firms
      •   Catriona Paisey with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland (on whose
          Council she has sat since 2014) on professional ethics and education, and as a witness
          on the gender pay gap at the Scottish Parliament’s Gender, Jobs and Fair Work
          Committee
      •   Rosalind Searle’s contributions to the British Psychological Society’s policy response to
          UK government consultations on sexual harassment and misconduct.

 The Business School is home to the Adam Smith Observatory of Corporate Reporting Practices.
 The research hub’s primary objective is to generate and promote innovative, practice-oriented,
 and academically rigorous research on contemporary issues and challenges facing corporate
 entities, professional bodies and policymakers. The Observatory currently works with the
 Association of Chartered Certified Accountants and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of
 Scotland.

 The School has partnered with the National Institute for Economic and Social Research (NIESR).
 The collaboration will strengthen the School’s visibility, presence and access in the most senior
 policy circles and drive the impact agenda in applied economics and policymaking. Together we
 will jointly produce, publish and disseminate the Quarterly Forecast for the Scottish economy from
 2021, and contribute to the NIESR UK and Global forecasts. The School will be able to use the
 custom-made NIESR global economic model for research, Knowledge Exchange, and learning
 activities within the University and with external stakeholders.

 The Business School is a partner in the £32m Productivity Institute which will be headquartered
 at Alliance Manchester Business School. Our economic and business specialists will join forces
 with leading experts from a range of disciplines and backgrounds across the UK to work directly
 with policymakers and businesses to better understand, measure, and enable improvements in
 productivity across the UK. The project is being funded by £26m from the Economic and Social
 Research Council (ESRC) as part of its largest single investment into social sciences research,
 and £6m from nine partner institutions for five years, from 1 September 2020.

 Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) have provided a significant proportion of the £567,969
 received from industry sources during the REF period. These have included John Finch’s awards
 with Scottish Water (with Robbie Paton and Adina Dudau) and CCRS Brokers (with Jillian Gordon
 and Stephan von Delft). The Scottish Water project focused on improving inter-organisational
 collaboration through effective knowledge management systems. The CCRS Brokers project
 centred on discovering and implementing a new peer-to-peer insurance business model. Innovate
 UK funding supports the KTPs.


                                                                                           Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Other examples of collaborations with communities of policy and practice include:

 Government policy

      •   Konstantinos Angelopoulos with the Turkana communities in rural Kenya on the topics
          of insurance and inequality (2018 – 2020)
      •   Sara Carter on the Council of Economic Advisers to the First Minister of Scotland (2015
          – present), Enterprise & Skills Strategic Board (2017 – present) and South of Scotland
          Enterprise (2020 – present)
      •   Dominic Chalmers as a member of the Skills and Knowledge Working Group
          contributing to the Scottish Government’s Artificial Intelligence Strategy (2020 – present)
      •   Sayantan Ghosal and Theodore Koutmeridis with the National Health Service in
          Scotland on fraud prevention (2016 – present)
      •   Alan McGregor with Skills Development Scotland on research to support the
          development of the Glasgow and Clyde Valley Skills Investment Plan; Vice Chair, North
          Ayrshire Economic Development and Regeneration Board (2015 – present); Member,
          Glasgow City Region Economic Growth Commission (2015 – present); Member, Ayrshire
          Regional Economic Partnership (2019 – present)
      •   Sabina Siebert with ‘Restoration and Renewal’ project for the Palace of Westminster
          (2018 – 2019).

 Public finances and the economy

     •    Céline Azémar with the Asian Development Bank and IMF Fiscal Affairs Department
          (2015)
     •    Dimitris Christelis with the European Central Bank on micro-data surveys (2014) and
          Bank of Greece on a micro-data household survey (2015 – 2016; 2018 – 2019)
     •    Richard Dennis with the National Bank of Belgium (2015 – 2016) and the Bank of
          Japan’s Institute for Monetary and Economic Studies (2014); Research Associate, the
          Globalization Institute of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas (2012 – present)
     •    David Heald as Chair of the Royal Society of Edinburgh’s short-life committee (2020)
          which responded to the consultation on the Scottish budget, also representing the
          Society at a Round Table held by the Cabinet Secretary for Finance
     •    Dimitris Korobilis with Deutsche Bundesbank (2019) and the European Central Bank
          (2017; 2020) to provide advice and expertise on high dimensional econometrics methods
     •    Ronald MacDonald with World Bank (2017 – 2018), Scottish Future Growth Council
          (2017 – 2020), Our Scottish Future Think Tank (2019 – present), Scottish Business UK
          (2019 – present) and Bank of England’s Roundtable of notable economists (2008 –
          present)
     •    Ioana Moldovan with the IMF on the management of volatile external resources for
          developing countries (2015 – 2016)
     •    Georgios Panos with the World Bank’s Development Economics Research Group:
          Finance & Private Sector Development Unit (2015)
     •    Serafeim Tsoukas with Bank for International Settlements (2018 – present) and the
          Bank of Portugal (2016 – 2020)
     •    Danture Wickramasinghe with World Bank’s Sri Lankan Office on social auditing project
          (2016 – 2019).



                                                                                             Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Professional bodies

      •    Yvonne Joyce with the Professional Insolvency Committee of the Institute of Chartered
           Accountants of Scotland (2015 – present)
      •    Catriona Paisey with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland Council (2014
           – present)
      •    Rosalind Searle as Chair of the British Psychological Society (BPS) Division of
           Occupational Psychology’s Board Effectiveness Working Group (2013 – 2018) and
           Secretary-General of the Alliance for Organizational Psychology (2014 – 2018)
      •    Sabina Siebert as a member of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development’s
           Knowledge into Practice Working Group (2015 – 2019)
      •    Ioannis Tsalavoutas with the Accounting Standards Committee of the Institute of
           Chartered Accountants of Scotland (2015 – 2018) and Chair of European Financial
           Reporting Network (2016 – present).

 Business

         • Sara Carter as Founder and Non-Executive Director of Women’s Enterprise Scotland
           (2012 – present) and Co-chair, British Bankers’ Association Diversity & Inclusion Council
           (2014 – 2017)
         • John Crawford with Bayer on the development and delivery of global strategy in digital
           agriculture (2017 – 2018) and with BASF on the development of the global sustainability
           strategy (2018 – present)
         • Kirsten Kininmonth as External Member of the Paisley Centre for Business and
           Industrial History (2017 – present) and contributing to Paisley’s bid to be UK City of
           Culture in 2021
         • Yee Kwan Tang as a Technical Adviser to ATDF Entrepreneurship Hub on ‘Expanding
           business opportunities for African youth in agricultural value chains in Southern Africa’
           (2015 – 2017)
         • Stephan von Delft with a consortium of academic partners for the German Chemical
           Industry Association (VCI), a chemicals and pharmaceuticals industry cluster, and the
           management consultancy PwC (2014 – 2015).

 Political parties and interest groups

     •     Andrew Cumbers as adviser to the Labour Party on new forms of public ownership
           (2016 – present)
     •     Melanie Simms as Member of the Advisory Board for the European Foundation for the
           Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (2019 – present)
     •     John Tsoukalas as ad-hoc adviser to the Greek conservative party, New Democracy
           (2017 – present) and to the Chief Economist in the Greek Ministry of Finance (2019 –
           present).

 The links of academia into practice are also strengthened by two mechanisms. First are the
 Business School’s Honorary Professors who relate to the School as a whole and to the work of
 relevant clusters. Examples are James Baird (Audit Committee Chair of Macfarlane Group plc),
 James Barbour (Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland), Benny Higgins (formerly Chief
 Executive Officer of Tesco Bank and Chair of the Scottish Government’s business-led committee
 on post-COVID-19 economic recovery); Lord John McFall (formerly Chair of the Treasury


                                                                                            Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Committee of the House of Commons); and Anastasia Sideri (Communications Director, Central
 and Eastern Europe, The Coca-Cola Company). Second is the Strategic Advisory Board which
 provides an advisory, ambassadorial and philanthropic function for the Business School. It is
 chaired by Jim McColl (Clyde Blowers Capital) and its external members include Carolyn Currie
 (Women’s Enterprise Scotland), Nick Kuenssberg (Horizon Co-invest) and Petra Wetzel (West
 Brewery).

 External recognition for contributions to the knowledge base, economy and society

 The valued contributions of staff engaged in these collaborations have been recognised by
 fellowships and awards. The most notable during the REF2021 period include:

 Fellowships and honours awarded during 2014-2020

     •    Denis Fischbacher-Smith: Fellow, British Academy of Management (2017 – present);
          Fellow, Chartered Institute of Ergonomics and Human Factors (2014 – present); Principal
          Fellow, Higher Education Academy (2014 – present)
     •    David Heald: Fellow, Academy of Social Sciences (2014 – present) and the Royal
          Society of Edinburgh (2016 – present)
     •    Campbell Leith: Fellow, Royal Society of Edinburgh (2014 – present)
     •    Hervé Moulin: Fellow, British Academy (2018 – present); the Royal Society of Edinburgh
          (2015 – present); and Member of Academia Europaea (2018 – present)
     •    Emmanuel Mourlon-Druol: Non-Resident Fellow of Bruegel (2015 – present)
     •    Ronald MacDonald: OBE in Queen’s 2015 birthday honours for services to economic
          policy
     •    Charles Nolan: Fellow, Royal Society of Edinburgh (2015 – present); President-Elect
          (2017 – 2020) and President of the Scottish Economic Society (2020 – present)
     •    Sarah Robinson: Academic Fellow, Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development
          (2016 – present)
     •    Rosalind Searle: Fellow, Royal Society of Arts (2015 – present); Fellow, British
          Psychological Society (2018 – present)
     •    Sabina Siebert: Academic Fellow, UK Parliament (2018 – 2019); Academic Fellowship
          of the Scottish Parliament (2019 – 2020)
     •    Melanie Simms: Academic Fellowship of the Scottish Parliament (2019 - 2021); Fellow,
          Royal Society of Arts (2016 – present)
     •    Fiona Wilson: Fellow, British Academy of Management (2015 – present); Academic
          Fellow, Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (2016 – present).

 Awards

 Staff members have received many prizes and awards, of which the following are especially
 noteworthy:

      •   Nuran Acur: EURAM Conference ‘Award for Most Inspirational Conference Paper’
          (2016) and BAM conference Best Development Paper Award (2015) in the Performance
          Measurement Track
      •   Stephanie Anderson, Andrew Cumbers, Robert McMaster and Deirdre Shaw: Best
          Community or Public Engagement Initiative Winner, University of Glasgow’s Knowledge



                                                                                         Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          Exchange & Public Engagement Awards 2020 for their work with the Baltic Street
          Adventure Playground
      •   Trevor Buck: Silver Medal for Scholarship from Journal of International Business
          Studies, 2019
      •   Andrew Cumbers: 2015 Gunnar Myrdal prize for Evolutionary Political Economy for his
          book Reclaiming Public Ownership – Making Space for Economic Democracy
      •   Pavlos Dimitratos and Rose Narooz: Best paper in the ‘International Business and
          International Management’ track at the 32nd British Academy of Management
          Conference, 2018
      •   Aldo Elizalde: Sir Alec Cairncross Prize for best paper, 2020 Scottish Economic Society
          Conference
      •   Denis Fischbacher-Smith: Best Paper Award in the Public Management and
          Governance Track, British Academy of Management, 2018
      •   Takashi Hayashi: Japanese Economic Association Nakahara Prize, 2019
      •   Alena Kostyk: Most Innovative Research Paper, 14th Global Brand Conference, 2019
      •   Theodore Koutmeridis: 2018 RSE/Henry Duncan Medal, Royal Society of Edinburgh,
          UK, for his outstanding work in the field of economics
      •   Colin Mason: Winner of the 2015 ESRC Outstanding Impact in Business Award (with
          Richard Harrison, Edinburgh) for 25 years of research on business angels; and
          Entrepreneurship Practice Award 2018, Academy of Management Entrepreneurship
          Division (with Richard Harrison, Edinburgh)
      •   Georgios Panos: Poets&Quants 2020 Best 40 Under 40 Professors
      •   Kathleen Riach: 2020 Imaginative Educator Award from the Scottish Institute for
          Enterprise.

 The School values these individual recognitions as validating colleagues personally. But even
 more, they are valued for their combined testimony of appreciation of the collegial, collaborative
 community of engaged research and scholarship that has been and is continuing to be forged by
 the School. By these means, we contribute to the research base for civic, national and international
 society.




                                                                                             Page 32
