Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Wolverhampton

 Unit of Assessment: 33 Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 a) Research Structure

 At the University of Wolverhampton (UoW), research in this Unit of Assessment (UoA) comprises
 both practice-led and theoretical scholarship with ground-breaking research in the fields of
 authorship and adaptation, marginalised communities, and creative composition. This submission
 draws on research from two Departments located in the Faculty of Arts, Business and Social
 Sciences. Led by Glover, research in Performing Arts is coordinated through the Centre for
 Creativity, History and Identity in Performance (CCHIP) and focuses on developing the work of
 practice-based researchers alongside theoretical scholarship on contemporary and historical
 performance. Principal research areas include: gender across stage performance; audience
 reception of performance; sound and music computing; performance and trauma; and the
 intersection of film and music. CCHIP is submitting the Head of School of Performing Arts, 2
 Readers, and 8 Senior Lecturers/Lecturers, including 1 Early Career Researcher (ECR) (10 FTE)
 and outputs of a former Head of School.

 Research in Film and Screen Studies in the School of Arts is managed through the Centre for
 Film, Media, Discourse and Culture (CFMDC). As the centre’s outputs indicate, much of its
 research is interdisciplinary and comprises various key narratives as they relate to media: the
 medical humanities; loneliness and trauma; adaptation studies and eco-psychoanalysis; and
 political radicalism and terrorism. Led by Pheasant-Kelly, the centre’s research in these areas has
 resulted in numerous publications, the organisation of a number of international conferences and
 the instigation of impact-driven collaborative projects. The centre is submitting a Reader, Director
 of the University Doctoral College, and 4 Senior Lecturers/Lecturers including 1 ECR (6 FTE) and
 outputs of a retired Reader.

 b) Research Objectives Past and Future and Performance

 i) Review of Activity

 As the UoA is a new area since REF2014, this is the first time that the 2 centres have submitted
 in a combined format. Following amalgamation of our subject areas in this UoA, we liaise regularly
 and certain synergies have become apparent. These include a general ambition of improving the
 quality of research outputs to 3 and 4*. To achieve this, research staff may apply for increased
 time in workload allocations of between 120-400 hours for Lecturers/Senior Lecturers from a total
 of 1597 contracted hours. Readers receive a minimum of 400 hours research time and may also
 apply for extra time. In addition, all staff are automatically allocated 180 hours of self-managed
 time for scholarly activity (SMRSA). Research active staff are also invited to apply for one
 semester-long sabbatical per REF cycle to support significant outputs such as monographs and
 PhD completions and in the current REF window, sabbaticals have been awarded to Browne, Fox,
 Hampton, Nichols and Whitfield. Senior researchers also support ECRs with mentoring and peer
 review.

 A second objective was to develop expertise in specific areas so as to facilitate PhD recruitment.
 This has been targeted through the employment of 7 staff in journalism, music, film studies and
 performing arts and the promotion of 2 colleagues in Film Studies from Senior Lecturer to Reader
 in the current REF window (cf. page 6). PhD recruitment has also been aided by 9 successful
 Masters courses across the disciplines that constitute the 2 centres. For future PhD recruitment
 we are promoting an online, open access ‘In Conversation with CFMDC’ series, aimed at potential
 and current doctoral students. The series covers topics such as ideas for doctoral study, the
 publishing process, and recent developments in PhD requirements.


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Thirdly, we sought to increase the impact of our research through accelerating our engagement
 with non-academic audiences and partners, such as the New York Public Library, Light House
 Media Centre in Wolverhampton, and the British Film Institute (BFI). Examples of this engagement
 include public-facing talks and debate on film and media, individual film stars and specific
 performances in musicals (cf. page 12). This strategy has been channelled through research that
 explicitly addresses societal challenges including mental health and loneliness, radicalisation and
 cinema, and equality and diversity in performance, and its dissemination to public audiences.
 Overall, we have generally sought to maximise the research profile of UoW’s Performing Arts and
 Film Studies departments as detailed below.

 ii) Outcomes

 The above objectives resulted in 172 publications across the UoA for the REF period, and
 development of the UoA’s 2 case studies: ‘Minding the Media/Culture Gap’, (Halligan, Lovelock,
 Dalgleish and Fox); and ‘Empowering Marginalised Communities through Music and Musical
 Theatre’, (Browne and Whitfield). Concurrently, we have relayed research to both non-academic
 and academic audiences in local, national and international contexts through a range of seminar
 series, symposia, public lectures, and international conferences and events that foreground
 inclusivity. These span informal talks to external non-academic audiences (for example, we
 delivered 20 talks to local cinema audiences, each having 50-250 attendees, 2017-19) and well-
 attended public lectures attracting local and national audiences (up to 80 attendees per lecture)
 by prominent academics from the UK, US and Europe, including: Professors Robin Nelson, Karen
 Boyle, Peter Bull, Michal Krzyzanowski, Agnieszka Piotrowska, Chris Weedman, and John Peters.
 We also held 6 annual academic seminars that are open to the public.

 In addition, we initiated an annual Film Director’s Conference series that began in 2018 with Tim
 Burton’s Curious Bodies (40 attendees) followed by Kathryn Bigelow: A Visionary Director in 2019
 (30 attendees), both attracting international delegates. A planned conference on Christopher
 Nolan for 2020 has been postponed until 2022. We also organised international conferences on
 Loneliness in the Age of Mobile and Social Media (2018) (60 attendees), Diva: Hip-Hop, Feminism
 and Fierceness (2019) (45 attendees), and Musical Theatre in Process (2019) (125 attendees).

 In terms of PhD recruitment, numbers of successful applications continue to rise with 32 doctoral
 students enrolled, and 7 completions across the 2 centres (cf. page 7).

 iii) What we are going to do going forward

 The UoA’s priorities are: to develop funding bid submissions that address societal challenges;
 prioritise impact and interdisciplinarity through the development of case studies that focus on
 mental health, cultural heritage, medical humanities and eco-criticism; promote inclusivity as it
 relates to film and the performing arts; expand our PhD community; extend open access to our
 research; and use research to inform the development of a cutting-edge curriculum. To this end,
 an overarching aim is to foster novel forms of collaboration with non-HEI stakeholders. Examples
 of this include:

       Instigation of a Reframing Musical Theatre research network with national and international
        industry and academic partners for grant applications (Browne, Lovelock, Whitfield).
       Making archival material available for public access – Pheasant-Kelly has been granted
        possession of scriptwriter Andrea Newman’s professional documents and is collaborating
        with the BFI to make the collection publicly available in 2021. Relatedly, Whitfield has been
        building a database of over 1,000 performances in the UK by black performers, musicians
        and producers, from 1900 – 1950 and is expanding it into a relational and open source
        project to reveal the stories of black performers previously missing from the historiography
        of the form.
       Development of Improving Theatre Accessibility through Sound Design, leading to creative
        outputs, text publications and industry partnerships (Dalgleish).


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Progression of Hearing the Restoration Part-Books, an auralisation of seventeenth-century
         manuscripts in cathedrals (Foteinou).
        Implementation of several cultural heritage pipeline projects. These include: Lost Cinemas
         of the Black Country in collaboration with The Black Country Museum, Light House Media
         Centre and Ikon Gallery, Birmingham (Pheasant-Kelly); Haunted Media, which centres on
         1970s television and its relationship to local audiences (Fox, Geal, Halligan, and Pheasant-
         Kelly); and a project on Hollywood director, James Whale, involving collaboration with a
         documentary filmmaker (Pheasant-Kelly). These three projects have significance for the
         Black Country region in terms of cultural heritage and will therefore be developed as an
         impact case study. They will also inform the instigation of 2 MA Film and Screen modules:
         LGBTQ+ Cinema and Screening the Black Country.
        Integration of game design in new composition (Glover) which will develop compositional
         structures to facilitate interaction and participation by young and amateur players.
        Development of an interdisciplinary project with the Wellcome Trust and British Universities
         Film and Video Council (BUFVC) on media coverage of COVID and its relationship to that
         of HIV (Pheasant-Kelly), which builds on current research for a contracted monograph,
         The History of HIV in Film, Television and the Media (Routledge 2022).

 c) Impact from the research and the link to Impact Case Studies

 An important objective of our research is to promote inclusivity in the film, theatre and music
 industries, and their associated audiences, cultures and histories. Target beneficiaries in our
 impact strategy therefore include historically-excluded communities and individuals, such as
 women and LGTBQ+ and BAME groups as well as those with disability, those who have unequal
 or absent recourse to digital learning and teaching, and those who are subject to distorted or
 forgotten histories. For example, ‘Minding the Media/Culture Gap’ (ICS1) focuses on gaps in
 inclusivity in relation to digital literacy in educators, the historical framing of filmmaker Michael
 Reeves, the accessibility of theatre performance by visually impaired audiences, and
 representation of LGBTQ+ performers. In ‘Empowering Marginalised Communities through Music
 and Musical Theatre’ (ICS2) we worked to identify gaps in inclusivity in relation to
 women’s/schoolgirls’ participation in music events, and minoritised groups in musical theatre. The
 research addressed these gaps by involvement with the ‘Hear her Song’ project and the ongoing
 construction of an archive regarding recovered minoritised histories.

 Our strategy for dissemination involves the publicising of findings via the creation of archives
 (ICS2), and through screenings and public discussion, internet fora (online platforms, podcasts,
 YouTube, blogs) (ICS1 and 2), documentary film (ICS1), television and radio. These aims are
 supported by the provision of sabbaticals and ERAS awards, and the allocation of research time
 above the designated 180 hours. For example, Fox was awarded a semester-long sabbatical and
 Dalgleish was awarded an internal early-researcher award (ERAS) which enabled their work on
 ICS1 while Lovelock was allocated extra research hours. ERAS, which also benefitted Nichols’
 work on Bradbury, provided peer mentoring, training and resources to accelerate impact for ICS1.
 Mentoring and peer review are used to disseminate good practice; for example, we peer reviewed
 Fox’s work on loneliness. Finally, we have used our centres’ QR funding for attending training
 events (Fox), conference attendance (Fox, Whitfield), dissemination (Dalgleish) and research
 travel (Browne, Whitfield) (ICS1 and 2).

 We measure the effectiveness of dissemination via audience attendance at our public discussions
 and academic conferences, and website visits (relevant to ICS1 and 2). Resulting impact is
 monitored via written feedback at conferences and public discussions, reviews of publications,
 performances and artefacts, citations, and critical reviews (ICS1). In the context of our case-
 studies, this feedback has been used to evidence how our research has changed views,
 understanding and perceptions of filmmakers (ICS1), performers (ICS2), artefacts (ICS1), modes
 of delivery (ICS1), and digital learning and teaching techniques (ICS1).

 i) Vitality and Sustainability


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We will ensure future sustainability of the UoA’s impact through continued investment in
 increasingly substantive and interdisciplinary projects, and by generating innovative collaborative
 project bids in response to ongoing and newly-emergent societal challenges. For example,
 initiatives related to climate change are underway with Geal completing a monograph on
 ecocriticism (Routledge 2021) alongside ongoing ethnographic research into sustainable living.
 Pheasant-Kelly, in conjunction with BUFVC, is developing a project bid for submission to
 Wellcome Trust on media representations of COVID and HIV; and Fox is furthering her work on
 interventions for youth loneliness in collaboration with colleagues at Manchester, Anglia Ruskin,
 King’s College, London, and Royal College of Music in a bid to the Medical Research Council led
 by Jennifer Lau: ‘Adolescence, Mental Health and the Developing Mind’.

 In particular, strategies for promoting research on disability and BAME groups are taking centre
 ground, with important contributions in progress by Whitfield, Dalgleish and Lovelock. As noted,
 Dalgleish is developing a new technique for blind and visually impaired theatre audiences at Arena
 Theatre, a project that was instigated by the internal ERAS scheme (2017), and presented at the
 House of Lords in July 2019. Building on this, Dalgleish is currently generating instrument/design-
 related outputs that focus on users with physical disabilities. This project will develop a new
 research area by creating an interdisciplinary research space dedicated to accessible interfaces
 for the performing arts. Bringing together diverse expertise, the project will: develop
 assistive/enabling interfaces for under-represented and/or excluded users; evaluate the individual
 and community/societal impact of these developments; and create a sustainable platform for
 future work and funding. The allocation of 150 research hours over two consecutive years has
 enabled Lovelock to formulate the first of a series of LGBTQ+ research group concert-lectures at
 the Performance Hub (2018, 2020). A developing cultural heritage project around the film director
 James Whale has potential to contribute to local tourist economies through the staging of a series
 of events in conjunction with Wolverhampton Art Gallery and Light House Media Centre in 2021-
 22.

 d) Supporting Interdisciplinary Research

 The UoA’s strategy to sustain interdisciplinary research is based upon pro-actively engaging with
 other Research Centres across the University in order to initiate dialogue and collaboration. To
 this end, a series of UoA and Faculty initiatives have supported interdisciplinary discussions and
 connections, with practice researchers from the UoA encouraged to attend ‘Science meets Arts’
 events, thereby promoting relationships with lab-based scientists.

 Externally, the UoA provides funding to support travel for staff to meet potential collaborators from
 other disciplines or to access archival material associated with interdisciplinary study. This has
 resulted in Foster co-creating ‘Sound.points: Finding a Place to Be’ with dance choreographer Jo
 Breslin at De Montfort University (2017), Hockenhull collaborating with Professor Claire Parkinson
 at Edge Hill University in relation to animal welfare and cinema, and Pheasant-Kelly working on
 terrorism and cinema with Dr Glen Donnar at RMIT Melbourne. Funding for primary resources
 (digitised copies of archived material) has also enabled Pheasant-Kelly to participate in an
 international interdisciplinary collaboration on transformative events of 1989 involving academic
 colleagues from Tunisia, Canada, US, UK, Sweden, India and Germany, which has led to a
 forthcoming funded workshop and edited collection. Glover is part of a research team working on
 the UoW-funded EU Science, Technology and Arts (STARTS) project, led by Denise Doyle, which
 analyses creative methodologies of STARTS prize-winners and will promote UoW as a centre for
 creative inter-disciplinary arts and science ventures.

 Interdisciplinarity is further instigated through University events. For instance, UoAs from different
 disciplines come together at the annual University Research Conference as well as during specific
 training courses. The Grants Academy Scheme enabled Fox and Foteinou to attend a cross-
 disciplinary event in Brussels to network with policymakers at senior level (2018) and Pheasant-
 Kelly participated in the internal Academic Research Innovation Leader Programme, which
 provided opportunities for academic leaders from all disciplines across the University to integrate
 specifically to encourage inter-disciplinarity (2018). Being part-run in Brussels, the group was able

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to meet with policy-makers and key players from the European Commission and major
 international higher education networks to promote broader international cross-disciplinary
 funding collaborations.

 e) Progress towards an Open Research Environment

 We have complied with REF requirements to deposit pre-publication versions of all journal articles
 within 3 months of acceptance in our institutional repository (WIRE), although several are
 temporarily under publisher embargo. Additionally, we have exceeded REF requirements by
 depositing 42 chapters, monographs, compositions and conference proceedings on WIRE and
 have worked towards compliance with the University’s Concordat on Open Research Data by also
 making research publicly accessible through a range of non-academic fora. To this end, the
 findings from funded projects are made available online and on the UoW website where IP is not
 compromised. For example, research related to the ERASMUS MeLDE project is obtainable on
 the project website http://meldeproject.eu/). A further 5 outputs are gold access, 4 with a CC BY
 licence and 1 with a CC BY-NC-SA licence. For example, Whitfield has several open access
 articles (see https://doi.org/10.3390/arts9020069 and https://jhuptheatre.org/theatre-topics/online-
 content/issue/volume-30-issue-2-july-2020/space-has-been-made-bisexual).

 Staff also write blogs relating to their own research, enabling vital research insights to be
 disseminated to a wider, non-academic base. For instance, Whitfield has written about pianist
 Elsie April on the Royal Northern College of Music website (https://www.rncm.ac.uk/blog/elsie-
 april-1884-1950/) and composer Clare Krummer on the New York Public Library website
 (https://www.nypl.org/blog/2019/06/18/clare-kummer-choir-rehearsal) and MAESTRA music
 website      (https://maestramusic.org/blog/spotlights-on-women-composers-in-early-broadway-
 history-week-three-clare-kummer/).

 We further promote our work via YouTube, podcasts, radio, film and television. For example,
 Whitfield and composer and music director, Sean Mayes, recently discussed their research for
 their co-authored book, An Inconvenient Black History of British Musical Theatre, 1900-1950
 (Bloomsbury 2021) (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fy99j8NKyOc&feature=emb_title which
 has 95 views) while Nichols, a renowned expert on Ray Bradbury, recently took part in a BBC
 World Service programme, Ray Bradbury: A Master of Science Fiction (2020) (see
 http://www.bbc.co.uk/sounds/play/w3cszjvr) and has a regular audio podcast series, Bradbury
 100, (>1438 listens to date, and an average of 144 per episode). Nichols’ Bradbury 100 Live show
 on Facebook and Youtube has had >230 viewers. Nichols also participated in a podcast interview
 with Jeffrey Kahan: ‘Phil Nichols and I talk Bradbury, Bloch, and Pink's Hotdogs’ (see
 https://www.spreaker.com/user/13017674/phil-nichols). Pheasant-Kelly took part in a podcast
 interview related to her research on Harry Potter while Halligan participated in a Britflicks podcast
 interview deriving from his research on and contribution to the feature-length documentary, The
 Magnificent Obsession of Michael Reeves (Ballin 2019).

 f) Supporting a Culture of Research Integrity

 Within the context of the Institution’s approach, the UoA supports a culture of research integrity,
 and ensures that research is conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal and professional
 frameworks, obligations and standards through the University Code of Good Practice and the
 University Ethics Policy. Both are aligned with the Universities UK Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity. This is maintained by internal peer review and mentoring at UoA level, and peer review
 at institutional level for funding bids. In this respect, the UoA is supported by the University’s
 Research Policy Unit (RPU) which issues guidance regarding ethics and impact as well as the
 Project Support Office (PSO) which checks research integrity across projects and awards. The
 Faculty Ethics Committee also scrutinises doctoral applications and funded projects to ensure
 ethical, legal and professional standards are maintained. The UoA engages with this agenda by
 completing ethics forms for all doctoral students, and advising students on ethics. The Faculty
 Doctoral Training Programme includes a workshop on ethics and research integrity and Pheasant-


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Kelly, Foster and Zavros belong to the Faculty Ethics Committee to ensure that necessary
 processes in the UoA are fulfilled.

 2. People

 a) Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 There are currently 17 submitted Category A members contributing to this UoA, including 15 full-
 time staff, and 2 part-time staff. Of the Category A submitted staff, 1 is Head of School of
 Performing Arts, 3 are Readers, 1 is Director of the Doctoral College and 12 are Senior
 Lecturers/Lecturers of which 2 are ECRs (Geal and Curpan). Further eligible Category A staff
 include Johnson and Hockenhull who have left the University.

 i) Staff Development Strategy

 All colleagues benefit from a Faculty-wide mentoring scheme and annual appraisal, and there are
 staff development programmes available for every stage of an academic career. UoA strategy for
 staff development implements the Concordat to Support Career Development of Researchers to
 make centre funding available to provide resources, training and travel for research purposes and
 to establish collaborative projects. For example, all UoA staff may apply for centre funding of up
 to GBP1,200 per event to present their research at international conferences. A staff development
 strategy to promote increased funding bid submission has entailed the provision of workshops by
 the PSO for all University academics by deploying external expertise, such as the British Academy.

 In addition, opportunities to apply for a Grants Academy Scheme allocation of GBP2,000 have
 enabled staff to attend networking events in Brussels to liaise with policymakers at senior level
 (Foteinou 2017; Fox 2018). Specific opportunities have been provided for the training of more
 senior staff in funding bid development through external consultancy schemes such as NU2EU
 (Glover, Pheasant-Kelly 2016), which centred on Horizon 2020 applications, and internal
 schemes, such as the Academic Research Innovation Leader Programme (Pheasant-Kelly 2018)
 for promoting leadership qualities and identifying funding avenues beyond Europe. In addition, the
 two centres carry out specific roles in research staff development including: the allocation of up to
 400 extra research hours (cf. page 1); mentoring in the application for, and during ERAS
 Fellowships; peer review and seminar feedback for research articles; co-authoring of publications;
 and funding bid assistance. This support has resulted in 5 staff in UoA33 (Foteinou, Dalgleish,
 Foster, Fox and Nichols) gaining ERAS places in this REF window, each awarded GBP5,000 to
 develop their individual research aims. Such support has led to post-doctoral researchers
 producing an increasing number of high-quality publications, and has given rise to collaborations
 with external partners and further applications for external funding from the BA Leverhulme Small
 Grants scheme, the Arts Council and the Paul Hamlyn Foundation.

 ii) Recruitment and Recruitment Strategy

 The UoA’s staffing policy involves open, transparent and merit-based recruitment with effective
 processes for induction and probation. A key strategy is to strengthen research in existing
 subjects, and develop and expand new areas. In particular, we have aimed to increase research
 capacity in musical theatre and journalism. Alongside the appointment of a Reader in Music as
 leader of CCHIP (Glover), this strategy has led to 6 new appointments within the current REF
 timeframe: 2 Senior Lecturers in Journalism, a Lecturer in Film and Television Studies, 2 Senior
 Lecturers in Musical Theatre and a Lecturer in Music Technology. This recruitment plan has
 enabled expansion of research into several important areas insofar as potential impact is
 concerned, notably social media and loneliness (Fox), adaptation and eco-criticism (Geal), and
 marginalised communities (Browne, Lovelock, Whitfield and Dalgleish). In addition, 2 Senior
 Lecturers in Film Studies were promoted to Reader during the current REF window (Hockenhull
 and Pheasant-Kelly) in order to consolidate expertise in British and American Cinema.

 iii) Early Career Researchers

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 ECRs are supported at both centre and Faculty level. During the first year of their appointment
 they have a new starter allowance of up to 400 hours per year over 2 years, and are mentored by
 senior staff to produce a research plan. All researchers working in the area of the UoA are
 integrated into one of the two research centres, enabling them to apply for research hours and
 funding for conferences, primary resources, and further staff development/training. For example,
 Dalgleish attended training courses for ‘CHUCK’, a musical programming language (2018), and
 Ambisonics training at the Institute of Acoustics (2017); and Fox attended ‘R for Data Science’ at
 Manchester University (2019) and also participated in a training session run by the Knowledge
 Exchange Unit of The Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology, which gave insight into
 how to work with Parliament as a researcher, forming the basis for future policy engagement. As
 well as having opportunities to present their work at the centres’ seminar series, as noted, 5 staff
 have benefitted from ERAS awards. ERAS-supported projects have, in turn, either strengthened
 existing collaborations, as in Nichols’ partnership with Indiana University, or initiated more
 significant projects, with Fox now collaborating on a major funding bid on loneliness with
 colleagues at King’s College, London (cf. page 4).

 iv) Support of Research and Impact Leave

 All staff are invited to apply for either semester-long sabbaticals to complete major projects or
 shorter sabbaticals for lesser outputs. The policy of both centres is to fund outputs and projects
 that progress individual profiles, address societal challenges or have potential for other forms of
 impact. Browne, Fox, Hampton, Nichols and Whitfield have been awarded sabbaticals. During the
 course of these sabbaticals, Browne completed her PhD (2018) and Fox organised a conference
 and completed an edited collection on loneliness, titled Emotions and Loneliness in a Networked
 Society (Palgrave, 2019). Nichols presented a conference paper at the Screenwriting Research
 Network (2018) and prepared a book proposal, and Hampton completed her PhD (2019). Whitfield
 utilised her sabbatical to complete an edited collection, Reframing the Musical: Race, Culture and
 Identity (Red Globe Press, 2018) and a monograph, Boublil and Schoenberg’s Les Miserables
 (Routledge 2018), and secured a contract for her co-authored book, An Inconvenient Black History
 of British Musical Theatre, 1900-1950.

 v) Support for Research and Impact

 Further to research leave and SMRSA (cf. page 1) all staff may apply for sabbaticals that are
 allocated according to the potential quality of the projected output. Staff training is available in
 external impact initiatives such as NU2EU whilst the Doctoral College provides impact-training
 workshops to facilitate staff in achieving impact.

 b) Research Students

 i) Recruitment

 Since 2014, staff in the UoA have supervised 7 PhD students to completion, and we presently
 have 32 full and part-time enrolled students of which one is supported by an internal RIF staff
 development bursary while the remainder are self-funding. This growth has been aided by the
 implementation of a range of Masters programmes in Film and Screen, Public Relations,
 Contemporary Theatre and Performance, Musical Theatre, Audio Technology, Music, Dance,
 Research in Performing Arts, and Research in Music Technology. 15 current PhD students have
 progressed from these Masters programmes to doctoral study. Admission to Faculty doctoral
 programmes occurs through transparent and equitable processes based on research proposal
 integrity and candidate interview, with gender-balanced interview and supervisory teams.

 ii) Monitoring and Support

 Monitoring of PhD students’ progress consists of Annual Progress Reviews and Progression
 events, these ensuring that each student’s development is assessed independently of their

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supervisory team. PGRs are supervised by a team of researchers who are chosen for their
 different supervisory expertise and research skills in order to optimise support for the PGR. 10
 staff from across dance, drama, music, film studies, media, musical theatre, and music technology
 are currently involved in doctoral supervision. Internal training is required to act as a research
 supervisor, and is followed by regular additional training via the Doctoral College’s Research
 Supervisors’ Development Programme.

 Research students are provided with two main avenues for skills development and preparation for
 their PhD. First, the centralised University Postgraduate Researchers’ Development Programme
 offers both face-to-face and online workshops that are delivered on a weekly basis. Halligan both
 organises and contributes extensively to this programme while Pheasant-Kelly delivers 5 of these
 University-wide workshops annually with uptake across the University as well as by the UoA’s
 doctoral students.

 A second route for UoA skills development is provided by the Faculty of Arts, Business and Social
 Sciences, which runs weekly Faculty-specific Doctoral Training workshops, organised by the
 Faculty Research Skills Tutor (Pheasant-Kelly) and involving colleagues across the UoA as well
 as from the wider Faculty. While these have been face-to-face previously, they are now taking
 place online, with 105 members currently signed up to this forum. These workshops cover a broad
 range of Doctoral Student skill requirements, and are recorded and have written commentary so
 as to make them equally accessible to all students.

 Students are further supported by a Faculty-wide Postgraduate Research Tutor as well as two
 PGR Pastoral Support Tutors. The postgraduate community is fully involved in the research
 culture of the UoA, the Faculty and the University. For example, PhD students are supported with
 teaching materials and University-led workshops to enable them to deliver undergraduate
 modules, for which they are remunerated at visiting lecturer rate. In addition, senior staff
 encourage PhD student publications, either by co-authoring (Pheasant-Kelly, Whitfield, Zavros) or
 by mentoring as well as providing assistance with conference paper presentation. Consequently,
 9 of our students in the UoA have had at least one publication and 6 have presented at national
 and international conferences. Finally, students are integrated into research centre activities and
 are encouraged to attend conferences.

 c) Equality and Diversity

 The UoW is fully committed to the advancement of equality and the elimination of unlawful and
 unfair discrimination where the benefits of a diverse student and staff population are valued. While
 all staff undertake annual mandatory training on equality and diversity, UoA colleagues are
 themselves actively involved in promoting equality and diversity both indirectly through their
 research and directly through the leadership of relevant groups. Examples include Hockenhull’s
 monograph, British Women Film Directors in the New Millennium (Palgrave, 2017), and Whitfield’s
 collection, Reframing the Musical: Race, Culture and Identity, while Lovelock has established a
 LGBTQ+ Performing Arts Project available for staff and students. Overall, the UoA consistently
 raises awareness of the importance of women and LGTBQ+, disabled and BAME communities in
 Performing Arts, Music and Film Studies through its research, publications and events.

 Although there is little gender disparity in UoA staffing (8F:9M) the centres have jointly agreed
 approaches to supporting the role of women in the University’s research culture as a strategy to
 redress traditional gender imbalances. For example, it ensures that women presenters and
 keynotes are prioritised at conferences (the most recent annual Director’s Conference had two
 female keynotes) and internal events are chaired more by women than by men. In addition,
 research-orientated female staff are supported with additional mentoring and mini-sabbaticals and
 female researchers are released from teaching to attend central bid-writing events. Applications
 for conference attendance and access to internal funds are based on merit of the potential
 research output. Transparent procedures are in place to allocate research hours, sabbaticals and
 training opportunities, and to justify career progression.


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The UoA further supports equality and diversity by promoting flexible working, parental and carers’
 leave and by providing facilities for the integration of part-time and honorary staff through the
 allocation of appropriate financial and material support. We have also offered modest financial
 provision for delegates who have child-care responsibilities when attending our conferences. Staff
 who return from career breaks are supported in a number of ways. Those who have taken parental
 leave or long term medical leave agree keeping-in-touch days and negotiate how these points of
 contact are used to ensure that they are able to keep up to date with the University and their
 respective fields. All those returning from career breaks are encouraged to engage a mentor, to
 undertake a skills audit and update their career development plans. During appraisal, line-
 managers support returning staff in identifying appropriate developmental opportunities.

 Outputs from all staff with significant responsibility for research have been included in the UoA
 REF submission with account taken of mitigating circumstances at institutional level. Staff were
 invited to submit work that underwent anonymous peer review by at least 2 senior researchers in
 the UoA. Outputs were graded on significance, originality and rigour as defined in REF guidance,
 and the final selection of outputs was determined by selecting those of highest quality first.

 As well as providing guidance on practical research aspects through individual mentoring and the
 Faculty Doctoral Training Programme, the UoA supports the mental wellbeing of its staff and
 research students via several services available to all University staff and students. These include
 ‘Togetherall’, a mental health and wellbeing digital platform for research students, a staff wellbeing
 hub, and an employee assistance programme that provides short-term counselling sessions. In
 addition, several of our postgraduate students have been affected by COVID in terms of health,
 finances and access to resources. We have made students aware that they are able to take fee-
 free extensions if necessary and liaised with Harrison Library to order resources where these are
 unavailable because of Covid.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 a) Research Funding and Strategies for Generating Research Income

 To date, the UoA’s strategy has been to train staff in funding bid preparation with a view to increase
 funding bid submission and generate income for the next REF. Research funding applications
 focus on both consolidating individual research profiles to generate specific expertise and on
 addressing societal challenges with a steer towards collaborating with non-academic partners and
 other academic institutions, especially in an interdisciplinary context. As a result of these
 initiatives, national and international funding bid activity is increasing. For instance, we have not
 only submitted collaborative bids with other disciplines within the University, such as Health and
 Wellbeing (Nichols) but have also partnered with RMIT Melbourne on terrorism and cinema. Work
 is underway to collaborate with BUFVC on a media/COVID-19 project proposal (Pheasant-Kelly)
 and with King’s College on a loneliness project (Fox).

 b) Organisational Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact

 Organisational, operational and scholarly infrastructure combine to maximise the potential for
 impactful research. Specialist institutional facilities, as well as venues with longstanding affiliations
 with the University, are utilised for a range of internal and external-facing events to promote staff
 research in both academic and non-academic fora. Such facilities include a dance biomechanics
 laboratory, furnished with the latest technology for dance performance training, and the
 Performance Hub that provides a dedicated music practice space as well as ensemble rooms and
 2 professional recording studios. Additional facilities include Black Box Theatre, which is a
 purpose-built theatre space containing a range of LED and intelligent lighting to provide maximum
 performance flexibility. 90% of piano stock in the School of Performing Arts is Steinway. Facilities
 for Film Studies have historically centred on Light House Media Centre, which houses 2 full-screen
 cinemas and an exhibition space and has full technical support with digital subtitling and audio
 description facilities. Arena Theatre also has a full-screen cinema for Film Studies and two


                                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 professional studio theatre environments for researchers to rehearse their work and examine the
 nature of existing work through performance realisation.

 These facilities are utilised in relation to a range of impact activities. Glover organised The
 International Music and/as Process Conference at The Performance Hub in May 2017, and we
 have hosted several international conferences at Light House Media Centre: Loneliness in the
 Age of Mobile and Social Media, (2018); and the annual Twenty-First Century Director’s
 Conference on Tim Burton (2018) and Kathryn Bigelow in 2019. A further international conference
 Diva: Fierceness, Feminism and Hip-Hop in 2019 critically engaged with female hip-hop over the
 last 25 years, particularly in relation to the empowerment of BAME females (artists and fans),
 marginal music cultures and communities, with conference keynotes including Pogus Caesar, Jaki
 Graham and Amerie. These conferences are thus integrally tied to the UoA’s research and impact
 interests as well as making them accessible to the public and have led to several international
 collections: Loneliness and Emotions in a Networked Society, edited by Fox (Palgrave 2019); Tim
 Burton’s Bodies, edited by Hockenhull and Pheasant-Kelly (Edinburgh University Press 2021);
 and a Special Issue of New Review of Film and Television Studies on Kathryn Bigelow, edited by
 Pheasant-Kelly (2021). The Diva conference has also resulted in a collection co-edited by
 Halligan, titled Diva: Hip-Hop, Fierceness and Feminism (Bloomsbury 2021).

 All external funding applications are supported by the Faculty Research and Enterprise Team, and
 PSO which are responsible for pre- and post-award project support and management. Both teams
 alert staff members to subject-specific funding opportunities and initiate meetings to develop the
 details of funding calls. The UoA is further supported by the RPU, an Impact Officer and a
 Research and Impact Development Manager. There is also Faculty administrative support for
 research, with two administrators responsible for coordinating events, together with a Faculty
 Public Engagement Coordinator, a University-wide External Relations Department and knowledge
 exchange and business development support.

 c) Non-Research Income and Benefits in Kind

 In terms of non-research income, Fox was awarded EUR329,975 by the European Commission
 for the ERASMUS MeLDE project (cf. page 2) in order to support digitalised literacy in educational
 institutions across Europe. Hampton secured GBP600 from the Theatre and Performance
 Research Association (TaPRA) for its 2018 TaPRA annual conference (2018), and GBP500 from
 TaPRA and GBP760 AHRC funding for its 2017 event, this relating to her role as co-convenor of
 the TaPRA Working Group. Glover has received commission fees of GBP3,600 from the ‘Being
 and Appearing’ contemporary visual art series (2017), London 840 concert series (2017),
 Birmingham Post-Paradise concert series (2017) and the Whitstable Biennale (2014) which have
 been used to support travel and further compositional time with musicians. In relation to his
 research on Ray Bradbury, Nichols’ travel to co-curate, host, present and chair a film screening
 series on Ray Bradbury at Indiana University was funded by Indiana University. Pheasant-Kelly
 was awarded USD1000 by the Andrew Mellon Foundation to travel to the 9/11 Memorial Museum,
 New York to present work on the filmic legacies of 9/11 in a multidisciplinary context (2017).
 Overall, this funding has enabled us to address gaps in inclusivity in relation to digital media, has
 promoted our research profile nationally and internationally, and has initiated collaborations with
 non-HEI stakeholders.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 a) Arrangements and Support for, and Effectiveness of, Research Collaborations, Networks and
 Partnerships

 Staff in the UoA play important roles in national and international networks, reflecting our research
 interests: Fox is a member of Strengthening Europeans’ Capabilities by Establishing a European
 Literacy Network (ELN), and is part of the Developmental Aspects of Literacy and Education in a
 Digital World working group, alongside scholars from other European countries, including


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Bulgaria, Romania and Italy. In addition, she is a member of the research team for the project
 European Election Campaign, led by Edoardo Novelli, Università degli Studi Roma Tre, Italy.

 Staff have also collaborated widely on numerous co-authored and co-edited publications,
 collaborative performances, joint funding bids, and joint public events, co-presented conference
 papers, and co-convened international conferences. The UoA has collaborated in the BAFTSS
 New Connections scheme, a programme for ECRs, to enable them to present their research to
 new audiences and were pleased to host their inaugural speaker (2019), Dr Matthew Robinson.

 Regarding published work, Glover has co-authored Being Time: Case Studies in Musical
 Temporality with Dr Bryn Harrison at University of Huddersfield and Jennie Gottschalk, a leading
 writer on experimental music in Boston (Bloomsbury 2018). Glover has also co-edited
 Collaborative and Distributed Processes in Contemporary Music-Making with Lauren Redhead
 (Cambridge Scholars 2020) while Whitfield has collaborated with US-based musical theatre
 director, Sean Mayes, for their forthcoming co-authored publication, An Inconvenient Black History
 of British Musical Theatre, 1900-1950.

 In relation to collaborative performance, Zavros has co-created new theatre works with renowned
 researcher-director, George Rodosthenous, including The Truth about Venus, which premiered in
 Paphos in 2017; Foster has co-created work with choreographer Jo Breslin at De Montfort
 University to explore how procedures in composition share synergies with choreographic
 processes; and Browne has worked with 10 international female composers in partnership with
 The Canales Project for ‘Hear Her Song’ (2018), a project aiming to highlight issues of identity and
 culture through music. Nichols has co-curated a film screening series with Indiana University and
 serves on the advisory board of the Center for Ray Bradbury Studies. Pheasant-Kelly has worked
 with Dr Glen Donnar at RMIT, Melbourne in the submission of joint funding bids, including
 ScreenExtreme to Horizon 2020 and the British Academy, as well as co-presenting conference
 papers on terrorism and cinema at the Celebrity Studies Conference, Sapienza University, Rome
 (2018), the Society for Terrorism Conference, Liverpool John Moores University (2018), and the
 EISA Conference, Prague (2018). She has co-directed 5 Cine-Excess film conferences/festivals
 with Professor Xavier Mendik at Birmingham City University (BCU), and collaborated with
 Professor Adam Barkman at Redeemer University College, Ontario. Whitfield was involved with
 the Clare Kummer Project (led by Dr Doug Reside at New York Public Library) that centred on
 early twentieth century composer and playwright Clare Kummer (2019).

 b) Relationships with Key Research Users, Beneficiaries or Audiences

 Staff in the UoA were funded for and delivered papers at 106 external international academic
 conferences during the current REF window. Overall, these have led to a total of 172 publications
 and 8 performances across the UoA since 2014 and have promoted links with individual
 academics, audiences and specific Universities. They include a partnership with The Canales
 Project in New York, culminating in the ‘Hear Her Song’ project (Browne); and collaboration
 between Foster and Breslin, resulting in a performance of their co-created work at Kiev University
 (2018). Links with University of Lisbon (UoL) led Pheasant-Kelly to deliver a lecture at UoL,
 attended by approximately 80 students and members of the public, and subsequently, to edit an
 issue of Messengers from the Stars, a journal published by the UoL Centre for English Studies.

 c) Wider Contributions to Economy and Society

 Research in the UoA has also resulted in wider contributions to society. For example, Dalgleish
 has collaborated with the Beacon Centre for the Blind and Arena Theatre to enhance theatre
 experiences for visually-impaired theatre goers using creative sound design, while Foteinou has
 worked with Lichfield Cathedral in recreating the sounds of choral performance within the
 Cathedral’s pre-Civil War architecture.

 d) Engaging with Diverse Communities and Publics


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The UoA engages with a range of communities through its research, including academic
 audiences, general film-going audiences, schoolchildren, schoolteachers, disabled and deprived
 groups, and marginalised, LGBTQ+ and BAME communities. For instance, Browne conducted the
 ‘Hear Her Song’ project with schoolgirls from areas that are classed as the most deprived
 nationally. Lovelock co-organised the Royal Musical Association Research Students Conference
 at University of Birmingham (2014), and LGBTQ+ concert lectures at the Performance Hub in
 2018 and 2020. Lovelock has also established the LGTBQ+ Performing Arts Research Project
 (2017) comprising staff and students. Lidbury organised a symposium on Refugee Dancers from
 Nazi Europe and their Contribution to British Culture (2019) at UoW that was open to the public
 and Fox delivered a talk, Loneliness and Social Media at the Faith in the Media Community
 Conference, organised by Walsall Council (2018). Halligan convened a conference on an equality
 and diversity-calibrated topic on women of colour and music of a black origin (2019) while
 Hockenhull gave a talk titled Everybody’s Business: Film, Food and Victory in the First World War
 to the Women’s History Network at Avoncroft Museum (2016). Nichols co-curated a film screening
 series at Indiana University where he hosted all events, presented 5 screenings and chaired 2
 discussion panels with each event attracting 200-300 people. Pheasant-Kelly was chair and
 convenor for a panel discussion, Fifty Shades of Feminism: Women in Erotic Roles live public
 debate at the Electric Cinema, Birmingham (2015), introduced a public screening of Scream at
 Blackwells Bookshop, Oxford (2015), and has been interviewed for The Big Issue on Nordic Noir
 (2015), and Stylist magazine on Harry Potter and fantasy film (2016). She has featured in a
 documentary film about Canadian-funded horror film, Tax Shelter Terrors (Mendik, 2016) that has
 been distributed internationally. Together with Hockenhull, she has also presented a series of 20
 talks to general film-going audiences at Light House Media Centre (2017-19). Whitfield delivered
 Who Tells Your Story: Revolutions/Revelations in Hamilton, An American Musical, a British
 Science Fiction Arts lecture in Birmingham, UK (2017); in addition, she has presented public-
 facing talks on her edited collection, Reframing the Musical: Race, Culture and Identity at New
 York Public Library (July 2019), Neptune Theatre, Halifax in Canada (May 2019), and
 Wolverhampton Artsfest (May 2019). Whitfield has also organised the launch of her monograph,
 Boublil and Schoenberg’s Les Miserables at The Other Palace Theatre in London (July 2018) and
 has produced several public engagement online articles (cf. page 5).

 e) Indicators of Wider Influence

 i) Editorial Positions

 Examples of wider influence are indicated by the fact that UoA staff have an extensive range of
 editorial and refereeing roles with 16 editorships overall. For example, Lidbury is Executive Editor
 of Dance Chronicle: Studies in Dance and the Related Arts; Browne is on the editorial board for
 Studies in Musical Theatre; Nichols in on the editorial board of The New Ray Bradbury Review
 (2009-), and Pheasant-Kelly is guest editor for an upcoming special issue of New Review of Film
 and Television Studies (2021),

 ii) Invited Keynotes, Seminars and Lectures

 Colleagues across the UoA have been invited as keynotes: Browne was keynote at the United
 Nations Sustainable Development Goals Conference, New York (2019), presenting a paper ‘Hear
 Her Song and the University of Wolverhampton: A Case Study’; Geal presented at the Film Futures
 Development Day, Midland Arts Centre (2018); Hockenhull was keynote at Kathryn Bigelow: A
 Visionary Director, UoW; Lidbury has been keynote at several Laban events, including: The Laban
 Event, Monte Verita, Switzerland (2018) and The Laban conference, The Place, London (2015,
 2017); Pheasant-Kelly presented ‘A High Ridin’ Woman: The Westerns of Barbara Stanwyck’, at
 BFI, London (2019); and Zavros presented ‘Encounters with the Same (But Different) at Song,
 Stage and Screen XIV: Reinventions, Leeds University (2019).

 Further, staff in the UoA have been invited to deliver a number of seminars and lectures, these
 including: Fox on the MeLDE project at University Autonoma de Baja, California (2020); Glover at
 University of Leeds (2018); Hampton on Selfie Histories: Portraiture, Photography and Grandad’s

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Pout, at Brunel University (2019); and Pheasant-Kelly on Promoting Terrorism, Desecrating
 Celebrity: The Case of Jihadi John, at BCU (2018), Kathryn Bigelow: A Visionary Director, at
 Shrewsbury College (2019), and Spaces of the Afterlife in Tim Burton’s Films, UoL (2017).

 iii) Peer Review

 In recognition of our research, we have refereed numerous articles for 16 performance, film-based
 and interdisciplinary journals, including, for example, Leonardo (Dalgliesh), Journal of Theatre,
 Dance and Performance Training (Hampton), Screen and NECSUS (Hockenhull), Cinema
 Journal, Journal of War and Culture Studies, Journal of Literature and Medicine, Journal of Media
 Practice, BMJ Medical Humanities, (Pheasant-Kelly), and Studies in Musical Theatre (Browne,
 Zavros). We have also evaluated proposals for all the major publishers, including Palgrave
 (Browne, Halligan, Pheasant-Kelly), Intellect (Halligan, Hockenhull, Pheasant-Kelly), Sage (Fox),
 Routledge (Browne, Dalgleish, Halligan, Pheasant-Kelly), and Bloomsbury (Browne, Halligan,
 Pheasant-Kelly), and the University Presses of Manchester (Halligan), Edinburgh (Hockenhull,
 Pheasant-Kelly), Mississippi (Pheasant-Kelly), and Oxford (Halligan, Pheasant-Kelly). Glover is
 on the review panel for the annual Royal Music Association (RMA) Music and/as Process
 Conference and Fox for the European Communication and Education Association. In addition, we
 have reviewed funding proposals for the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of
 Canada (Dalgleish) and the Arts and Humanities Research Council (Pheasant-Kelly).

 iv) External Examination Roles

 Staff across the UoA have extensive examiner and advisory roles with 4 advisory roles and 14
 external examining positions. For example, Browne was external advisor for MA Musical Theatre
 at University of Lincoln (2014-18); Dalgleish was external advisor for MSc Music Engineering and
 Production at University of South Wales (2016); Glover has acted as PhD external examiner at
 Royal Birmingham Conservatoire for BCU (2018); Lovelock acted as PhD external examiner at
 University of West Scotland (2019); Pheasant-Kelly has acted as PhD external examiner for Cork
 University (2019) and has been an external assessor for application for tenure at New Mexico
 University (2014); and Zavros is external examiner for Mountview Academy of Theatre Arts for
 MA Musical Direction.

 v) Professional Subject Associations

 Staff at Wolverhampton play a prominent role in the work of professional associations, with Fox
 being a member of the Society for Research in Higher Education, ECREA, the International
 Association for Media and Communication Research and The British Sociological Association and
 Geal belongs to the Association of Adaptation Studies. Glover is a member of RMA and/as
 Process Study Group, and the Society for Minimalist Music while Foteinou is a committee member
 for the West Midlands Institute of Acoustics branch and is vice-chair for the Audio Engineering
 Society’s West Midlands branch. Lovelock was on the organising committee for the RMA LGBTQ+
 Study Group in 2016 and Hampton is a member of the executive committee of TaPRA, and the
 Standing Conference of University Drama Departments (SCUDD). Hockenhull is a member of the
 Institute for Critical Animal Studies and the Human/Animal Research Group at Uppsala University
 and Johnson is a founding member of the TaPRA Performance and Science working group.
 Nichols belongs to the Royal Television Society and the Science Fiction Research Association
 and is also Advisory Board Member for the Center for Ray Bradbury Studies while Pheasant-Kelly
 is a member of the Society for Terrorism Research and the Society for Animation Studies. Finally,
 Zavros is the department representative for SCUDD and a member of TaPRA.




                                                                                          Page 13
