Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Institution: University of Manchester (UoM)

  Unit of Assessment: 29 (Classics)

  Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
  (a) Context and structure

  This UoA comprises the newly configured Department of Classics, Ancient History,
  Archaeology and Egyptology (CAHAE), returning 18.4 FTE research staff. During Faculty
  restructuring in 2018-19, the Department of Classics and Ancient History expanded to include
  Archaeology and Egyptology. CAHAE brings together 8 (FTE) specialists in Greek and Latin
  language and literature (+ one PDRA); 5.2 in ancient history; 3.6 in archaeology, and 1.6 in
  Greek-Arabic studies. Committed to multidisciplinary research into the ancient past in all its
  forms, the UoA combines breadth in time, from the Neolithic to Late Antiquity and modern
  reception; in space, from Britain to the Mediterranean and its hinterland including the Near
  East; and in genre and methodology. Our research is concentrated especially in four
  connected areas:

     i.    Classical literature (theory, interpretation; literary form e.g. epistolography): especially
           Bryan, Griffiths, Morello, Morrison, Phillips, Sarri, Schiesaro, Sharrock;
    ii.    Ancient history (life-course, warfare, social organisation, science): especially Beagon,
           Fear, Giles, Laes, Langslow, Liddel, Mazza, Pormann, Todd;
    iii.   Material culture (interpretation of objects; landscapes, monuments and places):
           especially Berg, Campbell, Giles, Thomas;
    iv.    Critical editions, commentaries, translations, and linguistic studies: especially Kessel,
           Laes, Langslow, Liddel, Mazza, Pormann; Sarri, Todd.

  Our unit facilitates collaboration among colleagues within and across these areas and
  interdisciplinarity in research methods (manifested in our work with Digital Humanities (DH)
  and our collaboration with biosciences). It supports key goals in our research strategy: to
  develop and foster research projects (both collaborative and individual); to produce critically
  and ethically-informed impact, locally, nationally and globally. We are part of the School of
  Arts, Languages and Cultures (SALC), one of the largest concentrations of humanities
  researchers in the UK.

  Our successes in this REF cycle include:
      Tripling our research income (up from £993K in REF2014 to £3.738M in the period
         2014-20);
      Publishing 25 monographs and edited volumes and many articles in internationally-
         excellent journals;
      Supervising 52 FTE doctorates to completion, with 5 of them taking up academic posts
         elsewhere;
      Producing notable impact locally (Manchester Classics for All [MCfA], Whitworth Park
         Community Archaeology Project, Prehistory to Primary Schools), nationally (work with
         Museums, work with schools and production of resources for school- and university-
         teachers) and internationally (heritage protection and conservation; the antiquities
         market).
      Indications of individual recognition include Bryan’s Stanford Lectures (2018),
         Langslow’s FBA (2019) and appointment as Scholar in Residence, Thesaurus
         Linguae Latinae, Bayerische Akademie, Munich (2019), Mazza’s Tipton Distinguished
         Chair in Catholic Studies, University of California at Santa Barbara (2019).



                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  (b) Research Strategy

  (i) Implementation of REF 2014 objectives
  The strategic objectives of Classics articulated in REF2014 (as UoA 31: Classics) emphasised
  (1) support of individual research projects, (2) development of research clusters (particularly
  in epistolography and epigraphy) and (3) increased grant-capture.

  We have realised (1) through publication of monographs and leading-editor projects
  highlighted in REF2014, some of them supported by the School’s Supplementary Research
  Leave scheme (SRL). These include Griffiths, Children in Greek Tragedy; Langslow,
  Alexander Trallianus; Liddel, Decrees of Fourth-Century Athens; Morrison, Apollonius
  Rhodius, Herodotus & Historiography; Todd, Commentary on Lysias, Speeches 12–16.
  Archaeologists integral to the newly-formed department from 2018 have finalised publications
  relating to several projects, including Giles, Bog Bodies; Thomas, Neolithic Britain; Berg, The
  Cycladic and other Aegean Islands in Prehistory. Monographs and collections published by
  colleagues appointed during the period include Laes, Disability in Antiquity; Phillips, Pindar’s
  Library and Untimely Epic; Bryan (et al., ed.), Authors and Authorities.

  As for (2), investment has enabled us to exceed our REF 2014 goals. In epistolography,
  collaboration between Morello, [Gibson] and Morrison (e.g. the Cicero’s Letters conference
  in 2014) led to the major AHRC-funded project ‘Ancient Letter Collections’ (2016-21) with
  PDRA Sarri. The project contributed first to an interdisciplinary SALC/John Rylands Research
  Institute (JRRI) network Lives and Afterlives of Letters (2017-18), and latterly to the
  Manchester Centre for Correspondence Studies (2019-, with Morrison as founding co-
  Director). The Centre brings together c.30 Manchester specialists from English, History,
  Jewish Studies, UoM’s John Rylands Library (JRL), and JRRI. It promotes correspondence
  studies through seminars, training initiatives, teaching and learning outcomes, and public-
  facing events. Events include a 2018 conference on ancient philosophical letters organised by
  Bryan, Morello and Morrison; in 2019 Sarri’s JRRI-supported workshop, the Aldine Edition
  of the Ancient Greek Epistolographers, raised the international profile of the JRL collections
  of early printed Greek letters; proceedings will be published as a special issue of the 2023
  JRL Bulletin. Bryan collaborates with Hodkinson (Leeds) on an annotated translation of the
  Platonic Letters.

  In epigraphy, Liddel (CI), [Low] (CI), Pitt (CI, Athens) and Lambert (PI, University of Cardiff),
  collaborate on the AHRC-funded project Attic Inscriptions in UK Collections (AIUK: 2017-21);
  this has published 13 online, open-access, volumes of these inscriptions (with 8 more
  forthcoming) and associated material on the Attic Inscriptions Online (AIO) website. With
  [Low], Liddel has published the Greek inscriptions from the Liverpool Museum, collaborating
  with Campbell on Reflectance Transformation Imaging (RTI). Liddel collaborates with Healey
  (Emeritus) and Turkish archaeologists to publish Greek inscriptions of eastern Anatolia. The
  appointment of Laes (co-editor of inscriptions of Grumentum) reflects investment in epigraphy.

  Enhancing our capacity for (3) informed our strategic expansion into the area of material
  culture (see below, 2.a.i) and is already a striking success (see below, 3.a). Archaeology in
  REF2014 (UoA 17b) looked forward to future partnership with Classics and Ancient History
  and enhanced excellence in Social Archaeology (see below, under (ii): human condition and
  diversity of lifestyle).

  (ii) Collaboration and interdisciplinarity:
  Our strategy is to exploit the interdisciplinary collaboration enabled by the new department, in
  three key domains:

  The human condition and diversity of lifestyle
  CAHAE is breaking new ground in research on the different ways of 'being human' in the
                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  ancient world: Thomas on Neolithic life; Giles on female experiences of death; Sharrock
  under the EuGeSta banner including the Motherhood in Antiquity conference (2014; 2020)
  and a conference on Women in Antiquity (2019); Griffiths’ monograph on representations of
  childhood; Laes on disability studies with an international network and online hub (2.5K unique
  visitors in 2020), and a January 2020 colloquium with Pormann on intellectual disabilities.
  Work across the Department shares an intellectual focus on living alongside others:
  masculinity (Fear and Giles on martial identity; Laes on children and family relations); the
  body, trauma and disease (Beagon, Giles, Laes, Langslow, Pormann); humans and
  animals (Beagon, Sharrock, Thomas); humans and other forms of life (Phillips); ethics and
  their reception (Bryan, Mazza); community organisation, networks and institutions (Berg,
  Liddel, Morello, Todd). The ancient world is thus made meaningful by developing a long-
  term perspective of the ways of 'being human'.

  Digital Humanities (DH)
  DH methodologies are prominent in CAHAE’s research culture, particularly text encoding and
  imaging. Pormann’s ERC-funded team produced TEI/P5 compliant editions of 12 Arabic
  commentaries on the Hippocratic Aphorisms, a corpus of more than 1.5m words of previously
  unpublished texts. Pormann’s Syriac Galen Palimpsest (SGP) team produced a TEI/P5
  compliant critical editio princeps of Galen’s Simple Drugs in Syriac; this was deployed in
  Kessel’s Hunaynnet multilingual tool for computer-aided corpus analysis. Pormann initiated
  cataloguing projects at the JRL and JRRI, using TEI/P5 (Persian, Hebrew) in collaboration
  with University of Melbourne (Arabic). Pormann’s SGP project has developed a new tool for
  image analysis, GalenQT, now widely used. Liddel (as Faculty Lead on DH) ran an
  international colloquium on DH in deciphering ancient texts (2018). Image capture and
  analysis is central to the research of several colleagues, using Reflectance Transformation
  Imagery (e.g. Campbell, Liddel on Greek inscriptions from Liverpool), Multispectral and X-
  ray Fluorescence Imaging (palimpsests and papyri: Mazza, Pormann), and Henry Mosley
  Manchester X-ray Imaging Facility Laboratory for both objects (Berg, Tyldesley, Nielsen) and
  human remains (Giles). Campbell uses photography to create orthomosaics and digital
  elevation models using photogrammetry.

  Material culture
  Material culture, which informs our work on the human condition and in DH, constitutes in itself
  a productive domain of research. In 2018 our archaeologists initiated the Manchester Centre
  for Archaeology and Egyptology (MCAE). Its steering committee includes Berg (the first lead),
  Tyldesley and experts in archaeological methodologies from across the University, including
  the Manchester Museum (Sitch), the School of Environment, Education, and Development
  (Woodward), and the Division of Cell Matrix Biology & Regenerative Medicine (Chamberlain).
  It hosts a fortnightly cross-Faculty research seminar; it organised the UKAS (UK
  Archaeological Sciences) conference in Manchester in April 2019; it hosted the Iron Age
  Research Student Symposium (IARSS: organised by Giles) in June 2020. MCAE contributed
  to the Council for British Archaeology Festival in 2020 (contributions from Thomas, Overton,
  Piprani, Nielsen).

  (iii) Open Access
  We are among the sector leaders in proactively developing Open Access beyond the REF
  Open Access Policy with internal and external support. The resources of Pormann (SGP;
  Hippocratic Amphorisms) are re-produced in other online scholarly resources here:
  https://hunaynnet.oeaw.ac.at/ and here: https://www.graeco-arabic-studies.org/texts.html).
  Liddel-[Low] (AIUK) produce critical editions under a creative commons licence in order to
  facilitate text reuse. Mazza’s 2015/16 Leverhulme Fellowship produced the Manchester Digital
  Library of unpublished JRL Special Collections’ papyri. Sarri’s 2017 monograph is open-
  access. Campbell is on the Advisory Board of the Alexandria Archive Institute, which runs
  Open Context, one of the largest platforms for open data in archaeology; it includes data from
  his Domuztepe project. All archaeology projects possess a data management strategy,
                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  involving deposit with the Archaeology Data Service, an open-access digital repository at the
  University of York.

  (c) Future Research and Impact Strategy
  Our research strategy for the next five years is as follows:

  (i) To devise and promote individual and collaborative research projects and secure external
  funding for them. Major projects for completion in the period after 2021 have already attracted
  funding, including Giles, Grave Goods: Boundary Objects; Thomas, Late Third- and Fourth-
  Millennium Ireland and Britain; Mazza, Late Antique Egypt. Significant commentaries and
  editions being produced for the post 2021-period include those by Morrison (Callimachus),
  Pormann (Al-Kaskarī, Medical Compendium), Todd (Lysias, final volumes), Langslow,
  Wackernagel’s Unpublished Lectures on Syntax.

  (ii) To undertake research which embraces the diversity and breadth of the ancient world and
  its legacy, facilitated by the multifaceted research methodologies of our new interdisciplinary
  unit. Academic publication (including OA) and the hosting of conferences plays a major role
  in our outward-facing research culture. Our strategy for identifying and supporting
  collaborative research within the Department includes (a) an annual awayday to develop
  synergies and (b) a combined weekly research seminar (external speakers are expressly
  asked to address our broad audience). A possible new collaboration, involving colleagues
  from across CAHAE, includes a multi-disciplinary approach to Egypt in antiquity.

  (iii) To exploit the breadth of our new department so as to enhance the impact of our research.
  We promote a critical understanding of our work among a wide range of external audiences.
  Prospective impact includes: (a) educational impact for schoolteachers and pupils (especially
  through our work with museums and libraries, through MCfA (established by Langslow in
  2015) and the Prehistory to Primary Schools project (spearheaded by Cobb and Overton));
  (b) promoting decolonising attitudes to antiquity through building upon our selected ICSs on
  heritage protection (Campbell) and research integrity in the preservation and publication of
  ancient documents (Mazza); there are potential synergies on museology with the Art History
  and Cultural Practices (AHCP) department within SALC through the School’s DH and Creative
  Manchester initiatives.

  Into the next REF cycle, our outward-facing impact culture (dedicated to social responsibility)
  will bolster connections with diverse audiences through different platforms. These include
  collaboration with local (see below, 3.b) regional and national museums and other
  stakeholders including the British Museum, the Science Museum and National Trust (e.g.
  Liddel on Athenian inscriptions: see below, 4.d). We will continue to support the production of
  open-access research-based resources aimed at transforming the public profile of the ancient
  past in all its forms (e.g. Giles’ Grave Goods Schools teaching packs; Tyldesley’s textbooks
  on Egyptology translated into 15 languages). Themes for ongoing development include the
  legacy of Greek medicine in Islamic traditions (Pormann) through collaborations with the
  Foundation for Science, Technology and Civilisation. Engagement through the national and
  local Classical Association (CA) will be a cornerstone of ensuring the impact of our classical
  research among a wide audience.

  Section 2. People
  (a) Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
  (i) New appointments
  Since REF2014, University investment (five new appointments and six internal transfers) in
  classical literature, philosophy, material culture and heritage protection has helped to create
  a department that foments impactful and interdisciplinary research. Our expansion into the
  area of material culture was initiated through the appointment of Mazza to a permanent
                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  lectureship in Greco-Roman Material Culture in 2016, building on the temporary joint
  appointment in Roman archaeology reported in REF2014. In 2018, reconfiguration of SALC
  provided the opportunity to reinforce links with Archaeology still further, by incorporating two
  specialists in Mediterranean/Mesopotamian archaeology (Berg, Campbell) and two in Iron
  Age/Neolithic Britain (Giles, Thomas). This facilitates engagement with heritage management
  issues especially in contexts of political conflict and the antiquities trade (see the ICSs of
  Campbell, Mazza), and the nurturing of museum-based primary research which yields
  exhibitions alongside monographs (Giles, [Insoll]). Our growth continued in 2019 when we
  transferred two Egyptologists (Nielsen, Tyldesley) from Life Sciences into the Department,
  complementing the Egyptian interests of Mazza (Roman Imperial), Morrison (Hellenistic) and
  the archaeological work of Berg and Campbell.

  Four other new appointments mark our expansion into ancient philosophy and enhance
  collaborative research within classics and ancient history (Bryan, 2016; Schiesaro: 2016;
  Laes: 2018; Phillips: 2018). Bryan’s work on the philosophy/literature boundary overlaps with
  Morrison’s on the reception of philosophy in literary texts, and with Sharrock’s and
  Schiesaro’s on Lucretius and Seneca; Phillips’ work in Greek literature dovetails with
  Morrison’s on Greek lyric and Hellenistic poetry (both published monographs on Apollonius
  in 2020), and Morrison’s and Sharrock’s on literary theory. Laes’s research in Greek and
  Roman social and cultural history, and especially on disability and the life-cycle complements
  Beagon’s on natural wonders, Langslow’s and Pormann’s on medicine, and Griffiths’ and
  Sharrock’s on the family. Schiesaro came to UoM as Head of School and Professor of
  Classics, and bolsters further our strength in Latin literary criticism. Additionally, Kessel’s 2016
  appointment as PDRA on The Syriac Epidemics project contributed to our output strength in
  Graeco-Arabic studies. Research in collaboration with former colleagues continues to be
  highly productive in the areas of epistolography and epigraphy (especially Morrison with
  [Gibson] and Liddel with [Low]). The department’s research environment is enriched by
  emeritus staff (Adams, Briscoe, Cornell, Prag, Healey) who offer advice and support to
  colleagues and PGTs.

  (ii) Equality and Diversity
  The UoA comprises nine Professors (8M/1F), one Reader (F), five Senior Lecturers (1M/4F),
  and four Lecturers (2M/2F). Five permanent appointments have been made since REF2014
  (3M/2F). In age and nationality, the UoA is diverse, and has close to an overall gender balance
  (42% of the staff are women) but we are acutely aware of the need to increase the
  representation of women and BAME scholars at Professorial level. An EDI working party
  steers our EDI strategy and policy. Since 2014, the Department has supported 6 successful
  promotion applications, 4F/2M (Bryan, Laes, Morello, Morrison, Cobb, Tyldesley) with
  outcomes helping to redress gender imbalance. Here we have drawn on SALC support of the
  career development of women and BAME scholars (including regular informal sessions with
  recently promoted staff), and we follow SALC’s lead also in encouraging and supporting
  women to participate in training schemes including UoM’s Women (in)to Leadership. Four
  BAME temporary post-holders in this period are now permanent elsewhere: two lecturers
  (Malik, Goh); two ECRs on Pormann’s project (Karimullah, now in R&T (SALC); Mimura, now
  UHiroshima).

  We benefit from SALC and University support for progressing EDI. These measures include
  Carers’ Leave; enhanced Carers’ Research Support; Parental Leave; Flexible Working
  Arrangements; Flexible Retirement Arrangements; and support for return to work after
  Sickness Leave. CAHAE colleagues have been proactive on SALC’s EDI committee including
  in its preparations for a 2021 Athena Swan Award application ([Cooper], Bryan, Cobb). Staff
  have contributed to ongoing work on EDI including drafting protocols on Diversity and Staffing
  (Todd, [Morton], Bryan). As Chair of the Chartered Institute for Archaeologists’ E&D group,
  Cobb led in developing and implementing its Code of Conduct and Equal Opportunities
  policies.
                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  EDI training is embedded in the Faculty induction programme for new staff. All staff complete
  regular refreshment of their EDI training (including obligatory Unconscious Bias training for
  appointment panels). Our EDI working party has developed ‘good practice’ guidelines to foster
  inclusivity in conference and workshop organisation and scheduling within CAHAE, especially
  for those with childcare responsibilities and disability requirements. We have incorporated the
  recommendations of the 2018 Committee of University Classics Departments Report on Race
  and Inequality and strive tactically (through public lectures and schools engagement) to
  improve BAME access to study and to the academic profession in our subject areas.

  In compliance with University policies on research integrity and ethics (SALC and UoM
  representative: Berg), all CAHAE staff and PGRs complete the online training and additional
  specialist courses where appropriate, including an additional course for those doing fieldwork.

  (iii) Mentoring and support for research and impact
  Staff on all contracts receive mentoring and developmental support at every career stage. Our
  support for ECRs is informed by the UoM Implementation Plan for its 2019 ‘Concordat to
  Support the Career Development of Researchers', which received the HR Excellence in
  Research Award from the European Commission (see Institutional Statement 3.4).

  New Appointments: All new staff are allocated an experienced colleague as mentor. New
  permanent appointments are mentored throughout a 3 to 4-year probation period. With mentor
  support they complete the Faculty’s ‘New Academics Programme’ (HEA-accredited). To
  support their research trajectory they also benefit from a reduced teaching/admin load (75%
  in year 1, 80% year 2, 85% year 3), and from seed-corn funding initiatives for work towards
  their first major grant applications.

  Support for all staff: All researchers participate in SALC’s annual Personal Research
  Expectations Plans (PREP), discussed and agreed with the Departmental Research
  Coordinator and/or the Head of Department. This helps researchers to survey and prioritise
  research and impact goals, and contributes towards the UoA’s and SALC’s research planning.
  Staff who are planning grant bids are supported by SALC’s research office, including access
  to a database of successful applications; those applying for grants of £100K+ receive
  enhanced support from SALC’s impact officer and grant writing team.

  For permanent staff, Institutional Research Leave (IRL) is normally available on a cycle of one
  semester in seven, subject to submission of an application documenting progress from the
  last period of leave, and plans for the next. IRL can be advanced or postponed by one
  semester, to fit with departmental research planning. Supplementary Research Leave
  schemes (SALC and Faculty) offer up to one semester of additional leave, and during this
  REF cycle have enabled Bryan, Giles, Langslow and Liddel to complete major publications.
  Research staff receive from SALC a Personal Research Allowance of £1,000 p.a. (up from
  £600 in REF 2014); SALC’s Research Support and Development Fund offers further targeted
  support of up to £6K p.a., and additional funds specifically for supporting impactful research.

  In each teaching week, research staff have one day officially scheduled for research. Our
  ‘research Thursdays’ place emphasis on the communal aspect of our research, normally
  featuring a departmental lunch and research seminar (featuring internal and visiting speakers).
  Over the course of the year, colleagues set aside time to review one another’s draft research
  submissions and grant bids; the department provides a productive and collegial environment
  (particularly for ECRs) in which to discuss submissions or applications, as part of wider
  research planning for individuals and collaborations.




                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  (iv) Career development
  CAHAE ensures a nurturing environment for high-quality research, a balanced generational
  profile within the department and the wider vitality and sustainability of our disciplines.

  Early Career Researcher support: In this REF period, CAHAE has been home to eight fixed-
  term post-doctoral research fellows (PDRFs), including one Leverhulme Early Career Fellow
  (Coker, 2013-16) with SALC providing 50% of the funding. Several PDRFs on Pormann’s
  projects during the period have achieved further career success in permanent or temporary
  university positions, including: Carpentieri (Connecticut); Das (Michigan); Karimullah (SALC,
  UoM); Mimura (Hiroshima); Selove (Exeter). Mentoring (by Morrison, [Gibson]) and SALC
  research funding of Sarri (PDRA, ‘Ancient Letters’) supported publication (2017) of her
  doctoral monograph and her (non-project) research on papyri and Xenophon. The reduced
  teaching load in the first three years for ECRs on permanent contracts (see iii, above) enabled
  Phillips to work on his Untimely Epic monograph.

  FTC Staff: All fixed-term staff receive mentoring; take part in research groups and networks,
  present their research to the department, apply for internal funding for workshops, conferences
  and other events, and have access to a research allowance. Several FTC early-career former
  colleagues have secured posts in other departments: e.g. Goh (Swansea), Malik
  (Roehampton), Agri (Birmingham), Cook (Leeds, then Durham); McKie (Durham); Benzi
  (Nottingham).

  Career progression for all staff: In step with SALC’s Athena Swan and Equality & Diversity
  committees, CAHAE policy and practice (via workshops and annual PREP meetings) ensure
  that colleagues are both encouraged to apply for promotion, and empowered to do so –
  through appropriate research support, and by being given the leadership opportunities that
  institutional promotion criteria demand. Our strategy has seen internal promotions to Senior
  Lectureships (Morello, Bryan) and Professorships (Laes, Morrison, Tyldesley). Departing
  colleagues have progressed to promotional appointments including a Professorship in
  Durham ([Low]), and prestigious Professorships elsewhere ([Cooper: Royal Holloway],
  [Gibson: Durham], [Parkin: Melbourne], [Insoll: Exeter], [Jones: Stirling], [Richards:
  Highlands and Islands].

  (v) Impact and knowledge exchange support
  We support colleagues in impact planning in their research from its outset: see section 3c.

  (b) Research Students The recruitment and training of PGRs is a core element of our
  contribution to the vitality, sustainability, and impact of our disciplines.

  (i) Recruitment
  In this REF period we recruited on average 10 PGRs p.a., and 52 FTE completed. Currently,
  31 doctoral students are registered for a PhD in Classics, Ancient History, Archaeology, or
  Egyptology (up from 23 reported for Classics plus Archaeology in REF2014). New
  appointments have increased our supervisory range, PhD projects being prompted by Mazza
  on papyri (Mundy, Aynaci, Ingham, Gregor-Som), and by Laes on the family and Living Latin
  (Brunet, Goessens, Lyvens).

  SALC invests strategically in supporting high-quality doctoral research projects, through
  studentships and bursaries. These include fee-bursaries; Graduate Scholarships (home fees
  and partial maintenance); and the University’s President’s Doctoral Scholar Awards (covering
  home and overseas fees plus a grant £1K above the Research Councils’ maintenance
  allowance). Helped by departmental mentoring of their applications, CAHAE graduates have
  enjoyed above-average success in the competitions for these awards, both internal UoM
  funding (including three in the ‘President’s’ scheme and 11 in other SALC and Departmental
  awards), and externally in the AHRC competitions (33 in the period, including one in
                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  collaboration with the British Museum).

  (ii) Research culture
  We promote our PGRs’ full participation in our research culture. We support them in publishing
  papers in internationally excellent journals (e.g. Wilding 2015 on proxeny decrees; Molesworth
  2018 on Lycophron’s Alexandra; Ntanou 2020 on Metamorphoses) sometimes jointly with their
  supervisors (e.g. Pormann, Karimullah, Barry, Carpentieri, van Dalen, Mimura, Obald, on the
  Hebrew and Arabic Palladius (2017)). Our PhD students regularly give papers at national
  (AMPAH, AMPAL, CA) and international conferences (including in Perth, Shanghai,
  Groningen, London, Geneva, Cortona), supported financially by the Department and Graduate
  School. They take an active role in organising events emanating from our research groups
  (e.g. the colloquia around the visits of Moeller (Berlin) and Keith (Toronto)). They co-organise
  graduate conferences with support of the School (AMPAH in 2014, AMPAL in 2018, IARSS in
  2020). Our PGRs are supported by the UoA, SALC and the Faculty in their own, independent,
  research initiatives: PGR involvement in the Bog Body Network led to a special edition of the
  Journal for Wetland Archaeology; Botfield organised the 2018 meeting of the Neolithic and
  Bronze Age Research Students Symposium in Manchester).

  (iii) Monitoring and progression
  All PhD students are supported and monitored throughout their programme by a supervisory
  team of three (the Research Panel) consisting of two supervisors and an independent reviewer
  (responsible for ensuring that the panel functions well). Supervisors meet students individually
  usually fortnightly. The Research Panel meets the student twice a year to discuss planning,
  overall progress, skills training, plans for completion, and to make a recommendation
  regarding progression. eProg, the University online supervisory tool, facilitates continuous
  monitoring and support. PGR students have a pastoral adviser in the shape of the
  departmental PGR Director. During the period we achieved one of the highest rates in SALC
  for completion of PhDs within 4 years (just under 60%) and within 5 years (66%).

  (iv) Training, career development, and employability
  We train PGRs in ancient and modern languages and scientific methodologies appropriate to
  their research. The School offers programmes of PGR training, aimed at GTA preparation,
  professional development (through SALC’s Graduate School) and theoretically-informed
  development (through artsmethods@manchester). CAHAE is active in collaborative PGR
  training, helped by the School’s successful 2018 bid to continue the Manchester-led North
  West Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership, and through particular projects such as
  Thomas’ in Hay Bluff, Herefordshire (see 4.a below).

  Our PGRs are encouraged and helped to forge (inter)national links to maximise post-PhD
  career opportunities. We have a tried-and-tested reciprocal exchange programme with
  Rostock, through which a UoM PhD (Cammoranesi) and a Rostock PhD (Reichetanz), both
  working with Morello, co-organised a conference on letters in 2019 with external funding.
  Since 2014, one postdoc and three PhDs have spent time at the Fondation Hardt in Geneva
  (Coker, Mawford, Abad del Vecchio). Our PhDs develop their professional skills through
  service as readers (e.g. for CQ) and on organising committees for large conferences (e.g.
  Muti, Islands in Dialogue International Postgraduate Conference in Italy 2018). MCfA and
  Prehistory to Primary Schools have a strong track-record in providing graduate students with
  training and experience of KE and public engagement: MCfA experience gave rise to the PGR-
  led (Mawford, Ingham) Athena’s Owls reading group for KS 1 and 2 hosted in local public
  libraries and online during lockdown

  The success of our training is demonstrated by former PGRs now in academic posts at HEIs:
  van Dalen (Columbia); Houlbrook (Hertfordshire); Jackson (MMU); Wilding (Lancaster, now
  OU); Ntanou (Athens); Overton and Piprani (Manchester). Those who have moved on to
  museum roles include Creighton (Yorkshire Museum) and Stone (National Football Museum).
                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Former PGRs who published monographs in this REF period include Houlbrook, Gordon,
  Fennelly.

  Section 3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities
  (a) Income
  In this REF period, CAHAE staff generated circa £3.738mi in external grants, tripling our grant-
  capture outlined separately for Classics and Archaeology in REF2014. 24 colleagues in the
  UoA were awarded research grants from a range of funding bodies (especially DIUS Research
  Councils, and UK/EU government bodies).

  The vigour of our unit’s research culture and supporting infrastructure has ensured success in
  gaining external research funding across the board with notable success in the areas (cf. 1.a
  above) of New Critical Editions, and Material Culture:
       AHRC: Mazza (CI) ‘Egyptian Votive Animal Mummies’ (2016/17; £33K); Liddel and
         [Low] (CIs) AIUK (2017-20; c. £98K of total £0.5m to Manchester); Pormann (PI)
         ‘Syriac Galen Palimpsest’ (2015-20; £1m); Giles (PI) ‘Grave Goods’ (2016-20; c.
         £307K with ‘Boundary Objects’ extension grant bringing c. £4.5K to Manchester); Giles
         (CI) ‘Continuing Bonds: Creative Dissemination’ (2019: £41.5K of which c. £8K to
         Manchester); Morrison-[Gibson] (PIs) ‘Ancient Letters’ (2016-21; c. £560K);
         Pormann-Todd (CIs) ‘Genealogies of Knowledge’ (2016–20: c. £1m, with Baker and
         Pérez-González from SALC); Thomas (PI) ‘Later Fourth and Third millennia BC
         Ireland and Britain’ (2019-22: £344K).
       ERC: Pormann (PI) ‘Arabic Commentaries on the Hippocratic Aphorisms’ (2012-17;
         £1,246,775).
       British Council: Campbell (PI) ‘Ground survey, documentation, and protection of
         archaeological sites in Basrah Province, Iraq’ (2017-20; c. £304K).
       British Academy: Todd ‘Commentary on Lysias’ (2015/16; £43K); several Conference
         Grants and Small Grants to O’Daly, Pormann, Smelova.
       Wellcome Trust [Parkin] (PI) ‘Sexual Health in Antiquity’ (2015/16; £44K); Kessel
         ‘Syriac Epidemics’ (2015–21: £164K).
       Leverhulme Trust: Mazza ‘Land and Power’: £45K.
       Loeb Foundation: Beagon’s ‘Natural Wonders’, Todd’s ‘Commentary on Lysias’, c.
         £23K each.
      With a view to enhancing impact, we have gained funding to support the dissemination of
      our research to non-academic beneficiaries, including grants from the AHRC, the Arts
      Council, the Heritage Lottery Fund (to enhance the public outreach of Giles’ projects) and
      especially the charity Classics for All (c. £40K) and c. £9K from the University in the period
      2015-20.

  (b) Scholarly Infrastructure
  Museums, laboratories, libraries
  We have a strong record of engagement with the University’s Manchester Museum (MM) and
  Whitworth Art Gallery: (i) in primary research on their internationally significant collections
  ([Conneller], Giles, [Insoll]); (ii) in adding to the collections through primary fieldwork (Giles,
  Cobb, [Jones]); (iii) in Museum exhibitions disseminating our research (Beagon, Cobb &
  Giles, [Conneller], [Insoll], [Jones], [Richards]); and (iv) in expert input into permanent
  gallery redesign (Berg, [Conneller], Giles, Thomas). Mazza is MM Honorary Curator of
  Graeco-Roman Egypt and is currently collaborating on the organisation of a touring exhibition,
  ‘Golden Mummies from Roman Egypt’, which will go to the US next year and then feature in
  public events at the MM to mark its reopening after major refurbishment (2022).

  The department’s Digital Heritage laboratory (used by others including AHCP), and those
  which we use across the University for materials analysis, 3-D printing and 3-D imaging –

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  especially the Henry Mosely XMIF laboratory, the aDNA laboratories, and the ‘Mummy Tissue
  Bank’ – are all excellent facilitators of our research, and widely used by specialists from other
  institutions. The Manchester Obsidian Laboratory (founded in 2014 by Campbell, Healey
  (Hon. RF) and Maeda (UTsukuba, Japan)) possesses a world-leading geological obsidian
  collection from the Middle East which increasingly loans to other laboratories (e.g. in 2018/19
  to UMissouri and UCyprus).

  The University Library (UL) has extensive holdings in all our research areas, including the
  largest collection of electronic resources in any university library in Europe: currently over
  43,500 e-journals, 500,000 e-books, and a comprehensive range of research databases
  (Section 4.2 REF5a). The University Library includes the John Rylands Library (JRL), which
  houses UoM’s Special Collections: these contain holdings of international significance in all
  arts and humanities disciplines, including over 250,000 printed volumes, over 4,000
  incunabula, and a large range of manuscripts, housed and curated in a recently-refurbished
  Grade 1 listed building. Its collections are extensively used in our research and that of our
  PGR students. It is here that Mazza’s Rylands Papyri project is based; its holdings are
  important in the Morrison-[Gibson] ‘Ancient Letters’ project; Morrison is Chair of the
  Management Committee of the JRL Bulletin. JRL special collections and archives were
  instrumental in a collaboration (2019-2021) led by Giles between the University and the
  National Trust on the history of environmental change at Quarry Bank Mill in Cheshire as a
  way of developing sustainable futures. Workshops for the public and schools groups have
  been delivered, and an exhibition is taking place in 2021.

  John Rylands Research Institute (JRRI)
  Since its founding in 2013, the JRRI has greatly enhanced the use made of the Special
  Collections by researchers local, national, and international, and serves as a focal point for
  the capture of externally generated humanities research income and philanthropic donations.
  Pormann was the founding Director (2013-15), and the projects of Mazza, Morrison,
  Pormann have continued the links. Several CAHAE colleagues have received JRRI seed-
  corn funding to use its collections in developing external grant applications and JRRI
  fellowships bring world-leading academics to Manchester (e.g., in Classics, Bowman). The
  JRRI has developed research partnerships (through staff and student fellowships) with other
  world-leading institutions: it hosts Pormann’s Syriac Galen Palimpsest project; its work in
  Classics has involved ECRs, e.g. Cromwell (now MMU); White (now Leeds) spent a year as
  JRRI research fellow in 2013-14. Recently, the JRRI has sponsored and developed projects
  in Digital Humanities, including the design and launch (in 2019) of a Special Collections Image
  Viewer (in collaboration with CUP, with c. £1.5 million University investment over 5 years and
  with input from Pormann and Liddel). Clearly, the JRRI will be an increasingly important and
  effective resource not only for our UoA as we develop our DH research in the new decade.

  Digital Humanities
  SALC’s Centre for Digital Humanities supports projects with significant digital outputs,
  computational skills training, DH workshops for staff and PGRs, and DH grant applications
  and collaborations with other researchers and units. Liddel helped to establish the Centre as
  Faculty Co-Lead of DH in 2018/19. Our DH projects include those of Mazza, Pormann, and
  Liddel; our DH events include a 2018 colloquium on digital methodologies in deciphering
  ancient texts. (See also 1.b.ii above, and 4.a below.)

  (c) Organisational and operational infrastructure
  Our research structures operate at departmental, School, and Faculty levels. This tiered
  structure ensures cross-fertilisation between research strategies within the department and
  balance with the wider aims of the University. Local research policy is co-ordinated by the
  Research Coordinator (RC) and the Head of Department. The RC is responsible for day-to-
  day management of staff research in the department, annually reviewing research and
  publication plans with each member of staff individually, and liaising between SALC and the
                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Department, to which s/he reports four times a year on research developments, planning and
  policy both in the department and in SALC and the wider University. The Centre for
  Interdisciplinary Research in Arts and Languages (CIDRAL) supports interdisciplinary
  ventures in the School (e.g. Todd (organiser), Constructing the Public Intellectual in the
  Premodern World, 2019).

  SALC Research policy is determined by a Research Committee, which meets five times a
  year, reports to the School Policy and Resources Committee, and is led by the SALC Director
  of Research who works with the Research Development Manager and the Research Office
  team. The Research Committee implements the SALC strategic research plan including
  targets for research income generation, research output quality, and academic impact, and is
  responsible for the allocation of the School's research budget. SALC’s Research Office
  supports the implementation of strategy and facilitates research collaborations, informs staff
  regularly of funding opportunities, assists in developing grant applications, manages grants,
  and monitors the progress of funded projects against deadlines. Our supportive research-
  culture ensured that the externally supported projects of Giles, Liddel, Morrison, Thomas
  received specialist peer review at both UoA and School level. The Faculty’s Humanities
  Strategic Investment Fund drives the Faculty’s internationalisation agenda and encourages
  production of world-leading research projects, publications, and impact, including the work
  leading to the UoA’s Impact Case Studies (Campbell, Mazza).

  CAHAE owes much of its success in grant capture to SALC and Faculty seed-funding to
  develop projects and prepare external grant applications. One example is the AHRC-funded
  ‘Grave Goods’ project (2016-2020), a collaboration between the Universities of Manchester
  (CI Giles) and Reading and the British Museum); this gave rise to the Manchester Workshop
  ‘Grave Matters’ (June 2018) and the ‘Objects and Death’ public conference (British Museum,
  May 2019). A School Research Networking Grant awarded to Giles funded a ‘Bog Body’
  workshop (August 2018), disseminating the results of collaborative research on the Museum’s
  bog head (Worsley Man), which was funded by a School Research Support Grant, and
  involved partners from UBournemouth and UBradford.

  Research Impact Infrastructure and Support
  The School has an Associate Director of Research as academic lead for Impact, and an
  experienced administrative Impact Support Officer. Each offers advice to colleagues on
  maximising impact from existing research, on working with external partners, and on designing
  and articulating Impact in external funding bids.

  The School and Faculty provide Impact support funds to disseminate our research beyond the
  academy. These funds have supported the work of Campbell and Mazza contributing to our
  Impact Case Studies and the widening participation and outreach work of Giles, Langslow,
  Liddel, Morello. We meet the challenge of keeping impact at the heart of our research in our
  UoA through our impact work, outreach networks and deployment of both digital and analogue
  facilities.

  Impact and outreach are central to CAHAE’s research culture and inform mentoring
  conversations and PREP meetings. We hold impact planning sessions (based on research
  already underway) both in CAHAE and across SALC (e.g. Giles’s Grave Goods project was
  showcased at a SALC AHRC grant-writing workshop). All colleagues, especially ECRs, are
  encouraged to contribute to knowledge exchange through MCfA and Prehistory to Primary
  Schools. The School’s annual ‘Making a Difference’ awards have raised awareness of these
  two flourishing schemes. In 2018/19, in recognition of MCfA, the School assigned a 0.5
  administrator post to coordinate the outreach activities of CAHAE.




                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
  Our research and its environment are enriched by collaborations with other HEIs in the UK
  and beyond and by impact-producing engagement with the heritage sector, educational
  organisations and other academic institutions. These collaborative activities involve the
  application of pioneering methodologies, the formulation and facilitation of research with broad
  audiences and appreciation of issues of heritage protection with a view to ensuring the
  sustainability of our areas of research.


  (a) Collaboration in Archaeological Practice and Digital Humanities

  Thomas’ ‘Beneath Hay Bluff’ project with Herefordshire County Council and Nexus Heritage
  (contributing c. £400K) supports the field training of PhD students from Manchester, Cardiff,
  Newcastle, UCL, and other universities in excavations at Olchon Court Farm and Dorstone
  Hill. The work of Campbell and Honorary RF Healey with XRF (X-ray fluorescence) analysis
  has involved a number of important collaborations: with Maeda (UTsukuba), Glascock
  (UMissouri), and others in USA, Japan, Turkey, France, Spain, Russia, Denmark. CAHAE
  collaborates with researchers in the physical, biological and geological sciences; including the
  University’s Manchester Institute of Biotechnology (organising a virtual symposium on
  Technologies in Bioarchaeology and Palaeobiology in July 2020); commissioning of specific
  scientific analyses of objects (Campbell, Giles) and the sharing of equipment and/or expertise
  (Berg, Campbell). The DH ‘Genealogies of Knowledge’ project (Pormann, Todd)
  collaborates in the development of computing software with Luz (CI, Edinburgh).

  (b) Building international scholarly communities

  Colleagues from all our areas of research are involved in leadership of, and engagement with,
  international scholarly networks. As part of her 2017/18 JRRI Collaboration Grant, Mazza
  brought an international team of papyrologists who work on the Apion papyrus archive to
  Manchester, including Palme (Director of the Vienna Papyrussammlung), and Hickey (Center
  for the Tebtunis Papyri, UCBerkeley). Sharrock is a founding member of the Eugesta network
  (https://eugesta-recherche.univ-lille3.fr/en/home/), as is Schiesaro of the Augustan Poetry
  network           (https://reseau-poesie-augusteenne.univ-lille3.fr/augustan-poetry-network/).
  Sharrock is a founding member of the International Society for Ovidian Studies, of which
  Schiesaro was a member of the organising committee of their European launch conference.

  The unit contributes to the University-level strategic partnerships with the Universities of
  Toronto and Melbourne: Sharrock has a long-standing collaboration with Alison Keith
  (Toronto), with whom she has co-edited a volume and developed interaction between the JRRI
  and the Jackson Humanities Institute in Toronto. University-funded collaboration with
  UMelbourne underwrote Berg’s 2018 international workshop on the Entangled Sea and the
  2020 publication of an associated edited volume.

  The UoA is a hub for research projects with associations beyond Manchester. Laes’ disability
  studies    network     includes    collaborators in      France,     Germany,    and     Egypt
  (https://www.disabilityhistory-ancientworld.com/). Phillips is a leading member of the network
  of scholars interested in Greek poetics (workshops in Chicago 2015, Warwick 2018 and 2020
  from which a collaborative book will emerge). Bryan is a member of a team producing an
  annotated translation of the Platonic Letters, and she hosted the Northern Association of
  Ancient Philosophy workshop in 2019.

  (c) Engagement with wider audiences

  We ensure a high level of public awareness of our research through public lectures to regional

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  classical and archaeological societies, notably branches of the Classical Association (CA).
  Chaired in succession over the period by Langslow and Morello, the Manchester CA has
  been transformed to reach wider audiences through the establishment of: (i) Manchester
  Classics for All, (ii) the annual, endowed, Whitehead Lecture, and (iii) a series of three annual
  lectures on Roman Spain, hosted at the Cervantes Institute in Manchester’s city centre. This
  was a contribution to the cultural life of the city: over 100 people attended each year, 35%-
  50% of them Cervantes members who had never previously attended a classical/university-
  related event. Fear is Chair of the North Staffordshire CA branch 2018-, thus maintaining
  classics activity in an area without a university department.

  The UoA works to engage a broad cross-section of communities actively in our research. For
  example, the Heritage Lottery Fund supported ‘Whitworth Park Community History and
  Archaeology Project’ (2011-14) was led by [Jones], Giles and Cobb, funded in part through
  a SALC grant and the University’s Martin Harris Centre for performance. This involved nine
  schools and 403 children in archaeological excavation of the Victorian park on their doorstep.
  These projects also recruited 40 volunteers, with 20 dedicated placements for the local
  unemployed. CAHAE work fed into the cultural regeneration of an inner-city park, and
  bolstered the application to secure the £8 million restoration of the Whitworth Art Gallery. It
  resulted in the Manchester Museum exhibition ‘Pleasure, Play and Politics’ (2014; 44,567
  visitors). In 2018 Mazza was a consultant for the Manchester City Art Gallery on the occasion
  of artist Sonia Boyce's exhibit and performance involving the removal of Waterhouse’s Hylas
  and the Nymphs. This produced a blog post and public debate (later broadcast:
  http://manchesterartgallery.org/exhibitions-and-events/event/first-wednesday/).

  Engagement with national and international audiences has been promoted through cultural
  events programmes (e.g. in 2017 Giles worked with arts company Invisible Dust and artist
  Wilson at the Hull & East Riding Museum). Media work has promoted and disseminated
  research work. Giles has featured in documentary programmes for BBC2 and BBC4, BBC
  Yorkshire, Channel 5 and Radio 4 ‘Women’s Hour’, and provided expert opinion for articles in
  the Guardian, Independent and National Geographic. Thomas has featured on BBC4’s
  ‘Digging for Britain’ and Radio 4s ‘Beyond Belief’, and Liddel, Pormann and Schiesaro on
  ‘In Our Time’ (Radio 4). Liddel’s AIUK research was the basis of virtual lectures for the
  Workers’ Educational Association during ‘lockdown’ and its aftermath in 2020.

  We actively share our expertise with schoolteachers on a national level, both through
  research-based talks for schools and in more formal Continuing Professional Development
  (CPD). In particular, Liddel, as Chair of the CA Teaching Board (2016-20) regularly co-
  organised CPD events for schoolteachers of classical subjects, to which colleagues including
  Griffiths, Langslow, Sharrock contributed.

  (d) Sustainability of Heritage and Antiquities Protection

  Engagement with heritage protection issues is central to our work through leadership of and
  collaboration with public and private institutions in the heritage sector (e.g. Campbell ICS on
  antiquities post-conflict Iraq). It involves deploying our expertise in front-line exhibitions.
  Thomas is a member of the curatorial team for the Stonehenge travelling exhibition with
  MuseumsPartner Inc., fronting media operations for a major exhibition in Kansas City (2019).
  Liddel and [Low]) have since 2013 collaborated on the Greek inscriptions at the City Museum
  of Liverpool; activities there included the application of RTI (with Lehoux, formerly UoM, now
  Queen’s University, Canada, and with Campbell) on hard-to-read stones. This research led
  to a public display in Liverpool in 2016.

  Giles works with museums to realise the full research potential of their archaeological finds,
  through innovative interpretation and display, including the prehistory galleries of the British

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Museum, the ‘Mystery Warrior Burial’ of North Bersted for Novium Museum (opening 2020),
  and Dorchester Museum’s £15 million National Lottery Heritage Fund development. Giles is
  also an academic adviser for the National Museum of Wales’ research on the oldest-known
  chariot burial in Wales.

  Liddel’s AIUK work with [Low] and Lambert reaches a wide audience of visitors to historic
  properties in Britain. He is currently planning to extend the web-linked display-labels installed
  at the BSA to material at the BM, the Ashmolean, the Fitzwilliam, and National Trust estates.
  His main task in the fourth and final year of the project (2020-21) centres on outreach activities
  involving museums, schools and other audiences, including the production of short videos
  about the various collections.

  As detailed in her ICS, Mazza’s work on the ethics of the portable antiquities trade contributes
  vitally to ensuring that the antiquities industry and publishers take proper account of issues of
  provenance. An early landmark event was the one-day international colloquium at the JRL,
  ‘To Publish or not to Publish?’ (October 2014), on multidisciplinary approaches to the politics,
  ethics and economics of ancient artefacts. The colloquium was attended by antiquities dealers,
  museum and library curators and directors, and security experts, in addition to academics.
  Giles also has worked with the Portable Antiquities Scheme, advising on individual treasures
  (on a Roman coin hoard to the Peak District National Park and ArcHeritage, on a chariot
  discovery to the National Museum of Wales). She has also advised on Iron Age antiquities to
  the UK Arts Council Export Committee.

  (e) Sustainability of the Discipline

  Members of the Department contribute to the international vitality and sustainability of the
  discipline through involvement in Research Councils and other grant-awarding bodies. In the
  current period, Berg and Morrison served on AHRC panels; Pormann and Sharrock on
  Leverhulme Prize committees; Mazza on the steering committee of the AHRC/British Council-
  Newton Musharraf Fund on ‘Preserving Egypt’s Cultural Heritage: Mitigating Threats for a
  Sustainable Future’; Liddel on the British School at Athens Studentships Committee. Beyond
  the UK, Langslow serves as External Reviewer for the ERC, the French National Agency for
  Research, the College of Expert Reviewers of the European Science Foundation and the
  Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council, Sharrock as a reviewer for the
  Research Council of Norway and the American Academy in Berlin, Thomas as overseas
  member on the white paper working group on protecting the archaeology of Chaco Canyon,
  US National Parks and University of Colorado. Sharrock and Schiesaro served on the Italian
  National Agency for the Evaluation of Universities and Research Institutes. Fear is evaluator
  for the Spanish Agencia estatal de Investigación (AEI). Laes was an adviser to the Flemish
  Minister of Education in the development of new attainment targets in classical languages
  (2019-20), and is President of Classica Vlaanderen.

  We also contribute to the management and development of learned societies: Giles as Vice-
  President of the Prehistoric Society (2017-21) and International Advisory Board member of
  the Royal Irish Academy (2018-); Mazza as Trustee of the Egypt Exploration Society (2015- )
  and as member of the Society of Biblical Literature committees (2015–2020); Morrison on the
  Council of the Society for the Promotion of Hellenic Studies (2012-15); Thomas on the Council
  of the Royal Anthropological Institute (2018-); Sharrock on the advisory board of the Institute
  of Classical Studies (2020-). We have played a significant role in nurturing the development
  of Ancient History at Manchester Metropolitan University (MMU), where it is taught by two
  former PhD students of the Department (Crowley and Pudsey) and a former colleague at the
  JRRI (Cromwell), who now hold permanent positions there. We continue to work closely with
  MMU on outreach projects (especially through MCfA). More recently, we have supported MMU
  in their establishing a PhD programme through joint supervision as part of the NWCDTP. Our
  researchers frequently assess cases for appointments and promotions at other universities
                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  and major museums, especially in the UK and the US, but recently also in Finland, Germany,
  Greece, Malta.

  The UoA contributes significantly to the dissemination of research through academic
  editorship, expert review and editorial board membership. Editors of major journals during the
  period include Morrison as editor of Classical Quarterly (and Bryan as its philosophy adviser),
  Pormann as editor-in-chief of the International Journal of the Classical Tradition, Liddel as
  associate editor of Polis and co-editor of the Annual of the British School at Athens, Schiesaro
  as co-editor of Maia. Sharrock is Series co-editor of Oxford Studies in Classical Literature
  and Gender Theory; Liddel is Series co-editor of the Oxford Clarendon Ancient History Series,
  co-editor of Brill’s New Jacoby, and a founder member of the Advisory Board of Attic
  Inscriptions Online. Together we have acted as independent readers for c. 50 academic
  publishers and national and international journals.

  In sum, we engage and collaborate with wider networks and partnerships through academic
  and non-academic channels, nurtured by department, School and University level support.
  Through these conduits we promote awareness of the ancient world, with a critically and
  ethically informed research culture which is accessible to the broadest possible global
  audience.




                                                                                            Page 15
