Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Royal Holloway, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 28 History

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1a. CONTEXT

 We are a large (45.34 FTE), vibrant and diverse body of historians and archaeologists, located
 since August 2019 within Royal Holloway’s School of Humanities, whose common research
 agenda is focussed on bringing the study of the past into contemporary social and cultural
 debates. Our individual and collective research activities and goals, as reflected in our outputs
 and work with external partners, are underpinned by a shared research strategy, investment in
 and training of our researchers, and a strong record of successful grant capture. Our current
 Centres/Institutes play a key role in defining our research identities in areas of excellence,
 nurturing our investigator-led research and curiosity-driven collaborations. Recent academic
 initiatives include our ‘turn’ towards the digital and global humanities, building new research
 partnerships within and outside academia, and drawing on collective research expertise,
 particularly in the field of Public History, to deliver impact and knowledge exchange across
 communities and professional stakeholders.

 With recent initiatives in place to better support funding applications, including more challenge-
 led, partnership-based projects, our annual research grant capture more than doubled between
 2014-15 and 2019-20. In 2019-20, helped by research incubator workshops and enhanced
 internal peer review feedback, we also exceeded our institutional grant application target by
 almost 200%. Sources of research income have also diversified, notably to include European
 Research Council and Wellcome Trust funding. Accordingly, our 2021-26 research strategy
 prioritizes:

    •   producing socially engaged research that questions established narratives and tells
        neglected stories;
    •   creating a balanced research ecology that values scholarship, diversity of methodology,
        approach, historical period and subject area;
    •   consolidating established areas of strength while cultivating new areas of research
        growth;
    •   promoting a diverse and inclusive research community that enables staff and students at
        all stages of their career to realise their full potential;
    •   collaborating with heritage, media, policy makers, creative industries and other
        stakeholders to maximize the public benefits of our research;
    •   providing support for excellent research, including a robust infrastructure for grant
        capture and productive national/international collaborations.

 The chronological scope of UoA research extends from the Mycenaean period to the early 21st
 century; geographically it focuses on the UK, Europe, East, West and South Asia, North Africa,
 the Americas and the Pacific. Our collective research interests also intersect across multiple
 themes, e.g. from environment, embodiment and gender, to violence, ideas and beliefs, and
 draws on inter/trans-disciplinary insights. We have proven strengths in exploring societies and
 cultures from diverse perspectives, including an emphasis on ‘Life Viewed from Below’; and our
 research strategy embodies Royal Holloway’s broader cross-institutional commitment to
 academic excellence combined with equality and social justice.

 While some of our research areas are identifiable by time periods, we are more concerned with
 underlying themes that deliberately break down periodization to generate thoughtful enquiry
 about the functioning of human societies and cultures. For example, [1] our research on
 radicalization and terror links modern/contemporary with medieval; research on histories of the
 body, health and environment brings together modern British, early modern European,
 Byzantine and Classical perspectives; [2] concerns among our modern historians with ‘the

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 violence of development’ connect with interests in humanitarianism, citizenship and identity,
 across wider geographies and time periods. Moreover, much of our research is transnational in
 scope, allowing us to engage with present-day challenges (global, digital, social) and critically
 explore how (and how far) the past informs understandings of the present.

 Our research agenda is underpinned by our shared commitment to equality, diversity and
 inclusion; we embrace research initiatives involving collaborative and interdisciplinary
 partnerships. Building on a proud track record of public engagement, we undertake research
 with demonstrable social, cultural and economic outcomes, as reflected in our impact and
 knowledge-exchange activities. Strategic investments in new staff have allowed us to enhance
 our contribution to the knowledge base and to the social mission of the College.

 1b. RESEARCH STRUCTURES AND OBJECTIVES SINCE REF2014

 Supportive research structures include our Research Institutes, Centres and GCRF clusters as
 well as more informal groupings, on the one hand, and our supportive sabbatical/workload
 structures that sustain the ‘lone’ scholarship that remains so important to our discipline. We are
 pleased that we have been able to exceed the UoA strategic research objectives as set out in
 our REF2014 submission.

 [1] “The enhancement of individual research through the provision of greater entitlement
 to sabbatical leave”

 In REF2014 our objective was to increase staff sabbatical entitlement from 1 term in 9 to 1 term
 in 7. However, in 2015 we introduced a more supportive new sabbatical system based on 2
 consecutive terms of research leave in (rather than after) 12 terms of service (i.e. 1 term in 6).
 This revised strategy has provided UoA staff with longer and more intensive periods of
 sabbatical leave, raising the level of our per capita research output (29 books are included in our
 REF2020 submission, plus edited collections), as well as enhancing our ability to shape
 disciplinary developments.

 [2] “Existing research centres to build on 3- to 5-year research plans”

 Since REF2014, our Centres and Institutes have developed their research activities in ambitious
 directions, supported by an annual budget allocation, directorship by senior staff, and
 administrative assistance funded via PGR studentships.

 • Holocaust Research Institute. Since REF2014 our former Holocaust Research Centre,
   widely lauded for its research, teaching, public advocacy and creative work became a
   Research Institute, a move that acknowledged both its international significance and its key
   interdisciplinary activities with the wider university. Funding has been won from a range of
   sources and a new appointment (Gigliotti) added cutting-edge Geographic Information
   Systems expertise to its research activities.

 • Centre for Study of the Body and Material Culture. Major AHRC funding was awarded
   (2016) for Hamlett’s ‘Pets and Family Life’ project, including an impact programme with
   Hampshire Record Office, Surrey History Centre, Wandsworth Libraries, National Trust, The
   Museum of the Home, Hoxton (formerly Geffrye Museum), and Blue Cross. In collaboration
   with University of York, Society for the Social History of Medicine and Wellcome Library, the
   Centre sponsored a two-day workshop ‘Translating Medicine in the Pre-Modern World:
   Materials, Images, and Texts’ (2017). ‘Simon Online’, a digital edition of Simon of Genoa's
   clavis sanationis (13th-century medical dictionary) went live in 2015 (Zipser).

 • Hellenic Institute. Following successful collaboration with the BL an interactive digital edition
   of the Etheridge Encomium of Henry VIII was presented to HM Queen Elizabeth (2014), the
   Institute (with A.G. Leventis Foundation funding) produced a digital catalogue of Lambeth

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Palace Library’s Greek manuscripts collection (2016). In 2016, supported by external funding,
    it established the Centre for Greek Diaspora Studies.

 • Centre for Oratory and Rhetoric. The Centre has held major research conferences between
   2014 and 2020: e.g. ‘From Thucydides to Twitter: towards a history of the "soundbite"' (2016)
   and two on rhetoric at Nürnberg International Military Tribunal opening prosecution speeches
   (2017, 2018) (Rubinstein/Kremmydas). Staff and PGR take an active role in the International
   Society for the History of Rhetoric and in international conferences and fellowships e.g.
   Berlin, Kalamata, New Orleans, Hamburg, Geneva.

 • Bedford Centre for the History of Women and Gender. Since 2014, the Bedford Centre
   has combined research initiatives with public engagement in the form of annual lectures,
   conferences, workshops and exhibitions. E.g. in 2018, the Centre organized an international
   interdisciplinary conference on education, suffrage campaigns and the roles of college
   women, bringing together researchers, teachers, archivists and curators to discuss strategies
   for teaching suffrage online and in schools, HEIs and heritage institutions in the 21st century.

 In addition:

 • In 2016 we established our London Centre for Public History and Heritage to promote
   greater collaboration between public historians across the UK and beyond, whether in
   universities, public-facing institutions or unaffiliated.

 • In 2019, we launched two additional, interdisciplinary, centres: [1] Conflict, Violence and
   Terrorism Research Centre, and [2] Centre for Modern Monarchy, which has won major
   AHRC funding for a research project starting in 2021.

 • From 2020 we are coordinating our South Asian research activities under the aegis of the
   Centre of Global South Asia, reconfigured to reflect our transnational research strengths in
   this subfield, e.g. [1] British Academy GCRF grant to conduct ECR workshops, Lahore
   (2018); [2] ‘Division, fluidity, sustainability: Asian cities’ project in partnership with National
   University of Taiwan (2020-21).

 Since 2017 we have created a new 2-hour block within the timetable 4-5 times each term,
 dedicated to either a staff research seminar, a research workshop or a research committee
 meeting. We also took the decision to hold regular twice-termly research ‘incubator’ workshops
 at Departmental level in order to create a supportive environment for discussing ideas for
 research projects, and to provide a peer review forum for grant applications at various stages of
 a project’s preparation. Annual awaydays provide further valuable opportunities for analyzing
 research performance and appraising research strategies and their implementation. Staff have
 an individual research allowance of £600 p.a. and can draw on Department-level ring-fenced
 funding (e.g. conference attendance).

 These structures have resulted in our research culture being robustly embedded within the wider
 College research framework. Staff work with other UoAs across the arts and humanities, social
 sciences, and physical, biological and environmental sciences, helped by the fact that research
 in our Centres and Institutes is axiomatically interdisciplinary. Additional sustainability and vitality
 have been achieved via College-level strategies, policies and investment.

 1c. RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGIES 2021-26

 Respectful of scholarly diversity, this UoA is committed to nurturing research partnerships, and to
 delivering public engagement, impact and knowledge exchange. Against the backdrop of
 changing landscapes of research funding, our research strategy is committed to supporting a
 mixed ecology of investigator and challenge-led projects, bearing in mind [1] staff
 renewals/reconfigurations, and [2] evolving research interests/collaborations. While we have
 chosen not to cluster staff into formal groupings, our strategy moving forward is to draw

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 maximum collective benefit from the fact that the research of all staff fits into one or more of the
 following intersecting ‘themes’: Conflict and Violence; Digital Pasts; Heritage and Cultural
 Identity; Gender and Sexuality; and Diversity, Identity and ‘Race’. These interconnecting
 themes are driven by our strategic focus on bringing the study of the past into contemporary
 social and cultural debates and our shared research interests in ‘Life Viewed from Below’.

 In addition, School-level management of Centres/Institutes will allow us to respond to new
 opportunities and support emerging research leaders. The following examples highlight how we
 will use our strategic themes to encourage UoA involvement in two of Royal Holloway’s four new
 institution-wide Research Catalysts (2021-24), namely: [1] ‘Digital Futures in the Creative and
 Cultural industries’; and [2] ‘Sustainable Places, Thriving Societies’.

 ‘Digital Futures’

 • Digital Pasts. Our strategy focuses on stimulating wider use of research methodologies in
   social network analysis and spatial mapping. This builds on our European Research Council-
   funded ‘Connec’ project (2018-23) (Natal) and van Nijf’s British Academy visiting fellowship
   (2018) linked to University of Groningen’s ‘Connecting the Greeks’ project (Alston, Cooper).
   Working closely with Royal Holloway’s AHRC-funded StoryFutures project, to which UoA staff
   already contribute, engagement with new digital technologies will produce new creative
   encounters with historical environments. This will use Augmented Reality, recording and
   presenting endangered heritage through 3-D technologies (Kamash, Platts); research on 3-D
   modelling of artefacts (Pakkanen). Platts’ AHRC-funded project ‘Transatlantic Perspectives
   on the Use of Data Science in Museums and Heritage’ will produce innovative delivery of
   research in the sensory experience of the Roman villa using Virtual Reality technologies.

 ‘Sustainable Pasts, Thriving Societies’

 • Conflict and Violence. Our strategy is to expand research on humanitarianism, citizenship
   and violence/trauma. Our Leverhulme ECR fellowship ‘Refugee Relief in French North Africa
   in the 1940s’ (Correa Martin-Arroyo 2019-22) signals recognition of this UoA as a centre for
   this area of research, while the Centre for Oratory and Rhetoric is already engaged in
   research on law and refugees/war crimes and rhetoric. We are currently working with other
   departments at Royal Holloway, including Politics and International Relations, Law, and
   English to bring together interdisciplinary research in Refugee Studies, building on
   established research interests in population displacement in the context of violence.

 • Diversity, Identity and ‘Race’. Our strategy builds on existing South Asian expertise, and
   our track record in producing research that highlights and explores the UK’s diverse histories.
   Akhtar’s forthcoming project, ‘Voices of History, Citizenship and Identity in Britain’s South
   Asian Communities’, will interrogate notions of ‘British citizenship’ adopted by South Asian
   migrants in terms of where ‘home’ is and how they have made this decision. Challenging
   historical ‘omissions’ regarding the UK’s imperial past underpins Manktelow’s project ‘Memes
   of Empire in the Re-colonial Present’. We are also leading initiatives addressing gaps in
   public understanding, including ‘Demystifying colonial history’ in partnership with Cumberland
   Lodge (Manktelow, S. Ansari, Daechsel).

 • Heritage and Cultural Identity. Our strategy focuses on broadening public engagement
   with current understandings of diverse heritages and cultural identities, and we are already
   taking this ambition forward. Our Centre for Modern Monarchy has been awarded major
   AHRC funding for a project (2021-24): ‘The Visible Crown: Queen Elizabeth II and the
   Caribbean, 1952 to the present’, involving collaboration with Institute of Commonwealth
   Studies, the Black Cultural Archives, FCO, Australian High Commission, Ramphal
   Foundation, ITV News and Royal Collection. Hellenic Institute staff have recently secured
   Stavros Niarchos Foundation funding as part of an international research network on the
   Greek diaspora to develop a virtual museum and crowdsourcing interactive tools (Chronakis).
   These activities will be supported by the appointment of an A.G. Leventis Foundation-funded

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    director (2021-24). Hamlett has been awarded AHRC funding for follow-up activities with
    Museum of the Home and Blue Cross (2021).

 • Gender and Sexuality. Our strategy involves Bedford Centre staff working with Royal
   Holloway’s British Academy-funded Gender Institute (established 2020) to maximize the
   benefits of shared research interests, and to champion EDI good practice. An indicator of our
   strengths in this subfield is the British Academy funding awarded to Tooth Murphy for a path-
   breaking LGBTQ+ oral history project, ‘Historicising Butch: Narrating Butch Lesbian Identity
   and Experience from 1950 – Present’ (2021).

 Our strategies for securing continued grant capture in 2021-26 centre on two approaches. First,
 maximizing awareness of new research funding opportunities as these materialize, and second,
 increasing our agility to respond quickly to UKRI and other national and international initiatives.
 Our responsiveness to GCRF calls has already resulted in funding (£199,739) under its
 ‘Cultures and Histories of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition’ Collective Programme to study the
 dynamics of sustainable foodways in present-day Turkey through an exploration of ancient and
 traditional diet and processing practices (Rowan, 2021-23). Staff are also involved in Royal
 Holloway GCRF cluster groups on ‘Human Rights’ (Cook, Gibson, Gigliotti, Jinks, Stone) and
 ‘Sustainable Societies’ (S. Ansari, Chronakis, Daechsel, Kamesh).

 1d. APPROACH TO ENABLING IMPACT

 Embedding impact in the conception and design of our overall research strategy represents a
 core philosophy of this UoA, and directly informs the steps that staff take, both individually and
 collectively, to ensure that their research can achieve maximum impact. This approach has
 resulted in staff working with a range of beneficiaries, including the creative industries, arts
 professionals, educators, activists, legal professionals, and parliamentary and policy-relevant
 communities. In 2015, we appointed a Director of Impact to support us to “rigorously pursue the
 public benefits of our research” (2014REF3). Staff now build impact-related activities into their
 research plans, and Royal Holloway’s annual Personal Developmental Review process
 encourages reflection on impact opportunities. Impact is encouraged at all career stages,
 including PGR Collaborative Doctoral Awards, which enable partnerships to mature and supports
 the next generation of researchers. We are keen to embed partnerships with external agencies
 and ensure that they are mutually beneficial. This strategy is also built into the research
 objectives of our Institutes/Centres, further embedding impact and knowledge-exchange into our
 collective research culture.

 In 2021-26, our impact strategy will be shaped by [1] our proven strengths in Public History; [2]
 our commitment to the social benefits of enhanced public awareness and understanding of the
 past. Accordingly, it will address how our research connects with contemporary challenges,
 including social inclusion, well-being, and debates around memory and cultural heritage, by
 facilitating more inclusive understandings of the past. It will also build innovative and diverse
 partnerships with cultural and heritage sectors (some of which is already underway thanks to
 grant capture in 2020). By pursing this approach, we acknowledge the importance of telling
 alternative histories, often though not always, related to commemorative events, engaging with
 multiple and diverse publics, and reaching new audiences via diverse media and forums. This
 commitment is already demonstrated by our four Impact Case Studies. Together, they show our
 interest in the contemporary relevance of history, in ensuring that difficult pasts are
 commemorated, and that the arts and heritage sectors benefit from our research.
 ,
 1d. SUPPORTING INTERDISCIPLINARY RESEARCH

 Our strategy since REF2014 has been to identify and maximize research collaborations across
 disciplinary boundaries. Hence, UoA staff engage in challenge- and question-focused research
 that draws directly on a range of disciplinary contributions. One example is the Holocaust
 Research Institute which brings together a range of interdisciplinary issues and methodologies.
 Academics involved in other UoA Centres/Institutes undertake research that challenges

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 disciplinary boundaries, evidenced in research outputs and collaborations). The UoA has also
 supported exploratory conversations between disciplines to identify areas of common interest,
 such as internal networks funded in History for sensory heritage experiences.

 1e. OPEN RESEARCH ENVIRONMENT

 Open Access procedures are highlighted in regular briefings at research awaydays and we
 disseminate our research through Open Access routes in line with disciplinary norms. Staff on
 executive committees of learned societies have engaged in wider consultation on how to
 progress towards a full Open Access environment (Laidlaw Royal Historical Society; S. Ansari
 Royal Asiatic Society). Champion, JISC Historic Books Project Advisory Board member and The
 Historical Association President (2014-17), promoted making research freely available, while
 Zipser runs ‘Simon Online’, an Open Access resource that trialled a collaborative approach to
 critical editions. Since 2015 an institutional appointment monitors Open Access and Research
 Data Management policies, while a dedicated fund supports Open Access publication and
 professional services staff provide Open Access guidance (including on depositing pre-
 publication material in Royal Holloway’s institutional repository).

 Training in research ethics is likewise embedded in staff and PGR training supplied by the
 university, while PGR supervisors are regularly updated on issues of research integrity to ensure
 compliance with the UUK 2012 Concordat.

    2. People

 2a. STAFFING STRATEGY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT

 Staffing Strategy

 Since REF2014, all new appointments have been linked to our strategy of enhancing existing
 areas of research strength and/or the development of additional ones. This strategy has
 produced overall growth through the creation of new full-time ECR posts in 5 key areas since
 REF2014: [1] Roman and Late Antique history (Natal); [2] transatlantic early modern history
 (Cook); [3] modern Greek history (Vassiadis and Chronakis); [4] LGBTQ+ histories (Tooth
 Murphy); [5] Classical archaeology (Kamash). In 2017, we obtained an additional professorial
 appointment in Late Antique history (Cooper). In 2019, we appointed a Senior Fellow in History,
 Heritage and Media to support UoA digital research activity, followed, in 2020, by a Senior Lecturer
 in Public Humanities.

 At the same time, areas of existing strength have been maintained through replacement (mostly
 ECR) appointments following retirements/departures: e.g. US (Doyle), modern intellectual
 (Priest), medieval (Jotischky), British empire (Manktelow), Ottoman (Baldwin), British minority
 ethnic (Akhtar), Holocaust (Gigliotti), and early modern British (Knight). Also, development
 appointments have been made in modern European history (Daly, Jinks) and staff contract
 changes in modern British cultural/gender history (Moss) and Roman history (Platts). Our long-
 standing commitment to inter/trans-disciplinary exchange is exemplified by our joint History-
 English early modern appointment in 2020 (Knight).

 Our balance between senior and early career staff enables both continuity and leadership in
 research, and stimulates innovation within the discipline. While we currently have more mid-
 career and senior than ECR staff, our strategy is committed whenever possible to investing in
 permanent, early-career Category A posts, rather than employing staff on temporary contracts.
 We support ECR career development by only using fixed-term contracts for staff whose posts
 are funded by time-limited funding e.g. major research grant or postdoctoral fellowship.

 Staff Development



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our principal strategy is to maximize the potential of staff via flexible, inclusive structures. We
 support a holistic approach towards research that collectively balances ‘lone-scholar’
 investigator-led research activity alongside external-funded collaborative ‘challenge-led’ projects,
 located within and beyond Royal Holloway.

 The UoA facilitates staff development through active workload management. Our workload
 model is based on the principle of transparent equity to ensure that staff can: [1] maintain an
 active research strategy alongside teaching and administrative duties; [2] deliver research-led
 teaching; [3] sustain research across the academic year by drawing on teaching support where
 applicable (e.g. for particularly popular modules). As a basic principle, during term time a
 minimum of 1 day per week is reserved for research for staff on T/R contracts, but, where
 possible, timetabling is managed to allow for further blocks of research time within the working
 week.

 Since REF2014, we have improved mentoring systems to help staff diversify their research
 activities and develop their skills and confidence as research leaders. Staff receive regular
 feedback on research outputs, through [1] peer evaluation of written drafts and advice about
 publication, especially ECRs and other junior staff; [2] regular staff seminars (Department and
 School level) at which research is presented for peer review and feedback. The UoA operates an
 annual research review system in which short- and medium- term research goals are established
 and discussed with a research advisory group, and bids for extra research support received.

 Further staff development is provided through Royal Holloway’s Professional Development
 Review system, which provides annual feedback on individual research plans as part of its 360-
 degree review of performance and development needs. Staff themselves set one and three-year
 research objectives. These are reviewed by senior UoA staff who have received PDR training,
 and who offer feedback and guidance. We have a vigorous internal peer review system and
 mentorship programme in place designed to support all staff to develop and submit grants
 regardless of their career stage. Department Research Leads monitor grant application and
 outcome data via Royal Holloway’s dashboard system, which also enables us to evaluate these
 processes from an EDI perspective.

 Research Leave

 All academics on research contracts are entitled to apply for sabbatical leave of a block of 2
 terms in 12 terms of service. Sabbatical applications are mentored by UoA colleagues prior to
 formal submission and then scrutinized at Department and School level with the primary
 objective of supporting applicants in the production of significant research. This culture of
 bespoke support continues after a period of research leave has been completed, thanks to end-
 of-sabbatical reporting processes and staff sharing sabbatical findings at ‘in-house’ seminars
 (which PGR students also attend). There is also a formal School reporting procedure during
 which sabbatical outcomes are discussed and recorded.

 Supporting ECRs

 Our workload policy for new staff provides for reduced teaching for ECRs (while on probation)
 with the aim of stimulating research during the crucial initial stages of a career. Probation
 systems (monitored by HR and overseen by the School) design bespoke requirements in terms
 of research output for the first three years of employment, and normally include a requirement to
 apply for an appropriate research grant. Alongside regular probation reviews, a process of
 informal mentoring by senior staff is provided for ECR appointments.

 All new staff are enrolled on the CAPITAL (Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice in
 Teaching and Learning) training course provided by Royal Holloway’s Professional Development
 unit, which they complete within the normal 3-year probation period. This training is HEA-
 accredited and qualifies participants for full HEA fellowship. The programme includes attendance
 at four Advance (previously On-Track) research workshops. Suitably experienced staff are

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 encouraged to apply as part of Royal Holloway’s TALENT scheme for Senior HEA fellowship
 status. Promotion is reviewed annually within the UoA and feedback provided on CVs to all non-
 professorial staff members, while professors are invited bi-annually to submit for professorial
 increment review.

 In line with our commitment to the future of our discipline, we attract and successfully develop ECR
 applications to competitive postdoctoral schemes e.g. British Academy/Leverhulme Early Career
 Fellowships (Haines, Leake, Correa Martin-Arroyo). Similarly, we encourage PGR recruitment and
 development, through [1] intellectual investment in the Royal Holloway-led AHRC TECHNĒ
 consortium to generate successful PGR applications; [2] externally-funded studentships and
 bursaries to promote specific areas (e.g. 2 Histories of Humanitarianism PGR studentships
 awarded since 2018).

 2b. RESEARCH STUDENTS

 We are home to a vibrant and diverse community of Home, EU and International PGRs (c. 100
 students in any given year), who make a valuable contribution to our research culture through
 their individual projects and their research collaboration with staff and other PGRs. They are
 attracted to the UoA by staff research expertise and open advertisement for studentships.

 We participate in competitive recruitment of funded PGRs through the Royal Holloway-led AHRC
 TECHNĒ consortium. 9 History, Ancient History and Archaeology PGRs have received TECHNĒ
 awards, while over 80 PGRs have received Royal Holloway-funded awards since 2014. UoA
 staff (Champion) drove the university’s successful bid for the Leverhulme Magna Carta Doctoral
 Programme, which won £1.5 million to fund 15 PGR studentships across the university,
 supplemented by a further 5 Royal Holloway-financed awards (2015-18). In addition, we have
 secured funding for competitively awarded PGR studentships from charities/private foundations
 and public, private and corporate sponsors, e.g. The Friendly Hand; A.G. Leventis Foundation;
 Pakistan Higher Education Commission; Pears Foundation; Amy Buller Cumberland Lodge PhD
 studentship; Bodossaki Foundation (Athens); Samourkas Foundation (New York). Staff have
 also developed PGR CDA partnerships with a view to how research produced by these can be
 mutually beneficial. Research relationships have matured via this process with e.g. British
 Museum (Laidlaw) and British Library (Priest) These arrangements have also enabled PGRs to
 undertake research-related professional placements, e.g. in 2017 a CDA PGR McMahon
 undertook a three-month placement with the British Library curatorial team producing its 2018-19
 exhibition ‘Reimaging Captain Cook: Pacific Perspectives’.

 Each PGR student is assigned a supervisor and an advisor (who acts as a sounding-board,
 keeps in regular contact to provide general and strategic advice, and reads drafts of work where
 appropriate). We comply with university requirements for regular supervision meetings, which
 are audited by means of written reports. PGR progress is monitored through annual reviews
 conducted by panels and an upgrade in Year 2. Upgrade panels comprise the advisor and
 another UoA staff member, who read and provide face-to-face feedback on draft chapters and a
 synopsis of the PhD thesis, with the supervisor in attendance. These processes are now
 coordinated by Royal Holloway’s Doctoral School (established in 2019).

 We monitor the gender, ethnic and other protected characteristics composition of our PGR body
 (where declared). Between 2014 and 2020, completed PGRs were 50:50 women/men, while
 18% were Black and Global Majority (where declared) (according to the Royal Historical
 Society’s Race, Ethnicity & Equality Report (2018), 8.6% of UK PGR students within our
 discipline were BME). Our priority is inclusion, and so staff are trained on topics such as conduct
 of interviews, unconscious bias, and recruitment and selection policies.

 All our Centres/Institutes foreground PGR research as an integral part of their regular research
 activities, and their activities are often PGR-led:



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •   PGR-led project uncovered the history of Sarah Parker Remond, first black student at
         Bedford College (2015-16).
     •   PGR-curated ‘Celebrating the Centenary of Women Lawyers’ exhibition launched at
         Lincoln’s Inn (2017).
     •   PGR teams organized ‘Rethinking Gender: New Perspectives and Future Directions’
         workshop (2017) and ‘Kitchens in Britain and Europe, 1500-1950’ workshop (2017).
     •   PGR-led Round Table workshop on women in engineering (2019).
     •   PGR-organised international conferences on paradeigmata, the philosophy of history,
         and Heidegger and the Classics.
     •   PGRs contributed to research projects combining history, palaeography, philology and
         digital humanities (e.g. Hellenic Institute’s Etheridge project).

 Our PGR community runs its own seminar series, at which both PGRs and invited speakers from
 other universities present research papers, while Ancient History PGRs organize the London
 Postgraduate Work in Progress seminar with an international remit and slate of speakers. We
 encourage PGRs to present their research in international environments, e.g. the UoA has
 funded PGR conference presentations in Germany, Italy, Austria, Belgium, Croatia, China and
 the US. The Friendly Hand also provides regular travel grants to PGRs to facilitate research
 trips and conference attendance. The UoA makes an important contribution to training PGRs
 from universities in other countries through Royal Holloway’s Guest Researcher scheme, e.g. we
 have hosted registered PGRs from Spain, Turkey, Italy, China and Pakistan to study with staff
 for short periods as part of their research development. PGR research is regularly published, e.g.
 Swartz was awarded the Society for the History of Childhood and Youth’s 2019 Grace Abbott
 Book prize for Education and Empire: Children, Race and Humanitarianism in the British Settler
 Colonies, 1833–1880 (based on her 2015 PhD); McKie, ‘Women’s sport and the feminism
 conundrum: the case of interwar English cricket’, Sport in History (2020).

 PGRs benefit from dedicated space at the Egham campus, both in the new Emily Wilding
 Davison Library and in the Humanities PG computer lab, and are members of London libraries
 e.g. Senate House, IHR, Institute for Classical Studies and Warburg Institute libraries. Following
 a successful application to the Royal Literary Fund (2018), we provide a dedicated writing tutor
 for our PGR students. Specific skills training in Greek and Latin, palaeography and epigraphy are
 provided on a shared London basis.

 PGRs are encouraged, in consultation with their supervisor, to apply for UoA teaching
 opportunities as part of their professional development. All PGRs undertaking teaching are
 enrolled on the HEA-accredited INSTIL programme run by Royal Holloway’s Professional
 Development unit (43 since 2014). This programme is designed to enable PGRs to acquire
 knowledge and skills necessary for future career development. All those who complete the
 course successfully qualify for associate HEA membership.

 We work closely with Royal Holloway’s Careers Service to ensure that our PGRs are supported
 in terms of career destinations/opportunities both within and beyond the academy. Our success
 in preparing PGR for employment is evidenced via career destinations both within and outside
 academia, e.g. Whelan (2014) KCL; Noreen (2015) Lahore College for Women University; Pistol
 (2016) Exeter; Tignol (2016) Ghent; Uddin (2016) Leverhulme ECR (2020-23); Thomas (2017)
 Birmingham; Wani (2017) Ambedkar University, Delhi; Bilal (2019) Quaid-i-Azam University,
 Islamabad; Altaf (2020) Government College University, Lahore; Roger (2016) National
 Archives medieval records specialist; Basch (2016) Fast-track Civil Service; Edwards (2019)
 Fast-track Civil Service.

 2c. EQUALITY, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION

 The UoA is committed to equality, diversity and inclusion, and monitors gender and other
 protected characteristics via the School of Humanities’ Equality and Diversity Committee, in
 alignment with Royal Holloway’s institutional-level strategy of inclusiveness. Our broader


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research ethos is backed by robust systems that ensure that recruitment and promotion are
 underpinned by equitable values. Royal Holloway strives to go beyond the public sector duty
 placed upon universities by the Equality Act 2010 and has devoted staff and resources to that
 end, including Departmental EDI officers.

 Supporting Career Pathways

 Recruitment panel members are trained regarding unconscious bias and Heads of
 Department/School are aware of EDI priorities when recruiting. Successive Heads of Department
 have been proactive in nominating staff for university-wide initiatives, e.g. Springboard, Aurora
 Leadership and Women Enhancement Programmes for female researchers (e.g. Hamlett,
 Gibson, Moss). Research leadership activities are timetabled in Athena Swan hours (10.00-
 16.00), and we also recognize that attendance at research forums can be affected disabilities
 and caring responsibilities, for example. In 2017 we moved our regular staff research seminar
 from early evening to a timetabled lunchtime slot to permit all staff to participate as part of their
 normal working day. We will continue holding research events online (as necessitated by
 Covid19 in 2020) precisely because of inclusion and diversity benefits associated with this form
 of interaction.

 The UoA takes seriously the need to enable staff with family/caring responsibilities. To ensure
 staff from a wide cross-section of society feel supported and thrive in their careers, we promote
 flexible and remote working in line with institutional policies. Royal Holloway’s formal process for
 negotiating flexible working arrangements, which is reviewed annually to support changing
 needs, allows staff (23 flexible requests approved between 2014-20) to combine research
 careers with caring responsibilities. The Department/School’s internal research-related resource
 allocation follows the university’s EDI guidelines, as does our shortlisting of applicants for Early-
 Career fellowships and doctoral funding.

 Enabling Equal Opportunities for Promotion and Enhancement

 The impact of EDI policies since REF2014, sustained through annual research interviews and
 the implementation of a transparent workload model, is clear. Our staffing strategy has made a
 positive impact on the UoA gender balance: 11 out of 17 new teaching and research staff and 9
 out of 11 new ECR staff appointed since 2014 have been women. In recognition of a sector-
 wide phenomenon of women being disproportionately appointed to fractional teaching-only roles,
 2 female staff (Moss, Platts) have been moved from part-time teaching-only to full-time T/R
 contracts. Moreover, the UoA offers excellent women leadership role models - 3 of our 4 Heads
 of Department since 2014 have been women: S. Ansari (2016-17); Cooper (2017-19); Whitelock
 (2019 on). Our 2020 replacement appointment in British minority ethnic histories also underlines
 our long-standing EDI commitment in our research agenda as well as our staffing policy, while c.
 10% of current staff (where declared) have black and global majority heritages (according to the
 Royal Historical Society’s Race, Ethnicity & Equality Report (2018) fewer than 4% of university
 historians are non-white).

 This same commitment is demonstrated in recent research-related initiatives that embed our
 inclusive research environment.

 • Alston’s workshop on women and academia (2015), followed by a workshop on ‘New faces of
   Feminism’ (2015) funded by Royal Holloway and UoA resources, led directly to the
   foundation of the UK’s Women’s Classics Committee, bringing together scholars based in the
   UK, USA, Germany, France and Italy. History staff (Kamash, Leonard), together with others
   in Royal Holloway’s English and Philosophy UoAs, have played a leading role. This
   campaigning organization explores research themes and curriculum issues as well as issues
   of academic culture (harassment/career progression/pay differentials) and intersectionality. In
   2018, Leonard authored the report on the #WCCWiki project focused on improving the
   representation of women classicists and ancient historians on Wikipedia. The Council of
   University Classical Departments, the national subject association for Classical subjects in

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    UK HE, prepared a 25,000-word ‘Equality and Diversity in Classics’ report during 2019–20
    again with major input from RHUL staff (Leonard); the final version of this document, the
    largest strategy document yet produced for Classics in the UK, was published in November
    2020 for discussion by all UK Classical departments in the 2020–21 session.

 • Alongside its collaboration with Royal Holloway’s Feminist Society and Women in
   Engineering Society, Bedford Centre staff (Moss, Windscheffel) took a leading role in suffrage
   centenary commemorations (2018), partnering with the ‘Citizens 800’ project team to produce
   a popular MOOC ‘Beyond the Ballot: Women’s Rights and Suffrage From 1866 to Today’. In
   the first run of the MOOC in 2018-19, 10,245 learners enrolled (compared with a History
   MOOC average on FutureLearn of 4,150). Other suffrage centenary projects involved
   collaboration with external partners including Egham and Addlestone youth groups, Egham
   Girl Guides and Egham Museum (Moss).

 Equality and Diversity in our REF2020 submission

 The UoA has followed Royal Holloway’s REF2021 code of practice and worked with staff to
 identify relevant special circumstances. Our processes have ensured that EDI imperatives have
 been met in the REF outputs selection process through the 50:50 gender composition of the UoA
 Selection Panel. All staff involved in the REF2021 documentation and decision-making have
 taken mandatory training on unconscious bias.

    3.   Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3a. STRATEGIES FOR GENERATING RESEARCH INCOME AND FUNDING

 Our culture of making ambitious grant applications supported by rigorous peer review processes
 and grant incubator sessions is reflected in our funding successes, and this now forms an
 essential part of our core strategy to engage events of the past in current debates.

 As the following examples demonstrate, we have developed and now possess a multi-pronged
 strategy for grant capture: we approach local and regional funders for support with our Public
 History/‘Life viewed from Below’ agenda; while national and international funders back our
 mission to bring the past into dialogue with contemporary (national and global) social and
 cultural issues. Our track record of successful grant capture now underpins peer support
 mechanisms to help staff when making funding applications, further embedding and encouraging
 our shared research culture.

 • UKRI awards. Hamlett was PI for the AHRC-funded project ‘Pets and Family Life in England
   and Wales 1837-1939’) (2016-19). Platts secured AHRC funding for ‘Sensations of Roman
   Life: Reconstructing and experiencing a multi-sensory virtual reality environment’ (£10,180),
   and further AHRC funding for ‘Transatlantic Perspectives on the Use of Data Science in
   Museums and Heritage’. Other AHRC funding included: G. Smith ‘Memories of Fiction: An
   Oral History of Readers’ Life Stories; Doyle ‘Draft Evasion and Resistance in Civil War
   America: Practices and Policies, Debates and Legacies’; Kamash was awarded a British
   Academy Global challenges grant on crafting and wellbeing in Iraq. Other British Academy
   funding awards included: S. Ansari and Daechsel, GCRF Academic Writing Workshops,
   Pakistan; Claeys ‘Thomas Paine: Collected Works. A New Scholarly Edition’; Priest ‘Jesus
   Christ, Superstar: The Passion Play at Oberammergau, c.1770-1934’; two international
   visiting fellowships, [1] Bangash, ‘The Making of a Constitution: Religion, Politics and the
   State in Pakistan, 1947-56’ (Robinson), and [2] van Nijf, ‘Connectivity and network theory’
   (Alston, Cooper).

 • International funding. This has included a major European Research Council Fellowship
   Connec scheme award: ‘Connected Clerics: Building a Universal Church in the Late Antique
   West, 380-640 CE’ (Natal); a Marie Sklodowska-Curie-Fellowship for Zecevic (2017-19) on ‘A
   Comparative Diachronic Analysis of Post-Byzantine Networks in the Early-modern Europe,

                                                                                         Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    15th-18th centuries’ (Harris); and US Dept. of Defence Minerva initiative grant ‘Mobilizing
    Media: A Deep and Comparative Analysis of Magazines, Music and Videos in the Context of
    Terrorism’ (Akil). Kremmydas won a Humboldt Fellowship to spend 18 months in Berlin
    working on a project on logic and persuasion. Doyle was a Fulbright American Studies
    Scholar at the Institute for Southern Studies, University of South Carolina (2018), and also
    won an AHRC International Placement at the Library of Congress, Washington (2020,
    postponed due to Covid19). Pakkanen’s Salamis project has been funded by a range of
    institutions operating through the Finnish Institute in Athens.

 • Charities and foundations. Since REF2014 UoA staff have won two prestigious Leverhulme
   Major Research Fellowships: [1] ‘Tracing the Holocaust: The International Tracing Service
   and European History’ (Stone 2016-19), and ‘Franco’s Prisons 1936-1976’ (Graham 2018-
   21). In 2016 Tsai won Chiang Ching-kuo Foundation for International Scholarly Exchange
   funding, followed by a Leverhulme Fellowship for her research on postal networks in Qing
   China (2018-20); Champion was awarded a Leverhulme Emeritus Fellowship (2018-20) for
   ‘Thomas Hollis: fabricating liberty, from Rome to the Age of Revolution’. Zipser is PI on a
   Wellcome Trust Collaborative Award (2019-22) on Byzantine materia medica, with Kew
   Gardens, PTS Zurich and Haifa University as co-partners. Graham secured The Friendly
   Hand doctoral funding for the project ‘By His Own Hand: Suicide, Religion and Irrational
   Masculinity in Victorian Britain’, and another for a PhD in ‘History of Humanitarianism’ (2018
   onwards). The Holocaust Research Institute was awarded a Toni Schiff Foundation grant for
   visiting professors and collaboration with UK Jewish Film Festival, with further awards made
   by the Pears Foundation and the Lady Davis Fellowship Trust. Awan was funded by the
   charity ‘Remembering Srebrenica’ as part of its ‘Srebrenica, 20 years on: Genocide,
   Commemoration & Reconciliation’ project. The National Archives funded Saul’s digitization
   project on the Bedfordshire and Cambridgeshire Manorial Register, while Dendrinos was
   awarded an Honest Partners grant for his Benaki Museum Greek Manuscripts Digitization
   project.

 3b. ORGANISATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE

 Royal Holloway possesses a range of internal sources of seed funding, including its Research
 Strategy Fund (RSF), which provides important support for new research projects and the
 delivery of impact. Since REF2014 staff (S. Ansari, Graham, Hamlett, Stone, Tsai, Whitelock)
 have successfully secured this funding through competitive applications, supported by matched
 UoA funding, and this has led to successful external grant capture (as detailed above). Most
 recently, Daechsel and Chronakis were awarded institutional GCRF seed funding for an
 international networking workshop in Calcutta on ‘urban frontiers’ in South Asia/Near East
 (postponed due to Covid19).

 Royal Holloway’s Humanities and Arts Research Institute (HARI) likewise provides funding to
 staff to organize interdisciplinary research activities such as workshops: e.g. Vassiadis (with
 Centre for Geohumanities) ‘Making Space for Diasporas and the Sacred’ (2015); Jotischky,
 ‘Pilgrimage’ (2017); S. Ansari, ‘India and Pakistan: The Formative Phase, 1947-c.1960’ (2019);
 Chronakis, ‘Greek Orthodox Religioscapes’ (2020).

 In 2018 Platts secured a Higher Education Innovation Fund award for a collaborative project with
 other UoAs (Modern Languages, Psychology and Management), which produced a larger AHRC
 grant on data science management.

 3c. OPERATIONAL AND SCHOLARLY INFRASTRUCTURE

 Following REF2014, Royal Holloway invested in its research support infrastructure, including
 new posts in Research and Innovation to assist with funding applications, impact and knowledge
 exchange, and responses to major external priorities. The following appointments - Impact
 Manager, Research Development Manager specializing in arts/humanities, Global Challenges
 Strategy Manager, and Vice Principal for Impact and Interdisciplinarity - have enabled UoA staff

                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to tap into new streams of funding and develop impact strategies. In addition, workshops run at
 School level publicize appropriate schemes and provide advice on grant design.

 Infrastructural developments on the Egham campus since REF2014 include an investment of
 £57m to build the Emily Wilding Davison Library that provides state-of-the-art premises for our
 research collections, including the College archives, improved access to which facilitated UoA
 initiatives to digitize material in connection with the centenary anniversary of the 1918 extension
 of the Suffrage. It offers PGRs dedicated spaces for individual and group work, plus exhibition
 space for history-related public engagement activities, e.g. Suffrage! Education, activism and
 votes for women (2018); 200 Years of Becoming Digital (2018); Christiana Herringham: Artist,
 Campaigner, Collector (2019).

 Research is facilitated by dedicated liaison librarian support. Additional investment in electronic
 resources supports our digital humanities research initiatives. In 2018, Royal Holloway joined
 Research Libraries UK in recognition of the College’s capacity to support the ‘advancement of
 research and scholarship through their outstanding collections and services’.

 The UoA enjoys infrastructural facilities divided between a well-endowed campus in Egham and
 a base in Bloomsbury that enables access to central London’s world-class research libraries,
 institutes and archives. All full-time staff have individual offices in Egham, which facilitates
 networking between staff and PGRs. In addition, Royal Holloway’s Bloomsbury campus (which
 saw a £3.5m upgrade during this period) includes office space, hot-desking and meeting rooms
 in the refurbished Bedford Square building, and free bookable seminar rooms in Senate House.
 These facilities enable staff to host research and impact-related events that reach a wider and
 more diverse public and so connect us with metropolitan-based heritage industries and partners.
 Apart from its annual lectures, we host and promote book launches, specialist workshops and
 public debates, which contribute towards our public engagement.

    4.   Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 UoA staff make a sustained contribution to wider society and the cultural economy, underpinned
 by our shared commitment to social justice and public service. We build collaborative
 partnerships, contribute to public debate on urgent concerns, serve on bodies that maintain
 academic excellence, and develop pathways to impact in order to deliver our strategic objective
 of putting world-class research to work for the wider benefit. The result is that UoA staff gain
 national and international recognition not only for their innovative high-quality research, but also
 for their academic leadership, e.g. serving in relevant learned societies and research councils, in
 subject associations, as editors of journals, as members of peer review bodies that underpin
 historical research, and by supporting the next generation of historians. Our aim is to continue
 this outward looking approach by consolidating and expanding our existing contribution to our
 shared discipline both within the UK and internationally.

 4a. RESEARCH COLLABORATIONS

 Since 2014 staff have developed a wide range of research collaborations with both HEI and non-
 HEI organizations, designed to benefit diverse publics and enhance scholarship. Further
 collaborations owe their genesis to individual staff, e.g. as co-investigators on projects, individual
 research/knowledge exchange partnerships, contributions to exhibitions, and advisory
 relationships with libraries, museums and think-tanks. Hence, staff enjoy productive relationships
 with other HEIs that contribute directly to UoA research activities e.g. Harvard University
 SHARIA source project (Baldwin); University of Patras (Dendrinos); Universities of Reading and
 Glasgow (Platts); University of Zurich, University of Grenoble, University of Barcelona,
 Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona (Graham); McGill University (Chronakis); National University
 of Taiwan (Tsai).

 The UoA’s strategic commitment to the concept and practice of Public History also means that
 many of our research activities are framed by the objective of enhancing public understanding

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the past. Accordingly, we engage with diverse partners in order to increase awareness of the
 public responsibilities and potential of academic research in our discipline, and develop networks
 in government, heritage and policy organizations.

 Our strategy combines collective planning and co-ordination, communication and
 mentoring to involve as many staff as possible. We identify core beneficiaries of our research to
 allow us to develop enduring partnerships with specific sectors and organizations. This allows us
 to generate impact both through an individual response mode (e.g. when staff are approached
 for involvement as a result of their research profile) and through strategic cultivation of specific
 affiliations with appropriate heritage and educational organizations. Doing this enhances our role
 in knowledge exchange and in influencing policy design. In addition to partners and beneficiaries
 outlined in our REF2021 Impact Case Studies and mentioned above, staff have worked with,
 among others, Everyday Muslim (K. Ansari); Museum of the North and Bodleian (Kamash,
 Alston); Museum of Naxos, Sicily, Architects’ Association of Corfu, Architects’ Association of
 Thessaloniki, Centre on Mediterranean Architecture, Municipality of Chania (Pakkanen).

 We raise our research profiles through targeting media partners and outlets. Staff enjoy
 productive relationships with media organizations resulting in public benefit by making UoA
 research widely available. Our strategy to engage the public with our research has led us to
 collaborate with television and radio networks, e.g. BBC1 (Hamlett); BBC4 (Champion, Hamlett,
 Whitelock); BBCR4 (Champion, Hamlett, Cooper, S. Ansari, Jotischky); Channel 4 (Cooper,
 Jotischky); PBS and Radio Círculo de Bellas Artes, Madrid (Graham); Sunrise Films (Gwynn,
 Phillips); Wildbear Entertainment (S. Ansari). UoA research regularly appears in a range of print
 and online media, e.g. Times, Le Monde, Osterreichische Rundfunk, Observer, Spectator,
 Tablet, Daily Telegraph, Daily Mail, NRC Handelsblad, In addition, staff provide media and
 historical consultancy, e.g. Graham (BBC World Service/Whistledown Productions, 2017; ‘The
 Silence of Others’, dir. Pedro Almodovar 2018).

 Our Institutes/Centres consolidate public engagement, impact and knowledge exchange through
 public events, including lectures, workshops and symposia. E.g., annual lectures are organized
 by Holocaust Research Institute (including the David Cesarani Holocaust Memorial Lecture),
 Hellenic Institute and Bedford Centre. We host two high-profile lectures given by prominent
 scholars that sustain the link between research, dissemination and extra-curricular education,
 and these are made available online for wider accessibility: [1] our annual Hayes Robinson
 Lecture (e.g. Catherine Hall, Bruce Lincoln, William C Jordan, Philippa Levine); [2] our biennial
 Dabis lecture (e.g. Robin Osborne, Tom Holland).

 The same strategic approach is reflected in how we engage the broader public in our research
 activities, by raising the public profile of our shared discipline through social media. Staff are
 active social media producers and users, maintain Twitter accounts, initiate and curate research-
 led blogs (e.g. Madigan’s ‘Historians for History’), and use research websites to post summaries
 of their research findings. They also write commissioned pieces for ‘The Conversation’ (S.
 Ansari, Awan, Mark). The Holocaust Research Institute maintains active Twitter and Facebook
 accounts, and its Director (Stone) produces a monthly blog for the Centre for the Analysis of the
 Radical Right. Our Centres’ Twitter accounts showcase associated research, as do Twitter
 accounts linked with individual research projects, e.g. AHRC-funded ‘Pets and Family Life’
 project has a Twitter account and its ‘Pet Histories’ blog captures contributions from a wide
 network of academics, curators, archivists, local historians and journalists. Individual staff are
 also active Twitter users, e.g. Whitelock (c. 6,600 followers), Cooper (c. 5,200 followers), Awan
 (c. 5,000 followers), Mammone (c. 1,400 followers).

 4b. CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE ECONOMY AND SOCIETY

 Since REF2014, we have engaged with diverse communities and publics through our research,
 and this has generated a range of different kinds of impact that can be grouped under the following
 headings:


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 • Telling alternative histories related to commemorative events. A direct outcome of staff
   taking a leading role in the national Magna Carta 800th anniversary (2015), our major
   (£485,000) Heritage Lottery Fund ‘Citizens800’ project (2017-20) has generated improved
   understandings of how the past has shaped what it means to be a citizen today, and the
   responsibilities that UK citizens carry for the future. Drawing on our research expertise (Saul,
   Champion, Laidlaw) in the histories of liberty, protest and reform from Magna Carta to the
   1918 Representation of the People Act and supported by our London Centre for Public
   History, this created digital learning and educational resources for schools, examination
   boards, heritage organizations, Parliament, UK Supreme Court. Staff and PGRs connected
   with the Bedford Centre also engaged in projects to advance public awareness of
   complexities involved in the 2018 Suffrage anniversary, including making suffrage archives
   available through digitization. Similarly, Madigan and K. Ansari’s research expertise drove
   impact activities to raise awareness of the need for more explicit commemoration of the
   religious, cultural and ethnic diversity of British Empire forces during the First World War.
   They worked with Commonwealth War Graves Commission, Foreign and Commonwealth
   Office, National Education Programme, and Woking Borough Council, to encourage diverse
   communities to engage with national commemorations (2014-18). This was through two
   routes: [1] advising 14-18 NOW, the UK's national arts programme for the First World War
   centenary, and national educational initiatives/creation of web resources (Madigan); and [2]
   the publicly-funded restoration of Horsell Muslim Burial Ground as a dedicated Peace Garden
   (2015) and creation of Woking’s pioneering Muslim Heritage Trail (2019) (K. Ansari).

 • Engaging multiple and diverse publics. Research on the reception of Near-Eastern
   archaeology connected heritage with work on community trauma and diaspora to transform
   how other minority communities in the UK engage with their complex past(s). Kamash’s
   ‘Remembering the Romans in the Middle East and North Africa’ (‘RetRo’) was a public
   engagement project, funded by AHRC Cultural Engagement Fund (2016). Working with
   museums containing significant Near East holdings from the Roman period (London’s Petrie
   Museum; Newcastle’s Great North Museum), it explored diasporic identity/cultural heritage
   with communities not often drawn into UK museums. This impact initiative developed into the
   British Academy-funded project, ‘Crafting Heritage for Well-Being in Iraq’, whose
   interdisciplinary team including psychologists is working on heritage and trauma within Iraqi
   communities.

 • Reaching new audiences through diverse media and forums. UoA knowledge exchange
   strategies used digital communication (MOOCs, YouTube videos, multi-sensory virtual reality
   software and web learning tools) alongside traditional face-to-face engagement activities
   (lectures, briefings, workshops, outreach events) and visual events (curating exhibitions for
   museums, and dynamic performance, especially drama) to engage members of the public
   and cultural and heritage practitioners with our research. Impact initiatives included: [1]
   improving teacher and A-level student understanding of Classical Civilization and Ancient
   History syllabi through the creation of digital resources drawing directly on UoA research
   (Alston); [2] Centre for the Study of the Body and Material Culture hosting public
   engagement workshops (York’s Jorvik Centre and London’s Science Museum) on objects,
   bodies and museum interpretation; [3] staff bringing research to bear on cultural activities by
   acting as consultants and serving on external advisory bodies, e.g. Royal Shakespeare
   Company’s ‘A Midsummer Night’s Dream’ production set in interwar England (2016) drew
   directly on Moss’s research expertise.

 4c. CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE SUSTAINABILITY OF OUR DISCIPLINE

 UoA contributions to the sustainability of our discipline are evidenced by the influence of our
 scholarship, the wide range of our scholarly activities, and the academic leadership that staff
 provide, nationally and internationally As well as taking collective pride in our contribution to the
 future of our discipline and also in the range of national and international indicators of esteem
 that highlight the reach and significance of our research achievements, we demonstrate


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 academic leadership by organizing high-profile research seminars, editing peer-reviewed
 journals and refereeing scholarly material and grant applications,

 Since 2014 a number of prizes, honorary doctorates and fellowships have been made to staff
 at all stages of the career cycle (from ECRs to professors), e.g. Cundhill History Prize 2017
 (Beer); Roland H. Bainton Book Prize for History 2014 (Cavallo); Historical Association Medlicott
 Medal 2018 (Champion); Cantemir Prize of Berendel Foundation 2018 (Claeys); and Penn
 Literary Award for Biography 2015 (Whitelock). Staff have held prestigious visiting fellowships,
 e.g. Mellon Islamic Studies Initiative Visiting Professor, Chicago (Robinson); Max Planck Institute
 for the History of Science, Berlin (Cavallo); Leibniz-Zentrum Moderner Orient, Berlin (K. Ansari);
 Magdalen College Oxford (Jotischky); Bavarian Ministry of Arts and Sciences Visiting Lecturer,
 University of Regensburg (Priest); Deutscher Academischer Austausch Dienst (DAAD) Visiting
 Professor of Nautical Archaeology, Philipps-Universität, Marburg (Rankov); and Visiting
 Fellowship, Pembroke College Oxford (Cook).

 Staff regularly deliver high-profile plenary/named lectures, which allow us to develop our
 research networks. Recent examples include: [1] Europe: Utrecht University 2017 (Pakkanen);
 Vienna Wiesenthal Institute 2018 (Jinks); Museo Memorial de L’Exili, La Jonquera 2019
 (Graham); New Europe College, Bucharest 2019 (Hamlett); University of Uppsala Hugo Valentin
 Lecture 2020 (Stone); and [2] beyond Europe: University of Chicago 2016 (Robinson); 1939
 Society Annual Holocaust Lecture, UCLA, 2016 (Stone); Marco Institute for Medieval and
 Renaissance Studies 2016 (Cooper) and 2019 (Phillips); and Florida State University 2018
 (Robinson).

 With regards to research seminars, our identity as historians operating within the University of
 London remains an integral and valued part of our research infrastructure, adding critical mass to
 UoA research activities. Staff convene Institute of Historical Research seminars (Black British
 History; British History in the Long Eighteenth Century; Christian Missions in Global History;
 Crusades and the Latin East; Modern French History; Public History), and organize the thematic
 Ancient History Seminar at the Institute of Classical Studies: e.g. ‘Ancient Politics’ (2016);
 ‘Sexuality and Gender from Livia to Theodora’ (2019), and its PGR Work in Progress seminar.
 Alongside the Institute of Classical Studies, staff collaborate with the Roman Society and other
 London centres to organize wider events: e.g. ‘Reception of the Classics and The Great War’
 (2015); ‘Drawing on the Past’ (2019); ‘Germanicus’ (2019); ‘Tacitus for the XX1st century’
 (2019).

 Staff make an active contribution to research development and dissemination through leadership
 roles on scholarly journals. Since REF2014, these have included Patterns of Prejudice; Journal
 of Genocide; American Nineteenth-Century History; Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society;
 Crusades; and Journal of Victorian Culture. Staff also serve on other journal editorial boards
 linked to UoA research expertise, e.g. Social History of Medicine; Utopian Studies; Journal of
 Early Christian Studies; British Journal for Military History; Historia Social; Journal of Holocaust
 Research; Journal of Social History; Journal of Holocaust Research; Media, War and Conflict
 and Critical Studies in Terrorism.

 Staff contribute their research expertise as reviewers for grant-awarding bodies and academic
 publishers. As well as being represented on the AHRC Peer Review College and Wellcome
 Trust (Hamlett, Horden, Robinson), staff referee grant applications from the UK and across the
 academic world, e.g. European Research Council Grant Panel; Irish Research Council
 Postdoctoral Committee; ANVUR (Italian Research Assessment Exercise); Riksbankens
 Jubileumsfond (Sweden); Academy of Finland; Royal Society of Canada; Social Science and
 Humanities Research Council (Canada); Israel Academy of Sciences; Austrian Academy; Dutch
 Research Council; and Swiss National Science Foundation. Staff are regularly asked to provide
 expert reports by academic presses including: Boydell; Brill; Cambridge UP; Dumbarton Oaks
 Press; Edinburgh UP; Hurst; Oxford UP; Palgrave Macmillan; Manchester UP; Princeton UP;
 Routledge; Syracuse UP; and Yale UP. Staff serve on the editorial boards of academic
 publishers (e.g. Liverpool University Press; Brill–Clio Medicine) and regularly review manuscripts

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for scholarly peer-review journals, including: Arctos, Byzantion; English Historical Review;
 Ethnicities; Greek, Roman and Byzantine Studies; Journal of Hellenic Studies; International
 Journal of the Classical Tradition; Journal of Church and State; Journal of Medieval History;
 Journal of Modern Greek Studies; Journal of Southern History; Journal of the Warburg and
 Courtauld Institutes; Modern Asian Studies; Modern Intellectual History; Proceedings of the
 American Philosophical Society; Speculum; and Women’s Studies International Forum.

 UoA commitment to protecting the future of our discipline means that staff take on leadership
 roles in the management of scholarly institutions. The learned societies and subject
 associations in which staff are involved include: Royal Historical Society; British Association of
 Victorian Studies; Institute of Historical Research Advisory Board; Royal Asiatic Society; British
 Association of Holocaust Studies; Holocaust Education Foundation (Northwestern University);
 Society for the Study of the Crusades and Latin East; Society for Italian Studies, Association for
 the Study of Modern Italy; Utopian Studies Centre; Women’s Classical Committee; North
 American Patristics Society; and Society for Modern Greek Studies. Likewise, our commitment
 when it comes to encouraging and sustaining public engagement with our discipline means that
 staff serve on the management boards of educational and history-related/heritage
 organizations, e.g. International Tracing Service; Heritage Alliance; The Historical Association;
 Historic Royal Palaces; Sir Ernest Cassell Education Trust, International Brigade Memorial Trust;
 Surrey History Centre; Egham Museum; AQA Exam Board History Subject Panel; British Library
 Advisory Board; Prince’s Teaching Institute; and Charles Wallace (Pakistan) Trust.

 UoA staff draw on their own research expertise to actively support scholars at different stages in
 their academic careers. In addition to examining at other University of London institutions, staff
 act as external PhD examiners, e.g. in the UK: Birmingham, Cambridge, Derby, Durham,
 Edinburgh, Essex, Glasgow, Kent, Leeds, Leeds Trinity, Manchester, Nottingham Trent, Oxford,
 Oxford Brookes, Queen’s Belfast, Teesside and York; e.g. beyond the UK: University of
 Potsdam; University of Mannheim; Middle East Technical University, Ankara; University of
 Valencia; European University Institute, Florence; University of Paris–Sorbonne; Australian
 National University; University of Western Australia; Quaid-i-Azam University (Islamabad);
 Government College University (Lahore); BZ University (Multan). As far as evaluating
 academic promotions is concerned, staff provide expert reports for universities both in the UK
 and around the world e.g. (international examples provided here) UCLA; UC Davis; University of
 Texas Austin; Dartmouth College; Rice University; University of North Carolina; Emory
 University; University of Delaware; New York University; Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences
 Sociales (Paris); Hebrew University of Jerusalem; Punjab University (Lahore); and Quaid-i-Azam
 University (Islamabad).




                                                                                            Page 17
