DRAFT 8th February 2021




Institution: Leeds Beckett University
Unit of assessment: 17 Business and Management
1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
  1.1 Overview and context
Leeds Business School’s (LBS) mission is ‘to engage in impactful applied research that
supports business performance, leadership and responsibility’. LBS is a large School
of 130 academic staff (112.3 FTE) operating within Leeds Beckett University (LBU). The
Unit’s mission towards impactful and applied research matches the University’s strategic
plan and is reflected in the organisation of research around a coordinating Institute (the
Sustainable Business Research Institute (SuBRI)) with subject themes (each with a subject
leader) and research centres (see Figure 1).These areas represent both LBS’s teaching and
research focus:


Figure 1. Unit 17 research environment for Business and Management within LBS




Although staff research agendas map roughly onto the six research, teaching and
governance areas, colleagues also work across and between them, as well as contributing
to interdisciplinary research projects across LBU. As one of the core mechanisms to deliver
our REF aims we established SuBRI in 2018 as the umbrella research unit within LBS.



                                                                                              1
DRAFT 8th February 2021




LBS has maintained research excellence, returning high-quality outputs for RAE2008 and
REF2014. LBS is committed to producing research that contributes innovatively to
knowledge and professional practice across disciplines: this commitment is underpinned by
a range of methodological and theoretical expertise, as well as by ongoing engagement with
local and UK government, EU funders and institutions, small businesses and large
multinationals, the third sector, and international organisations. LBU is a recognised
‘anchor institution’ (impact case study) within the Leeds City Region and the wider
Northern economy, and LBS is a vital hub of knowledge and support for local business and
policy.


As signified in SuBRI’s name, the underpinning mission of research across LBS is business
sustainability. This is reflected in the key areas of strength represented in the themes
emerging from three case studies submitted to REF:
     •    work providing small medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) with support and tools to
          thrive sustainably;
     •    originating work and research about ‘anchor’ institutions and the local economy;
     •    work on strategic communication and the principles of excellence in
          communications management.


LBS’s inclusive research strategy has borne fruit over the last REF period and our REF2021
return will double that of 2014 in terms of FTE staff returned. We tripled the completion
rates of our doctoral students, recruited more staff on doctoral programmes and increased
our bid funding activities and related impact.


  1.2 Research strategy
The School’s research strategy is set by the LBS Senior Leadership Team (SLT: Dean,
Director of Research, Research Manager, Heads of Subject, Academic Services Manager)
with input from the SuBRI Steering Group (SG). The SG is chaired by the LBS Director of
Research (Tench) and comprises six Research Leads, all LBS professors, and two external
critical friends (one from a different School and one a Visiting Professor with extensive
business practice experience). The principal goal of SLT is to promote and support a
community of researching academics with a focus on developing and supporting staff in an
engaging research environment.


The LBS Director of Research sits on the University Research and Enterprise Committee,



                                                                                             2
DRAFT 8th February 2021




and Research Degrees Sub-Committee as well as the Directors’ Forum. This forum is where
all LBU Directors of Research meet to support and steer the strategic formulation and
delivery of the University’s research strategy.


Following REF2014, LBS evaluated and benchmarked its performance to identify areas for
improvement encapsulated in its three strategic aims:


Aim 1: We have increased the number of academics engaged in independent
research. Following the internal REF2014 review, LBU created the post of Director of
Research (DoR), currently held by Tench, and embarked on a concerted effort to build
breadth and depth in research and integrate primary research activity more fully across and
throughout the School. This included overhauling the system for allocating research profile
hours, consolidating research activity under the SuBRI banner, and introducing the Small
Bids funding scheme to accelerate and support staff research activities (see Section 2). In
RAE2008 we submitted 16.8 FTE staff, which in REF2014 improved to 17.4 FTE staff.
We aimed to increase this to 25-30 FTE and for REF2021 our return is 38 colleagues (34.3
FTE), representing 30% of LBS academics, almost doubling our 2014 submission. This is
an exceptional transformation that reflects LBS’s commitment to developing our staff
research profile and growing reputation as a respected venue for business and
management research in the North.


LBS has developed and consolidated an effective administrative support structure for
research under SuBRI, to position the Research and Enterprise Support Team as a ‘one-
stop-shop’ for academics in need of research support at all levels. This structure mirrors the
facilities and services being provided by LBU centrally through its Research and Enterprise
offices. As a measure of meeting this aim since the last REF return, LBS targeted an
average of 4 outputs per FTE for REF2021 (137). This target has been surpassed with
demonstrable improvement in the number and quality of publications resulting in over 350
externally reviewed eligible outputs for REF2021 compared with just over 70 in
REF2014. As investments in staff development and research support yield results, we are
well positioned to keep improving the number of staff publishing as well as the quality,
quantity and range of those publications beyond this REF cycle.


Since 2015 LBS has developed small working groups for research, aimed at creating and
encouraging a research culture at the subject group micro-level. Each group includes up to
four experienced members of staff with an established publication profile and research




                                                                                                 3
DRAFT 8th February 2021




skills. Members meet regularly to discuss current events, publications and ideas. Members
can also develop early research ideas through subject-level seminar series. LBS has also
focused on building and expanding research networks and integrating into existing networks
beyond the university. This is evidenced in Section 4 with long-standing international
collaborations.


LBS is committed to open access and requires that all research outputs, not just those
hoping to be submitted to REF, are logged in the institution’s research management system,
and, where copyright allows, the author accepted manuscript is deposited in the Leeds
Beckett Symplectic Repository. LBS as a School prefers the Green OA model and has
adopted a policy of not funding journal publication fees.


Aim 2: we continue to deliver on our overall mission by building a vibrant research
community and by improving research student management and performance (Aim 2).
LBS has had a policy of recruiting capable postgraduate research students with insightful
ideas and enabling them to produce high-quality, practice-relevant research. LBS has
maintained a strong doctoral cohort since 2014 (53 HESA qualifying doctoral
completions in the period, up from 17 in REF2014) and throughout this REF period, with a
well-represented Doctorate in Business Administration (the DBA, which was re-designed
and launched in 2019) alongside our PhD programme, with a focus on recruiting students
with professional and academic experience. Four LBS students who completed within this
REF period went on to take FTE posts as academic staff within the School (e.g. Robertson),
while others have gone on to other institutions (e.g. Mariutti, Amo-Mensah, Bin Saedan) or
senior leadership and board director positions in PLCs, and international firms (e.g.
McCulley, Obi, Lokpobiri ) in the private and public sectors, including in Bangladesh, Brazil,
Canada, Germany, Ghana, Greece and Mauritius.


To support LBS’s research strategy a new role of Post Graduate Research Student
Programme Director (held by Shubita) was introduced in April 2019 to oversee all
development and quality processes for postgraduate research students and to act as a
conduit and liaison with LBU’s central Graduate School structure.


Building on academic collaborative networks and research projects, the School has had an
internationalisation policy of actively attracting and supporting visiting scholars and
doctoral students to facilitate network-building and collaborative research. Since the
inception of SuBRI, LBS has made it easier for international academic colleagues to visit




                                                                                                 4
DRAFT 8th February 2021




LBU for up to a year as Visiting Scholars. LBS hosted six visiting academics in 2019 alone,
from Argentina, China and Malaysia. The Visiting Scholar programme has enabled our
Accounting and Finance area to collaborate with scholars from Ningbo and Hubei
universities on the Chinese financial context, with the first of several papers resulting from
these collaborations currently in review.


Aim 3: To help advance our mission ‘to engage in applied research that supports future
sustainable business performance, leadership and responsibility’ we have strengthened
the research environment through increased internal and external research funding
(Aim 3). LBS has a long history of engaging in applied research which is designed or
commissioned to create business and social impact. Our strategy is, therefore, to continue
investing in and looking for support (QR and internal Small Bids Fund) to fund research that
makes an impact on the professions serviced by the School’s teaching framework as well as
the research themes within SuBRI. The ongoing impact strategy for the Unit is two-fold:
    1.    To continue building the long-standing impact areas for LBS concerning SME
    innovation and productivity, communication and social change, and responsible
    governance and leadership in business;
    2.    To support new and emerging research to develop future societal impact based on
    other areas of long-standing engagement with business stakeholders including
    sustainability initiatives for the British retail industry, women and leadership, service
    delivery in local government, and integrated reporting.


We produce impactful academic research that adds value not only to LBS but also to the
people and organisations we partner with and to society as a whole (see Section 4). This is
reflected, for instance, in the work with SMEs undertaken across the region through
programmes such as Ad:Venture (ad-venture.org.uk/partners/) and the Independent Food
and Drink Academy (www.leedsbeckett.ac.uk/ifda/). LBS holds the Small Business
Charter award for its contribution to the small business sector - re-awarded in 2019 with
reference by the review panel to LBS’s foundational work on Anchor Institution research
(Joseph Rowntree Foundation, Gold and Devins and impact case).


Linked with LBS’s mission and aims, we develop research that supports future sustainable
business performance, leadership and responsibility that contributes to knowledge and
practice nationally and internationally. Examples include work with local authorities
(Barnett) and in the Leeds City Region (Devins and Gold Anchors impact case) but also
work with global practitioner organisations and networks as done through the annual




                                                                                                 5
DRAFT 8th February 2021




European Communication Monitor, now in its 15th year (Tench impact case and book,
Tench, 2017). Further meeting the sub-objectives outlined above (impact on the Northern
economy and its key stakeholders), the Unit develops research that has impact and
meaningful benefit for the Northern economy, such as the work undertaken on succession
planning and transfer of knowledge within family businesses (Devins).


To further deliver on Aim 3 on external research since REF 2014, we have introduced
several initiatives:
1. Structured all research developments through the DoR and SuBRI;
2. Supporting this process, we appointed a Research Bids Manager (Douglas) to develop
plans to build critical mass in research, by coordinating and streamlining funding
applications and contract research around the six key themes, and by increasing the
amount of support offered to research staff, including recruiting additional professors to
strengthen research leadership. Over this REF period, LBS has worked to put this plan into
action (see Section 3, bid submission increase value);
3. Offer research time on work allocation models (WAM) to support staff in developing
and delivering impactful research projects;
4. Allocated resource through the Leadership Team for the School’s Research Manager
(Wymer) to be the impact champion and manager for LBS;
5. Invested additional School resource in an impact research assistant;
6. All research bids are critically peer-reviewed before submission by the bids manager and
a bids review panel;
7. Our Professor of Enterprise (Devins) supports the Unit’s external relations with regional
anchor businesses and chairs the small business group to facilitate business research and
collaboration.


Through LBS’s new bid management structure, we have increased the submission of
research bids to external funding bodies and organisations nationally and internationally
(120 unique external bids); increased the value of bids to a total of £9.69m in the period;
as well as improved the diversity of bid targets (British Academy, UKRI etc).


Lastly, building on our current strategy and upward trajectory our ambitions are to continue
to strengthen the research environment through increased internal and external research
funding (over the next 5 years) by aiming to:
     •    develop a broader cohesive research community and culture;




                                                                                               6
DRAFT 8th February 2021




     •    consolidate and build upon the School’s reputation for excellence in income-
          generating applied research within the region (at levels including 10 local authorities
          within the Leeds City Region, Yorkshire, and the areas covered by the Northern
          Powerhouse);
     •    develop projects aligned with the national Industrial Strategy, particularly in working
          with LBU Enterprise Services to build mutually productive links with business,
          expanding our contribution to practice and to academic enterprise (evidenced
          through 4 new KTP awards since REF2014);
     •    continue to work on European and international research funding initiatives that fit
          with the Institute’s themes and strategy such as the recently won (December 2020)
          £1.5m project with the European Union’s European Social Fund for the Women
          Empowered through Coaching And Networking (#WECAN) project (Topic);
     •    identify and explore new and significant problems, questions and issues within
          business, management and government policy, and contribute to up-to-the-minute
          academic responses to topical issues such as Brexit (Morgan, Nasir), sugar tax
          (Bridge and Tench), integrated reporting (Robertson), COVID19 crisis (Tench
          and Bridge) and electrification of transport (Morgan);
     •    contribute to new pedagogies, methods, and discourses for practitioners and
          business academics (Devins, Green Business School), and build on existing
          workplace/practice-focused programmes – such as those offered by The Leadership
          Centre, the Degree Apprenticeship schemes at BA and MA level, and the DBA – and
          the new ways of thinking and research directions emerging from them;
     •    build our research findings back into our teaching and professional work, to ensure
          that all our provision is founded on well-grounded, up-to-date thinking and to
          enhance student and client engagement (Diers-Lawson; Dean).
2. People


  2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
LBS has been committed to increase the number of academics engaged in research
(Aim 1) by focusing our research staffing strategy on staff development. The objective has
been to develop their research profile and to support early career researchers (ECRs) to
transition to full independence (Research England REF guidance and LBU Code of Practice
which equates to staff receiving 20% of time responsibility for research, as part of their
WAM). The School now has 53.8% of academic colleagues (doubled from REF2014)
engaged with research as research-independent staff (38), developing researchers (9) or
those studying research degrees (23). Of 130 staff in LBS, 30% are being returned in



                                                                                                    7
DRAFT 8th February 2021




REF2020 as independent researchers, an increase of almost 100% from REF2014.


LBS invests approximately £400,000 a year in staff time annually (7 FTE). This involves an
annual research hours allocation process where colleagues apply for extra protected
research time (additional to 10% (150 hours) allocated to all staff for research and scholarly
activity) based on their recent and projected output. Research-independent colleagues
receive 20% of their work profile (280 hours or one full day a week equivalent), while
colleagues not yet conducting fully independent work receive 10% (150 hours) to support
their research development. Last year LBS’s investment equated to more than 11,000
hours via this process, equivalent to approximately 7 FT staff – a significant investment in
future research strength. For lecturers, delivery profiles are managed so that classes are
stacked up, freeing up full days for research.


To strengthen the academic environment all staff are supported to incorporate their
research and that of colleagues into their teaching. The annual Staff Conference was
expanded in 2018 to a Research and Teaching Conference to explore the benefits that
one can provide the other. This conference has run for over 15 years (a separate Doctoral
Student Symposium was split off from it in 2013) and incorporates staff presentations on
current work, workshop and plenary sessions on topics such as presentation advice,
academic writing and career development, as well as a keynote speaker. The conference
attracts over 60 internal participants, with representation from newer colleagues and
doctoral students. Informal feedback has consistently been positive and suggests that
researchers benefit from presenting their work in this supportive environment and engaging
with their peers.


LBS has expanded the staff development funding available for colleagues interested in
undertaking doctoral degrees, covering all doctoral fees for staff and currently has 23 FT
colleagues studying for research degrees, representing 18.5% of LBS staff. Over this REF
several colleagues have completed research degrees and been promoted outside the
University and eight colleagues have completed their doctorate and are still at LBS (Beech,
O. Jones, Rasha, Richardson, Robertson, Sajjadi, Topić, Trem); most have outputs eligible
for this REF cycle, meeting our aim to increase the number of staff engaged in
independent research (Aim 1). Colleagues studying for a PhD, DBA or Research Masters
receive 10% additional hours per year on top of the standard allocation for research and
scholarly activity (a total of 20% of the WAM).




                                                                                                 8
DRAFT 8th February 2021




In 2018 LBS launched the Small Bids scheme, a competitive collaborative research pot
funded out of LBS’ share of LBU Quality Research (QR) funding to support and develop
early career staff and collaborative projects. Awards range between £2000-£10,000
each. Researchers can apply for funding to support a pilot collaborative project to be
completed within 12 months, acting as a springboard for further bids and work. Each project
must include LBS team members from more than one subject area (external collaboration is
highly encouraged but not compulsory) and collect primary data. In total, 4 projects were
funded in 2018, 7 in 2019 and 10 for 2020. One of the 2018 projects, led by Miguel,
became the basis for the European Commission-funded COLECO project examining the
impact of Airbnb and other accommodation companies in the ‘collaborative economy’, a
project worth approximately £90,000 over two years.


Research mapping
As part of the staffing strategy and to address our aim to ‘strengthen the research
environment through increased internal and external research funding’, the DoR
conducted an audit of all academics’ research knowledge and skills (survey September
2018). From this, he commissioned two network mapping specialists within the School (O.
Jones and Cardoso Castro) to collect data on recent, in-progress and upcoming research
projects and publications within LBS and to map the relations between them. The process
revealed several previously unrecognised clusters of common interest between colleagues
in disparate areas and has helped individual subject areas identify directions for new work
(e.g. productivity, women in business and leadership, leading to bid success). This
mechanism is being used to inform current and future bids for funds by bringing together
academics from different disciplines to work on themes.


Additionally, each subject group now has a Research Lead whose role is to represent their
area in School-level research discussions and to connect colleagues in their area to people,
support or resources that can help develop their work. This includes facilitating research
development activity (for instance, writing groups) in their area and providing a systematic
mentoring scheme for ECRs.


  2.2 Staff engagement in subject areas
All research-active staff are associated with a research centre or research theme. This
facilitates co-operation and collaboration in several formal and informal ways as
demonstrated below in terms or research forums and research roles.




                                                                                               9
DRAFT 8th February 2021




Research forums
To further the School’s and University’s goal of increasing the percentage of staff engaged
in research, the six subject groups within the School actively support staff research
development. For example, all subject groups are supported by LBS to resource training
and development courses and fund attendance at academic conferences. Examples of
activities include:
     •    Improving the formal organisation of in-house events intended to support staff to
          conceive and develop individual and collaborative research. P. Jones convenes a
          monthly research forum (Economics, Analytics and International Business group),
          which includes presentation of new work by a member of staff, a current PhD
          student or an invited speaker and a period for discussing possible directions for
          future work.
     •    Senior researcher mentors for staff who are completing their PhD (Business
          Strategy, Operations and Enterprise).
     •    The Public Relations and Journalism (PRJ) subject group holds a monthly research
          seminar series for internal colleagues and external guest speakers to share research
          and develop ideas for future research collaboration. Visiting Prof McKevitt has
          engaged in lecturing, guest speaking and research project development in addition
          to his work with cross-School groups.


Across all groups a system of mentoring has also been introduced, with senior researchers
supporting mid-career and ECR colleagues, forming research partnerships (e.g. for the
Small Bids internal funding) and sharing writing opportunities.


Research roles
LBS currently has nine Professors (Douglas; Devins; Gold [0.2]; Lodorfos; Morgan;
Reynolds [0.6]; Robinson [0.6]; Rhodes; Tench; total 7.4 FTE) and two Readers (Sun; Wu; 2
FTE). As a means to ‘improve the research environment’ through internal investment, four
professors and one reader received their titles following a 2017 internal promotion round.
All LBS professors have an international profile; publish at a high level, are all being
returned for REF2021, and are pivotal in connecting research-active staff to broader
networks and opportunities. As an example, Tench - as President of the European Public
Relations Research and Education Association (EUPRERA; 2017-2020 term) – has
introduced Topić to the association and its research networks. Topić has then successfully
collaborated with academics from the association across Europe to develop an international
network and project on Women in Public Relations research resulting in four journal



                                                                                              10
DRAFT 8th February 2021




papers and one book as well as guest editorships on the theme.


Over the REF period, LBS has seen four additional Professors (Brown, Nath, Shutt and
Turner) and two Readers (Kostopoulos, Yeomans) leave the School. All have nonetheless
contributed to, and improved, the research environment and overall outputs of LBS through
collaboration and mentorship. The School has recruited 40 new lecturers (including 15
lecturers promoted from fixed-term contracts in line with the University’s commitment to the
Researcher Development Concordat), many of whom are being supported as ECRs or with
doctoral study support. Each year LBS supports and mentors colleagues to go forward to
the University’s promotion round for readers and professors. LBS also maintains links with
distinguished associates, alumni and emeritus staff (e.g. Professors Judge and
Robinson) who constitute a more extensive network of potential mentors and collaborators.
LBS has an active and growing visiting professor network with current visiting professors
including Visiting Professors Dean Fathers, Leo-Paul Dana, Olga Matthias, George
Pierrakos, David Welbourn, Christophe Stueckelberger, and Steve McKevitt.


  2.3 Research students
LBS has overseen 126 doctoral completions in this REF period, of which 53 are HESA
returnable, almost tripling our REF 2014 return. LBS supports 87 research students,
studying across all 6 subject areas. All students are supported by a Director of Studies
(DoS) and second supervisor expert in the student’s field, who have attended appropriate
training on LBU codes of practice and research regulations provided centrally by the
Graduate School. The DoS is an experienced supervisor with previous successful
completions. The supervisory team may include additional advisors for students whose
chosen topic area crosses multiple disciplines or involves specialist techniques.


In this REF period, LBS has been successful in attracting bursaries and funded PhD
students with funding from overseas research councils and educational funds (including
Brazil, Ghana, Libya etc.) as well as a 100% increase in the number of students through
external - or match-funded - HEIF and NHS schemes. LBS has active doctoral students in
all six subject areas as well as students conducting interdisciplinary work with other areas of
LBU. For example, Tench currently supervises two bursary-funded students in partnership
with the School of Sport, while Claxton supervises two students in Education. Several
colleagues (e.g. Douglas), have continued to act as advisors for students they supervised
at previous workplaces in the interests of maintaining continuity for the student.




                                                                                               11
DRAFT 8th February 2021




Over this REF period, LBS has been able to internally fund fees and salary for two
Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTAs), one of whom, Topić, has completed her studies
and joined LBS full-time (and has now been promoted to Senior Lecturer). Rasha, Pugh,
Trem and Carbery are among other students who did not begin as staff members but have
joined LBS in FTE posts during or after their doctoral degree. Many other PGR students
take on part-time lecturing, enabling them to become familiar with the broader work of LBS
and to gain experience towards future academic work.


Research student facilities and support
Research students have dedicated desk space within the School and are supported with
laptops and annual research accounts to support conference, workshop and personal
development costs. All students are expected to keep written records of actions from each
supervision meeting. They undertake a Confirmation of Registration (CoR) after their initial
period of study (four months FT/six months PT), presenting their developed proposal to an
independent academic panel to demonstrate that they are ready to commit to the full
programme. Continuing students undertake Annual Progression (AP) once a year.
Supervisors are required to submit progress reports ahead of these events. A small majority
(55%) of LBS PGRs are part-time studying alongside FT work, and a minority are based
overseas and study remotely. To ensure that LBU processes are accessible to students
abroad or with limited time, supervisory meetings, CoRs and APs are routinely conducted
via videoconferencing and all paperwork may be submitted electronically.


The Graduate School provides administrative support to students and their supervisory
teams. A suite of training workshops is run throughout the academic year that are
designed to give students and staff training in a wide variety of expertise relating to research
as well providing information regarding university regulations relating to research activity.
These online bookable workshops cover research methods, writing and supervisory skills.
Online supervisory training for staff is provided through Vitae Research Development
Framework and is run in combination with framework-aligned LBU bespoke workshops
delivered by experienced academic supervisors. Supervisory workshops are tailored for new
or relatively experienced supervisors. Additionally, students and supervisory teams are
supported with regulatory aspects through interactions with two sub-committees of LBUs
Research & Enterprise (R&E) Committee; i) The University Research Degree Sub-
Committee (RDSC) deals with and oversees any requests for changes to a candidate's
current status, while ii) The University Research Ethics Sub-Committee (RESC) deals with
ethics and aspects of research integrity. Both of these Sub-Committees are Chaired by




                                                                                                12
DRAFT 8th February 2021




Directors of Research, who are also ex-officio members of the R&E Committee.


Students can access pan-University research training and can attend specialised business
and management workshops, seminars and retreats via the School’s membership of NARTI
(the Northern Advanced Research Training Initiative) of which Rhodes is a Board member.
LBS holds an annual Doctoral Student Symposium, the counterpart of the Staff
Conference, where current doctoral students present their work-in-progress to an audience
of peers and academic colleagues, enabling them to build their presentation skills, receive
feedback in a supportive setting and helping them prepare for external conferences.


Non-staff students studying on-campus (54% of the total LBS PGR body) are allocated a
yearly discretionary allowance that can go towards conference attendance or other research
costs, and can apply to the DoR for additional funding in special circumstances. Over this
REF period, LBS has disbursed £14,500 in this discretionary support funding, including
sponsoring students to attend 29 external conferences. Two have been fully funded to
attend a week-long doctoral symposium aligned to an international conference (Oslo and
Aarhus). On-campus students have access to a private hot-desking space to enable them to
work in a quieter environment than the main library.


  2.4 Equality and diversity
LBU has strong institution-wide Equality and Diversity policies is a member of the Race
Equality Charter, holds an Athena SWAN Bronze award and was a Stonewall Top 100
employer for 2015, 2016 and 2017 with 2020 accreditation being applied for. At a local level
LBS has an Equality and Diversity working group. Analysis against the University’s criteria
shows that more BAME colleagues in LBS meet the measures of research independence
(39.5%) than non-independence (23.9%). The School provides performance and
development reviews (PDR) for all academics on an annual basis. At this review,
colleagues can discuss with their line manager development opportunities from within the
University as well as support for external research support such as training programmes,
conference attendance etc.


In 2018 LBS supported a University strategy, in line with the Researcher Development
Concordat, to convert part-time hourly paid staff to substantive posts. In LBS this
accounted for 25 new academic colleagues joining the school on substantive contracts
which were more than 50% of the whole University commitment. These colleagues are now
working within the School and supported with research and scholarly development




                                                                                              13
DRAFT 8th February 2021




time.


To further enhance the School’s equality and diversity three working groups are currently
looking at the areas of diversity, impact and staff promotion and development. Each of
these working groups is led by a member of the School’s academic community and report to
the SuBRI research Institute Board four times a year.


LBS is committed to supporting an ethical and sustainable working environment that
enables all colleagues, especially those in underrepresented groups, to reach their full
potential. 10 of 38 (26%) of the colleagues currently expected to return to REF2021 are
women and 10 (26%) BME, an improvement on REF2014.


3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


LBS has continued to pursue its mission by strengthening the research environment through
increased internal and external research funding (Aim 3). During this REF cycle, using
HESA-guided returns the School has generated approximately £1.2m in research income
and submitted bids worth approximately £9.69m to a wider range of funders at local,
national and international level.


  3.1 Research income leading to impact
LBS has a history and reputation for delivering high impact applied research across the
business and management field. Over the last 20 years, LBS has generated substantial
income through applied research and enterprise engagement as well as regular
contributions to international public and privately funded work and a more recent chain of
related projects undertaken for competitive EU funds. Our case studies showcase some of
the impacts this has had.


Research income from successful projects in this REF period totals approximately £1.2m.
This figure does not reflect income classed as Knowledge Transfer or Enterprise rather
than research. Given LBS’s focus, there is considerable overlap between our research and
enterprise activities.


Since REF2014 LBS has diversified its income streams, seeking more funding from the
industrial sector and increasing the proportion of bids seeking to contribute to business
practice rather than academic knowledge. LBS won funding in this REF period from Leeds,



                                                                                             14
DRAFT 8th February 2021




Sheffield, Wakefield, Calderdale, North Ayrshire and Westminster Councils; the
Department for Work and Pensions; two Research Councils (ESRC and NERC); and
various directorates of the European Commission, but also did substantial work for ASDA,
Mattel, Nestle, Heinz and Mars as well as with smaller local businesses such as that
through our Knowledge Transfer Partnerships with Bradford-based Label Makers (led by O.
Jones.) and D Benson Controls (O. Jones and C. Ashworth).


This strategic reorientation has seen LBS continue to pull in at least £100,000 a year in
income designated as ‘from research’. The LBS strategy has been to focus on areas of
knowledge base and strength aligned with the School’s management scholarship. Since
2014, this has translated into a focus on EU funding with significant success. With LBS
as a research lead or partner, we have won six major EU projects out of 12 bid for (50%),
many of which have fed into 2021 impact case studies and have helped meet the strategic
aims for the unit:
     •    Work-Based Learning as an Integrated Curriculum (WBLIC, Devins) – a two-
          year Erasmus funded project which explored the significance of joint university-
          employer development and delivery of curriculum across seven European countries.
          LBS was the lead partner in the project which was worth €280,000. This project was
          begun in the previous REF cycle and is noted in our 2014 return.
     •    The European Communication Professionals Skills and Innovation Programme
          (ECOPSI, Tench) – a two-year Erasmus funded project which explored the
          competencies required by communication professionals in Europe. LBS was the lead
          partner in the project which was worth €300,000. This project was begun in the
          previous REF cycle and is noted in our 2014 return. This project feeds into the
          communication impact case study.
     •    Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises and Deliberative Engagement (SME-DE,
          Tench) – a two-year project funded under the Lifelong Learning Programme. LBS
          was the lead partner working with five businesses, delivering the project in seven
          European countries. The total grant was worth €500,000.
     •    Intergenerational Succession in SMEs’ transition (INSIST, B. Jones) – a two-
          year Erasmus-Strategic Partnership funded project to support the sustainability and
          growth of family based-SMEs. The grant for LBS was worth €50,928 and has
          contributed to an impact case.
     •    Family Business Sustainability and Growth (FAME B. Jones) - LBS is working
          with Budapest Business School and other partners on this project which is a follow




                                                                                                15
DRAFT 8th February 2021




          on from the successful INSIST (Intergenerational Succession in SME’s Transition).
          The grant for LBS is worth €61,219.
     •    Innovative Solutions for Sustainability in Education (ISSUE, Devins) – a
          transnational project that plans to support the development of governance, faculty,
          staff and students in Higher Education and to promote greater understanding of
          sustainability and the capacity to act and promote sustainable practices. The grant
          for LBS is worth €58,348.
     •    Business Mentor Training and Certification (MentorCert, B. Jones) – a
          transnational project that seeks to improve the quality of business mentors for small
          businesses. The grant for LBS is worth €51,250.
     •    Integrated Reporting for SMEs’ Transparency (INTEREST, Robertson) – a
          transnational project seeking to develop a robust, research-based guide, and
          supporting materials, for SMEs interested in implementing integrated reporting, with
          a focus on adapting techniques already proven in large organisations for the needs
          of SMEs. The grant for LBS is worth €50,569.


LBS academics are also regularly commissioned for smaller pieces of research by local
organisations, or in fields where the School’s expertise is internationally recognised. For
example:
     •    Devins and colleagues evaluated the success of Wakefield Council’s unique
          ‘Mortgage Breathing Space’ scheme and make recommendations to improve and
          develop it - a project worth £14,700.
     •    Tench, Diers-Lawson and Topić were commissioned by the European Public
          Employment Service (PES) Network (2017) to review the communications and
          branding strategies of member-state PESes and to develop a communications toolkit
          to make consistent good practice easier for Network members, in a project worth
          £16,000. Tench has been asked again in 2020 to support the Commission and the
          Employment Services Network on a follow up 1-year project (additional £10,000).
     •    Douglas and colleagues were commissioned by UKTI (now Dept. for International
          Trade) to, ‘Understand the Business Needs of Medium-Sized Businesses in the
          West Yorkshire Region’. This applied research collected and analysed data and
          reported on the level of internationalisation regional MSBs were currently, or have
          been, engaged in. It aimed to better understand MSBs notions of export intentions,
          capabilities and, barriers and fears associated with engaging in trading outside the
          domestic market. £11,500.




                                                                                                  16
DRAFT 8th February 2021




     •    Barnett has acted as a consultant for two pieces of work worth ~£7,000 each for the
          Association of Public Service Excellence, examining the changing role of Chief
          Officers in local councils and the impact of austerity on the job of councillor.


LBS continues to conduct research in and about the region. For example, Gold and Devins
led a Joseph Rowntree Foundation-funded project which used Action Research to
examine the local impact of anchor institutions in the Leeds City Region. The project
aimed to understand the role and levers that may be pulled to optimise the contribution of
these institutions to the alleviation of local poverty in the Region. The project was worth
£63,000.


The income generated from these projects helps support our investment in research across
LBS. Alongside publications in returnable categories, this type of commissioned research
has produced more than 30 reports for clients and major funding bodies throughout this
REF period.


  3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
The University has provided substantial investment in the Unit’s infrastructure to support
high-quality research, education, enterprise and knowledge exchange activities. LBS is
located in the Rose Bowl building on the LBU City campus, which is a state of the art
teaching and conference facility in the heart of Leeds. Significant investment has been
made since 2014 in the Professional Practice Suite (more than £700,000 over five years),
which comprises the Immersive Learning System and the Thomson Reuters model trading
floor. The Immersive Learning System is a unique, high-fidelity learning environment that
enables the monitoring of real-time leadership and decision-making in simulated scenarios
of critical incident response, and has been used by all subject areas to explore crisis
response and other ethical issues as well as data collection feeding into research projects
and outputs (Diers-Lawson). Both the Immersive Learning System and Thomson Reuters
have been integrated into research and teaching. Inter alia the School has also invested in
research tool software, such as UCINET for social network analysis.


  3.3 Libraries and learning innovation (LLI)
Library and Learning Innovation (LLI) plays a key role in the staff and student experience at
the University, providing 24/7 access to physical and online resources supporting the
research, teaching and learning needs of our community. Academic librarians ensure
collections meet the research needs and staff and research students are able to use them.




                                                                                              17
DRAFT 8th February 2021




LLI offers 24/7 access to research collections both physically (over 380K books) and online
(150K journal titles).


Academics are supported by experienced research support staff in LLI. Through the two
complementary systems, Symplectic and EPrints, research is managed and outputs made
available as Open Access complying with publisher, REF and funder requirements.
Information from Symplectic also feeds through to the public academic staff profile pages.


The Rose Bowl is across the road from the Sheila Silver Library, which hosts LBU’s
business and management holdings as well as key collections covering more general
theoretical and methodological texts across the social sciences. LBU and LBS maintain
subscriptions to leading subject-specific databases, and LBU is a Eurostat trusted
institution, enabling LBS academics (most recently Douglas) to conduct research using
EU-collected microdata, one of the most detailed sources of business data currently
available. Another key investment focus is the development of the European Governance
Review tool within the CGLGR, which has the potential to form the basis of a REF impact
case study for the next REF cycle.


An important element of the research infrastructure is the School Research and Enterprise
Support Team which supports all research and enterprise activities, from identifying funding
opportunities, supporting bids and project delivery, to organising conferences and seminars,
supporting doctoral students and liaising with visiting scholars (see staff development
Section 2).


4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


Our mission to ‘engage in applied research that supports future sustainability and business
performance’ drives the School’s research focus and enables us to make explicit
contributions to communities of management practitioners (for example accountancy,
human resource management), and to the economy and society. This is delivered by LBS’s
strategic plan and aims to promote research activity focusing on the future and sustainability
of business and related organisations within the changing social and economic landscape.
We aim to ensure our research has an impact on the Northern economy and its key
stakeholders.


  4.1 Facilitating and nurturing collaboration



                                                                                              18
DRAFT 8th February 2021




To support the REF Unit, devolved QR monies have been specifically targeted to support
the strategy of internal development of capability and competence within the community of
academics. The monies have been specifically allocated to the Small Bids projects,
investment in equipment and in supporting bursary PhD positions. This links with LBS’s
focus on internal staff development, rather than recruitment. Also, LBS’s strong links with
local government and business are aspects of the School’s role as a venue for collaborative
work involving our academics, and as a facilitator of collaboration between the School,
business and its research stakeholders. Much of LBS’s project work focuses on bringing
together people and organisations who can benefit from each other’s expertise nationally
and internationally. This is sometimes done directly, as in the ongoing MentorCert project
led by Devins. At other times it is fostered indirectly, such as the action research delivered
by Gold and Devins with 12 anchor institutions in the Leeds City Region. This was
funded by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation and a cross-organisational Productivity
Action Group emerged that enabled the sharing of good practice and also the building of
professional networks. Internationally collaborations have developed in COVID-19 themes:
including expert advisory roles COVID-Obsevatory (Tench) and Com-Covid project
https://www.ipra.org/news/itle/itl-404-trust-and-messaging-about-covid-19-experiences-in-
uk-italy-and-spain/).


The research mapping exercise and the Small Bids scheme discussed in Section 2 aim to
foster collaborative and cross-disciplinary work. The mapping identifies new
opportunities for collaboration between colleagues in different disciplinary areas, and the
Small Bids provide concrete funding for collaborative projects as proof of concept. All bids
submitted to the Small Bids scheme must be collaborative – no solo projects are funded –
and involving colleagues from other institutions and fields of specialism are highly
encouraged. Current projects involve external academics from Beijing Institute of
Technology and Ningbo University (China) and Institut Paul Bocuse (France), while
recently completed ones have seen collaboration with the universities of Castilla-La
Mancha (Spain), North Dakota (USA) and West Attica (Greece).


  4.2 Publication and the wider research environment
Current LBS staff have published 350 qualifying journal articles, 40 books (including
edited and co-authored), 8 eligible research reports during this REF period, across all six
subject areas and with all disciplines within LBS represented. A substantial majority of LBS
work is collaborative, working with internal research colleagues or teams, or external to the
University (e.g. Tench’s 15-year longitudinal European Communication Monitor annual




                                                                                                 19
DRAFT 8th February 2021




study of 50 European countries working with colleagues from Germany, Netherlands,
Slovenia and Spain) at all levels or Diers-Lawson’s work with colleagues from 20
countries exploring integrated threat and blame attribution for Covid-19 that has already
received coverage in major US and New Zealand news outlets. Some of the School’s most
internationally significant work, such as that of Tench on communications competence
(ECOPSI European funded project), is conducted in collaboration with colleagues from
top-ranked international institutions (such as universities of Amsterdam, Leipzig, Ljubljana);
other colleagues maintain longstanding collaborative relationships not tied to a single
project, e.g. Morgan’s work with Heikki Patomäki (Helsinki), including high-profile
publications and joint editorship of a recent special issue for Globalizations.


Moreover, collaboration and co-production is also core to LBS’s strategy for developing
doctoral students and ECRs as published writers. Senior colleagues including Tench (30
journal papers in REF period), Gold (19 papers), Morgan (38 papers) and Lodorfos (15
papers) routinely support their doctoral students by bringing their work to publication or the
next level and supporting their development (e.g. British Academy grant success for ECR
Topić via Tench); and several ECRs are represented in this return by collaborations with
their supervisors (e.g. Robertson, O. Jones, Beech.) These mentoring traits are passed on
and an example is Topić (Tench’s PhD student) who has worked with her Masters and
undergraduate students in this REF period to bring outstanding dissertation work into
publication (3 journal papers). This is one example of the School’s commitment to foster an
interest and passion for research amongst students of all levels.


The changes to staffing policy, support and development discussed in Section 2 have also
resulted in improved volume and quality of research amongst ECRs. Among the ECRs
several are publishing at a significant level including Chowdhury, Topić, O. Jones, and
Robertson, all of whom have publications included in this REF return.


Discipline collections
LBS staff have written monographs and key textbooks (marketing, accounting and finance,
human resource management and communication), with work produced in LBS serving as
core texts for curricula in the UK and worldwide (Tench’s Exploring Public Relations and
Communication Management 5th edition 2021 a market leader) and beyond. For example,
Diers-Lawson’s Crisis Communication: Managing Stakeholder Relationships (Routledge)
has already been adopted as a core text at universities in the UK, Germany, the US, and
Portugal. Additionally, Robinson and Sun edit the Governance Leadership and




                                                                                                 20
DRAFT 8th February 2021




Responsibility book series (Palgrave); Sun has been editing the book series Critical Studies
on Corporate Responsibility, Governance and Sustainability (Emerald), Tench, Sun and
Jones edited two books on CSR communication and European CSR (Emerald); while 2018
saw the publication of the 37th annually-revised edition of Taxation Incorporating the Finance
Act, a key accountancy textbook by Combs (with assorted co-authors over the years.)
Topić’s work has been incorporated into curricula in Croatia, while Yeomans’ recent
monograph has formed the basis of a research resource for MA courses at Quadriga
University in Berlin.


Editorships
Colleagues from across all six subject areas sit on 30+ journal editorial boards ranging
from small and highly specialist journals up to major names such as the Cambridge
Journal of Economics (Morgan). Journals currently edited by members of LBS include
International Journal of Religious Tourism and Pilgrimage (Raj); Journal of International
Crisis and Risk Communication Research (Diers-Lawson); Frontiers in Communication
(Diers-Lawson); Real-World Economics Review (Morgan, associate editor); Femspec
Journal (Topić); Culture, Media & Film (Topić); Journal of Global Responsibility (Sun and
Arrigoni), Humanities & Social Sciences Communications (Sun, associate editor);
Corporate Communication (Topić). Colleagues also regularly guest-edit and produce
special issues, including notably a special issue of Globalizations on Brexit (Morgan) the
thematic collection ‘Integrity and its counterfeits: implications for the economy, business and
management’ Palgrave (Sun and Robinson), and an ongoing relationship with the Journal
of Global Responsibility (issues guest-edited in period by Lodorfos, Robinson and Wu.).
Nasir has been recent guest editor of Technological Forecasting and Social Change,
Resources Policy and Quarterly Review of Economics and Finance. Lodorfos on ‘resilience
and competitiveness of SMEs’ International Journal of Organizational Analysis. Tench
special issue on COVID-19 communication for the International Journal of Strategic
Communication and a book for Routledge on ‘pandemic communications’


Colleagues sit on grant review panels/committees for organisations including the British
Council, the European Commission and national-level funding bodies in Poland, Estonia
Bulgaria, and Romania.


  4.3 Conferences and dissemination
LBS is committed to supporting staff engagement beyond LBU. Over this REF period, staff
of all levels of seniority have given more than 140 papers/presentations in a wide variety of




                                                                                                21
DRAFT 8th February 2021




forums. Significant conferences attended over this REF period include the: Academy of
Management Conference; British Academy of Management Conference; European
Academy of Management Conference; European Communication Research and Education
Association (ECREA); European Marketing Academy Conference; Chartered Institute for
Personnel and Development Conference (CIPD); European Public Relations and Education
Association (EUPRERA); International Conference on Human Resource Development
Research and Practice (UFHRD); International Communication Association conference
(ICA); International Conference on Social Sciences (ICSS); Media, Communication and
Cultural Studies Association conference (MeCCSA); European Accounting Association
Annual Congress; Political Studies Association Conference; Institute for Small Business and
Entrepreneurship Conference (ISBE); World Communication Association (WCA); as well as
assorted funded seminar venues.
     •    O. Jones’ presentation at the 2016 International Conference on Human Resource
          Development Research and Practice across Europe titled ‘A little less conversation,
          a little more action: Coaching process improvement routines into practice’ won the
          Alan Moon Memorial Prize for best paper - a later published version of which is in
          this return. Other notable examples of conference participation include:
     •    In 2015, Robinson was the keynote speaker at the European Business Ethics
          Network Annual Conference, and spoke on ‘The moral imagination: Peacebuilding
          and business ethics’.
     •    In 2017, LBS hosted the annual conference of the Network of International
          Business Schools, a worldwide association of practice-oriented business schools
          and departments. The conference drew approximately sixty delegates from 13
          countries, and feedback was very positive.
     •    In 2019, Diers-Lawson received a ‘Best Paper’ award at the World Communication
          Association for her paper ‘Whistleblowers: The Loneliest Stakeholder’ which is being
          published as a chapter in a book in 2020.
     •    LBS through Diers-Lawson hosted the 2019 International Crisis Communication
          Conference, held at LBU, with this success leading to an invitation to host the World
          Communication Association conference in 2021.
     •    Nasir was part of the Scientific Board coordinating the 2019 International
          Congress on Energy, Economics and Security, held in Istanbul, and received an
          award recognising his contribution.


  4.4 Academic, practitioner and policy-based partnerships and networks
Professional bodies and practitioner networks



                                                                                                22
DRAFT 8th February 2021




The various subgroupings within LBS maintain close links with relevant professional bodies
and industry organisations, and the School has good relationships with key institutions in the
Leeds City Region including local government (e.g. recent work with Leeds, Wakefield and
Calderdale Councils and the West Yorkshire Combined Authority), public-sector behemoths
such as Leeds Teaching Hospitals Trust, as well as major local businesses such as Asda
(headquartered in Leeds). For example, Devins and Morgan are participants in the new
West Yorkshire ‘Place-Based Economic Recovery Network’ (PERN), a multi-university
collaborative initiative intended to provide policy expertise for regional economic recovery in
cooperation with West Yorkshire Combined Authority (WYCA) and Yorkshire Universities
(YU).


The Retail Institute maintains collaborative links across LBU with industry partners, public
and third-sector organisations, trade organisations (such as UK Trade & Investment, the
International Omni Retail Markets Association, and the European Flexographic
Industry Association) and other universities including Aston, Leeds, Birmingham,
Nottingham, East Anglia and Portsmouth. The Institute completed more than 50 projects for
clients since 2014 and operates a membership scheme with 22 member companies,
including Procter and Gamble, Johnson and Johnson, Heinz and Nestle. Networks and
collaborations form the basis of regular and frequent workshops and presentations for
practitioners. The Institute’s work is a vital contribution to LBS’s research environment, yet
this contribution is largely invisible in the list of outputs because its material output is largely
oriented towards project work and industry-facing reports. However, this contribution serves
as a conduit for the dissemination of LBS research to an industry audience, and some of the
pieces have been turned into journal articles (e.g. Topić and Tench 2019). Led by Olga
Munro, the Retail Institute’s work connects LBS academics with industry representatives,
enabling both parties to benefit from each other’s expertise, building networks and creating
conditions for future impacts, such as the collaboration work with Asda on sustainable
packaging, which was recently cited in the official Asda submission to a DEFRA consultation
on bioplastics.


The Leadership Centre (TLC) is LBS’s continuing professional development unit, offering
off-the-shelf and custom leadership and management programmes to various organisations
including Santander, Sky, Brewdog and the Army. LBS runs a unique Masters-level
programme with the Army aimed at ex-service people looking to use their skills in civilian
workplaces. TLC’s work feeds into research such as that by Beech on boardroom
management and on how veterans experience workplace coaching. Through TLC, LBS also




                                                                                                   23
DRAFT 8th February 2021




maintains strong links with important professional bodies, such as the Institute of Directors
and the Institute for Leadership and Management.


Academic partnerships and groups
The Centre for Governance, Leadership and Global Responsibility (CGLGR) has
incorporated the Corporate Governance and Sustainability International Group, an
international research network with over 3000 member scholars, consultants and
managers worldwide. The network aims to promote international research collaboration,
academic exchange and information sharing. The network includes Stanford, La Trobe and
Pretoria Universities, the Institute of Directors, the Institute of Leadership and Management
and the Chartered Management Institute, the UN Global Compact, the All-Party
Parliamentary Committee on CSR, the Armed Forces (Harrogate, York, Sandhurst), West
Yorkshire Police and the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). The Centre’s
honorary President is Prof Judge Mervyn King, a leading light of the IIRC, with whom
CGLGR maintains a close relationship.


Since 2013, led by Robinson and Sun, the CGLGR has organised and engaged in
international and national research projects, participated in the UK and local government’s
consultations on corporate governance and responsible leadership, and published several
journal papers, monographs and edited books. From 2009 through to 2015, Sun co-chaired
(with Professors in France and Belgium) an international research project Finance and
Sustainability Programme (FAS I 2009-2011, FAS II 2012-2015), partnered between
several international research organisations, including the Research Club of French
Institute of Directors (France), the International Network of Organisations and
Sustainable Development (RIODD), Corporate Governance and Sustainability
Research Group (UK), the International Academic Association on Governance (Italy),
the Finance Observatory (Switzerland), and the French Forum for Responsible
Investment (France).


The Centre has recently formed a strategic partnership with Globethics.net, a global
network of teachers and institutions with the vision to embed ethics in higher education
headquartered in Geneva, to collaborate on curriculum and research development.
Globethics has provided initial financial support (£30,000) to the Centre.


LBS has created regional business impact with several Degree Apprenticeship programmes
under the new apprenticeship levy, overseen by Welbourn. Through these, we have built




                                                                                                24
DRAFT 8th February 2021




relationships with organisations such as JD Wetherspoon and the Casual Dining Group
as well as adding another dimension to our existing relationship with Leeds City Council. As
well as building networks, the apprenticeship schemes have led to pedagogical innovations
and research papers as demonstrated in work by Reynolds.


Tench (alongside Zerfass, Moreno and other international colleagues) leads the European
Communication Monitor (ECM), an annual survey of the public relations profession across
Europe (in its 15th year). Supported by the European Public Relations Education and
Research Association (EUPRERA) and the European Association of Communication
Directors (EACD), the ECM has surveyed over 45,000 communications professionals from
more than 50 countries and is the most comprehensive analysis of communication
management worldwide. The key partners are the universities of Leipzig, Amsterdam,
Ljubljana and Madrid. In the last REF period this programme has expanded to a worldwide
study (Global Communication Monitor) with North American, Latin American and Asia
Pacific taking the respondents to over 80,000 and 80 countries
(www.communicationmonitor.eu). Yeomans also developed a collaboration with
universities in Istanbul and Munich through an Erasmus project initiated under the ‘Women
in PR in Europe’ project. Members of the team worked with a group of senior government
communicators in 2014/15 as part of an action research project for the Government
Communication Service. Tench has also served as a board member and latterly President
of EUPRERA over this REF period.


Wu and Shutt developed a series of longstanding collaborations with colleagues in China,
notably in the Hangzhou region. Hangzhou is twinned with Leeds, and LBS’s work has
strong local government links. LBS has had a memorandum of understanding with the
Zhejiang University of Technology, based in Hangzhou, for 15 years and there are regular
exchange visits between the two institutions. Over the past year, Wu has also built a close
relationship with Ningbo and Hubei universities, and LBS is currently reviewing a proposal
for a joint research centre with Ningbo.


LBS participates fully in the academic ecosystem, with representatives from all six subject
groups serving in oversight roles in professional bodies (Institute of Chartered Accountants
of Scotland; Chartered Institute of People Development; Chartered Institute of Marketing;
Chartered Management Institute; Chartered Institute of Public Relations etc) and sitting on
journal editorial and/or review boards (see earlier). LBS colleagues also act regularly as
external examiners for doctoral vivas, with approximately 100 examinations in the




                                                                                               25
DRAFT 8th February 2021




period. Examples of institutions for which LBS has supplied doctoral examiners in this REF
period include Aston, Bradford, Cardiff, Chester, Derby, Glasgow Caledonian, Heriot-Watt,
Huddersfield, Hull, Liverpool, Leeds, London Metropolitan, Manchester, Manchester
Metropolitan, Middlesex, Nottingham Trent, Portsmouth, Queen Margaret, Salford, Sheffield
in the UK; and abroad, Dublin Institute of Technology (Ireland), Aarhus (Denmark), Helsinki
(Finland) Kozminski (Poland), Vitez (Bosnia), Ljubljana (Slovenia), Pretoria (South Africa),
Deakin University and Queensland University of Technology (Australia).


   4.5 LBS research and the local region
LBS hosts the highly successful Business School Guest Lecture Series, sponsored by
Yorkshire Bank. This series provides a valuable addition to the research culture and
opportunities for new collaborations, attracting prominent local and national figures drawn
from a range of sectors and representing various standpoints. Speakers in a typical year
might include local entrepreneurs, executives of major multinationals, senior members
of local government and regional representatives of the Bank of England. The series
attracts significant local media attention and large audiences and provides opportunities for
networking between academics and business people and for demonstrating university
engagement with enterprise activity. At a more abstract level, the Guest Lecture Series is an
example of how LBS uses institutional resources – its campus, events expertise, sponsor
relationships and extensive industry contacts – to benefit both LBU and the wider business
community. We provide accessible opportunities to hear high-profile speakers in a well-
appointed central venue, and for network-building beyond the institution.


Individual subject groups within LBS organise similar series on a smaller scale, such as the
Marketing Guest Lecture Series. Many of these events are public and attract sizeable
audiences, providing an additional avenue through which students and staff are encouraged
to become research-aware in a practical environment.


The next stage
Since 2014, our research activity in this Unit has been profoundly refashioned regarding,
scale, direction and intensity. By restructuring around the SuBRI institute, we have
provided an outstanding platform and focus for successfully delivering multi, inter-
disciplinary and co-produced research.


Looking to to the next five years’ planning, LBS has a clear vision of what it aims to achieve
with an evidence-based focus on applied research. Given the transformed social and




                                                                                                26
DRAFT 8th February 2021




economic context the world is moving into the LBS mission of supporting sustainable
business performance, leadership and responsibility are well-founded. The next steps to
build on this mission include continuation of our foundational work on anchor institutions
(Impact Case Study, based on our foundational work and contribution to the Leeds City
Region), the formation of a ‘Green Business School’ with plans to evolve and develop the
area of productivity and well-being to support business evolution and growth both in the
region of West Yorkshire and beyond. These initiatives and the research structures already
in place will enable the School to be a hub for promoting, generating and inspiring
innovative research and scholarly activity which will make a societal difference and deliver
the LBS mission of supporting business sustainability.


9585/9600




                                                                                               27
