Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1. Context, research and impact strategy

1.1. Context and structure
Over the last 40 years, the Brighton Business School (BBS) has produced new knowledge in
business and management that has impacted on innovation, entrepreneurship, change
management and human rights in partnership with industry and government.

Our strong REF2014 results for impact (5th out of 101 submissions) recognised the extent to which
our research has stimulated innovation and boosted the performance of businesses and public
organisations, both nationally and internationally.

Our vision since 2014 has been to continue to build on our successes by (i) growing our long-
standing expertise in innovation management research and (ii) expanding our values-based social
justice research. To deliver our vision we have recruited several high-calibre researchers,
significantly grown our postgraduate research community and increased our investments in
supporting researchers through training and development. We further strengthened our distinct
approach to generating impact that involves ‘closing the loop’ between academia and industry
through expanded co-production and partnerships with Small and Medium Sized Enterprises
(SME) and the management of change in major public and private sector organisations.

Our research is now organised around two strategic groupings:
      •   The Centre for Change, Entrepreneurship and Innovation Management (CENTRIM, 20
          staff (19.1 FTE), 26 postgraduate researchers PGRs)
      •   The Social Justice Research and Enterprise Group (SoJust, 13 staff (11.35 FTE), 16
          PGRs)
CENTRIM is a University of Brighton (UoB) interdisciplinary Centre of Research and Enterprise
Excellence (CORE see REF5a). At the heart of CENTRIM’s research is a well-established focus on
the generation and implementation of new ideas and concepts designed to strengthen innovation
and improve the performance of business, government, and third-sector partners. Our strategic
investment to sustain research excellence has expanded the staff linked to CENTRIM from 11 in
REF2014 to 20 in 2020.

We have established the Social Justice (SoJust) group as a new UoB approved multidisciplinary
incubator environment that includes staff with business, law, economics, and sociology
backgrounds. Amongst UK business schools, SoJust is distinctive in creating new knowledge on
the social justice and legal dimensions of critical contemporary business challenges, including
organisational justice, modern slavery, labour market injustice, comparative international law and
human rights. We have invested in new staff to create critical mass in SoJust and now submit 13
staff in this area of research compared to 7 in REF2014.

During the REF period we more than doubled our numbers of PGRs and compared to our
REF2014 submission we increased the number of PGR completions by 80%. Our involvement in
the new ESRC South Coast Doctoral Training Partnership (SCDTP) in collaboration with the
Universities of Southampton and Portsmouth marks a step-change in our PGR recruitment,
financing, culture and environment (see section 2.3).

In 2021, we will move to a new £36m BBS building as part of a £85m campus redevelopment.
This will provide a flexible and collaborative working environment designed to sustain our research
strategy by providing purpose built new facilities to enable the types of interactions with businesses
and external partners that are core to our mechanisms for generating impact (see section 3).

1.2. Research and Impact Strategy
Our research and impact strategy builds on a history of growth in the critical mass of researchers,
the continual improvement in our quality profile in successive RAE/REF submissions and our
REF2014 plans. Encouraged by the REF2014 panel’s feedback that our approach to impact was
’outstanding, being well structured with convincing mechanisms in place to support the

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
achievement of outstanding impacts in future’, and following a benchmarking exercise against the
sector in 2015, we integrated our REF2014 research and impact aims to create a new BBS
Research and Impact Strategy.

The strategy is managed by the School Research and Enterprise Committee (SREC, see section
2), which has inclusive membership and monitors progress using Key Performance Indicators
(KPIs) agreed with the University. The KPIs form part of an annual report to a University Planning
Committee comprised of members of the University Executive Board that evaluates our progress.

Between 2015 and 2016, we further updated our strategy through two UoB interventions:
  •   In 2015, the Pro-Vice-Chancellor of Research directed a review of CENTRIM, which included
      an external assessor’s report. This led to new staff investments to maintain the core of
      CENTRIM’s innovation management research and to expand into adjacent research areas
      addressing the key business challenges of innovation through entrepreneurship and financial
      market innovation (see below). To reflect this, CENTRIM was renamed from the Centre for
      Innovation Management to the Centre for Change, Entrepreneurship and Innovation
      Management.
  •   In 2016, BBS staff helped develop a new UoB Strategy and a supporting Research and
      Enterprise Strategic Plan (REF5a). The new strategy emphasises the values of inclusivity
      and partnerships and led us to revise our local strategy to strengthen industry partnerships
      for impact and invest in our social-justice research as a distinct area of values-focussed
      research concerned with inclusion and equality.
These interventions allowed us to identify future risks our strategy had to address linked to the
need for new leadership to replace retiring staff, recruitment of PGRs and possible changes in
access to European Union (EU) funding sources arising from Brexit.

To align with the new UoB strategy and respond to these risks, we focused on four Strategic
Research and Impact Goals (SRIGs): People, Publications, Impact and Funding. Further details of
the mechanisms we use to deliver these goals by supporting our researchers, enabling impact,
investing QR and managing research income are provided in sections 2 and 3.

1.3. Achievement of our Strategic Research and Impact Goals (SRIGs)
SRIG1 People: Grow the number of staff and PGRs in our areas of research strength to
create a sustainable research environment. A strategy of investment in research excellence,
together with an inclusive approach to research in the School and the UoB (see REF5a), has
resulted in continuous and sustainable growth. Overall, our researcher base has grown
substantially since 2014, from 18 staff submitted to UoA19 in REF2014 to 33 submitted here to
UoA17. During the REF period, our recruitment has been balanced across career stages to deliver
our strategy by growing research areas of strength and addressing staff retirements. New staff
appointments include 4 professors, 1 reader, 8 mid-career staff, and 6 Early Career Researchers
(ECRs). CENTRIM appointments include Professors Gregoriou (bringing finance innovation
expertise) and Cowling (an entrepreneurship specialist). Two new ECRs have grown our financial
innovation expertise. Expansion of SoJust involved five appointments, including 2 professors
(Sahadev, Hilton), a reader (Daguerre) and Speckesser an experienced researcher from
National Institute of Economic and Social Research. Our strategic expansion of PGR recruitment
has seen a marked expansion in cohort size from 20 PGRs in 2014 to 42 in 2020, contributing to a
vibrant PGR environment (see section 2.3).

SRIG2 Publications: Support all staff to publish high-quality journal papers and
monographs that shape their research areas. Our balanced approach to recruiting new staff
and our support for all researchers has resulted in journal articles and monographs that have
influenced key research areas in business and management. Our Research Support Allowance
Scheme and our comprehensive mentoring framework provide additional time and advice for
research and writing papers/books (see section 2). Staff at all career stages have published in
leading journals, including the British Journal of Management, Journal of Corporate Finance,
Research Policy, and Human Resource Management. Influential papers and monographs include:

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  •   A seminal paper published in the British Journal of Management, Gregoriou (Professor) that
      provided a new understanding of how job satisfaction and health are affected when
      employees discover that colleagues doing similar work are paid more.
  •   Daskalakis (mid-career), in a paper in the Journal of Corporate Finance, revised how the
      finance sector considers short-term and long-term debt ratio adjustment speeds.
  •   ECR Laing, in a Journal of Development Studies paper, provided a new understanding of
      the social justice implications of the resource crisis.
  •   Dembour’s (Professor) 2015 monograph When Humans Become Migrants: Study of the
      European Court of Human Rights with an Inter-American Counterpoint was the joint winner
      of the 2016 Odysseus European Academic Network Best Publication Prize and a review in
      Human Rights Law Review described it as ‘a magisterial endeavour which will become a
      standard work of reference for those working in the fields of migrants’ rights’.
  •   Smyth as an ECR produced the monograph Social and Economic Rights in Ireland, which
      provides a new analysis of how the Irish Constitution could constitutionalise the judicial
      protection of rights. The book was described by a member of the Council of Europe
      Commission against Racism and Intolerance as providing ‘a very thorough summary of case
      law from these institutions to encourage …more vigorous use of the European Convention
      on Human Rights’.
SRIG 3 Impact: Enable staff to collaborate with external organisations nationally and
internationally to expand our research impact. As part of our strategy, CENTRIM and SoJust
organise workshops and conferences specifically designed to enable impact through partnership
development and the co-production of knowledge with industry, third sector and academic
organisations. We also deploy QR funding at BBS and University level to enable individual staff to
generate impact (see section 2). CENTRIM’s focus on impact through developing regional, national
and international partnerships has been cross-sectoral and includes targeted engagement with
social enterprises, humanitarian agencies and SMEs that is evidenced in our submitted impact case
studies.

Examples of the impacts enabled by successful academic and third sector partnerships include:
  •   The SPARK Social Enterprises project (EC funding £603k, 2016 – 2020), led by CENTRIM in
      partnership with West Sussex County Council, the Social Innovation Factory and De Punt in
      Belgium and Seinwezen in the Netherlands, co-produced new research, policies, tools, and
      support to develop the innovation capability of social enterprises. Innovation roadmap
      models based on CENTRIM research enabled 75 social enterprises to improve their
      performance by developing innovation capability. The partnership also enabled social
      entrepreneurs to better understand the innovation process and supported 350 people to start
      new social enterprises. In its final review by the European Commission (EC), this project
      scored 97.9%.
  •   The academic collaboration supported by BBS strategic conference funding between
      Gregoriou and Peking University has created a new understanding of China’s role in stock
      market liquidity. This work, published in the Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting
      and Economics Letters, has led the Chinese government to consider changes in how liquidity
      is provided to enhance stock market efficiency.
  •   Rush and Marshall’s project on the humanitarian innovation ecosystem (commissioned for
      the UN’s 2016 World Humanitarian Summit) provided novel insights into crisis-driven
      innovation. The research led to policy impacts through the establishment of two major new
      initiatives: (i) a £5m initiative by the Humanitarian Innovation Fund entitled Accelerating the
      Journey to Scale and (ii) a $1.65m programme by the United Nations Office for the
      Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs entitled the Global Alliance on Humanitarian Innovation.
      [ICS_Humanitarian Innovation].
Section 3 and our impact case studies (ICS Innovation_Networks and ICS_Change Management)
describe our successful development of industry partnerships that have ‘closed the loop’ by
creating advances concerning the long-standing, and often ignored, challenges facing the UK
economy of change management in large organisations and innovation management in SMEs.


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
SRIG4 Funding: Grow our research income, especially from EU sources, to support the
delivery of our strategic goals for people, publications and impact. Over the REF census
period, BBS research grant spend has increased to £3.15m. We have built on our successes
before 2014 by prioritising applications to EU funding sources to maximise the benefits of our long-
standing European partnerships (see section 4) and to take advantage of regular funding calls
linked to our research strengths in innovation management, social justice and human rights. As a
result, over two-thirds of our research grant spend over the census period was from the EU (see
section 3). In 2019, Dembour received a prestigious five year €2.5m European Research Council
Advanced Grant to examine the rules and practices which govern the treatment of evidence in
international human rights adjudication.

A flagship project in terms of research income used to deliver strategic goals 1-3 (people,
publications and impact) was the EC funded Strategic Transitions for Youth Labour in Europe
(STYLE) project (€5m, 2014 – 2017 €746k to Brighton). This collaboration, led by O’Reilly and
with Speckesser and Lain, involved 25 research partners in 20 EU countries. The project provided
a comprehensive analysis of the causes of EU youth unemployment published in Cambridge
Journal of Economics. Impact was enabled through an international advisory network of
employers, unions, policymakers, and Non-Governmental Organisations. Speckesser is now a
Senior Lecturer in BBS.

1.4. Interdisciplinary research
An ethos of interdisciplinary working is core to the research of both CENTRIM and SoJust and
underpins our research excellence. By definition, the field of innovation management is necessarily
interdisciplinary and interdisciplinarity is central to SoJust’s values-based research. We have
facilitated interdisciplinary research by (i) appointing staff from a range of disciplinary backgrounds
to both CENTRIM and SoJust (ii) internal workshops that encourage interdisciplinary debate,
supervision and publications (iii) supporting collaborations with UoB scientists to promote
innovation in SMEs.

Examples of interdisciplinary research addressing international economic and social challenges
include: CENTRIM researchers working with the University’s Advanced Engineering Centre to
create impacts on jobs and business performance in the rapidly expanding clean growth sector
through engagement with over 1,800 businesses (section 3); for SCDTP students working with
partners in Kenya and Ghana, BBS staff have developed interdisciplinary supervision teams with
development and community arts specialists in UoB schools of Sport and Service Management,
Education and Art (Laing and Tsekouras); interdisciplinary publications include Gregoriou, with a
critical disability theorist in the Journal of Interpersonal Violence, using a novel application of
business methodologies to analyse the global problem of the victimisation of disabled people and
Sahadev, with a Malaysian co-author in the International Journal of Human Resource
Management, to reveal new insights into employee’s perceptions of organisational justice using
psychological need-satisfaction techniques.

1.5. Research and impact strategy to 2026
In 2019, UoB refreshed its strategy and related strategic plans through to 2025. As part of this
process, we revised our BBS strategic goals to 2026 to align with the University’s new Strategic
Priorities for Research and Enterprise, focusing on research investment, impact, PGRs and global
influence.

We will concentrate on consolidating our research excellence in CENTRIM and expanding further
our growth in SoJust. We will achieve this by continuing our staffing strategy (section 2.1),
commitment to equality, diversity and inclusivity (2.2) and mechanisms for PGR support (2.3).

Our five revised goals, including a new one focussed on PGRs, build on our recent successes, and
our targets reflect both the University’s targets and the uncertainties arising from COVID-19 and
Brexit. Our targets, as they relate to the 5 Strategic Research and Impact Goals (SRIGs), are as
follows:


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
SRIG1 People (Staff): Sustain our areas of research strength by extending our distinctive
focus on innovation research and maximise our values-based research. We will:
  •   expand staffing in CENTRIM by 10% and in SoJust by 20%
  •   increase our investment in new and early-career staff by expanding budgets for internal staff
      support schemes (see 2.1) and increasing participation in the centrally-organised UoB
      Leadership Programmes for female and BAME staff.
SRIG2 People (PGRs): Develop the next generation of researchers to ensure the long-term
sustainability of business and management research. We will:
  •   double the number of staff supervising and training PGRs in ESRC SCDTP
  •   build on our recent expansion to grow our number of PhD students by 50%
  •   enhance the provision of internships in CENTRIM and SoJust to strengthen the pathway
      from undergraduate to PhD.
SRIG3 Publications: Increase our global influence through high-quality publications and
joint authorship with international partners. We will:
  •   review our existing Research Support Allowance (RSA see 2.1) and establish a new QR
      funded Research Capacity Investment scheme to support a larger proportion of staff to
      achieve publications in leading journals with international co-authors
  •   expand research mentoring to incorporate group publication mentoring alongside our current
      peer-to-peer scheme (see 2.1)
SRIG4 Impact: Extend the reach and significance of our impact through expanded
collaboration and partnerships. We will:
  •   maintain our long-term strategic partnerships with social enterprises and third sector
      organisations through new collaborative and co-produced research
  •   increase the number of public and industry-facing events using the improved convening
      power of the new BBS building close to the business-focusing Plus X building and Clean
      Growth UK platform (see section 3)
  •   increase our long-term strategic research partnerships with industry by 25% to enable our
      generation of impacts with businesses, especially with SMEs in the clean growth sector.
SRIG5 Funding: Ensure the vitality and relevance of our research by increasing the value of
external grant funding. We will:
  •   double the number of applications for external research funding
  •   in response to the post-Brexit funding landscape, continue to target EU sources whilst
      diversifying our sources of funding
  •   adjust our established internal peer review processes to support staff to maximise funding
      success.
1.6. Open research, Research ethics and Integrity
UoB is committed to the Concordat on Open Research Data through its new PURE research
repository developed during the REF 2021 period to enable the uploading of research outputs
(REF5a). Advice on Open Access publishing, open data and reproducibility is provided through
university-wide and BBS-specific workshops. Open Access compliance for this UoA since 2018 is
87% and of the completed projects involving submitted staff for which we are able to make data
available, 100% have shared their data either through our Brighton Open Research repository or
via an external platform.

Our researchers aim to go beyond the normal expectations on open access by sharing research
findings through our websites and social media channels, especially Linked-in. CENTRIM
manages a series of LinkedIn groups including the Social Enterprise Innovation Acceleration
Network LinkedIn group with 563 members that focuses on the role of innovation in Social
Enterprises. The Open Innovation in SMEs LinkedIn group has 310 members and supports SMEs
to implement Open Innovation strategies. The CoachCom Coaching Community LinkedIn group
includes 115 members concerned with coaching SME executives to foster innovation skills. The

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Profitnet LinkedIn group has 108 members focussed on SME peer-to-peer learning and the
CENTRIM group has 119 members promoting academic and practitioner discussion on
entrepreneurship and innovation management.

BBS is committed to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, in line with the University’s
Codes of Practice on Research Integrity and Research Ethics. UoB introduced a three-tier system
of ethical review in 2014, supported by a central Ethics and Governance Manager (REF5a). All
project proposals are required to go through at least tier 1 approval at the School level. The BBS
ethics lead receives a 0.2FTE workload allocation to ensure rigorous management of all ethics
applications, to run frequent training courses for all staff and has provided 16 one-to-one sessions
on the operation of the ethics panel. All BBS PGRs are required to undertake this training, without
which they cannot advance through their first Annual Progress Review. The University’s Ethics and
Governance Manager also contributes to the BBS Annual Enrichment Week to promote the
Concordat.

2. People

2.1. Staffing strategy and staff development
2.1.1. Staffing strategy
Based on a review in 2016 of our Strategic Research and Impact Goals, we redesigned our staffing
strategy and now have three staffing strategy objectives (SSOs). All the 33 Category A staff
submitted to REF2021 are on permanent contracts and 18% are ECRs. Over 29% of submitted
staff identify as BAME, marginally higher than the Advance HE sector average for the C17UoA
subject area of 26.8%. Part-time staff make up 35% of submitted staff, comparable to the Advance
HE sector average (across all UoAs). Regarding gender balance, 36% of submitted staff are
female, compared to 33% in REF2104, and the Advance HE sector average for the C17UoA
subject area is 43.7%. The BBS Athena SWAN Action Plan commits us to address these gender
differences by embedding systematic gender consideration in the recruitment, selection and
progression of our academic staff. Focussing on advancing research careers through investment
and support our three Staffing Strategy Objectives (SSOs) are:

SSO 1: Attract and retain talented staff and leaders. To ensure continuity of leadership and
respond to staff retirements, we have made four professorial appointments to strengthen CENTRIM
and SoJust (see 1.3). We have also appointed new staff at early stages in their careers who now
have publications in leading journals. ECR Laing, joined us from the London School of Economics,
has published in Resource and Energy Economics and Gupta, from the University of Hull, has a
publication in Financial Management.

We have also provided an internal research development route by appointing exceptional UoB PGRs
as postdoctoral research fellows, who later transitioned into permanent posts (eg ECR Fazeli).

We nurture our ECR staff to develop research and impact profiles that support successful
promotional applications, including 6 submitted staff who have moved from Lecturer to
Senior/Principal Lecturer during the REF2021 census period. We aim to minimise the use of fixed-
term contracts and the 2 staff appointed fixed-term since 2014 have had their contracts made
permanent. In BBS, all fixed-term post-doctoral fellows are offered redeployment to reduce
redundancy risk.

To retain and develop our best BBS staff, we have instigated internal appointment processes that
make leadership opportunities and training available to non-professorial staff. Beneficiaries include
Tsekouras as CENTRIM Director and Okoye as SoJust Director, and they also receive support from
the University’s Leadership Programme.

SS02: Mentor and develop for staff career advancement and new knowledge generation. In
2016, the University established a research mentoring framework and commissioned mentor
training from a leading external agency, KMP+ (Copenhagen). To deliver this framework in BBS,


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Daguerre is allocated workload time to be School Research Mentoring Lead and to manage
mentoring pairing, so all staff who request it can access one-to-one support.

Our trained mentors assist with funding proposals, research papers, conference presentations,
career progression, access to training and developing ideas for collaborative research across BBS.

Twenty-four of our submitted staff received mentoring in 2019 – 2020 compared to nine in 2015-6.
Mentoring for Gupta and Healy resulted in papers in Quantitative Finance and the International
Review of Financial Analysis and for Matthews in International Review of Entrepreneurship.

SSO 3: Transparently invest resources and time to support staff to deliver research and
impact. The UoB has a fully transparent process for allocating QR funds, and a review by United
Kingdom Research and Innovation (UKRI) selected this as an example of good practice (REF5a).
The University streams nearly two-thirds of QR income directly to schools and over the REF period
BBS received £980k of QR investment (based on REF2014 performance). Spending decisions are
made by our SREC, which includes staff at all career stages, PGRs and the Directors of CENTRIM
and SoJust. We allocate a large proportion of our QR income directly to staff. Our Research Support
Allowance (RSA) Scheme (see below for details) funded by QR and supplemented by BBS budgets
allows all staff to apply for dedicated additional workload time to produce research or impact. The
SREC also uses its budgets to support bid-writing events, staff training, research seminars and
webinars (weekly internal and external), larger academic and industry events (eg British Academy
of Management conferences) and partnership development (academic and industrial). CENTRIM
receives a ring-fenced annual budget (£26k 2019 – 2020) to support Centre activities and similarly
SoJust was allocated £20k in 2019 – 2020. These QR funds have enabled impacts linked to
engagements with research users and diverse audiences (see section 4).

Since REF2014, a further £80k has been awarded to BBS staff through University-level
competitive internal funding to enable impact, research sabbaticals and rising stars (ECR award)
(REF5a). This funding has resulted in high-quality publications by Lain, Okoye and Laing in
journals such as Social Science and Medicine and Ecological Economics. Rush and Tsekouras
received £56k funding from the University’s Impact and Knowledge Exchange Fund, Innovation
Accelerator Fund and Innovation Kick Start Fund (REF5a). These funds make awards of up to
£25k to enable impact, which have supported activities contributing directly to two of our submitted
impact case studies.

2.1.2. Staff development
Strategies to support the career development of ECRs and PGRs have been significantly
strengthened and embedded across the University, in line with UoB’s Concordat to Support the
Career Development of Researchers Implementation Plan, Athena SWAN and Race Equality
Charter Action plans (REF5a). This includes providing researchers with 10 days of professional
development per year from 2020. We utilise three main forms of intervention to support staff
development from ECR to the Professorial level and deliver our research and impact strategy:

Researcher development aided by direct investment of QR funds. BBS strategically prioritises
the use of this funding for ECRs, staff with research potential, CENTRIM and SoJust. A separate
stream of QR is allocated to fund conference attendance to allow each researcher to attend at
least one conference annually.

Central to our approach is the BBS Research Support Allowance (RSA) Scheme, which
encourages applications for additional workload time for research for all staff, but especially ECRs
and staff returning from career leave. We operate a fully transparent workload allocation model for
all staff; all those submitted to REF2021 have an allocation of at least 20% of their time for
research and scholarship. Staff can bid under our RSA Scheme to obtain replacement teaching to
enable up to 30% of time for research.

Since 2014 all BBS non-professorial staff submitted to REF2021 who were in post before the
financial year 2020/21, have benefited from additional research hours awarded through the RSA
scheme. Professorial staff are also allocated time for research and leadership. RSA awarded to
                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Newbury was used to write a 2017 co-authored book that evaluated the reforms of UK legal aid
from a social justice perspective and also in 2020 to write a successful British
Academy/Leverhulme grant on Legal Aid cuts in the family courts. Upadhyay received RSA
support to produce a paper in Production Planning and Control.

The SREC rigorously monitors outputs produced by staff funded by RSA and between 2014 and
2020 outputs arising from RSA included 116 peer reviewed papers, 23 books/monographs, 42
book chapters and 85 conference papers.

Career development support. During induction, all new BBS staff meet the Deputy Head of
School Research and Enterprise. Induction meetings cover research support available at School,
including the RSA scheme, and University level. University policies on research integrity, ethics,
open data and open access publishing are introduced at induction and followed up during
probation. For new staff, a potential mentor is identified at the appointment stage and agreed
during induction.

Our BBS mentoring scheme (see 2.1.1) is central to our support for all staff who also benefit from a
University-wide internal Peer Review Panel for grant applications. Staff who are experienced
recipients of external funding, review applications through the Peer Review Panel to increase their
quality and the overall success rate (REF5a). For example, with mentoring support, Bachan
successfully applied for funding from Universities UK to study grade inflation in UK universities,
leading to significant impact (see section 3).

Further training is provided for all researchers at BBS Enrichment Week and via the extensive UoB
Researcher Development Programme (REF5a). UoB staffing policy ensures that each staff
member has an annual staff development review conducted by a trained senior colleague, where
short- and long-term research objectives are agreed. Research excellence is recognised through
the five UoB Excellence in Research and Enterprise awards; one of these, for Impact Excellence,
was awarded to Dembour in 2017.

Targeted support for ECRs. UoB provides a comprehensive skills-enhancement programme for
ECRs as part of its Researcher Development Programme with training courses on ethics, open
access and research impact. BBS employs a co-supervision policy for all PGR students and pairs
ECRs with established supervisors to provide mentored supervisory experience. ECRs in BBS also
participate in our mentoring scheme and in the University-wide network for ECRs (REF5a). Our
newly appointed ECRs who have benefitted from this support include Nguyen with a paper in the
Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting, and Pinto in Environmental and Resource
Economics.

2.2. Equality, diversity and inclusivity
Guided by the principles of the Athena SWAN Charter, we commit to provide (i) an inclusive and
hospitable working environment, and (ii) resources, support and time to allow our staff to achieve
their full research potential.

Through our recruitment processes encouraging applicants from a range of backgrounds, we have
created a more diverse group of researchers in BBS, with 29% of submitted staff (including one
professor) identifying as BAME compared to none in REF2014. This change is valuable in creating
an inclusive and supportive environment through our mentoring scheme, whereby 35% of mentors
are now female and 16% BAME. Staff appointments since 2014 have ensured that female staff in
BBS now play visible leadership roles in research - Hilton (Head of School), Okoye (SoJust
Director) and Daguerre (mentoring lead).

Consistent with UoB REF Code of Practice, equality and diversity were central to the preparation of
this submission. The Output Review Panel and Unit of Assessment Leadership team reflect both
relevant expertise and gender balance, and members undertook unconscious bias training and
calibration exercises to ensure judgements were fairly and consistently applied.


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our BBS processes ensure fairness and work-life balance. We promote the University’s
employment protocols, with all staff involved in the recruitment process required to complete
equality and diversity and unconscious bias training. We also adjusted the BBS physical
environment for a disabled member of staff and supported their partner to attend a research
conference as their carer. Our University promotions and staff policies (REF5a) reward both
research and impact performance and ensure that career progression is not disadvantaged by
absence or disruption.

UoB achieved a Race Equality Charter (REC) Bronze Award in 2019, one of only 17 Universities to
achieve this recognition. As part of the BBS’s commitment to delivering the University’s REC
Action Plan, we held three workshops/lunchtime book clubs on race equality in 2020/21.

The SREC, and the Deputy Head of School Research and Enterprise are responsible for research
staff development. SREC Membership is monitored annually by the University and is inclusive in
keeping with the Athena SWAN Charter having a male:female ratio of 50:50. The SREC monitors
the allocation of the RSA scheme funds in terms of equalities; in 2019/20 52% of RSA awardees
were female compared to 42% in 2014/15.

2.3. Growing and Developing the PGR programme
Growing a vibrant PGR community is central to achieving our strategic research and impact goals.
Our involvement in the ESRC SCDTP since 2017 further enhances our sustainable and high-
quality PGR environment. The number of PGR students registered within BBS reached and
sustained record levels for the School during the REF2021 period. We now have 42 PGR students
compared to 20 at the time of REF2014. BBS PGRs generated 15 PhD completions between 2017
and 2019 (table 1), the same number as for the whole of the REF2014 period. In 2020, the 29
studentships funded by SCDTP at Brighton are organised in 5 interdisciplinary cross-school
pathways co-managed by BBS and the UoB School of Applied Social Science involving 8 BBS
staff in supervision and training delivery (see 4.4 for collaborative training). This DTP with the
Universities of Southampton and Portsmouth is one of the largest ESRC-funded DTPs and has
injected £1.7m of funding into UoB to support PGRs and their research environment.

 Table 1. PhD awards by year (2019/20 affected by COVID-19 see Ref5a, Professional
 Doctorates not offered in the UoA, fractions reflect cross school supervision).

  Year            2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20                   Total
  Awards(FTE)         5          1        1.5        3          4        11        1.67     27.17


Throughout the REF2021 census period, the BBS PGR cohort profile changed from one based on
part-time study to mainly full-time and international students (concomitantly leading to increased
PGR diversity). In 2019/20 we had a total of 34 (77%) full time and 8 part-time PGRs, as opposed
to 13 full time and 7 part-time in 2013-2014. Of the 42 students, 54% are female, 64% BAME and
53% international students. In April 2020 we used QR funds to establish a COVID-19 Doctoral
Resources Fund which has been used to reduce hardship faced by 7 of our PGRs.

All BBS PGR students are managed by the Brighton Doctoral College (BDC), working with the BBS
Postgraduate Research Coordinator. BBS PGRs complete an annual Training Needs Analysis and
the BDC provides formal training through an annual festival and a comprehensive Postgraduate
Research Development Programme (PRDP) (REF5a). The University’s Learning and Teaching
Hub provides accredited training mandatory for those PGRs who teach at UoB. BBS students also
benefit from the BDC subscription to University of East Anglia Online Training. PGRs can apply to
the BDC for conference funding annually; recently, our students have presented at major national
and international conferences such as the British Academy of Management and the American
Psychological Association.

All BBS PGR students have a minimum of two supervisors and are integrated into the life of BBS,
CENTRIM and SoJust through weekly research seminar series and research support workshops.
                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
BBS organises an annual BBS research conference where students’ current work is discussed
collectively alongside presentations from staff and provides PGR students with opportunities to chair
workshop sessions.

All supervisors undertake dedicated training administered by the BDC before joining the register of
approved supervisors, and this must be refreshed every two years. Supervision is complemented
by a series of milestones for PGR students, following established BDC procedures; the aim is to
ensure that satisfactory progress occurs, the supervisory team is fulfilling its responsibilities, and
the project will be completed on time. Milestones include approval of the initial research plan, a
series of annual progression reviews and a thesis completion plan.

Our recent international PhD graduates now occupy academic positions in Jilin University (China),
University of Kurdistan Hewlêr, Majmaah University Iraq, Al-Imam Muhammad Ibn Saud Islamic
University, Saudi Arabia and Nizwa College of Technology Sultanate of Oman. Wilding a BBS PhD
in 2018 successfully obtained an ESRC SCDTP fellowship based at UoB examining immigration
legal aid in Britain.

The success of the BBS and SCDTP PGR provision is evidenced by 27 PhD completions during the
current census period, compared to 15 in REF2014. The average duration of a PhD for full-time
students is 4 years. The quality of our BBS PGR environment was confirmed in the national 2018
Postgraduate Research Experience Survey, when 94% of students were satisfied with their
supervision and 88% with the research skills training provided.
3. Income, infrastructure, facilities

3.1. Income portfolio
Sustaining a balanced funding portfolio is critical to our continued growth and delivery of our
research and impact strategy. Over the REF period, BBS grant spend was £3.15m, and in keeping
with our SRIGs, we have focussed successfully on European sources of funding which were the
source for over £2m of our grant spend. As part of our risk assessment, following the Brexit
referendum we sought to diversify our grant sources and have transactioned £1m grant spend from
alternative funding sources. BBS also enables impact through partnerships with large
organisations by linking our research excellence to £599k of contract research from projects with
industry and the public sector, including Network Rail, Ministry of Defence, Red Cross, UNICEF,
Cabinet Office and Department for International Development.

Our grant income has been central to continuing and strengthening CENTRIM’s long-standing
track record of improving innovation and performance in SMEs. CENTRIM researchers have
developed reference guides and benchmarks for advancing knowledge exchange and technology
transfer between SMEs and public-sector research organisations.

CENTRIM builds partnerships to impact on SME innovation management. For example,
  •   The EU-funded CoachCom 2020 project (€76k to UoB) includes a consortium comprising
      prominent innovation agencies (eg Platinn, Switzerland; Innovayt, Denmark; TII
      Luxembourg). CENTRIM was the academic lead responsible for designing and piloting an
      innovation coaching scheme for EASME (EU Executive Agency for SMEs) that provided
      services to 5,448 SMEs selected from the EASME Instrument programme.
  •   The INSPIRE project (EU funding £340k, 2016-2019) led by CENTRIM in partnership with
      the Lappeenranta University of Technology in Finland and the ESADE Business School in
      Spain worked with IMIT in Sweden, Science and Technology Facilities Council in UK, KiNNO
      in Greece and the Technology Innovation International in Luxembourg to develop a unique
      methodology to support the development and implementation of Open Innovation strategies
      in SMEs. The methodology will be sustained in the future as it is now being implemented with
      60 SMEs in the Brighton Plus X Acceleration Space in UK (see 3.2 below), 35 SMEs and 5
      coaches in the Knowledge Foundation Madri+d Spain and a pilot project has been initiated
      with the European Enterprise Network to support European SMEs.


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  •   With the help of central UoB GCRF funding, CENTRIM staff (Tsekouras, Gregoriou) have
      recently collaborated with tourism researchers in the UoB School of Sport and Service
      Management aimed at generating new insights into the response of SMEs in Kenya’s tourism
      sector in the face of COVID-19. Through partnership working with the Tourism Operators
      Society of Kenya CENTRIM researchers developed a programme that provided training for
      177 SMEs on market access, crisis responses and resilience building techniques. As a
      result, Kenyan SMEs can now access economic stimulus packages and the Tourism
      Operators Society was invited to contribute to the national taskforce charged with
      disbursement of COVID-19 relief funds.
CENTRIM also received ESRC funding (£82k) for Project X that generated new co-produced
knowledge on how innovation management can improve large project delivery. This project is an
industry-academia collaboration involving a consortium of universities, professional societies, and
government agencies (University College London, University of Sussex, University of Manchester,
the Project Management Institute, the Association for Project Management and the Infrastructure
and Projects Authority (IPA)). The IPA is the non-ministerial department responsible for overseeing
and delivering major projects and programmes in government.

As part of our drive to diversify our income sources, Gregoriou obtained £38k contract research
funding in 2020 from the Evai.io business group to develop the first worldwide financial rating
model for 8,000 cryptocurrencies designed to influence investment decisions and financial
regulators. The model builds on novel research by Gregoriou published in the Journal of Business
Research where the ratings of cryptocurrencies are based on systematic risk, momentum, profit,
investment, liquidity risk and peak-end theory.

SoJust researchers are supported by our Research Support Allowance Scheme (section 2) to target
funding from major charities that focus on social justice. Grants from charities led to significant
publications and further successful funding bids. Dembour’s prize-winning book and her European
Research Council Advanced grant (see section 1.2) build on an earlier Leverhulme Foundation grant.
Lain’s Leverhulme Foundation Early Career Fellowship led to further funding (£36k) from the
Fafo Research Foundation (Norway) and a paper in Social Science and Medicine. This research
showed for the first time that children who have been abused or neglected are more likely to be
permanently sick at 55 years and excluded from labour market participation.

SoJust researchers also received funding from a range of other sources. Daguerre used data from
an ESRC-funded project in a 2017 monograph entitled Obama’s Welfare Legacy which drew on
interviews with key senior officials in the Obama administration to provide a new account of the
politics of public entitlements in the United States.

Bachan’s Universities UK grant (£21k) examined grade inflation in the UK higher education sector
and created notable impacts. Resulting papers in Higher Education Studies provided new evidence
of grade inflation, which underpinned the UK Standing Committee for Quality Assessment
(UKSCQA) consultation document and subsequent statement of intent on degree classification.
The research was central to public and sector-wide debate in 2018, which led to 129 UK higher
education institutions endorsing UKSCQA’s Statement of Intent and developing an action plan on
grading procedures in academic year 2019/20. Based on this action plan, Universities implemented
a set of review activities in 2019/20 to identify systems change designed to reduce grade inflation.

3.2. Facilities
A key facility from which CENTRIM and other BBS researchers have benefited is the Green Growth
Platform, the regional hub of Clean Growth UK located at the UoB. The Green Growth Platform was
designed to build on CENTRIM’s innovation management research and was launched in 2014 with
a £3 million grant from HEFCE. At the heart of the platform is the Profitnet learning network designed
to promote innovation by enabling businesses to learn from each other through expertly facilitated
confidential group sessions and action learning. Profitnet led by CENTRIM was the basis for one of
our successful impact case studies in REF 2014. The Green Growth Platform is now an award-
winning green business-innovation network helping to create future-proof businesses that minimise
impact on the planet. In 2015 the Platform obtained a Green Apple Gold Award for Education and
                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Training, and was highly commended in the Green Gown Awards. The Open Innovation activity of
the Green Growth Platform is based on CENTRIM’s co-produced research and has been highly
successful as measured by funder designated KPIs showing in the SMEs involved between 2014
and 2018 that it has created and safeguarded 312 jobs and instigated 102 R&D projects as a result
of the capability building activities and innovation support received.

In 2018 the Green Growth Platform received £3.5 million from Research England to establish
Clean Growth UK, a national business-innovation network with regional hubs at the Universities of
Brighton, Portsmouth and Liverpool John Moores. The design of Clean Growth UK was also
informed by CENTRIM researchers. The Network has over 1,800 members and has supported
businesses across the UK to innovate and grow. Funder’s KPIs show that its innovation support
programmes for SMEs had by 2020 created or safeguarded 259 jobs, stimulated 123 new products
and instigated 191 R&D projects. In 2021 Clean Growth UK was awarded a further £1.38 million to
support its activities that will sustain future opportunities for CENTRIM’s innovation management
expertise to continue to have impact though improving UK SME performance in clean growth
businesses.

Staff seeking collaborations with social partners benefit from our award-winning University facility,
the Community-University Partnership Project (CUPP REF5a), which helps broker co-produced
research and deliver impact mainly through working with marginalised social groups. Exemplifying
our inclusive values, in 2019 BBS staff established a new Brighton Legal Clinic, which utilises our
SoJust research experience to benefit legal system users. The clinic is managed by SoJust staff as
volunteers and runs on average 22 open cases at any one time. Newbury has a current British
Academy grant to undertake research with the Clinic’s litigants.

Accommodation was found for CENTRIM within BBS for its own open-plan office where staff and
research fellows work alongside each other and its own dedicated board room for meetings with
partners and training SMEs. We also provided new communal space for all our full-time BBS PGRs
with allocations of computer/desk facilities and ‘hot desks’ for part-time students. This represents at
both a physical and strategic level the first time that such accommodation and facilities had existed
in BBS for all PGRs and reflects the successful switch we have instigated to more full-time
international PGR activity (see section 2).

In September 2021, BBS will move into a new building designed to promote interactions between
research, teaching and study spaces. The new building, integrated into the £85m redevelopment of
our largest campus, is expected to increase the international profile of BBS with, for example, the
provision of an executive education centre. It will include areas designed to support collaborative
team-based research with space for meetings, research seminars and visiting researchers. There
will also be a ‘Bloomberg Suite’, providing real-time markets data to provide data to support
research by staff and doctoral students.

The new BBS building is at the heart of the redeveloped campus and will be a key enabler for
achieving our future strategy and allow us to be confident of achieving our impact goals. Our
researchers will be co-located alongside Plus X Brighton, a 50,000 square feet Innovation Hub,
part of a £7m Regional Growth Fund development for start-ups, scale-ups and research and
innovation-led SMEs. The Innovation Hub is also a beneficiary of a £5m European Research
Development Fund (ERDF) investment in the Brighton Research Innovation Technology Exchange
(BRITE), run in partnership with UoB, to provide specialist equipment and access to research and
innovation expertise. BBS and the University are utilising £1m of the ERDF funding to support
SMEs to create new products and services primarily by drawing on our innovation research. BRITE
will build on the outcomes of our recent CENTRIM EU funded projects focussed on innovation and
aims to support 115 innovative SMEs to deliver a package of Open Innovation Clinics, innovation
coaching services and masterclasses directly linked to research and SMEs needs.




                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Our strategy and support for staff (section 2) have enabled BBS staff to continue to make a
substantial contribution to the wider research community, economy and society, both nationally
and internationally. Our influence comes directly from research in CENTRIM and SoJust that
focuses on impact with professional practice in business, management and legal areas.

4.1. International and national research partnerships
Collaborations with academic partners are facilitated through guidance in our mentoring scheme
and funded through the Research Support Allowance (RSA) programme, enabling all staff to
develop partnerships through joint research, roles in research networks and professional bodies
(see 4.2). The number of international academic partners is monitored at School level as an annual
KPI and is incorporated into our future strategic aims (section 1.3).

CENTRIM includes external academic Associate Members, who help shape research agendas and
identify opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration. CENTRIM uses its QR funding to develop
international strategic partnerships with other successful innovation research centres. For example,
CENTRIM researchers have hosted events and conferences to build further partnerships and
CENTRIM now has 9 UK and 9 International academic partners including the Bartlett School of
Construction and Project Management at UCL, Said Business School Oxford, Cranfield School of
Management, Technical University of Munich, University of Lund and Copenhagen Business
School, SPRU at the University of Sussex and Xidian University, China. In addition, CENTRIM
has 28 industrial partners including 14 private businesses (eg Rolls Royce and BAE Systems) and
14 Support Agencies/Intermediaries (eg Scottish Enterprise and the Lithuanian Innovation Centre).

BBS hosts annual visiting research fellows from universities and non-academic partners. During
the census period fellows have visited from the Science and Technology Secretariat of Goias
State, Brazil; Xidian University, China; University of Macedonia, Greece; Open University of
Catalunya, Spain; and the Agency for Science, Technology and Innovation, Rio de Janeiro State,
Brazil.

The success of our support for international collaborations is evidenced by the volume of
publications co-authored with colleagues in other institutions. Of the 221 submitted outputs, 66%
are co-authored with external academic partners, of which 40% are from outside the UK. Our
international collaborations have shaped national and international research agendas and
achieved impact. Notable examples include:
  •   Gregoriou collaborates with a team at Peking University led by Professor Liu, resulting in co-
      authored papers in Review of Quantitative Finance and Accounting and Economics Letters
      on stock market liquidity and financial stability and impact as the Chinese government
      considers how to enhance stock market efficiency (see 1.3).
  •   ECR Laing has already influenced EU economic environmental policy, focusing on the
      management of forest, mineral and water resources via collaborations with the EC, the
      Stockholm Environmental Institute, and internationally through the Ecosystem and
      Sustainability Initiative in Trinidad and Tobago.
  •   Sahadev is working jointly with the Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Lucknow on an IIM
      funded project into healthy eating patterns across India.
  •   CENTRIM researchers, led by Tsekouras, in 2018 organised a joint workshop with SPRU
      (University of Sussex) and CIRCLE (University of Lund) to develop a Research Agenda for
      Innovation Policy and Management. An outcome was funding from Vinnova (Swedish
      government research funder) for a Strategic Knowledge Platform led by CIRCLE bringing
      together the strongest research environments and policymakers in entrepreneurial
      experimentation in Sweden and Europe working on shared datasets and new research
      proposals. The Platform meets twice a year and has 10 academic partners including
      Chalmers and Linkoping Universities and the Fraunhofer Institute.



                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.2. Wider influence, partnerships with industry and research users
Researchers in CENTRIM and SoJust interact with industry and user audiences through our
research-based training programmes, involvement in industry bodies and commissioned
engagement with individual organisations.

CENTRIM is the founder of the Profitnet training programme (section 3), which provided training
through SME networks in the UK and Ireland. CENTRIM has also designed and delivered
international consulting programmes on entrepreneurship in USA, Croatia, South Africa, Colombia,
Greece and Cyprus. Since 2014, 206 SMEs have been through the Profitnet programme and a
total of 6,400 SMEs have received CENTRIM designed coaching and training.

CENTRIM’s staff undertake commissioned research-based change interventions in large private
and public organisations including the Ministry of Defence, the Local Government Staff
Commission of Northern Ireland and Network Rail. (See [ICS_Change Management] for how our
interventions and partnerships improve change processes in large organisations).

Rush was a member of the expert group advising the United Nations World Humanitarian Summit
and a regular invitee to the annual UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, Policy
Forum. Brady advised the UK Cabinet Office on major project management through their
sponsorship of Project X. Gregoriou, through membership of the Chartered Financial Institute, has
advised hedge funds in the UK, USA, Germany and Cyprus.

Cowling evaluated the Danish Growth Fund’s SME financing activities for the Danish Ministry, the
design and effectiveness of European SME financing instruments for DG Regio of the European
Union, and the Australian Innovation Investment Fund for the Australian government. He was
invited by the Swedish Government Growth Agency (Tillvaxtanalys) to present a case for a Small
Firms Loan Guarantee Scheme for Sweden at a seminar attended by the Swedish Secretary of
State with responsibility for Company Management, Competition and State Ownership of
Enterprises.

SoJust researchers collaborate with national organisations that use research to address issues of
rights, welfare and inclusion. Speckesser’s research and collaboration with the National Institute of
Economic and Social Research influenced both the Augar Review on Post-18 education and the
Skills for Jobs White Paper. Platsas has been Treasurer of the British Association of Comparative
Law, whose members include industry. Okoye is a recognised barrister and solicitor of the
Supreme Court of Nigeria and is an Associate Academic Fellow after three years as an academic
fellow (2015-2018) at the Honorable Society of Inner Temple, one of the four Inns of Court in
England. Hilton is a Council Member and Equality Diversity and Inclusion Committee member for
the Chartered Association of Business Schools.

4.3. Contributions to the discipline, recognition by the research base and responsiveness to
national and international priorities
Our staff at all career stages provide intellectual leadership to business and management
disciplines through roles on the boards of academic journals and professional societies. For
example, ECR Laing is a member of the editorial board of Extractive Industries and Society and
Kortantamer, a postdoctoral researcher, is on the editorial review board for the Project
Management Journal. Gregoriou is an editorial board member for the British Journal of
Management and an academic author and reviewer for the Chartered Financial Analysts Institute,
the premier global association for investment management professionals. Okoye sits on the
advisory board for the Institute for Advanced Legal Studies Open Book Service, and guest-edited a
special issue on law and vulnerability in the European Journal of Current Legal Issues. Our staff
are also on editorial boards for Work, Employment and Society (Daguerre), Technovation
(Marshall), Qualitative Research in Financial Markets (Mohan) and Rush until 2019 was on the
editorial board of Science and Public Policy.

Staff have provided expert review nationally and internationally including the British Academy,
British Academy of Management, ESRC (Daguerre member of peer review college), Hellenic

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Foundation for Research and Innovation, the Israel Science Foundation, Swiss National Science
Foundation and the UN Humanitarian Innovation Fund (Rush as panellist).

Our influence on the discipline is also recognised by prestigious awards and fellowships.
  •   Daguerre was a Fulbright fellow at George Mason University in 2017 and is an associate
      researcher at Sciences Po Bordeaux.
  •   Dembour’s monograph When Humans Become Migrants: Study of the European Court of
      Human Rights with an Inter-American Counterpoint was a joint winner of the 2016 Odysseus
      European Academic Network Best Publication Award.
  •   Gregoriou is Visiting Professor at Peking University (top 30 world university) and a
      registered expert in financial markets for the Centre for Science and Policy, University of
      Cambridge.
  •   Haar was a Senior Visiting Research Fellow at the King Abdullah Petroleum Studies
      Research Centre in Saudi Arabia, 2015 – 2016.
  •   Kortantamer (postdoctoral researcher) was awarded the best paper prize at IRNOP 2018
      (International Research Network on Organising by Project).
  •   Okoye was a visiting fellow at the Institute of Advanced Legal Studies, University of
      London 2015 – 2016 and is Visiting Professor at the Coal City University, Enugu, Nigeria
      2020 – 2022.
  •   Sahadev is a distinguished visiting research fellow at the Indian Institute of
      Management, Kozhikode.
  •   Tsekouras is a Visiting Fellow at Xidian University in China.
BBS responds to changing research priorities and interdisciplinary agendas by regularly hosting
conferences that focus on key emerging topics. These meetings attract national and international
audiences and include:
  •   British Academy of Management Innovation Special Interest Group (2015).
  •   Education Innovation in Economics and Business Education (2015).
  •   Global Workshop on Freelancing and Self-Employment Research (2016).
  •   9th Annual Developing Leadership Capacity Conference (2017).
  •   The Future of Human Rights in the UK (2017).
  •   Art of Management Organisation Conference (2018).
  •   Contemporary Challenges to Human Rights Law (2018).
  •   1st and 6th European Conference on Social Media (2014 and 2019).
  •   British Academy of Management Innovation Special Interest Group: Sustainable
      Entrepreneurial Ecosystems: New Modes and Changing Roles of Entrepreneurship
      Intermediaries and Innovation Habitats in the Aftermath of COVID-19 (2020).
CENTRIM researchers contribute annually to the British Academy of Management Conference by
organising an Innovation Track session involving 50-80 participants (2014-2020 at Belfast,
Portsmouth, Newcastle, Warwick, Bristol, Birmingham, Manchester/Virtual).

4.4. Co-operation and collaboration for PGR training
UoB has a wide range of experience of PGR training collaboration through being involved in five
different Doctoral Training Partnerships/Centres during the REF period. The SCDTP partnership with
the Universities of Southampton and Portsmouth (section 2), delivers innovative training skills to
produce business and management PGRs for academia and professional practice. The SCDTP
research methods and skills training is organised across the five interdisciplinary pathways.
Gregoriou, along with the Business School at Southampton, manages the SCDTP Global
Economies and Business Innovation interdisciplinary pathway providing advanced training in both
institutions. Our SCDTP students can also access advanced training sourced from within the
Southampton Statistical Sciences Research Institute, Qualitative Expertise at Southampton
University (QUEST) and the National Centre for Research Methods. In addition, SCDTP students
can access industrial placement opportunities. In 2019 – 2020, a BBS PGR worked with the UK Data
Service as an Impact Fellow on a 3-month placement to the UN migration service.


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.5. Engaging the public and diverse audiences with research
CENTRIM and SoJust researchers are supported through QR funds to engage with a range of
audiences in the UK and internationally seeking to use our research to shape public debate as a
pathway to impact on innovation, education, labour market and legal policy. Key examples include:

Rush was an expert advisor to the United Nations World Humanitarian Forum (2016) and is on the
steering committee for evaluating the Humanitarian Innovation Fund.

Gregoriou is an executive board member of the British Accounting and the Financial Association’s
special interest group on Financial Markets and Institutions.

Mohan’s research influenced public discussion of fair trade as an academic advisor for a Channel
4 Dispatches film on the coffee industry.

Bachan engaged a wide public audience with his research on grade inflation in UK universities
(see section 3) due to extensive press coverage on the topic. He has also received high-level
media attention for his research on the extent to which Vice-Chancellor’s pay awards are related to
university performance, through a Guardian article in 2015, syndicated to other outlets.

Smyth delivered public talks relating to the Irish Abortion Referendum in Northern Ireland and
England, and co-authored a shadow report for the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural
Rights on the implementation of states’ obligations under the UN General Assembly International
Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.

Speckesser disseminated findings on labour market transitions to international networks of ~20
high-level academic and policy partners and local networks for the UoB STYLE project (section 1).
He makes regular contributions to Parliamentary Committees on matters concerning family
disadvantage, youth unemployment and skills.

Dembour’s book When Humans Become Migrants has been disseminated amongst legal
practitioners, including via podcasts, and Françoise Tulkens, a former judge and vice-president of
the European Court of Human Rights, described it as an ’intelligent, lucid and courageous book
that takes the debate into new territory’.

Summary

This submission demonstrates the substantial advances that have occurred since 2014 in the
research, environment and impact performance of Business and Management at UoB. We base
this claim on:
  •   the achievement of our strategic research goals;
  •   the production of high-quality research by staff at all career stages and our contributions to
      our disciplines;
  •   our continued ability to generate extensive research impact;
  •   the success of our approaches to staff development that has further enhanced an inclusive
      and supportive research environment;
  •   the expansion of the postgraduate research community and improvements in our training
      infrastructure.
We continue to be a significant influence on key research agendas through the excellence of our
innovation and entrepreneurship research and our high quality values-based multidisciplinary
research into social justice and human rights.

Our commitment to ‘closing the loop’ through industry, third sector and academic partnerships,
along with the research infrastructure provided by our campus development, confirms that BBS
researchers are well placed to sustain their role in addressing major business and societal
challenges into the future.


                                                                                             Page 16
