Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Aberystwyth University

 Unit of Assessment: 11: Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit structure and research aims
 The Department of Computer Science at Aberystwyth University (AU) is a long established and
 significant department in the UK, founded in 1970 and celebrating its 50th anniversary in 2020.
 The Department’s expertise is focused on research in applied Artificial Intelligence (AI), as well
 as contributing to more foundational and theoretical aspects of AI that facilitate successful
 applications of AI in the real-world. This focus is reflected in our research, impact and people
 strategies, and also in the structure of the Department’s four research groups - Advanced
 Reasoning (AR); Bioinformatics and Computational Biology (BCB); Intelligent Robotics
 (IR); and Vision, Graphics and Visualisation (VGV).

 Whilst we have four research groups in terms of subject areas, owing to the common interests of
 our staff in applied AI, most of our research-active members are not affiliated to just one group.
 Instead, the groups are organised in terms of research topics:

           AR covers all major areas of Computational Intelligence (CI) and is one of the world-
            leading groups in CI, particularly renowned for its invention of semantics-preserving
            approximate techniques for explicit knowledge model formulation and simplification and
            for its ground-breaking work on data-driven decision support with increased level of
            automation, efficiency and reliability.

           BCB conducts research in data analysis of large-scale biological data, formalisation of
            biological data, biomedical informatics, genomics, metagenomics, and pharma-
            genomics, closely working with world-leading specialists in the BBSRC Institute of
            Biological, Environmental and Rural Sciences (IBERS).

           IR is one of the best-known UK robotics groups, carrying out research covering
            unconstrained environments, tackling both software and hardware. It covers robotics
            research ranging from aerospace and airspace, through land and water surface, to
            underwater, with a particular strength in space robotics, currently participating in the ESA
            ExoMars mission.

           VGV undertakes research concentrating on a range of fundamental techniques for
            analysis of high dimensional data, feature extraction, matching and classification, driven
            by application areas such as medical image analysis, machine vision for robotics, video
            and 3D shape analysis and matching. This is the newest group in the Department,
            strategically planned for in RAE 2008, developed during the REF 2014 period, and fully
            matured within this assessment period, conducting a significant amount of world-leading
            and internationally excellent research as evidenced by the returned outputs and an
            associated impact case study.

 The high-level strategic aim of the Department has been and still is to deliver world-leading and
 internationally excellent research in applied AI, supported by the vitality and sustainability of its
 research environment. In order to achieve this aim, over this assessment period, the
 Department’s research strategy has three key objectives:

   i.       To focus resources on research of high scientific quality (substantially strengthening our
            75% 4*/3* research output profile awarded at REF 2014) and significant impact (built on
            our 100% 4*/3* research impact profile last round), delivering methodological solutions to
            current globally challenging issues relevant to intelligent and decision support systems,
            while growing our research capacity;

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   ii.       To provide the right environment (with high-quality administrative, infrastructural and
             capital support) to stimulate and drive progress in our research, investing in
             collaborations in the UK and across the world, expanding the funding streams and types
             for research, and promoting open access to research outcomes;

  iii.       To develop the experts of tomorrow and attract researchers from across the globe,
             enhancing the development of staff career and research student potential with clear
             performance standards, while championing for equality, diversity and inclusiveness of our
             staff and students.

 The research strategy of the Department is complemented by its impact strategy, which is
 focused on promoting and facilitating applications of AI developed through its research and
 which has always been driving our work over the Department’s 50 years history. The
 Department’s research and impact strategies are aligned with the University’s Research and
 Innovation Strategy as outlined in REF5a, and build on its key principles of encouraging
 ambitious, entrepreneurial research that challenges existing approaches and knowledge;
 creating a coherent research-led academic environment; and collaborating with external
 partners, in the UK and globally, both in generating research and in passing on the benefits of
 research through impact and innovation.

 Implementation and achievement of strategic aims
 In the assessment period, the implementation of the research strategy has enabled researchers
 in the Department to:

            undertake cutting edge research across its core strengths in all four groups, and to
             develop new areas of investigation such as AI applications in healthcare;

            work collaboratively with academic and commercial partners and other end-users of AI
             systems in the UK and internationally;

            recruit six world-class research fellows (amongst other leading researchers);

            secure over £5.3M in external grant income to support our research;

            attract £2M+ capital investment in state-of-the-art equipment and workshop/laboratory
             facilities;

            graduate PhD students (double the number for REF 2014) with outstanding academic
             training and career development;

            become the most gender-balanced department among the leading computer science
             departments in the UK.

 Over this period, our research-active staff have published over 290 peer-reviewed articles in
 international scientific journals, plus approximately 200 peer-reviewed conference papers. On
 average, each staff member has produced 9.5 journal articles. According to SciVal 62.9% of our
 research output includes international collaboration, attracting on average 7.1 citations per such
 output. Publications are of high quality: 25% are published in the best 10% percent of journals,
 measured by CiteScore; this is compared to 19.3% on average for the UK.

 The 70 outputs returned this round are examples demonstrating that our staff at all stages of
 their career have produced excellent research results. Amongst these outputs, fifty-one
 appeared in top journals of an impact factor (IF) greater than 5, including 25 that each have an
 IF larger than 9; thirty-one have an average number of Google Scholar (GS) citations per year
 (since publication) larger than 10. Particularly, nine of the outputs returned have each attracted
 more than 100 citations despite their relative recency. Two papers were selected by IEEE as the

                                                                                                    Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 annual Publication Spotlight articles in its flagship journal IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems,
 with the work specially introduced in IEEE Computational Intelligence Magazine (in 2018 and
 2021 respectively). Six papers are the journal version of work that has led to winning best paper
 awards or competition at esteemed international conferences, while the original conference
 papers are not returned. Another eight papers have led to special issues at prestigious journals
 or special sessions or tutorials at foremost international conferences.

 The three Impact Case Studies returned this round are examples of how our commitment to
 impact leads to significant practical achievements in a diverse range of real-world applications,
 including intelligent robotics, health informatics, and decision support for e-commerce. In
 particular, the research within IR, focussed on unconstrained environments has contributed to
 various types of impact, including direct contributions to the ExoMars rover mission. We have
 used our expertise in a wide area of robotics applications to enhance STEM engagement on
 different levels, from schools and colleges to engagement with the general public. The health
 informatics case centres around improving patient outcomes and developing commercial
 benefits via medical image analysis, linking the VGV research to a range of impact aspects,
 especially around commercial orthopaedics' segmentation software (which was developed by
 Synopsys), international deep endometriosis standard (adopted by the International Society of
 Ultrasound in Obstetrics and Gynaecology), MS/stroke segmentation (leading to spin-out
 company Tensormedical) and stroke rehabilitation and retinal disease treatment. The positive
 impact outcome ranges from individual patients to groups of hospitals up to international
 standard. In the area of e-commerce, our work carried out in AR on data mining, in particular
 fuzzy rough theoretics and associated algorithms, has been exploited to discover e-commerce
 site usability issues. This application of our techniques has benefitted companies due to
 increased automation, reduced losses and improved competitiveness, leading to annual savings
 of more than $86M.

 In the assessment period, research capacity in the Department has been reinforced by
 investment in people, equipment and infrastructure. We have increased our research-active staff
 number by 12% since REF 2014 (from 24.80 to 27.82 FTEs, note that despite REF 2014 being
 selective returns, we returned 99+% of our staff then). We have received £2M+ capital funding
 from HEFCW and other sources for equipment purchase and lab/workshop revamping.
 Particularly, a host of individual equipment of significant value each has been acquired (see
 Section 3 for examples), and we have a 170 square-meter mobile robot workshop built and in full
 use. This is in addition to existing workshops such as MarsYard, where our space robotics
 research is based, including a half-real-sized Mars rover for the ESA ExoMars mission; an
 intelligent humanoid robotics lab, where an iCub humanoid robot and a most recently acquired
 Yumi robot and many hosts of small mobile robots are based; and state-of-the-art engineering
 and electronics workshops.

 Research integrity (governed by the University’s Research Integrity Concordat) and research
 ethics (defined with the University’s Research Ethics Framework) are an integral part of all
 research projects. All research applications are subject to an ethics assessment, where the
 process is supported by a University online ethical review system that facilitates an efficient,
 lightweight process that does not create unnecessary barriers to research while ensuring that all
 research projects adhere to the highest ethical standards.

 A notable development for the Department during the assessment period has been the
 strengthening of connections with cognate subject areas, facilitated by two rounds of University-
 level restructuring (in 2014 and 2018), leading to the establishment of the Faculty of Business
 and Physical Sciences. This process involved the coordination and integration of research
 policies, sharing best practice and strengthening research support and activities that facilitate
 cross-departmental collaboration (including research ‘speed dating’ events and sandpits). An
 outstanding example of joint efforts in conducting interdisciplinary collaborative work is for the
 development of research on space robotics, with our staff providing expertise on robotics and
 staff from the Department of Physics offering their in-depth knowledge on planetary science.
 With a dedicated laboratory (MarsYard) that was originally established within the Department,

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 we share its use with Physics in support of both Departments’ research projects, at the moment
 most prominently on the ExoMars mission. The laboratory also houses a number of related
 resources, including a mini-rover, 3D tracking system and simulated Martian terrain.
 Researchers in the Department are also active participants in Interdisciplinary Research Centres
 formed by the University with significant internal research funding support, including the
 Aberystwyth Centres of Excellence for: Space and Earth Monitoring, Rural Health Research (co-
 directed by Zwiggelaar), and Environmental Microbiology, through which they work with
 colleagues in Biological Sciences, Geography and Earth Sciences, Physics, Psychology, and
 Sports and Exercise Science.

 The drive to implement our research strategic aims informs all dimensions of departmental
 management, including staff and research student recruitment, and is embedded in the everyday
 work of our members of staff through the four research groups. Each group is organised by a
 coordinator, who in turn are supported by the departmental research coordinator. The
 departmental research coordinator ensures that all research-active members of staff understand
 the Department’s strategic direction of travel. By organising meetings with short lightning talks
 they provide new and current members the opportunity to get to know the Department’s
 research and recognise opportunities for collaboration. Other activities include department-wide
 research meetings/seminars (with the latter periodically presenting talks by invited world-leading
 academics and industrialists). Particularly, meetings to coordinate research bid preparations
 involving multiple research groups help the Department to make optimal use of its different
 research strengths and to exploit synergy effects. These are further complemented by Faculty
 research meetings that facilitate cross-departmental coordination and collaboration, and one-to-
 one meetings for research-active staff with the Faculty Associate Dean for Research, Knowledge
 Exchange and Innovation (Zwiggelaar).

 To promote research and cherish research impact, the Department provides incentives for
 research-active staff, which include the following: staff members can buy themselves out from
 non-research activities; staff are allocated a part of the overheads on externally funded projects;
 and staff have regular opportunities for sabbatical research leave (one semester in every eight).
 Particularly, staff can use their accumulated overheads allocation as they see fit (for research
 purposes) and this tends to be used for open access publications, PhD funding, and travel for
 collaboration and conferences, to supplement such support offered by the University/Faculty and
 the Departmental central fund.

 The Department has engaged with the open science agenda and is committed to open access
 publishing and open data, through ‘gold’ or ‘green’ route. Article processing charges are
 generally covered from research grants, or through University accounts for UKRI-funded
 research and as part of JISC agreements with publishers, with targeted additional funds
 provided by the Department. Over the period, the Department has covered open-access
 publication charge to the value of approximately £45K. Where funds are not available, green
 open access publishing is facilitated by the AU Research Portal, with staff required to deposit
 pre-production manuscripts on acceptance. Staff have made substantial contributions to
 scientific and engineering applications of AI techniques through providing open-access free
 software packages. For instance, Jensen and MacParthalain have contributed a host of
 programmes implementing the data-driven model learning and feature selection algorithms
 (developed by AR, including user manuals) to Weka, the world’s largest open-access repository
 for machine learning and data-mining software. Also, through international collaboration, Shen
 has contributed to the international digital image processing community with the first, real-world,
 large-scale underwater dataset, covering a diverse range of underwater scenes involving
 different objects and object motions. Such contributions have helped standardise the
 development and implementation of follow-on research in the relevant areas, providing reference
 benchmarks.

 Future strategic aims and goals
 For the next REF assessment period we aim at further reinforcing our research in applied AI,
 with an emphasis on improving our research environment. We will strengthen the leadership in

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Intelligent Robotics and Health Informatics, while increasing investment in areas where we plan
 to expand in response to social and economic demands. We are currently recruiting a
 Reader/Chair in Bioinformatics and a Lecturer in Cyber Security, and we will be appointing a
 Chair in Intelligent Robotics shortly. We plan to use the momentum generated by the UKRI
 Centre for Doctoral Training in AI, Machine Learning and Advanced Computing (AIMLAC) to
 increase PhD student numbers. Its inherent interdisciplinarity and close cooperation with
 industry partners will help us continuing work with external partners and forging new
 partnerships. We are also engaging with the newly founded £40.5M Aberystwyth Innovation and
 Enterprise Campus to forge new collaborations nationally and internationally. These activities
 will aid in our endeavour for gaining research funding from a wide range of sources, including
 but not restricted to UKRI, Leverhulme, Royal Society, Horizon Europe, COST, and industry.
 One particular area we plan to focus on is AI in space data science and engineering, based on
 our existing strength in space robotics and the world-leading research experience on planetary
 science from our sister Department of Physics. This will be reinforced with strong support from
 international academic collaborators and industry, as evident by the recent award of one of the
 only five Strategic Partner Acceleration Awards granted by the Welsh government, for us to lead
 the establishment of an international joint centre for AI in space data science and engineering.

 To further strengthen our future research, the Department has placed the following KPIs in place
 for staff on Research and Teaching contracts. On average, each full-time member of staff will
 aim to: produce 1.5 journal/conference papers per year, at 3*/4* level; graduate 1.5 PhD
 students every four years; and hold a grant of £200K+ over a 3-year period. This KPI setting is
 realistic based on our historical profiles in each of the three aspects, with a provision for
 gradually increasing our research student numbers and income.

 As a department focussing on applied AI, we will continue to deliver research with significant
 social and economic impact, especially targeting pressing global challenges. For instance, AR
 has been working with international collaborators (e.g., Beijing University of Chemical
 Technology and Fujian Business University, as well as their local companies and authorities),
 exploiting the ideas of real-time road-user feature extraction, selection, classification and
 tracking over dynamic temporal windows in a noisy environment. This has led to the
 development of intelligent transportation management and traffic surveillance systems, which
 based on initial deployment feedback, have helped to significantly improve public safety and
 security. VGV has started collaborative research with clinical staff on cleft lip and palate. The
 collaboration involves (clinical) researchers from Birmingham Women's and Children's NHS
 Foundation Trust, Hospital Dental Service in NHS Tayside, and the Dental School at the
 University of Dundee. We are exploring 3D computer vision and machine learning techniques for
 the analysis and classification of children's cleft lip and palate data which is expected to inform
 surgical staging. IR’s research on autonomous driving off-road and on ill-defined tracks has led
 to work on projects funded by the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory and QInetiQ,
 using one of our autonomous track solutions as part of QinetiQ's solution to the Autonomous
 Last Mile Resupply. This has since gained considerable interest in the precision agriculture and
 farming community, where general off-road (in field) and on track autonomous navigation is seen
 as solving problems of the farming community facing staff, time and funds constraints, by
 automating tasks such as weed control, seeding, monitoring of animals, etc. A further direction
 is based on our involvement as part of one of the largest EU research consortiums to develop a
 mechanistic and actionable definition of how the brain generates action, using a set of
 elementary interactions, and to translate this knowledge into novel technological solutions to
 control robotic mobility. We are extending our work on health informatics (BCB and VGV) to the
 analysis of movement of stroke patients via data from wearable and mobile devices, to monitor
 and assess their recovery. This research also offers great potential to join forces with our
 existing success in MRI brain segmentation to make a systematic contribution to improving
 public healthcare.




                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 The recruitment of research-active staff and policies and practices for staff development are
 informed by the Department’s research strategy, with the aims of strengthening the vitality of the
 research environment, by appointing and enabling world-class researchers, and of ensuring the
 sustainability of the research environment, by training and equipping the research leaders of the
 future. Recruitment takes into account the strengths of our research groups, as well as areas for
 strategic development, including emerging research themes. We recruit on all levels, developing
 promising early career researchers (ECRs) and employing more established senior researchers
 to provide leadership for our groups.

 The Department currently has 29 (Cat-A) research-active staff, including:

 •      4 Professors,
 •      2 Readers,
 •      4 Senior Lecturers,
 •      12 Lecturers and
 •      7 independent Research Fellows.

 During the assessment period, the Department appointed 1 Professor (Han), 1 Reader
 (Tsakiris), 5 Lecturers (Anjos, Hunter, Khan, Miles, Zarges), 6 Sêr Cymru II COFUND Research
 Fellows (Akanyeti, Chao, Daykin, Lan, Li, Qu), and 1 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellow (Dagdia).
 The highly competitive Sêr Cymru II COFUND programme was introduced by the Welsh
 Government to attract world class talent to Wales, and the Department was the one that across
 all discipline departments in all Welsh universities, has been able to attract the largest number of
 such outstanding fellows. The Department has in general a very good staff retention record; over
 the period only five academic staff on a permanent contract left the Department, mostly for
 promoted appointments elsewhere: Gkoutos and Liu (appointed to Chair at Birmingham and
 Edgehill University respectively); Tuci (appointed Associate Professor at University of Namur,
 Belgium); He (appointed Associate Professor at Nottingham Trent University); Neal (moved to
 public service sector). In addition, Lee retired in 2018 after 47 years of distinguished service;
 Barnes passed away; and Dagdia was appointed Associate Professor at Versailles Saint-
 Quentin-en-Yvelines University, France after completion of her fellowship.

 All research-active staff in the Department benefit from the support for professional
 development, reflecting University policies described in REF5a. There is a yearly review meeting
 with each member of staff where strategy and goals for the next year are discussed, with their
 performance evaluated and contributions appreciated. Each member of staff has an opportunity
 of one semester research leave every four years, requiring a detailed research plan including
 expected outcomes prior to taking up the sabbatical and a formal report right after the leave, with
 both being scrutinised by the research committee where the Department’s HoD, Research
 Coordinator and two of our Professors sit.

 For the next REF period, the Department will continue to strengthen our cohort of research-
 active staff to further build capacity in new and existing areas. Recruitment is currently underway
 for a Lecturer in Cyber Security, a Reader/Chair in Bioinformatics and a Chair in Intelligent
 Robotics will be appointed shortly, to provide leadership in BCB and IR respectively. Also
 planned is to appoint a Reader in the area of Space Data Science and Engineering, where we
 intend to develop an interdisciplinary sub-unit based on existing world-leading strength in space
 robotics in our Department and the expertise in planetary science within the Department of
 Physics.

 Equality, diversity and inclusiveness
 Principles of equality, diversity and inclusiveness (EDI) are at the heart of our approach to staff
 recruitment and development. We are proud of our diverse research community, in which 41% of

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research-active staff are women and 28% are of non-white ethnic background, with individuals
 originating from 9 different countries. A recent analysis by CrowdStrike (which examined gender
 balance across the leading UK and USA universities) ranked the Department as having the
 highest representation of women among teaching and research staff in all considered computer
 science departments in both the UK and the USA. The inclusive research environment is the
 product of the Department’s strategic and proactive approach to EDI issues over a sustained
 period. The Department is fully aligned with AU's Strategic Equality Plan and AU-wide EDI
 initiatives as outlined in the institution-level document REF5a. It has a dedicated and very active
 Equality Champion, and all our female Cat-A staff have won research grants during this REF
 period.

 EDI is indeed addressed in all aspects of academic life in the Department. For instance, given
 the large number of quality outputs produced by our staff, in the process of selecting and ranking
 research outputs for this REF return, the selection panel included three observers covering
 different aspects of inclusiveness and diversity, namely gender, ethnicity and Welsh language
 (with one observer for each aspect). The Department was the first at AU to receive the Athena
 Swan Bronze Award, and our staff have contributed to work on the University’s Athena Swan
 application and provided advice on the process to a good number of computer science
 departments nationwide. Members of the Department participate as both mentors and mentees
 in the University’s female academic mentoring programme, have engaged in initiatives for, and
 organised, International Women’s Day and Black History Month, and are active in the
 University’s Women in Research network. Through these activities they have provided
 leadership on equality issues in the University and contributed to representing EDI concerns in
 University policy and strategic planning. Unconscious bias training is mandatory for all staff.

 We are the unique representation of all Welsh computer science departments participating in the
 EPSRC’s Inclusion Matters programme with a project on ‘Challenging Different Forms of Bias in
 Physical Science and Engineering Research’, that involves reverse mentoring as one important
 element. Through initiatives such as this, members of the Department are prominent in
 championing EDI issues within the discipline more broadly. For example, Dee was an originator
 for the annual BCSWomen Lovelace Colloquium that the Department involves in organising
 annually; it is regularly attended by more than 120 female undergraduate and taught
 postgraduate students from all over the UK. She has been recognised by Computer Weekly as
 one of the most influential women in UK IT. In 2016, Dee received the BCS John Ivinson award
 for voluntary service. In 2018, she was entered into the Computer Weekly hall of fame for those
 who have made a lasting contribution to women in technology and received a Suffrage Science
 award, one of the six awards given every two years for women in computer science.

 The Department has an excellent track record in retaining and developing ECRs; five of the eight
 ECR staff members returned last round are also returned this round (whilst the other three are
 now serving as Head of Data Science at Wandera or as an Associate Professor elsewhere).
 ECRs are assigned an experienced mentor who helps them develop their own research plan
 embedded in the context of the research group(s). For example, since joining the Department as
 a lecturer, Akanyeti has worked very closely with Shen, and in his second year after joining us,
 he was awarded a prestigious two-year Sêr Cymru II COFUND fellowship. During his fellowship,
 Akanyeti has won research grants of a value totalling £115K and recruited seven PhD students.
 Another distinguished achievement that our ECRs have made is demonstrated by the success of
 Miles receiving a £1.16M EU grant for her work on advanced media production, mentored by
 Tiddeman. ECRs also have access to the University’s Research Fund (of a typical size of £5-
 10K per grant) as a valuable source of pilot funding to enable them to develop ideas and prepare
 external grant applications. Akanyeti’s success directly benefitted from this scheme. ECRs are
 further supported with earmarked PhD studentships jointly funded by the Department and the
 Faculty. In addition, two members of staff (Aubrey, Shaw) successfully applied for participation in
 the Welsh Crucible, a competitive HEFCW-funded scheme for early and mid-career staff to
 develop future research leaders.



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The quality of researcher support and professional development in the Department has helped
 established staff members to take on positions of research leadership within the University,
 including as Pro Vice-Chancellor for the Faculty of Business and Physical Sciences (Shen),
 Head of the University Graduate School (Zwiggelaar) and Faculty Associate Dean for Research,
 Knowledge Exchange and Innovation (Zwiggelaar), as well as to be successful in the highly
 competitive academic promotions (e.g., Tiddeman to Reader, Clare and Dee to Senior
 Lecturers) and in external appointments (e.g., Gkoutos, Reader, and Liu, Senior Lecturer, to
 Chair in other British universities). Senior researchers in the Department have been externally
 recognised for the quality of their research and their contributions to computer science and
 engineering, including the election of Price (2015) and Zwiggelaar (2020) as Fellows of the
 Learned Society of Wales, joining Lee (elected in 2014) and Shen (2012, who is an elected
 Council member of the Society).

 Research students
 The Department is committed to developing and supporting the next generation of researchers
 and to growing a vibrant and sustainable graduate school. We had 46 PhD students (including 3
 jointly supervised with a sister department owing to the interdisciplinary nature of their work;
 totalling 44.5 doctoral awards) graduate over this assessment period, double the absolute
 number and a 38% increase in the annualised rate of awards compared to REF 2014, with
 another 35 currently on-going students; this indicates a significant increase in PhD numbers over
 the late part of the assessment period and reinforces the uptrends. Further expansion of the
 PhD cohort is a continuing priority for the next REF period, supported by our participation in the
 UKRI CDT in AI, Machine Learning and Advanced Computing (awarded in 2019). The University
 and Faculty provide both full and partial scholarships annually to applicants for them to study
 with us. This is strengthened with departmental scholarships that are offset against the fees for
 excellent international students; over the assessment period, we have awarded well over 20
 such scholarships. There are also sandpits for ECRs to obtain seed funding from the University
 Research Fund to help them kickstart the supervision over PhD projects, typically involving an
 interdisciplinary topic. Another innovation during this period has been the introduction of the
 University’s Professional Doctorate (DProf) scheme that allows qualified professionals to study
 for a doctorate while staying in employment. Despite this being a recent scheme, the
 Department has recruited five DProf students. In addition to training the students, this scheme
 provides supervisors in the Department great opportunities to establish and deepen our ties with
 industrial partners. One example is a research DProf project looking at how digital automation
 within a hospital setting may affect satisfaction levels of patients.

 The Department has a rigorous PhD selection and admission process in place. For individual
 applicants, this involves detailed discussion between the departmental PhD selector and the
 appropriately identified supervisors, which is supported by interviews. For competitively funded
 studentships (e.g., for the UKRI AIMLAC CDT), there is an initial shortlisting process followed by
 formal interviews and selection by a panel consisting of experienced supervisors.

 Every PhD student is assigned at least two supervisors in the Department (or for interdisciplinary
 projects, at least two supervisors across the two departments). All supervisors are required to
 undertake frequent training/re-training, including UKVI matters. One important aspect taken into
 consideration when selecting supervisors is inclusiveness and diversity (in particular, with
 respect to gender and ethnicity). A recent initiative taken by the Department has enabled the
 University to introduce a ring-fenced PhD studentship competition for early career supervisors,
 administered at the Faculty level.

 All PGR students receive centrally provided research training, with modules supporting their
 research and skills development, preparing them for their career. Modules on offer range from
 public engagement to grant development workshops, and from leadership to developing their
 first peer-reviewed publication. In addition, responsible research, EDI, ethics and data
 management plans form the core of a compulsory induction module. An added benefit of the
 research training provision is the peer-based teamwork and networking with students from
 different disciplines (e.g., Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences) and universities (e.g., modules

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 shared with the UKRI CDT). Students are encouraged to participate in scientific conferences and
 disseminate their results, with support from a conference fund maintained by the Faculty while
 the Department covers the cost for PGR students to attend specialist training courses.

 Progress is monitored via an annual report submitted to a review committee and also via
 interview by an independent panel of experienced supervisors. All PGR students are expected to
 attend the departmental research seminar programme as well as seminars within their research
 group. The Department also organises a one-day workshop (as part of the monitoring process)
 each year for all research students to present their work to fellow students and staff, with a prize
 for outstanding presentations in years 2 and 3. We also have an annual prize competition for the
 best first-year report. At University level, PhD students have the opportunity to attend and
 participate in an annual PGR conference, which also incorporates the local competition for the
 national Vitae 3MT event.

 Thanks to the motivational encouragement and supervision arrangement offered by our
 dedicated staff, and supported with world-class research facilities, over the assessment period,
 we have a 100% success rate for students to complete their degree within their approved
 registration period. All 46 PhD graduates within this assessment period have been successful in
 gaining their post-degree employment upon graduation and a number of them have been able to
 produce an outstanding quantity of top-quality publications from their studies. For example, Diao
 (graduated in 2014) first-authored three and second-authored another three articles in leading
 computer science journals, including two in IEEE-TCYB (IF= 11.079, attracting 168 and 88 GS
 cites respectively) and two in IEEE-TFS (IF= 9.518, with 66 and 58 cites respectively), with
 another conference paper receiving the best paper award at FUZZ-IEEE 2012 (top international
 conference on fuzzy systems), selected from the 305 papers that were accepted globally for
 presentation at the conference. Li (2020) first-authored six and co-authored another five leading
 journal articles, including four in IEEE-TFS and two in IEEE-TCYB; she also received a best
 conference paper award (from the 16th Annual Workshop on CI); both examiners of her
 dissertation have been deeply impressed and would like to nominate it for a
 national/international best dissertation award.

 Within the period, our PhD students (Akpokodje, Diao, Jin, Li, Xu, Yang, Zhang) have
 collectively won seven best paper (including finalist) or competition awards at international
 conferences. For example, Akpokodje received best PhD student paper at the 6th International
 Conference on Cloud Computing and Services Science (2016); Zhang is a finalist for the best
 paper award at the 2020 World Congress on Computational Intelligence (the largest and
 foremost biannual international event in the field), selected from 1,819 accepted papers
 worldwide; and Xu is the winner of the internationally renowned Competition on Constrained
 Real Parameter Optimisation, organised by CEC-2019 (which is the most important annual
 international conference in evolutionary computation). Additionally, our students have received
 10 Outstanding Student Paper Travel grants from IEEE over this period. Historically, this is the
 largest number of such awards granted to students from a single academic department.

 A significant number of our recent PhD graduates have already demonstrated a great potential
 in making a very successful academic career. For instance, Naik (2015) and Chen (2017) are
 now a Senior Lecturer at Aston University and Huddersfield University respectively; and Jin
 (2015) and Lu (2016) are now a Professor and HoD at Chongqing University of Science and
 Technology and Chongqing Jiaotong University respectively. The most remarkable is Nicholls
 (2018), now an ECR at Birmingham, who has rapidly developed and automated the digital
 infrastructure needed to coordinate the acquisition and sharing of SARS-CoV-2 virus sequencing
 data for the COG-UK consortium, with continued support from his PhD supervisors at AU. This is
 a major responsibility for this early career stage, but one that Nicholls was excellently skilled to
 do. The subsequent analysis of the data that this infrastructure then enabled has influenced
 government policy and public health. Owing to his exceptional achievement, he has now been
 nominated for a Dillwyn Medal, awarded to outstanding ECRs across all fields, by the Learned
 Society of Wales.


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income
 The vitality of the research environment in the Department is underscored by success in
 obtaining external research grant income to support and facilitate our work. In total our research-
 active staff have participated in winning more than £10.1M in external funding (with more than
 £5.3M of this going to AU) over this REF period from a wide range of different sources. The most
 significant sources for research income are UKRI/Royal Society (22% of funding), EU (47%),
 government bodies/local authorities including health (17%) and industry (12%). The participation
 in the UKRI CDT in AIMLAC is currently the greatest single grant. Of a particular note is that the
 Department is the one across all discipline areas in all Welsh universities that has been awarded
 with the largest number (six) of independent world-class research fellowships that are funded
 under the prestigious Sêr Cymru II COFUND programme. Another noteworthy example is the
 EPSRC Inclusion Matters grant. In addition, in support of our research, staff have also been
 successful in receiving eight KESS research studentships within the assessment period, through
 collaboration with industry (e.g., Hywel Dda University Health Board; Bond Digital Health; RHE
 Global; Hafren Scientific; Welsh Water; and Wales Coastal Monitoring Centre).

 Examples of external funding received over this period include:
     Advanced media production (EU, £1.16M, Miles and Tiddeman);
     Centre for Doctoral Training in Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning and Advanced
       Computing (UKRI, £5.4+M, £800K to AU, Zwiggelaar and Shen);
     Developmental algorithms for robotics: Understanding the world of objects, interactions
       and tools (EPSRC, £560K, Shen, Lee and Shaw);
     Geographical data and earth observation for monitoring (EU, £300K, Labrosse);
     Benchmark scenario planning in primary production: Creating sustainable change (TSB,
       £290K, Neal);
     SeqInfo: Big data stringology algorithms for 2nd and 3rd generation sequencing (EU,
       £164K, Clare and Daykin);
     Optimised framework based on rough set theory for big data pre-processing in certain
       and imprecise contexts (EU, £138K, Zarges);
     Co-Production of alternative views of lost heritage (AHRC, £125K, Tiddeman);
     ExoMars Mars terrain simulator (UK Industry, £115K, Labrosse);
     Network-aware evolutionary coordination for ariel backbone (UK Industry, £110K,
       Wilson);
     FuzzyBot: Dynamic fuzzy rule interpolation for humanoid robot control (UK Government,
       £110K, Shang); and
     Dynamic modelling of plant growth with computer vision (EPSRC, £100K, Dee).
 The majority of the grant holders named above- Miles, Shaw, Clare, Daykin, Zarges, Wilson,
 Shang and Dee- are women.

 The further growth of external income to sustain a wide range of research activities is a
 departmental priority for the next REF period. The objective of expanding research income is
 strongly backed by Departmental, Faculty and University support for research development. For
 example, the University Research Fund offers pilot funding (of a typical size of £5-10K per grant)
 to support research staff developing ideas and preparing external grant applications. Since the
 formation of the Faculty (in 2018), our staff have won six such grants. All grant applications are
 supported by an internal peer review process and by a Research Development Officer at the
 Faculty level designated from the University’s Department of Research, Business and
 Innovation. Planning for grant applications is also enabled by annual review meetings,
 sabbaticals and workshops and sandpits, especially in relation to facilitating larger collaborative
 proposals. Our most recent research fund-raising activities have led to a significant number of
 successful applications over the final academic session of this REF round (Aug. 2019-July
 2020); most notable examples are: FoodBioSystems: biological processes across the Agri-Food
 system from pre-farm to post-fork (BBSRC, £2.4M) and South West and Wales Doctoral
 Training Partnership II (AHRC, £1.35M); Zwiggelaar is overseeing the delivery of both projects.

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In addition, he is contributing training aspects on responsible research and innovation aspects,
 which are transferred from his experience with the UKRI AIMLAC CDT.

 Research infrastructure and facilities
 The Department has excellent research facilities that support our work in different research
 groups and has benefited from capital funding by the University and external sources (mainly
 HEFCW). This supports and adds to the Department's rolling programme of investment in new
 research equipment, allowing us to conduct research of the highest quality in areas that are part
 of our strategic growth vision. Apart from the existing major facilities such as the MarsYard, the
 humanoid robotics lab, and the state-of-the-art engineering and electronic workshops, examples
 amongst the many newly acquired facilities and equipment that have been made during this
 assessment period include: a 170 square-meter purpose-built mobile robot workshop; an
 outdoor Mars rover lab; a multi-material high-accuracy 3D printing machine to support research
 in soft robotics and space robotics; a SPARUS II, underwater robot; a virtual reality lab; a Yumi
 robot working as a process control and diagnostic rig; a local big data storage; a flow estimation
 environment; a submarine robot for environmental monitoring; and a transcranial magnetic
 stimulation (TMS) machine stroke lab.

 Each of the above-listed relatively larger and newly acquired lab facilities and equipment
 requires at least a monetary support of £100K, summing up to a sub-total of capital investment
 worth £1.58M, excluding a separate investment of £440K for the building of the aforementioned
 workshop. In addition, we participate in Supercomputing Wales (£15M total), much of our data-
 intensive applications that require very significant computing resources (carried out in all our
 groups) makes use of this invaluable facility, whilst we also run our own GPU farm to support
 computationally heavy tasks and experiments.

 Our researchers benefit from the excellent research infrastructure and facilities. For instance,
 VGV benefits from the virtual reality laboratory that supports research in virtual and augmented
 reality, and from the TMS lab for their medical imaging work. AR benefits from the process
 control and diagnostic rig for their model-based reasoning work in support of intelligent decision-
 making. BCB benefits from the big data storage for their plant gene sequence analysis. IR
 benefits greatly from our robotics laboratories and state of the art engineering and electronics
 workshops that enable the production of our own hardware to support our research. We are
 proud to have contributed to hardware that will fly to Mars as part of the ESA ExoMars mission.
 Of particular note is that the Department owns a large number of different robots, ranging from
 robot manipulators and a robotic submarine to large all-terrain vehicles and swarms of robots.

 There is a strong connection to our research-led teaching activities where we ensure that each
 student who is enrolled on a robotics-related study scheme gets their own robot for modules in
 the first and second year to improve engagement. A dedicated member of staff is available for all
 researchers to offer training and support, in order to make use of the Supercomputing and GPU
 farm resources.

 We also benefit from a physical sciences library dedicated to the Faculty, which we share with
 our sister Departments. All important journals in our specialist area are available and the full
 online access to the IEEE and ACM digital libraries provide our researchers with indispensable
 immediate and convenient access to relevant publications in their fields of research. We also
 enjoy free access to the National Library Wales that is located adjacent to our campus.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration
 All four research groups contribute to the vitality of international research in their areas and have
 collaborated with researchers in more than 50 countries all over Europe, North and South
 America, Africa, Australia, and Asia, most notably China. According to SciVal 62.9% of our

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research output involves international collaboration, of high quality: 25% are published in the
 best 10% percent of journals, measured by CiteScore (as compared to 19.3% on average for the
 UK).

 The research in AR has been developed in cooperation with national and international academic
 collaborators including those from Universities of: Adelaide, Deakin, La Trobe, RMIT (Australia);
 Beijing Chemical Tech, Dalian Maritime, Fujian Business; North China Electric Power,
 Northwestern Poly, Sun Yat-sen, Tiajing, Xiamen (China); Coimbra (Portugal); DTU, Southern
 Denmark (Denmark); École Polytechnique, Lorraine, Paris-North (France); Institut Superieur de
 Gestion de Tunis (Tunisia); Michigan State (USA); Passau (Germany); Stellenbosch (South
 Africa); Yuan Ze (Taiwan); as well as those from Birmingham, Cardiff, Lancaster, Loughborough,
 Nottingham, Oxford, Sheffield, and Swansea. We work with many industrial companies, for a
 diverse range of real-world applications (e.g., e-commerce; transportation; crime-prevention; and
 diagnosis, for both physical and biomedical systems) that require novel data-driven learning-
 based solutions for problems such as feature selection, rule interpolation, classification and
 prediction, evolutionary optimisation, modelling and simulation. Our work has strong support
 from major companies and government organisations, nationally and internationally (e.g.,
 Candela, Huawei, MoD, QinetiQ).

 Staff in BCB work very closely with the BBSRC-funded Institute of Biological, Environmental and
 Rural Sciences (IBERS), which is also an integrated part of AU, and their wide-reaching
 international academic and industrial partners. Moreover, we work closely with bioinformaticians
 in Queens University Belfast and University of Birmingham on metagenomics and with Hywel
 Dda Health Board on data management and analytics for lung disease, also on a biobank
 information management system. We also work with industrial partner Bond Digital Health on
 systems for self-management of chronic lung disease; with industrial partner Dwr Cymru Welsh
 Water on anomaly detection in water treatment; with research groups in South Africa
 (Stellenbosch and Cape Town) on genome variation analysis; with University of Sydney on
 diagnostic tools for early pregnancy complications and endometriosis; with researchers at the
 Alan Turing Institute and the Universities of Warwick and Edinburgh on NLP/text analysis of
 scientific publications and their non-academic impact; and with colleagues at Harvard University
 and University of Florida on fish modelling thorough analysis of biological data and fluid-
 dynamics.

 The research within IR has been developed through international collaboration within academia
 (e.g., Paris Descartes and Karbala) and with industrial partners (e.g., Airbus, QinetiQ, Dstl, Lego
 Foundation, IIT). We have particular strong connections to QinetiQ (often in joint collaboration
 with the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory), recently generating £288K of direct
 research income in projects in the area of robotics around navigation, autonomous vehicles, and
 data management. Our work involves interdisciplinary collaborations with biologists (animal
 tracking and vegetation estimation), geographers (survey of rivers in New Zealand and of the
 icecap in Greenland) and psychologists (infant development). Supported with EPSRC funding,
 we also actively engage with domestic collaborations of course, e.g., to model how children
 learn from play, we worked with psychologists from the Universities of Cambridge and Cardiff.

 The research within VGV has been developed with support from international academic
 collaborators, which include UPenn, Girona, MIT, Namur, Macquarie, Minnesota, Max Planck
 Institute (Leipzig), Bern etc., and from industrial collaborators such as QinetiQ, Unilever, RHE
 Global. It involves interdisciplinary collaborations with radiologists (cancer staging and
 detection), psychologists (face modelling and perception), geologists (VR for Mars missions),
 geographers (survey of the Rees river in New Zealand to measure movement of sediment during
 flood events, survey of the icecap in Greenland to measure ice movement), marine biologists
 (video-based classification and analysis of killifish, lobster and crab), plant biologists (plant 3D
 capture and phenotyping), and archaeologists (3D reconstruction and Augmented Reality). We
 also actively engage with domestic collaborations, e.g., for a virtual heritage project, we worked
 with archaeologists from the University of Bangor, Manchester Metropolitan University and the
 University of Central Lancashire to digitise and maintain cultural heritage assets.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 To encourage international collaboration and exchanges, our staff have continued to be active in
 securing a range of grants in support of such activities over this assessment period. For
 example, we play the leadership role in a COST Action (Jansen) in the area of nature-inspired
 optimisation. This has helped to establish an extensive range of new international research
 collaborations (with colleagues in: France, Portugal, Spain, Croatia, Ireland, Czech Republic,
 Italy, Leiden, Norway and Slovenia), particularly through the two international industry
 workshops (in Denmark and Portugal respectively; participating companies included Zenzero,
 UK; Thales Group, France; AVL, Croatia and Hispasec, Spain) that we organised, facilitating
 cooperation between academic and industry partners and improving impact. We are involved in
 the Horizon 2020 Marie Curie RISE program on brain inspired solutions for intelligent navigation
 and robot mobility (Akanyeti), a large consortium including world-renowned industrial partners
 (e.g., BWM, Mathworks) and world-leading academic partners (e.g., Max Planck and Donder
 Institutes). We have won a number of Newton Fund grants, including those co-sponsored by
 British Council (Liu), by Royal Academy of Engineering (Shen), and by Royal Society
 (Zwiggelaar). Whilst these recently completed Newton Fund projects were all in collaboration
 with Chinese partners, the most recently funded one (Shen) is to support academic exchanges
 with Thai academics and industrialists, to help develop their research and innovation capacity for
 long term sustainable growth.

 In this assessment period, we welcomed many academics and industrialists to visit us, either on
 a longer-term basis (e.g., six months or one year) or through an opportunistic stay (ranging from
 a couple of days to a few weeks), from all over the world. Longer-term visitors were typically
 involved in co-implementing a dedicated research project or a significant workpackage of a
 much larger project, whilst short opportunistic stays were often for delivering an invited seminar,
 discussing a joint project proposal or co-authoring a publication. We have hosted a large number
 of such visitors, including the following senior academics, who stayed with us for at least half a
 year: Ai and Li, Northwestern Poly; Li, Sichuan; Cao and Lin, Xiamen; Jie, Electronic Science
 and Technology; Zhang, Shanghai; Zhu, Quanzhou Normal, all being from China, and Quek
 from Nanyang Technology, Singapore.

 In recognition of the national strategic importance and existing success of international
 collaboration, Welsh government has recently granted us one of the only five Strategic Partner
 Acceleration Awards (Shen and Shang) to further develop our research partnership with
 Northwestern Polytechnical University (NWPU, which is the leading institution in China for
 interdisciplinary research on AI with Aerospace and Airspace Science and Engineering). The
 collaboration between us and the School of Computer Science at NWPU over this REF period
 has been fruitful: We have jointly produced 22 papers in leading computer science and applied
 journals (including two published in 2017 that have already attracted 400+ and 130 GS cites,
 with the former listed by Remote Sensing as the most cited within the first three years since
 publication in this prestigious journal) and graduated 3 jointly supervised PhDs (including the
 exceptional graduate, Li mentioned in Section 2). Supported by this award both Universities
 have now signed an agreement to set up a joint international research centre for AI in Space
 Data Science and Engineering. This perfectly meets, and will strongly contribute to, our research
 strategic plan on the development of a sub-unit in this area (see Section 1).

 General contributions
 Members of the Department actively contribute to the vitality and sustainability of the discipline
 through a wide range of external roles. For example, over the REF period, amongst the 29 Cat-A
 staff, thirteen have served as an Associate Editor for 22 leading SCI-indexed international
 journals (with many more serving as an editorial board member), including: Artificial Intelligence
 (IF=6.628; Jansen); Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence (IF 4.201; Price); IEEE
 Transactions on Cybernetics (IF=11.097; Shen); IEEE Transactions on Evolutionary
 Computation (IF=11.169; Jansen); IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems (IF=9.518; Jensen,
 Shen); Information Sciences (IF=5.910; Li); Journal of Biomedical and Health Informatics
 (IF=5.223; Zwiggelaar); Neurocomputing (IF=4.438; Han); and Pattern Recognition (IF=7.196;
 Zwiggelaar). Also, our Cat-A staff have acted as a guest editor for many journals, including:

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Applied Soft Computing (IF=5.472; Li); IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems (IF=9.518; Li);
 Journal of Ambient Intelligence and Humanized Computing (IF=4.594; Li); and Neural
 Computing and Applications (IF=4.774; Qu).

 As such, more than 2/3rds of our Cat-A staff have played a leading editorial role in the academic
 community, covering staff at all career stages, and different genders and ethnic origins. In
 addition, our staff have participated in the organisation of well over 80 conferences during the
 assessment period, including: major international events such as ICIRA, FOGA, FUZZ-IEEE,
 GECCO, PPSN, WCCI. Since 2011 we are organising and hosting the annual iOSDevUK, a
 conference on app development for iOS devices with about 200 computer practitioners
 worldwide in attendance every year. We also host the 20th annual workshop on computational
 intelligence, this series of workshops have been strongly supported by EU and EPSRC.

 Departmental staff actively participate in peer evaluation of grant proposals. Particularly,
 members of staff sit on funding councils or grant review panels nationally and internationally,
 e.g., Clare on panel for RAEng Research Fellowships; Price on Irish Higher Education Research
 Council; Shen on panels for: National Center of Science and Technology Evaluation,
 Kazakhstan, and Yangtze River Research Professorship Selection, China; and Zwiggelaar on
 panels for: EPSRC and Health and Care Research Wales. Additionally, Lee, Shen, Wilson and
 Zwiggelaar served as standing members of EPSRC peer review college, with Jansen and
 Zarges being associate college members; and Price, Shen and Zwiggelaar are on the EPSRC
 future leader fellowship peer college. Also, during this assessment period, our Cat-A staff have
 acted as an external examiner for 66 PhD dissertations, including 28 produced in 14 foreign
 countries (Australia, Belgium, China, France, Greece, India, Italy, Malaysia, Norway, Pakistan,
 Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Thailand). Furthermore, staff have undertaken various
 consultancy duties, including major roles (e.g., as advice board member or scientific adviser to
 an established company) served by: Akanyeti for AberInnovation; Price for Apple and Certiport;
 and Shen for Agxio.

 Research activities conducted by our staff make substantial contributions to the research base,
 economy and society (see Section 1 for a brief summary from research impact perspective). We
 are also proactively engaged in outreach and public engagement activities that contribute to the
 University’s civic mission (see REF5a) and to enhancing public understanding of science,
 including events such as the National Eisteddfod of Wales Science Village (which attracts
 approximately 150,000 attendees annually). Reflecting the Department’s commitment to EDI
 issues, a notable emphasis has been on activities that support the vitality and sustainability of
 computer science research by engaging new audiences, including young people. Over this REF
 period and prior to the Covid-19 pandemic, we have organised: around 150 public events
 involving local schools (via school visits, robotics club, and science fairs); and an annual public
 robotics beach lab show for local community and beyond. We also host monthly regional BCS
 talks and run Aberystwyth Robotics Week attracting popular attendance by staff, students and
 people from the wider community. These activities help raise awareness of the development of
 AI research and the advancement of AI applications, and attract future generations of scientists
 and engineers.




                                                                                             Page 14
