Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Coventry University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA33: Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen
 Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

The Unit is centred on the Centre for Dance Research (C-DaRE), which was officially launched in
2015 as part of the University’s significant investment in supporting research excellence, although
some of its research activities pre-dated the reorganisation. Research in C-DaRE has grown out of
the Performance strand that was identified as a strength within the University’s submission to
UoAD34 in REF2014. This is, therefore, a new Unit for the University, reflecting that since 2014,
research in performing arts has consolidated and expanded around dance as the primary
discipline. Whilst built upon research with dance at the core, the Unit embraces interdisciplinary,
cross-disciplinary and transdisciplinary research. With a strategic investment in 17 new core
research staff including artist-researchers, a significant growth in the postgraduate research (PGR)
community from three to 35 and a research income of over £2.6m in this period, the Unit is
delivering a large (relative to the discipline) and diverse submission. A strength of the Unit has
been its reputation for focusing on the nexus between funded research, public engagement, and
joint and single-authored research publications and multimodal outputs (316 in this period). The
Unit’s research is noted for developing innovation in practice research and promoting the
conversation between dance and digital humanities. Research is impactful and establishes
productive links between scholarly research, professional practice and learning innovation.

The research objectives of the Unit, as set out in the UoAD34 submission in 2014 and
developed since within D33, have been to consolidate a world-leading research profile, developing
researchers at all stages of their careers to be thought leaders. We have championed partnerships
with experts across disciplinary boundaries and in collaboration with cultural institutions and
organisations worldwide, generating significant grant income and producing a diverse range of
outputs. The submission includes the work of researchers who are core members of C-DaRE and
staff who are Associated to C-DaRE or conduct research that links to the Unit’s main themes. The
major strands of research are clustered around dance, performance and digital technologies
(deLahunta, Blades, Gibson, Whatley, Wood, Bisig, Gorman), intangible cultural heritage
(Waelde, Whatley, Wood, Cisneros, Crawley, McCulloch, Li, Collela, Palka), performance,
choreography and composition (Davies, Burrows, Lee, Ellis, Gibson, Palka, Williams, Collis,
Panizza), dance and disability (Whatley, Waelde, Blades, Foellmer), health and well-being
(Meehan, Habron), somatic practices (Whatley, Lee, Meehan, Gibson, Evans, Reed), dance as
embodied knowledge (deLahunta, Blades, Burrows, Thoms, Ellis), dance and analytic and
continental philosophy (Blades, Foellmer), and dance and politics (Foellmer, Thoms, Storey).
Whilst themes have emerged from individual strengths and have led to distinctive research
outputs, a characteristic of the Unit’s research is its collaborative ethos, and research enquiries
that deliberately bring domains of knowledge together. For example, how practice research and
documentation generate questions and insights around artistic process and meaning (Ellis,
Burrows, Davies, deLahunta, Lee) and how legal frameworks (Waelde) influence the way dance
is made, recorded, disseminated and impacts on different communities.

Our research has met the objectives set in 2014 relevant to our area in the following ways. We
have built on research begun in the EU-funded RICHES project, continuing through several other

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
high-profile EU-funded projects which we have led, or partnered on, including Europeana Space,
Civic Epistemologies, WhoLoDance, REACH, Kaleidoscope and CultureMoves to explore
different aspects of cultural practices. This includes interrogating the role of legal frameworks in
protecting artistic works and cultural heritage, and the role of digital tools including annotation
processes to generate new insights to analysing, documenting and scoring dance practices. Of
note is deLahunta’s extension of the Motion Bank project, supported through a joint initiative
between C-DaRE, Mainz University of Applied Sciences, Deakin University (Dance Data Network)
and funded by the Aventis Foundation. Motion Bank has led to a series of international
Choreographic Coding Labs in conjunction with leading dance artists and cultural centres.
Research outputs across the Unit have reflected this diversity and include text-based publications,
performances, films, exhibitions, installations and websites.

Leadership in the Unit has grown from a single Professor in Dance in 2014 (Whatley) to include
Professor in Dance (deLahunta) and Professor in Intellectual Property Law (Waelde) as core
members of C-DaRE and Professor in Theatre Education (Evans, C-DaRE Associate). The Unit
presents research from 27 members of staff (23.6 FTE) at different stages of their careers, from
post-doctoral Fellow and Assistant Professors (13.8 x FTE), through to Associate Professors (6.7
FTE) and full Professors (3.1 FTE).

Our international research reputation has built through Unit staff participating in many pan-
European projects; funded visits to overseas HEIs; visiting scholars taking up sabbaticals with us
from Brazil, Australia, Italy and China, and through a PGR community that includes many
international candidates who join us to benefit from the expertise of the staff team.

Our PGR community has grown around our particular and ground-breaking expertise in the digital
archiving of dance, developed from the Siobhan Davies RePlay digital archive project (Whatley)
and digital dance scoring and annotation processes (deLahunta, Blades). Similarly, the expertise in
practice research, for performance spaces (Burrows, Davies) screen (Ellis, Cisneros), site (Lee,
Crawley), disability (Whatley), composition (Williams) and immersive environments, involving
motion capture and mixed reality (Gibson) has attracted a cluster of practice-researchers.

Specialist expertise in gender, trauma and research methodologies (Thoms) and how dance
operates within a broader social and political field (Foellmer, Thoms) has contributed to the
expansion of the PGR community. The Unit has benefitted from a significant number of University-
funded PhD studentships (24 in the period, including two ‘Trail Blazers’ in collaboration with
external partners to support ECRs to gain supervision expertise, and 2 cotutelles with Deakin
University) augmented by the award of AHRC-funded Collaborative Doctoral Awards, a
Leverhulme Trust funded PhD and one collaborative PhD with the University of Warwick,
responding to a closer engagement with Warwick University through the Coventry City of Culture
initiative and funded research (Meehan). Our recent inclusion in the AHRC-funded Midlands4Cities
(M4C) Doctoral Training Programme has resulted in five funded PhDs. The growth has fed into a
dynamic and collegial research environment, supporting growth in quality and collaborative
research.

A feature of our research impact strategy has been the partnering with leading external sector-
facing organisations, including dance companies, cultural institutions, commissioning venues and
galleries, and individual arts practitioners. Our strategy is focused on impact that benefits the
cultural sector, quality of life and society including health and wellbeing, and by extension, public

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
policy. The potential for research impact guides the development and delivery of all funded
projects. Partner organisations (including People Dancing, One Dance UK) are integral to
ensuring our research maximises impact.

The selected Impact Case Studies reflect the extended research that has directly involved a range
of stakeholders across the creative and cultural industries. This research has generated change
within the professional disabled dance community (see Dance, Disability and Law (ICS1)), on
cultural organisations and software providers working with digitised dance content (see Dance,
digitalisation and intangible cultural heritage (ICS2)), on audiences, arts producers, and on children
and their families in hospital (see The MAN A Collection: Influencing engagement in dance through
innovative digital interfaces (ICS3)). The development of online toolkits and dissemination events
for professional organisations, as well as practice research taking place in public spaces, where
performance can intervene and critique the nature and forms of public engagement, leads to a
range of significant impacts focused on creativity, culture and society, and health and well-being
(ICS1). Research also addresses policy in relation to marginalised communities (Cisneros), micro
creative industries and international trade (Waelde) and small arts organisations and freelance
practitioners (Wood).

A commitment to interdisciplinarity has expanded the breadth and range of the Unit’s research,
enabling researchers to conduct collaborative research across the arts and with diverse
disciplinary fields including engineering, computing science, psychology, anthropology and health
(see ICSs1; 2 and 3). Waelde’s appointment has enabled the Centre to take a leading role in
developing new insights into how legal frameworks such as copyright and human rights impact on
dance, performance and cultural heritage, in the UK and internationally. This research forms the
basis of the impact case study, ICS1, and several funded research projects. For example,
increasing awareness of lung health is the focus for The Air Network (Waelde); a cross-council
project involving arts and science experts using participatory methods including forum theatre,
dance, music and puppetry with slum communities in Mukuru, Nairobi.

We are committed to research that is open and accessible and that maximises reach and impact.
Our C-DaRE e-book, A World of Muscle, Bone & Organs: Research and Scholarship in Dance
(2018), features contributions from all C-DaRE researchers as well as PGRs, and is free to access
online to show our firm commitment to open access. Our second e-book in collaboration with
authors in Brazil, published in both English and Portuguese; Exchanging, Moving, Translating:
thoughts on dance and disability does the same.

Other modes of dissemination make use of open channels for sharing practice research and the
research is itself experimenting with digital methods of access to, and interaction with, research,
including for example through blogs (Ellis) and digital dance annotation (deLahunta), which are
effective for sharing dance data as well as research outputs. Research in many projects includes
co-design and citizen science (e.g. Civic Epistemologies) to emphasise open research methods.

The breadth of the theoretical fields represented within C-DaRE promotes generative dialogue
between researchers. This also ensures that Waelde’s legal expertise, particularly in respect of IP
and licensing, informs our methods, our approach to open access, whilst also developing new
research enquiries within the domain of dance. This has been key for developing confidence for
researchers to publish under open licenses, including digital apps and online toolkits (see the three
impact case studies) whilst also contributing to debates within the dance/performance sector about

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the responsibilities of researchers to the individual and to the discipline more widely, e.g. in
association with the Practice Research Advisory Group (PRAG) and Open Online Theatre.

Our commitment to a culture of research integrity is demonstrated by a robust process of
supporting researchers to conduct ethical research. Ethics leads in C-DaRE (Cisneros, Wood)
provide monthly clinics to support C-DaRE staff and PGRs in planning, delivering and monitoring
research to ensure adherence to relevant ethical, legal and professional standards. Ethics is also a
standard item on monthly C-DaRE Team Meetings. Ethics is not only core to how the Unit’s
research is carried out with integrity but is also the specific focus of research enquiries and funded
research, promoting a principle of ‘ethics in practice’ (Ellis, Cisneros, Wood). Research that is
carried out with those who may be vulnerable through experiencing marginalisation, impairment, ill-
health or precarity from other disabling conditions, employs methods that foster researching with
the participants, through co-design and participatory research.

Future Aims

The objectives of the Unit over the next five years are to build on the momentum of this current
REF period, maintaining excellence through an ambitious and proactive research culture that is
intellectually rigorous, works towards greater international integration, improves impact, and
dissolves disciplinary and methodological boundaries. The Unit will continue to support the
development and progression for all researchers within a culture of equity, diversity and inclusion,
prioritising increasing representation from those communities currently under-represented in the
Unit, particularly to secure positions of power and authority. Research will capitalise on the new
Creative Cultures Institute structure (from 2021) to build more opportunities for collaboration with
dance at the core of enquiries. In line with the University’s research strategy, we will focus on the
following:

Research Themes

The Unit will aim to build consortia with our national and international partners to develop major
bids for funding, strengthening and expanding research strands that have benefitted from recent
funding awards. These include the Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions Individual Fellowship (Bisig),
for progressing our research into dance/science connections through computer vision and
machine learning; AHRC-funded research (Meehan) exploring the role of dance in managing
chronic pain; the AHRC/British Council/British Academy-funded research into the complexities
of dance and cultural heritage in developing countries (Waelde, Thoms, Blades), funding to
investigate dance for and with marginalised communities (Cisneros) and inclusion in dance
(Whatley). An underpinning theme is research into the discipline itself and the nature of
choreographic practices. C-DaRE will further capitalise on its track record in research into the
impact of digital technologies on dance, questions relating to ‘ownership’ in dance, and through
the EPSRC-funded project (Gibson) on immersive interaction design and interactive machine
learning, extending our research into the impact of dance and embodied knowledge on our
relationships to technology, including AI and ethics (deLahunta). The Unit will also expand into
areas that have been initiated by researchers examining dance in the context of politics, race,
identity and inclusion (Ellis, Cisneros, Foellmer), and in research enriched learning and
teaching (Crawley), including in the context of inclusive adult education (Cisneros). C-DaRE will
both seek to influence future research funding initiatives and respond to new research funding
streams. The Unit’s relationship with the AHRC has led to working towards co-hosting a UK-wide

                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
event in 2021 to examine future funding for dance research, with the aim to take a leading role in
shaping future research strategy.

Impact through partnerships and public engagement

Building on our Impact Case Studies and excellence in practice research, the Unit will extend
partnerships with cultural organisations, both in the UK (e.g. People Dancing, Chisenhale Dance
Space, Candoco Dance Company, METAL, British Museum, V&A, DanceXchange, Dance4,
Belgrade Theatre) and internationally (e.g. Fondazione Sistema Toscana, ICK Amsterdam,
Stiftung Preussischer Kultuerbesitz Berlin, Promoter Italy) to lead collaborative research that
demonstrates the value of embodied and tacit knowledge to the humanities more broadly. Future
impact will be generated by engaging new audiences for live and online cultural projects (including
performances, films, exhibitions) through exploring new platforms, venues and outdoor sites, to
expand ideas of space, place and belonging. New collaborators will be sought to strengthen our
commitment to develop ethical, transdisciplinary and challenging research that focuses on the
role of human movement and physical intelligence in helping to confront and solve societal
challenges, for living well, and with respect for public health, the environment and social cohesion.
Links to support local communities will be expanded by engaging in cultural activity for wellbeing,
including refugee and migrant groups and those living with long-term health conditions. As part of
the Unit’s continuing contribution to sustaining the discipline, webinars and online conversations
will be offered on themes relevant for researchers, artists and educators including on embodiment,
communities, and ethics in practice, capitalising on links with Independent Dance, Dance HE and
the Centre for Performance Philosophy at University of Surrey to tackle the impact of institutional
racism in HE contexts.

Outputs

The Unit will continue to enhance the quality, range and diversity of outputs, expanding the
opportunities for international co-authorship with Unit partners and developing our leadership in
multi-modal practice research. For example, through the Cultures of Dance – European
Research Network for Dance Studies (CoDa) project, opportunities to collaborate and publish
with European colleagues will be identified to maintain and expand the exchange of dance
expertise in post-Brexit UK. A commitment to open access publishing and contribution to rethinking
metrics in relation to diverse research outputs will continue to be built on (Foellmer).

Research students

To ensure the Unit grows through developing the next generation of world-class researchers,
continued support will be given to a strong community of PGRs, building on the Unit’s track record
in attracting highly capable applicants. Two high-achieving PGRs have been successful as part of
the University’s recently launched Post-doc Fellowship programme, building on our research into
dance, disability and inclusion (ICS1). Efforts to ensure diversity will be extended by attracting
PGRs under-represented in the Unit. The Unit will grasp the opportunities provided by the M4C
Doctoral Training Partnership to develop more activities with consortium partners and partner
organisations, whilst strategically allocating University studentships to support emerging areas of
research excellence. In addition, the Unit will also build on our cotutelle offer with Deakin University
and through a new cotutelle partnership with Aarhus University, focusing on dance dramaturgy.



                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
International reach

Research in association with international partners will be extended, including through the CoDa
research consortium and through emerging projects funded through the Horizon Europe
programme to foreground the importance of embodied knowledge. Collaborations with researchers
in Australia, New Zealand, Southern Africa, and South East Asia will be expanded. The Unit will
extend research seeded through the British Council-funded exchange with Federal University of
Rio-Grande do Sul (UFRGS) in Brazil, to explore transnational research into digital archiving of
dance, disability and inclusion in dance, and the intersections between dance and health.



 2. People

Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

The University has made a significant investment in dance research, recognising the strengths
established by 2014 which have been consolidated since, through the recruitment of core research
staff from post-doctoral early career to professorial level. The initial recruitment of new
appointments to establish C-DaRE included one Professor (Waelde), one Reader (Foellmer), four
Senior Research Fellows/Artist-Researchers (Ellis, Burrows, Lee, Davies), one Research Fellow
(Thoms), and three post-doctoral Research Assistants. The expansion also included recruitment to
support funded research projects (Cisneros, Wood, Colella), and continuing support from the
University has enabled previously fixed term funded research roles to become permanent (Gibson,
Wood, Cisneros). This strategy has enabled C-DaRE to build capacity at all levels, supporting the
successful awarding of further funded research projects. This has, in turn, generated the growth of
further research activity in core areas including, for example, Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellow Bisig.
The Centre has also capitalised on the University’s investment in full studentships for PGRs by
being able to offer post-doctoral employment to three PGRs, two progressing to Assistant
Professor (previous winner of the Ede and Ravenscroft Award for Academic Excellence, Blades;
Crawley). Three Visiting Professors (Caroline Bowditch, Helen Thomas, Amanda Williamson) and
Visiting Fellow Harriet Deacon contribute to the broader research culture, collaborating on PGR
support, funded research and co-authoring.

Promotions during the period have included one Professor (deLahunta), one Reader (Gibson), and
three Assistant Professors (Meehan, Blades, Wood). The promotions signal the importance of a
programme of career development that is building a long-term staffing plan that ensures a balance
between seniority and entry-level researchers for the health of dance research and its future in the
University. The Unit includes Associates of C-DaRE and staff who conduct research within the
scope of the Unit (9.4 FTE). Research extends the Unit into areas including music composition and
performance (Williams, Panizza, Collis), theatre (Storey, Gorman) as well as the intersection of
dance and literature (McCulloch) and law (Li). Associates are employed in Faculty Schools in the
University and have either 20% or 40% of their contract seconded to develop and undertake
research. Associates are supported by a named mentor in C-DaRE and by the University’s
Research Services team to develop research capability, to develop PGR supervision experience,
collaborate on research activities and to support the development of bids for funding.

Many staff have progressed successfully, reflecting the ambition and achievement of researchers
in the Unit. Opportunities to take up C-DaRE roles in areas such as internationalisation (Meehan),

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
industry engagement (Gibson), PGR lead (Thoms), public engagement (Wood) and ethics in
research (Cisneros and Wood) provide leadership development opportunities. Staff successes are
recognised through annual University staff awards and several have been successful (Cisneros -
Coventry University Equality and Diversity Award for work on campus 2015; Whatley, Waelde,
Wood, Blades– Coventry University Research Team of the Year 2017).

C-DaRE offers a nurturing, supportive and challenging research environment in which regular
activities support and stretch researchers at all stages of their careers, growing future research
leaders who champion the place of culture in society. C-DaRE research staff and PGRs are co-
located to encourage and support a collaborative research culture. Associates regularly attend
research support activities including a comprehensive series of research events, seminars,
conferences and public engagement activities. A monthly Reading Group, open to all researchers
and PGRs, focuses on supporting academic dialogue and debate, supporting new research
trajectories. A PGR-led praxis group meets to explore research that integrates theoretical and
practice research. The ECRs meet on a regular basis as a peer-support group, to share research
in process and debate issues relevant for their own research needs. Senior researchers join on a
regular (invited) basis to support particular processes, including peer reading of draft publications,
funding bids and other research in progress. An online ‘Research Café’, initiated during the first
covid-lockdown period, continues to provide an open and informal space for sharing research in
development, debating research issues and to sustain a sense of research community. Practice
research is directly supported by Ellis who guides early career practice researchers as well as our
highly experienced artist-researchers (Lee, Davies, Burrows, Gibson). Guidance is given to
develop and frame a research profile and to support writing for publication, conference
dissemination and leading or contributing to funded research projects. Most researchers are
directly involved in funded research, in which is built a research mentoring structure, to support
less experienced researchers through all stages of project delivery, impact and research output
generation.

The University’s Research Services team provides comprehensive pre- and post-award support,
including bid preparation, costing, impact, legal oversight and financial management. In addition to
Centre-led activities, researchers regularly participate in and contribute to, the University’s wide-
ranging support (via the Doctoral College and Centre for Research Capability and Development)
for researchers at all stages of their careers, from PGRs to Professors. This includes training in
mentoring, preparing funding applications, writing for publication, as well as a range of professional
development support activities. An extensive programme of support for doctoral supervision also
ensures that all supervisory teams are fully equipped to support PGRs from draft proposal stage
through to completion; a mandatory programme is undertaken by all supervisors. As a matter of
course, supervision teams include an experienced Director of Studies, another subject expert and
an early career researcher to gain supervision experience.

All staff in C-DaRE have a line-manager within the Centre, apart from Whatley, who as Executive
Director (ED) is line-managed by the Faculty’s Associate Dean Research, meeting regularly to
discuss research plans and research objectives. Schedules are agreed that take account of
individual needs, stage in research career and identify training needs, including mentoring where
appropriate. The annual appraisal process includes regular ‘check-ins’ throughout the academic
year to monitor progress towards achieving objectives and to identify successes and where
additional support may be required. Individual needs are always considered and flexible working



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
arrangements are in place to accommodate those with caring responsibilities or other individual
circumstances.

Investment in researchers

Each staff member in C-DaRE has a notional allocation of funds to spend on supporting career
development, including presenting their research at conferences and for other travel needs.
Requests for additional funding for ‘one-off’ unanticipated opportunities can be made and where
budget allows, will be funded. University (QR) funding schemes are also offered to support
researchers on their research journey, focused predominantly but not exclusively on ECRs.
Funding awards, totalling c£145K for this period, have supported a number of important research
activities, building partnerships (Research Collaboration Fellowships: Meehan – in 2015 to
undertake research into dance and somatic practices in Hong Kong; Academy of Performing Arts
and HK University; Blades – mobility funding to visit Brazil; Gibson – to undertake research in New
Zealand), pump priming research (Blades, Gibson, Meehan), and purchasing specialist research
equipment (Gibson, Wood) and policy-based research (Wood, Cisneros, Ellis). Staff who are
Associates of C-DaRE have opportunities to apply for funding from their School or Faculty to
support research activity including support for conference presentations. For example, travel funds
supported Gorman’s travel to Finland, Poland, Denmark and the US for his Telepresence in the
Performing Arts and Advanced Networking Project that focuses on cross-country online rehearsal
theatre training. The Unit’s staffing strategy and staff development processes comply fully with the
Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.

Research Students

Benefitting from the University’s increased investment in PhD Studentships during this cycle, the
Centre has attracted PGR students from a wide range of backgrounds, from those graduating from
research intensive Universities through to mature candidates with established professional careers
who want time to reflect on and theorise their practice. Two cotutelle PhDs with Deakin University
have emerged from our combined expertise in digital archives, immersive dance environments and
the visualisation of human movement on different platforms. In sum, 30% PGRs have come from
overseas, including from Australia, USA, The Netherlands, Thailand, Germany, Brazil, Switzerland,
Cyprus, South Africa and Norway, reflecting the international reputation of researchers. This
creates a vibrant and diverse community of PGRs who fully participate in C-DaRE’s research
programme. From the time they enrol to completion, candidates are considered ECRs so
participate in all activities, contributing to organising conferences and symposia, including leading
their own events. Events and activities include organising a PhD-led ‘Unsymposium’ in 2016,
providing editorial support for the Unit’s Journals, co-authoring with staff and shadowing
researchers on funded research projects, thereby gaining valuable research skills. PGRs can also
be employed up to six hours a week, teaching undergraduates to gain teaching experience.

The close working environment ensures that PGRs benefit from a peer community, enabling a
record of on-time completion with minor or no corrections (from nil to 18 completions in this cycle).
An allowance of £250pa is available to support research activity with additional funding available in
years two and three to support presenting at research conferences. Two AHRC-funded
Collaborative Doctoral Awards have built valuable relationships with collaborating partners
(Siobhan Davies Dance and People Dancing). Collaboration also happens with other
Universities at supervision level (e.g. Universities of Bedfordshire, Oxford Brookes, De Montfort

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and Trinity Laban Conservatoire of Music and Dance). The PGR lead for C-DaRE (Thoms) holds
regular meetings with the PGR group, providing discussion sessions on themes such as viva
preparation, conclusion writing and career preparation. Recruitment processes have been adjusted
to increase participation and particularly from those with protected characteristics, with appropriate
support in place where relevant. The University’s Doctoral College also provides an extensive
programme of research workshops, symposia and an annual conference that supports PGRs
throughout their PhD journey. The PhD Curriculum Framework ensures a robust progression
process from induction to completion and includes regular progress reviews.

In 2018, the University joined the successful AHRC-funded Midlands4Cities Doctoral Training
Partnership (Waelde as one of two ‘site directors’), building the Centre’s PGR community through
a funded open call and CDA Studentships. PhD students have been successful in publishing their
research in peer-reviewed books and journals (e.g., Dance Research, Performance Research,
Leonardo, Performance Philosophy, Research in Dance Education, Performance Paradigm,
Journal of Dance and Somatic Practices, Brain, Body, Cognition) and have been selected to
present their research at prestigious international conferences such as Dance Studies Association,
International Association for Dance Medicine and Science, MOCO, Dance Fields, and
Computational Creativity. PhD graduates have also been successful at securing academic
positions. Four PGRs have been appointed to post-doctoral research positions within C-DaRE.
Seven PGRs without prior substantive academic posts have gained academic positions in the UK
or overseas. Destinations include Universities of Auckland, Northeaston, University of Arts
Helsinki, Trinity Laban Conservatoire of Music and Dance, Edge Hill, Wolverhampton and
Sunderland.

Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

The Unit has a gender balance in favour of women. Women represent 72% of the core C-DaRE
staff and 67% of the Unit overall (24% above sector average). The BAME community is 9%; 4%
above sector average but is in focus for future recruitment. PGRs from the BAME community
represent 31% of the cohort, above the sector average (11%). Several of the team have had
periods of maternity leave since 2014. Flexibility both maximises staff performance, which often
necessitates working away from the University and the researcher’s home and is set against
programming ‘retreats’ and times for concentrated periods for the whole research team to be
physically together. Flexible working allows for researchers to be supported in spending time
released from other duties to carry out a concentrated research project or focused period of writing
or practice. Staff achievement against objectives as well as exceptional performance is recognised
through merit awards and promotion. Senior staff have Centre-wide roles such as impact
development (Waelde, Ellis), convening reading groups and research cafes (Foellmer) and online
resource development (deLahunta).

Research themes in the Unit not only directly address issues of equality, diversity and inclusion
(EDI) but drive decisions about role allocation and leadership development within the Centre,
which are regularly reviewed within processes for promotion and recognition. EDI is promoted
through a C-DaRE ‘champion’ and a wide range of University schemes and policies; it is a guiding
principle that underpins the research carried out in the Unit and is the focus for underpinning
research in the impact case studies, ICSs1; 2. Workshop activities are designed to promote
understanding of EDI. Processes to ensure EDI issues are embedded within the Unit’s research,
relate to those set out in the University’s Code of Practice. Cisneros’ contribution to a project

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
focused on widening participation for ‘Gypsies, Travellers, Roma, Showmen and Boaters into
Higher Education’ was subsequently shortlisted for the 2020 Times Higher Education’s ‘Widening
participation or outreach initiative of the year’ award. The appointment of disabled dance artist,
Caroline Bowditch, as Visiting Professor, is also important for our commitment to building an
inclusive research environment which is reflected in the Unit’s support for disabled researchers and
PGRs.

Processes for recruiting staff and PGRs are regularly reviewed, ensuring that notices are posted
following access guidelines and can reach diverse communities. EDI is also a regular item on
monthly team meetings to ensure that all researchers are committed to EDI in all aspects of their
work and are empowered to request support where needed. Each researcher and PGR is shown
respect for protected characteristics and are supported on an individual basis and without
prejudice. Consequently, individual researchers have been supported to work productively through
flexible and/or remote working and study leave, managing long-term health conditions, and have
been supported in leadership roles, in funding applications and in accessing internal funds for
research.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research funding and strategies for generating income

A rich variety of income for research has come from a wide range of sources, totalling over £10m
in grants awarded and over £2.6 million income to the Unit for the period. As PIs and CoIs,
significant research income has been awarded from UKRI (£858k); from AHRC for projects
ranging from Responsive Mode (Whatley, Meehan, Waelde), Research Networks (Waelde,
Whatley, Meehan) the EPSRC (Gibson), MRC (Waelde), Follow-on for Impact and Engagement
(deLahunta, Waelde, Whatley) and strategic programmes (Blades, Gibson, Waelde). Funding has
also been awarded to researchers as PIs and Co-Is from the Leverhulme Trust (Whatley,
Meehan), Wellcome Trust seed funding (Whatley), British Academy (Ellis, Waelde), British
Council (Waelde, Blades), Heritage Lottery Fund (Palka), Digital Catapult Researcher in
Residence Programme (Blades) and the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (Foellmer).
Consultancy has also generated income, with Blades funded to support the work of Digital Theatre
Plus and Spectra (2015-2017). Additional funding has been secured from European Commission
(£1.53m) from a number of collaborative projects funded through the FP7, Creative Europe, Marie
Skłodowska-Curie actions and Horizon2020 programmes. Researchers have led large consortia
(e.g. Whatley: Europeana Space awarded €4.95m) and have been partners as part of
multidisciplinary teams; e.g. engineering, computing science, neuroscience, GLAM professionals
(Cisneros, Crawley, deLahunta, Waelde, Whatley, Wood) resulting in digital resources and policy
briefings (ICS 2), and a notable number of high-quality outputs.

Significant funding has also been awarded to individual researchers from sources other than those
accounted for via HESA to support research activity over this period, totalling just over £1m.
Funding has been awarded from Arts Council England (ACE), Arts Council of Ireland (ACI) and
a number of other funding bodies, international funders and commissioners. Funds have supported
innovative practice research, including creating performances, screen dance works, exhibitions
and installations. Funding has been awarded to Palka (2017) from Kulturamt Kreuzberg-
Friedrichshain, Berlin; to Meehan (2014 and 2016) from ACI for a Dance Bursary and for a Dance

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Project to create the Live Archive Project on the work of Dublin Contemporary Dance Theatre
(exhibition and touring performance to venues in Ireland); to Davies from ACE for
Material/Rearranged/To/Be and Transparencies; and to Burrows from the National Lottery
through ACE for Any Table Any Room and from Sadler’s Wells Theatre for 52 Portraits (2015/16
and 2016/17). Gibson’s research has received support from multiple sources including the Fund of
the Creative Arts Industries University of Auckland to support WAHAWAEWAO, from ACE,
and Arts Council of New Zealand, Creative XR Digital Catapult and Light Moves Screendance
Lab. Gibson’s commissions and residencies include Dartmouth College (USA), XYZ, Barbican
Revolution 5 Year World Tour, Selfridges, QUAD (Derby), and CAFKA/Christie (Canada) (see
ICS3). Lee’s work has been funded by ACE, the National Lottery, Creative Europe and Liquid
Gold is in the Air was awarded an ACE Exceptional Award. McCulloch was awarded an Ivor
Guest Research Grant (2019) for 'what masques, what dances shall we have’: Dancing at the
Court of James VI of Scotland and Evans received funds from the Society for Theatre Research
to support the project: History of UK Mime and Physical Theatre.

International funders have supported deLahunta as member of three project teams including for
the Thinking Brains and Bodies: Distributed Cognition and Dynamic Memory in Australian Dance
Theatre project (2013-2016) funded through the Australian Research Council Linkage (LIEF)
Grant led by CJ Stevens, the Collaborative embodied movement design project led by Kim Vincs,
funded by a LIEF Grant (2017 – 2018); and as member of the EU FP7 Marie Curie Initial
Training Network (led by John May; University of Plymouth) CogNovo: Cognitive Innovation:
Project 7. Mental imagery and social interaction in dance choreography project (2013-2017).
Foellmer was Academic Consultant for the project Whodidwhattowhomwasneverreallyclear...
funded through the digiS programme of the Berlin Senate for Culture and Europe (2017) and led
a project funded by the Commission for support of female ECRs (KFN), FU Berlin.

Organisational, operational and scholarly infrastructure supporting research and impact
C-DaRE has benefitted from the University’s ‘Excellence with Impact’ strategy to establish and
invest in a number of focused Research Centres. Decisions about the strategic direction and
activities within C-DaRE are discussed at Centre level, through monthly Research Centre
meetings, Chaired by ED Whatley. Monthly meetings review the Centre’s portfolio of funded
research and a range of additional meetings with central and local professional services support
staff provide a continuous review of impact activities, future funding proposals and PGR
recruitment. The Centre’s Operations Manager works closely with the ED on strategy, budgeting
and future planning. The Centre is subject to an annual review prepared by the ED and Operations
Manager, reviewed by a panel comprising senior management of the University, Chaired by the
Vice Chancellor. Researchers are members of various University committees and have served on
the University’s Academic Board.

The research culture in C-DaRE is facilitated by the co-location of research staff, professional
support staff, and PGRs in one building and who work across a number of open plan work spaces,
with meeting rooms for large and small communal activities, a kitchen, and quiet reading room. We
house our own collection of rare dance publications, donated archives and continue to host the
Siobhan Davies RePlay digital archive; all valuable resources for staff and PGR research. We also
house the Chisenhale Archive on a temporary basis to facilitate PhD research, loaned from the
V&A. Our facilities in the building also include a flexible dance studio, which is available on a full-
time basis for research activity, thereby facilitating extended periods of research investigation by
staff and PGRs, residencies by artist-researchers and public events that extend over several days.

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The flexibility provided by the research studio also enables complex technical setups to support
intensive research projects, such as those involving motion capture/tracking equipment (ICSs2; 3).
A range of state-of-the-art equipment, including a perception neuron and notch wearable motion
sensing system, digital cameras, high-spec computers and iPads, supports on-site and off-site
research, for staff and PGRs. Technical support is provided by a specialist technician, who works
in close collaboration with the staff team, advising on technical matters and supporting funding
applications, conferences and all public engagement events.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

A feature of the research in the Unit is its emphasis on collaboration across the academic
community, with researchers in related or different disciplinary fields (including psychology, law,
anthropology, computing science, engineering, cognitive linguistics and health) within and well
beyond the UK, and with partners in industry. Funded research projects such as the AHRC-funded
InVisible Difference; Dance, Disability and Law project (PI Whatley) produced an edited book
(Intellect) focusing on the intersection between dance, law and disability and built collaborations
with the Universities of Exeter, Aberdeen and Edinburgh, as well as leading disabled dance artists
and companies. The project led to an AHRC-funded follow-on project for impact and engagement
(PI Whatley, Co-I Waelde), creating an online toolkit focusing on new business models for dance
and how legal frameworks can support dance, aimed as the professional dance and performance
community. The project seeded further projects (Blades) focusing on similar themes with the
Universities of Dundee and York empowering disabled people in post-conflict Sri Lanka through
dance (ICS1).

Gibson’s Reality Remix project funded through the AHRC Next Generation of Immersive
Experiences call developed links with the University of Abertay and several industry partners to
generate new insights to how audiences engage with immersive arts experiences. The research
led Gibson to collaborate on the EPSRC-funded project led by Goldsmiths and in partnership with
the University of the Arts; 4i: Immersive Interaction Design For Indie Developers with
Interactive machine Learning, producing tools for small developers to perform immersive
interactive design. Research into creativity, combining psychology and dance, created partnerships
with Plymouth University and Trinity Laban for the Leverhulme Trust funded In the Dancer’s Mind
project (CoI Whatley). The project uncovered new understanding about how dancers choreograph
and collaborate, informing dance pedagogy and training methods. The AHRC-funded Sensing the
City project (Meehan) built a partnership with Warwick University leading to a public exhibition,
edited book and digital resources, as well as insights to inform urban planning. The partnership
with Warwick has extended into several other collaborative projects involving local artists and
communities (Cisneros, Crawley, Meehan, Palka), funded as part of the Universities’ City of
Culture funding schemes and the Warwick Creative Exchange programme. This research has
directly worked in association with and supported Coventry’s Roma community, Irish community
and older people in ‘extra care’ homes who experience isolation.

Cross-disciplinary research, such as the AHRC-funded Error Network project (CoI Whatley)
secured a partnership with the University of Leeds to reveal insights to the creative potential of
error across disciplinary fields and the production of an edited book (Palgrave Macmillan). The
partnership developed further through a Wellcome Trust seed funded project; Identity and
Governance of Bodily Extensions: The Case of Prosthetics and Avatars and the AHRC-
funded Network Project Social Choreography (CoI Whatley). Both projects showed the way

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
dance can inform policy in relation to enhancing the lives of marginalised, disabled or
disadvantaged communities, including Coventry’s Refugee and Migrant Centre and refugee camps
in Chad. A partnership with Edge Hill University secured another AHRC-funded Network Project
Somatic practice, chronic pain and self-care technology (PI Meehan) combining arts-based
and science-based research (spanning dance, nursing, occupational therapy, physiotherapy and
psychology) to provide resources to support those with a lived experience of persistent pain.

Ellis’s British Academy-funded project in partnership with the Universities of Brunel and Sussex:
Contemporary Dance and Whiteness examined race and racism in dance, producing a film and
website that has been highly influential in the dance sector. Waelde’s projects, funded through the
AHRC, AHRC/MRC and British Academy (GCRF), have built partnerships with researchers across
the UK and internationally to explore themes as diverse as pastiche, community heritage, public
health and sustainable development. This research has produced case studies, toolkits, ethical
codes and training on social media for heritage communities.

A partnership with Loughborough University led to McCulloch’s British Academy-funded project
Covid-19 and Grassroots Memorial Practices and Crawley’s Chorus workshop Beyond the
Text (2019) supported by the University of Oxford, expanded relationships between dance and
classics. Collaborative research projects, Erasmus+ projects (Cisneros) and formal level
partnerships have also consolidated relationships with institutions including the Universities of
Deakin, Auckland, Rhodes, Fort Hare, New University Lisbon, Malta and UFRGS.

Relationships with key research users/beneficiaries have been established with many non-
academic partners through the Unit’s research and funded projects. These include organisations
such as the V&A (Ellis), Ashmolean Museum (Crawley) and British Museum (deLahunta),
People Dancing (Whatley) and One Dance UK (Wood) as well as non-arts organisations such as
Great Ormond Street Hospital as part of Gibson’s MAN A project (ICS3), local, regional and
national Roma communities (Cisneros), Coventry city urban planners and chronic pain health
centres (Meehan), and disabled people (Blades) including disabled dance artists (Waelde,
Whatley). Research is conducted with dance artists, film makers, performance directors and
disabled athletes who participate as co-researchers in labs and residencies, contributing to
research objectives, design, methods and outputs. These have all enriched the research
environment whilst providing development opportunities for professional practitioners (ICS1; 3).

Practice research has engaged a wide range of audiences in live venues, outdoor spaces and on
screen. The recruitment of our artist-researchers who have established high profile careers as
choreographers has developed further links with organisations such as Independent Dance and
Light Moves Festival of Screendance. Those on 0.5 contracts (Burrows, Davies, Lee) facilitate
valuable exchanges with other artists and arts organisations (e.g. Independent Dance, Siobhan
Davies Studios, Artsadmin, Sadler’s Wells, The Place). Secondments have strengthened some
of these links, including, for example, Wood’s secondment to the Birmingham Dance Network as
Associate Director since 2018. Several members have served as Board members and Advisors on
arts organisations (Waelde, Candoco Dance Company: Lee and Ellis, Chisenhale Dance Space,
Lee, Bonnie Bird Award, Whatley, Arts at the Old Fire Station).

The Unit’s leading contribution to the sustainability of the discipline, within the UK and
globally, is evident through staff members taking up memberships of trusts, executive boards and
judging panels including PRAG, Society for Dance Research, Early Dance Circle, the Marc Brew

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Dance Company, Encounter Theatre and Therapy, People Dancing, Arts Foundation, Theatrum
Mundi, Chisenhale Dance Space, Bonnie Bird Trust, Vanhulle Dance Theatre, Wired Aerial
Theatre, Roma Project UK, the Reimagine Awards Panel, Network Performing Arts Production
Workshop board, IFTR Performance-as-Research Working Group, Digital Theatre Plus, ICAMus,
Opera UK, London Song Festival, Coventry’s Cultural Education partnership as well as European
organisations: Drom Kotar Mestipen Roma Women’s Association (Spain), EU Human Trafficking
Board (Brussels, Belgium), European Women’s Lobby (Brussels, Belgium), European Hip Hop
Network and the Nordic Centre for Digital Presence.

Two peer-reviewed international Journals were founded by staff and have international editorial
boards. The Q1 ranked Journal of Dance and Somatic Practices and the Journal of Dance,
Movement and Spiritualities both involve staff members as principal editors and editorial board
members. Ellis is co-editor Choreographic Practices, Li is Associate Editor Queen Mary Journal
of Intellectual Property, Evans is Associate Editor Theatre Dance and Performance Training,
and many staff members also serve on the editorial boards of other peer-reviewed Journals, and
guest edit special issues. These include Dance Research, International Journal of Screendance,
Performance Research, International Journal of Performance Arts and Digital Media, Body Space
Technology, Choreographic Practices, International Journal of Romani Studies, Frontiers in
Psychology, Journal of Embodied Research, Conversations Across the Field of Dance Studies
(DSA), Hotfoot, and Convergence. Books are also in focus with Thoms as founding co-editor of the
internationally recognised Dance in Dialogue Book Series with Bloomsbury, having published two
monographs in this period.

Our leadership in the field is demonstrated through Chairing and hosting major conferences
attracting international delegates spanning the scholarly and professional practice
communities. In April 2017, C-DaRE co-hosted the Dance Fields conference (with Universities of
Roehampton and De Montfort) to mark and celebrate 35 years of Dance Studies in the UK (leading
to a co-edited volume of collected papers) and co-hosted the Performance Knowledges:
Transmission, Composition, Praxis Performing Arts conference with the University of Malta
(2020). We have hosted five editions of our own international biennial Dance and Somatic
Practices conference, drawing worldwide presenters to the University. We also hosted five
editions of an annual Digital Echoes symposium, two editions of a Body, Space, Object
symposium, and Meehan and Blades were co-sponsored by the American Society for Theatre
Research (ASTR) to host the Performing Process symposium (2014), all of which have produced
edited books (Palgrave Macmillan, Intellect). Staff members have also co-convened a number of
other international conferences and research workshop programmes, including MOCO with
Goldsmiths, University of London (2017), the Interdisciplinary Workshop on Movement
Grammars: Brains, Robots and Dance at the Lorentz Centre, University of Leiden (2018), The
ASTR Violent Incitements Working Session (2018), The Society of Dance Research
Symposium (2014) and Choreographic Forums (2017, 2018), The Role of the Choreographer
in the Stage or Screen Musical international symposium at University of Oxford (2015), the
Cultural Heritage: Reuse, Remake, Reimagine international conference, Hamburger Bahnhof,
Berlin (2016), and Blades was funded by the British Society of Aesthetics to convene the
‘Dialogues on Dance, Philosophy and Performance in the Contemporary Neoliberal Moment’
conference (2017).

Bimonthly C-DaRE newsletters and a regular research series; C-DaRE Invites and C-DaRE
Shares, promotes research exchange and conversation, often disrupting conventions of research

                                                                                        Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
seminars by centring the exchange around a shared meal, with invited international scholars and
speakers from arts and cultural organisations. These build on the strong and multiple links that
researchers have with the creative industries, and public and third sector bodies. The sessions are
recorded and disseminated on C-DaRE’s website, as is a series of themed conversations between
researchers.

Wider Influence
Many staff members undertake evaluations and reviews for funding bodies in the UK, including for
the AHRC, Leverhulme Trust, Wellcome Trust, British Academy, Research England,
EPSRC/EPSRC Digital Catapult, EPSRC ICT Cross-disciplinary and co-creation, UKRI Future
Leaders Fellowships, JPICH Digital Heritage; and for overseas funders including the European
Research Council, European Science Foundation, Irish Research Council, Austrian Science
Fund, Guggenheim Fellowships, American Philosophical Society, Insight Grants, Social
Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada, Gutenberg Foundation, Goethe-
Institute Inter Nationes, German Research Foundation (DFG), Fonds Wetenshappelijk
Onderzoek (FWO) Belgium, National Social Science Academy Poland, and Zukunftskolleg
Fellowships. Whatley is an Evaluator for the European Commission, and was consultant on
ERC-funded (Starter Grant) Black Box- Arts Cognition project led by Carla Fernandes, New
University Lisbon, and is consultant on ERC-funded (Consolidator grant) Dancing project led by
Delia Ferri, National University of Ireland Maynooth. As member of the European Roma Institute
for Arts and Culture (ERIAC), Cisneros has partnered with them to develop the Barvalipe Online
University for Roma Studies. Foellmer is a member of the European Science Foundation College
of Expert Reviewers and FWO Review College Belgium. Waelde and Whatley have participated on
grants panels for the AHRC and Leverhulme Trust. Meehan, Waelde and Whatley are members
of the AHRC Peer Review College (Whatley as Strategic Reviewer), Waelde is also an assessor
on the panel for the EPSRC AI Doctoral College.

Staff members also act as referees for evaluating candidates’ research for tenure or promotion to
Chairs at universities, both in the UK (Universities of Roehampton, Bristol, Glasgow, Exeter, DMU,
Bedfordshire, Trinity Laban Conservatoire of Music and Dance, Central School of Speech and
Drama, Chichester, Northampton, Winchester, Falmouth, Surrey, Plymouth, Bath Spa, Middlesex,
Essex, Royal Holloway, Edge Hill, Canterbury Christ Church, University College Suffolk,
Glamorgan, UCLAN, Liverpool John Moores) and overseas (e.g. Universities of Stockholm,
California, Texas Women’s, Alabama, USA, Washington, Princeton, Idaho, San Diego, Simon
Fraser, Deakin, Melbourne, Auckland, Cork, Institute of Technology Tralee, Pretoria).

All researchers are encouraged to be ambitious and several have received prizes for research,
including Ellis who was awarded first prize in 2017 in the MediaWall competition at the Journal of
Media Practice and MeCCSA Practice Network symposium for his film We Record Ourselves; and
in 2014 Thoms was awarded CHOICE magazine Outstanding Academic Title award for her
monograph Martha Graham: Gender and the Haunting of a Dance Pioneer (Intellect). Gorman
received the gold award in the Arts & Humanities category of the third annual Reimagine Education
Awards 2016 (a yearlong global competition designed to uncover transformative initiatives across
the Higher Education sector) for the Telepresence in the Performing Arts and advanced networking
project; Gold for best Arts and Humanities project and Gold for Hybrid Learning at the Reimagine
Education Awards (San Francisco; 2018). The project also received two Coventry excellence
awards in 2016 and 2018; was highly commended in the 2018 Times Higher Education Awards
and won in the Internationalisation category of the 2020 Guardian University Awards. Other

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
industry awards for research outputs include Gibson awarded the Lumen Gold Prize 2015,
Cisneros awarded the European Heritage Award/Europa Nostra Award 2019 for her RomArchive
project and awarded gold standard for inclusion by the Social Work Network for Missing Voices –
GRT with Disabilities; and Lee was awarded overall Festival Prize at Light Moves Festival in 2015
for Liquid Gold is in the Air. Lee was also awarded lifelong honorary member of People Dancing in
2018. Others were finalists including deLahunta (with Motion Bank and ICKAmsterdam) in 2018
for the Digital Preservation Awards for Open Data Institute Award, Whatley shortlisted in 2018 for
the One Dance UK Research Impact award, and Burrows, shortlisted for an Olivier award for his
Elders Project.

Research has been disseminated through many prestigious keynotes, lectures and
performances, including: Burrows at DMU, and for PostDance conference, Stockholm; Cisneros
at South Yorkshire Police GRT Conference and at GRT Roundtable at the House of Lords (2019);
Crawley at Université Côte d’Azur and Université Grenoble-Alpes, France, and Zurich University of
the Arts; deLahunta at University of Rome La Sapienza, Institute of Dance Arts Anton Bruckner
Privat University, Simon Fraser University; Ellis at Leeds Beckett, Hong Kong Academy for
Performing Arts; Evans at International Platform for Performer Training (Zurich, Helsinki), National
Theatre, Michael Cacoyannis Foundation, Athens; Foellmer at Lab Critíca Rio de Janeiro, Festival
of Dance Munich, Open Up Summer School Villigst, and Film for Peace event at Institute for
Cultural Diplomacy Berlin; Gibson at Universities of Abertay, Ravensbourne, Pepperdine and
Stanford University, USA, and University of Auckland; Gorman at SCUDD, EADTU, Anilla Cultural
- Uruguay; Lee at Liverpool Hope University, Middlesex University; Li at Sihuan Fine Arts Institute,
China; Meehan at Lab Critica, Rio da Janeiro, Universitas Gadjah Mada Indonesia and Hong Kong
Academy for Performing Arts; McCulloch at German Shakespeare Society; Panizza at Royal Irish
Academy of Music, University of Maryland; Thoms at University of Bedfordshire; Whatley at
Universities of Leeds, Oxford, Portsmouth, Wolverhampton, East London, Canterbury Christ
Church, Royal Conservatoire of Scotland, University of the Arts, Aberystwyth. UFRGS, Temple
University Dance Studies Colloquium, New University Lisbon, Cyprus University of Technology,
Zurich University of the Arts, University of Malta, University of Rome La Sapienza, Open University
Hong Kong, Institut del Teatre Barcelona; Wood at UFRGS.

Our research has also been shared at all major dance and performance studies conferences,
including Dance Studies Association, MOCO, TAPRA, DRHA, SIBMAS, PSi, IFTR, Dance
Research, World Dance Alliance. Performances by practice researchers have taken place
worldwide, including in Brazil, China, Germany, Ireland, Sweden, Italy, Switzerland, Mexico,
Greece, Slovenia, Peru, Canada, USA, Singapore, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand, Belgium,
Austria, Norway, Spain – major UK venues include The Barbican, South Bank Centre,
Whitworth Gallery, Sadler’s Wells, Gazelli Arthouse, Collyer Bristow, Union Gallery
(London), Tramway (Glasgow), Bluecoat (Liverpool), Ashmolean Museum (Oxford), MAC
(Birmingham), Warwick Arts Centre (Coventry), Attenborough Centre (Brighton), QUAD
(Derby). Mobility between Universities has strengthened links. deLahunta’s secondment and
subsequent 0.5 appointment at Deakin University between 2016 and 2017 consolidated our
ongoing collaboration with Deakin, leading to jointly authored publications, joint funding initiatives
and two cotutelles. deLahunta maintains his role as Co-Director Motion Bank at the Hochschule
Mainz University of Applied Sciences. Foellmer is member of the Sapienza University of Rome
Network of International Academic Contacts, and of Alumna in the Network of the Berlin
Programme for Equal Opportunity (Berliner Chancengleichheitsprogramm). Ellis was a Scholar in
Residence at Temple University, USA, and at the University of Malta.

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Research has also been published in key journals in our discipline, including in Dance Research,
Dance Research Journal, Performance Research, International Journal of Performance Arts and
Digital Media, Choreographic Practices, Research in Dance in Education and Body, Space,
Technology. Staff regularly undertake refereeing of academic book and journal publications,
including for major publishers; Palgrave Macmillan, Routledge, Oxford University Press,
Intellect, Edward Elgar, Cambridge University Press, Bloomsbury.

Staff members have examined PhDs extensively, both in the UK and overseas. Waelde and
Whatley served as output assessors for panels D35 (Whatley) and C20 (Waelde) in REF2014 and
Whatley is a panel member of UoAD33 in REF2021.




                                                                                          Page 17
