Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Derby

 Unit of Assessment: 11- Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Introduction and development since 2014
 The research environment for Computer Science in the College of Engineering and Technology
 (CoET) builds upon the foundation of our REF 20214 submission and continues to pursue our aim
 of “progressively develop[ing] a sustainable, internationally excellent research environment that is
 highly regarded for societal impact through scholarship, interdisciplinary collaborations, income
 generation and knowledge contributions in the field of future computing architectures, services
 and technologies.”

 The CoET is proud of its location in a City with an historically strong industrial heritage, particularly
 in transport (automotive, aeronautical and rail). The College has a strong association with the
 expertise of the City’s high-tech engineering industries that are undergoing a data revolution- a
 perfect alignment with the strategic direction and staff expertise of UoA11. This alignment of region
 and UoA expertise is evident in our Digital Data Stream Analytics Impact Case Study (ICS) (REF3,
 11-1), where we highlight data science applications in the predictive maintenance of rail rolling
 stock as well as digital twin developments in the supply chain of Rolls Royce, for example.

 A key development during this REF cycle has been the construction and commissioning of a
 HEFCE funded £12.5 million STEM Centre on the Markeaton Street site in September 2017; co-
 located with the College of Arts, Humanities and Education (AHE). This co-location leads to
 opportunities for emerging interdisciplinary research collaboration, on, for instance, city planning
 and more design-oriented aspects of data visualisation. The build gave much needed space to
 develop our teaching and research and significantly improved our research environment and
 capability. The STEM Centre hosts the Data Cave as well as specialist Cyber Security facilities
 and some of our Data Science infrastructure; bringing staff and students into proximity and thus
 enabling the development of an ecosystem for research and knowledge exchange in which greater
 synergies can be exploited (an example is Stella, an Early-Career Researcher (ECR), who has
 worked with Undergraduate students to successfully deliver research activity for immersive reality
 models of disease transmission).

 The establishment of the Data Science Research Centre (DSRC) in 2017 under the leadership of
 Professor Anjum until 2019 and now Professor Meziane, provides the overarching structure to
 connect the various research themes in the UoA. DSRC has provided a focal point for UoA11
 research activity, focusing on interoperable, interconnected, large-scale e-infrastructures such as
 cloud computing or the Internet of Things (IoT), covering aspects from system and software
 architectures through to data analytics, applications of machine learning, data visualisation and
 security of such systems. The University has made an investment of £1M into the DRSC, of which
 c. £900k has been invested in academic posts and supporting PGR students. In addition, the
 DSRC was awarded £250k investment from the Garfield Weston Foundation in 2018 for the
 creation of a VR equipped Data Cave (Section 3.2.1).

 The Rail Research Innovation Centre (RRIC) was launched in March 2019 with a capital
 investment of £902k from D2N2 LEP (Derby, Derbyshire, Nottingham and Nottinghamshire Local
 Enterprise Partnership). The RRIC has built on the close collaboration between the University’s
 Institute for Innovation in Sustainable Engineering (IISE) and DSRC, reflecting the data revolution
 in engineering in the region and internationally. The RRIC, located at Lonsdale House with IISE,
 hosts High Performance Computing (HPC) facilities for rail related data science applications
 (Section 3.2).
 1.2 Research objectives and strategy




                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoA11 aligns to the University Research Strategy (REF5a, 2) and capitalises on the demands in
 almost all fields of society, industry and government to make better use of data, be able to
 generate, use and represent data insights and ensure that data is managed securely.
 Thus, UoA11 identifies the following strategic aims:
    (1) To enhance the research environment through substantial investment, increased external
        funding income, embedding the Research Ethics Policy and recognising scholarship and
        research as an integral part of the University’s Developmental Performance Review (DPR)
        process.
    (2) To increase the range, quality and quantity of research for the benefit of the taught
        curriculum, student learning and business engagement.
    (3) To expand the capability of research in engagement with business in the City and County
        through knowledge transfer, training services and research consultancy.
    (4) To strengthen postgraduate research provision by enhancing the sense of a postgraduate
        community, strengthening the programme of research training support and by adopting a
        risk-based approach to postgraduate student recruitment.
 Within this UoA, these aims are realised as follows:
    •   Research themes: The role and visibility of the research themes has been greatly
        increased, with a core focus on the DSRC at the spine.
    •   Membership: Active membership has increased, with more experienced members
        mentoring new or less established researchers, often using internal funding opportunities
        to support this process. Visibility has been improved by increased publications (Section
        1.5) and conference presentations coupled with symposia and conference events
        organised and hosted at the University, or jointly organised and held elsewhere (Section
        4). Section 2 details how early careers researchers (ECRs) have been recruited and
        developed.
    •   Research funding awarded to the UoA falls into diverse categories, with external funding
        for facilities (Data Cave, RRIC), specific projects aligned to expertise (KTPs and
        consultancy), and internal funding for enhancements of research environment (e.g.
        investment in DSRC), PhD/GTA students or ECR research. These income streams have
        created a virtuous circle positively impacting outputs, better facilities and increased growth
        opportunity both through this REF period and for the future direction of the Unit (Section
        3).

 Members of the UoA play an integral part in the College Research Ethics Committee, ensuring
 central policies and procedures are embedded in the UoA. Research integrity and ethics have
 particular relevance in the context of our data and data security focused research.

 1.3 Research themes
 UoA11 incorporates 4 intersecting themes, all led by professorial staff. The use of research themes
 as a structure for the research activity reflects both the size of UoA11 in terms of staff and, more
 crucially, the close collaboration between staff, to address end-to-end scenarios including
 networking, IoT devices, wireless components to data centers, clouds, HPC and Artificial
 Intelligence (AI). These end-to-end scenarios are crucial in important emerging fields such as
 Edge and Fog computing, Software-Defined Networking and Virtualisation and their applications.
 The 4 themes are as follows:
    •   AI and Data Science led by Professor Meziane engages in applied and fundamental
        research. The research focuses on the application of machine learning techniques to Edge
        Computing. Researchers within the group (Kang, Yuan), were the first to incorporate deep
        learning techniques in a fully decentralised Edge environment to support intelligent
        decision-making on the Edge. The potential contribution to the research field is significant
        as this research designed a novel and efficient network representation model that enables
        deep learning algorithms to be trained and tested in resource-constrained edge devices.
        The Research is engaged in explanatory artificial intelligence (AI). For example, work on
        explaining AI models by discretising the black-box process model of deep neural networks,


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        using partial differential equations (PDEs) was developed as the PDEs based deterministic
        models would minimise the time and computational cost of the decision-making process
        and reduce the chances of uncertainty that make the prediction more trustworthy. The
        Theme has been instrumental in attracting a number of the UoA’s KTPs (Section 3.1).
    •   Cyber Security led by Professor Kurugollu has focused on Vehicular Adhoc Network
        (VANET) and IoT network security, trust management in VANET and IoT, IoT and Cloud
        forensics, as well as data privacy. In VANET security, the primary concern is trust
        management. Different methodologies underpinned by blockchain, AI and Machine
        Learning based techniques have been developed.
    •   Data Visualisation led by Professor Xue investigates methods and techniques to
        summarise, understand and represent data in visual ways, thus making explicit trends and
        patterns inherent in the data. The techniques are applied in visualising remote sensing
        data as well as in the creation of immersive analytics in engineering, for example employed
        in modelling of engineering components. The research has attracted inward investment for
        the Data Cave (Section 3.2).
    •   Distributed Computing and IoT (Internet of Things) led by Professor Anjum and, since
        2020 by Professor Reiff-Marganiec, investigates computational and data architectures
        such as cloud and Edge Computing as well as the software architectures creating systems
        on the platforms. The ICS (REF3, 11-2) with RDS is an achievement of the results of the
        data processing architecture work of this theme combined with results from the data
        analytics theme.

 Researchers disseminate results through plenary speeches, conference tutorials and workshops
 (Sections 1.5 and 4.3). The DSRC has increased both the University’s external profile in Data
 Science (Section 1.4) and impact (REF3, 11-1 and REF3, 11-2), as well as research outputs and
 grant capture of predominantly applied research funding (Section 1.5).

 1.4 Enhancing impact
 The Strategy to enhance impact within the UoA has concentrated on growing Innovate UK funding,
 enhancing industrial and international collaboration, and improving vibrancy of the research
 environment. Each are introduced below, with further detail emerging in later sections:
    (1) Industrial Collaboration and Innovate UK funding. CoET uses its Industrial Advisory
        Board (IAB) as an important means of communicating with industry. This has
        representation from all research themes and from industry, for example: Severn Trent,
        SNC-Lavalin, Derbyshire Rail Forum, Rolls Royce, Glenair, JCB, Bombardier (now Alstom),
        Davis Derby, Network Rail, Miller Construction and Toyota. The IAB helps shape the role
        and involvement of the College with industry. The University investment into DSRC and the
        opportunities in the Engineering sector for data science stimulated by the IAB discussions
        (Section 4.1).
    (2) Income streams have been from industry as detailed in Section 3 and underpin both
        UoA11 ICSs (REF 3 11-1 and REF 3 11-2).
    (3) International collaboration (see Section 4.2) has advanced our research, for example
        with CERN in areas of data science, in Cyber Security with partners in Turkey, and with
        key partner activities in China.
    (4) Vibrancy of the research environment is enhanced through the participation of UoA staff
        and students in the University and regional events such as the inaugural lecture series and
        3MT competition, the Researcher Development Programme run centrally by the University
        Research and Knowledge Exchange Office (URKEO) (REF5a, 3.4.4) and a vibrant DSRC
        seminar series. Research is a standing item at discipline meetings, supporting the UoA’s
        strategic direction in realising a research-informed curriculum.

 1.5 Achievements: Income generation, outputs and impact
 The impact of the Research Strategy is evidenced with a dynamic network of external
 collaborations with industry and academia across the UK, Europe, and beyond, based on a strong
 core of fundamental and applied research. This has led to near £1M (excluding ERDF grants)



                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 external research funding from a range of sources. This compares with an income of £500k
 reported in REF2014. Funding details are given in Section 3.
 The UoA has demonstrated a successful publication record throughout this assessment period.
 Members in the UoA have co-authored over 511 publications since 2014, more than 240 of which
 are in peer-reviewed journals (based on Scopus data). As well as an increase in the volume of
 publications, the UoA has also increased its contribution to higher quality publications.

 1.6 A View to the future
 In 2020 CoET merged with the College of Life and Natural Sciences to form the College of Science
 and Engineering (CoSE) and Computing became part of a School of Computing and Engineering.
 The synergies of the new College structure build on the expertise residing in UoA11 and already
 existing collaborations, for example: on climate and air quality between Xue and staff in Built and
 Natural Environment and expanding collaborations in DSRC’s bioinformatics research with
 Tripathi’s (UoA3) team and the Facility for Omics Research in Metabolism (FORM). UoA11
 expertise in VR/AR (Reiff-Marganiec and Windmill) to transform urban planning is embedded in
 the University’s first legacy endowment funded research project ‘DUST’ (Derby Urban
 Sustainability Transformation), £640k over 3 years led by Bussell.
 The CoSE is playing a leading role in the development of Infinity Park, a new manufacturing centre
 focussed innovation and technology park adjacent to Rolls Royce headquarters. The Innovation
 Hub (iHub) funded by £6.2 million from the Regional Growth Fund (RGF) was the first building on
 site. The iHub (4700m2 floor space) is a collaborative venture involving the Universities of Derby,
 Cranfield and Aston and offers a programme of innovation support services in alignment with
 regional engineering activity and has national and global reach. UoA11 is involved with many of
 the 30 tenants who recognise the commercial need for data science insights to improve their
 processes. For example, we have delivered initial work with AddQual through ERDF funded
 interventions and have now secured a KTP to investigate dynamic visualisation of high-
 performance product characteristics, allowing clearer correlation of each characteristic to inputs,
 features and changes, thereby offering a holistic view of the product's lifecycle capability.
 Data science research with a rail and wider transport focus is a key direction for activity in DSRC.
 The launch of RRIC will make a significant contribution to the skills and supply chain development
 for the rail industry in Derby and beyond. Work in rail with Fishbone is evidenced in our ICS (REF3,
 11-1).
 Our future strategic direction builds upon our reputation in applied data science, with a focus on
 Edge Computing and data visualisation. This aligns with the Region’s strength in transport and
 engineering and its future low carbon ambitions. This direction resonates too with three of the
 University’s strategic interdisciplinary areas (Data Science, Clean Growth and Advanced
 Manufacturing).
 Table 1.2: Future research strategy success indictors

  Strategy 2021-2027
  (With reference to        Indicator of Success
  REF5a, 2.3)
  Invest in Talent          Retention and recruitment strategy, establish rolling Graduate
                            Teaching Assistant (GTA) scheme, increase number of staff with
                            SRR to 80%.
  Growing Innovation        Continue to grow engagement with local businesses, increase direct
  and Increasing            industry funding/ consultancy, grow data science activity in transport
  Regional Impact           and other application areas.
  Increase Research         Achieve a position where we have at least 1 funded project per 2
  Income                    research active staff members at any given time by maintaining the
                            level of success in Innovate UK funding and increase income for
                            consultancy and from research councils.


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Delivering Assurance     Optimise use of existing and new systems (CRIS, PhD Manager,
                           UDORA) to allow early management insights and hence better
                           operational and strategic planning.



 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Our staffing strategy is based on strategic recruitment combined with ensuring targeted support
 and development opportunities for staff and students at all stages of their career. We are focussed
 on recruiting ECRs with excellent developing research profiles as well as bringing in experienced
 research leaders. Each staff member is supported to understand the opportunities available to
 them, and the personal development needed to achieve the next step in their career. This is
 supported by the central mentoring schemes (REF5a,3.4.2) and our annual appraisal process.
 The UoA11 staff submission represents a breadth of academic experience, including 4 Professors
 (Kurugollu, Manning, Reiff-Marganiec, Xue), 2 Associate Professors (Bagdasar, Barnby) 4
 Senior Lecturers (Farid, Hardy, Korpelainen, Windmill), 2 Lecturers (Azad, Ali Khan), and 6
 ECRs (Atlam, Azad, Hardy, Saravi, Stella, Yuan).

 2.2 Academic staff
 The UoA has made substantial investment in research leadership since REF2014. Three
 Professors with international reputation (Xue, Kurugollu, Reiff-Marganiec) have been appointed,
 with specialisms in cyber security, IoT, data science, and embedded systems with applications to
 future smart cities, smart transport and medical applications of data science. Two Associate
 Professors (Bagdasar and Barnby) have also been appointed through the internal professorial
 promotions process (REF5a, 3.4.1). Other staff have moved to more senior roles away from Derby
 (Professor Antonopoulos to Vice Principal at Napier University, Professor Liu to Head of
 School at University of Leicester).
 While every staff member in Computing and Maths is allocated a minimum of 10% of their time for
 research, enterprise and scholarship, a growing percentage (49%) of academic staff in UoA11
 have significant responsibility for research (SRR) and thus have a minimum of 20% FTE for
 research activities. For example, DSRC flexes teaching responsibilities to ensure research
 commitments are fulfilled (Kang and Yuan).
 All staff in this UoA are engaged in PGR supervision and are required to complete the supervisor
 training programme before they can join a supervisory team. Additionally, there are PGR
 Supervision Good Practice seminars hosted by the University’s Research and Knowledge
 Exchange Office to build a community of practice.

 2.3 Early-Career Researchers (ECRs)
 The development of a more prominent research culture within the University has meant that there
 has been increased internal support to develop new researchers. These fall broadly into two
 categories. Some staff are well established but due to a particular career trajectory may not have
 engaged with research, and now wish to become research active. Hardy is an example in the
 UoA, who has been supported by the University to successfully complete a PhD which has
 provided the focus to more actively engage with and contribute new dimensions to the research
 agenda. Others are ECRs. Yuan completed his PhD at the University and has since moved to a
 permanent staff role with SRR. Each ECR is linked with an experienced mentor. For example,
 from the submitting group for this UoA, Atlam is mentored by Kurugollu, and Stella is mentored
 by Reiff-Marganiec. Development activities for ECRs include masterclasses on key research
 skills such as publication and bid writing, networking opportunities through seminars and Research
 Cafes, key skills in research-related areas such as bibliometrics and information technology, as
 well as developing research impact in wider society (REF5a, 3.4.3).
 The University has also provided funding for ECRs in a competitive scheme and Stella has
 acquired support for research using VR for modelling and representing disease spread in the


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 context of COVID-19, which has led to a publication (Mason, Stella & Bauso, 2020) and the
 submission of a Leverhulme ECR Application (outcome pending).

 2.4 Research Students
 The University has invested significantly in the recruitment of PGR students. Seventeen Graduate
 Teaching Associates (GTAs) have been funded in the UoA since 2014 all of whom are registered
 PhD students, who also carry adjusted teaching duties.
 The number of PGR students has grown throughout the reporting period. Recruitment is through
 a combination of attraction through reputation (of both the CoET as a whole and individual
 researchers) and progression from undergraduate and PGT. As of the census date there were 17
 PGR students in the UoA encouraging growth in recent years. The number of PhD completions is
 shown in Table 2.1.
 Table 2.1: PhD Completions (HESA)

  Ac. Year        2013-     2014-15    2015-16    2016-17    2017-18    2018-19    2019-20
                  14
  Completions     1         2          1          1          5          3          1


 The University has a strong commitment to assuring the quality of its PGR provision overseen by
 strong governance structures and, in 2018, introduced PhD Manager which has enhanced the
 UoAs ability to monitor PGR progression and support. The University provides a researcher
 development programme (RDP) for PGR students, encompassing key research skills, such as
 thesis writing, presentation techniques and understanding intellectual property rights (REF5a,
 3.4.4). In addition to the RDP the University also provides training support for GTAs.
 The Markeaton Lodge situated next to the STEM annex hosts dedicated PGR student offices, with
 specialist high-performance computing desktop machines to meet data science project needs.
 This is supported by working alongside academic researchers at all points in their careers, and
 the use of dedicated specialist equipment.
 Since 2017 PGR students have been invited to a University-wide conference as well as
 encouraged to participate in opportunities, such as the 3MT competition, which gives them a
 chance to practice presentation skills in a supportive environment. It has also enabled a stronger
 sense of community to develop between students in different Colleges. Several students from this
 UoA have presented to these fora.
 The University holds an Annual Research and KE Conference, which offers opportunities to
 network, keep up to date with changes and developments within research as well as hear external
 experts speak. This is replicated at School level which has seen an increased participation,
 reflective of the growing influence of research. These events are where researchers hold AGMs
 and discuss and develop future-focussed plans.

 2.5 Visiting Professors and Industrial Advisers
 The College benefits from a number of Visiting Professors with expertise aligned to any of the
 diverse branches of its activities. Current and recent individuals aligned with UoA11 include Dr
 Andreas Koop (Visiting Professor of Medical Informatics), Patrick Richardson (Visiting Professor
 of Personalised Medicine) and Professor Alan Sill (Visiting Professor of Distributed Computing).

 2.6 Equality and Diversity
 The University’s commitment to diversity and inclusion is encapsulated in its Equality, Diversity
 and Inclusion Policy. UoA11 has a wide international staff base with Pakistan, China, Korea,
 Romania and Turkey among the nationalities represented. Over the last two years among new
 appointees, around one third identify as female. This is redressing the gender balance, which is
 skewed towards male, in common with other UoA11 submissions in the sector. At PGR level there
 is a more even overall representation with ~32% female PhD students.

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Statistical data on staff submitted for REF is reported in Table 2.3. The School of Computing and
 Engineering recognises that it needs to make further progress in increasing female representation
 in its research staff team.

 Table 2.3: UoA11 REF submitted staff by protected characteristics and contract
 information (%)

  Ethnicity Group                               Age Group
  Arab                       6                  25-34                  25
  Asian                     24                  35-44                  35
  Black                      0                  45-54                  24
  Chinese                   12                  55-64                  12
  Other/ mixed               6                  >65                     6
  White                     47                  Contract Level
  Not Known/Refused          6                  B0                      6
  Gender                                        E1                      6
  Female                     6                  F1                     24
  Male                      94                  IO                      6
  Disability Group                              JO                     59
  Disabled                   0                  Contract Type
  Not Disabled              100                 Permanent              100

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income
 UoA members take considerable pride in the wide-ranging interaction they have had with a variety
 of industries and funding bodies and the income they have been able to generate from these. Our
 focus has been on very clear engagement with industry through the vibrant suite of KTPs
 (Knowledge Transfer Partnerships), other Innovate UK (IUK) projects as well as consultancy
 income and industrial funding for PhD students.
 Income breakdown by year and HESA category is shown in Tables 3.1a and 3.1b, which report
 on drawn down contributions from grants in the REF period. Discussion of individual projects below
 describe the income awarded, with figures for KTPs as shown on the KTP portal, which does not
 reflect the additional industry partner contribution. Some KTPs explore results from a single theme
 in DSRC, such as a KTP with XAD Communications Limited (£86k, completed 2014) which
 investigated improved architectures for video processing, in alignment with areas of development
 in the Distributed Computing and IoT theme; a KTP with Solutions for Retail Brands Limited (£97k,
 completed 2019) explored applications of data analytics in retail; other KTPs have highlighted the
 strength of combining themes in the DSRC as they are building on integrating developments.
 KTPs with Bloc Graphics Limited (£260k running to June 2022 and £133k running to January
 2022) investigate applications of research at the intersection of data visualisation/ immersive
 environments and data analytics.
 A KTP with Financial Performance Solutions Limited (£145k running to March 2022; income was
 £45,000 for FY2019/20) and KTP with RDS Global Limited (£288k running to April 2022; income
 for 19/20 was £91,000) explores Edge data analytics and computing solutions integrating research
 insights from three of our research themes (data science, cyber security and IoT) and have led to
 an ICS (REF3, 11-2) in this REF period already.
 We have gained three further KTPs; with AddQual (£119k), Aquis (£152k) and Premtech (£113k)
 in 2020, which are recruiting associates at the time of submission. The first two are aligned with
 the data analytics research theme, the third with the data visualisation theme.
 Through our collaboration with IISE, the data visualisation theme £16k of direct industrial
 consultancy projects have been awarded from Amey to explore the use of VR technology in



                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 applications of infrastructure inspection and training. Additional contributions by group members
 have been made to further projects awarded to IISE from Amey.
 The DSRC has been awarded industrial funding for 4 PhD students, 3 in the medical data
 integration and analytics area from Roche, and 1 in the mechanical engineering area from Rolls
 Royce to a combined value of £215k.
 Table 3.1a: Research income by year in the REF period

  Year        2013/14     2014/15     2015/16     2016/17      2017/18     2018/19       2019/20
  Amount
              102,000     103,000     42,000      97,000       51,000      122,000       316,000
  (GBP)


 Table 3.1b: Research income by HESA category

  Category                                                               Amount (GBP)
  Research Councils                                                              4,000
  UK-based charities (competitive process)                                     53,000
  UK central government bodies/local, health and hospital                     273,000
  authorities
  UK Industry, Commerce and public corporations                               353,000
  UK Other sources                                                             23,000
  EU Government bodies                                                           3,000
  EU Industry, Commerce and public corporations                               120,000
  Non-EU based charities (open competitive process)                              4,000
  Non-EU Industry, Commerce and public corporations                           137,000
  Totals                                                                      970,000


 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 3.2.1 Specialist Facilities
 In 2018 the Data Visualisation Laboratory, comprising a VR-equipped Data Cave and laboratory
 with VR headsets was opened. It is funded by a £250,000 grant from the Garfield Weston
 Foundation. The Data Cave is used in both teaching and research. These facilities have been
 instrumental in consultancy work undertaken with Amey in 2018 and 2019.
 The University has also invested in a data centre, primarily focussed on the rail sector with
 opportunities for wider use. It was partly funded by a D2N2 grant of approx. £300,000 as part of
 the RRIC investment. Equipment in this facility includes a £280k Nutanix Supercomputer,
 digitisation and VR equipment as well as suitable software for data visualisation and immersive
 environment creation. Early results for the usage of these systems are described in the Distributed
 Data Analytics ICS (REF3, 11-1), especially the work undertaken with Bloc Digital and Fishbone.
 A UoA11 team, working with the University’s IT Services department, were key in launching a
 ‘node' of the Worldwide LHC Computing Grid (WLCG) which has been operating since June 2018,
 processing simulation jobs for the A Large Ion Collider Experiment (ALICE). This has given the
 UoA valuable experience in the technologies and in the operation of a trusted distributed system.
 It has involved collaboration with members of the GRIDPP consortium from the Rutherford
 Appleton Laboratory to bootstrap the node and the WLCG members from the European Council
 for Nuclear Research (CERN) for operations. The Grid operates with a system of securely issued
 electronic certificates to allow use of resources by all members of the ALICE Collaboration.


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Currently it is a proof-of-principle system which has made a modest contribution of around 0.03%
 of the computing resources used by ALICE.

 Aside from the facilities discussed, UoA members are also responsible for the operation of Virtual
 Reality and 3D printing labs in the iHub (Infinity Park).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Industrial collaboration
 Research in the CoET is often collaborative, with researchers from industrial partners and much
 of the grant income detailed earlier shows our close interaction with industry and is evidenced by
 our Impact Case Studies (REF3).
 DSRC and IISE have been a successful partnership in creating links to industrial partners, for
 example Fishbone worked with RRIC/IISE before moving quickly to also work with DSRC on a
 data science project in relation to predictive maintenance (Anjum, supported by a PhD student).
 Another example of this collaboration between researchers in CoET is a consultancy project
 funded directly by Amey in 2019-20 investigating opportunities for Data Visualisation capabilities
 relating to rail infrastructure upgrades. This Project used the DSRC data visualisation capabilities
 and was managed collaboratively between IISE and DSRC with delivery driven by Windmill,
 Davies (then UG, now PhD student) and Merrit (PhD student).
 Our distributed data analytics ICS (REF3, 11-1) evidences a range of work with local SMEs
 through a structured approach of small investigative projects, often supported by students. These
 initial collaborations have grown into more stable partnerships leading to ERDF funded
 interventions and have been accelerated to KTP or larger consultancy interactions. Our KTPs with
 Bloc Digital involve Yuan, Stella, Anjum, Manning and Reiff-Marganiec; whilst for RDS/FPS
 Kurugollu, Saravi and Yuan have provided the academic knowledge.

 4.2 International collaboration
 UoA members are themselves an international community; they enjoy extensive international
 connections, leading to numerous opportunities for collaboration. Individual contributions are
 varied, with examples summarised below.
 From his arrival in 2016, Xue collaborated internationally with EAS Aerosol and the EU Marco
 Polo projects as a data validation expert. In each case, along with other UoD staff, Bi (Research
 Assistant) and Windmill worked to produce independently validated high quality algorithms for
 the processing of long-term records of global aerosol properties from satellite instruments. This
 work has fed into the NERC U-ALERT project (NE/N020677/1) investigating the impact of Climate
 Change in Africa.
 In July 2015 UoD signed an agreement to join the ALICE Collaboration, as an Associate member,
 joining over 150 Institutes worldwide. The agreement focuses on collaboration with the software
 framework and applications of the O2 project. This is concerned with upgrades to ensure
 successful data-taking, with rate increases of up to a factor 100, with the upgraded ALICE detector
 after the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) shutdown period. At the time, the shutdown was planned to
 last until early 2021 but this has now been extended to 2022.
 Staff, including Anjum (up to 2019) and Barnby (from 2016), have collaborated, along with their
 PhD students on areas of the O2 project including AI-assisted data monitoring, smart job
 scheduling and algorithmic improvements to reconstructing the signals of interest. In addition,
 Barnby currently co-leads a specialist data analysis group of around 20 regular contributors and
 has attracted current (ST/P005047/1, £18k) and future (ST/V001094/1, £96k) grant funding from
 the Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC) for this work.
 Reiff-Marganiec has long-standing collaborations with ICMC (USP) and UNIFEI (Itajuba) in
 Brazil, which he has brought to UoD and which are investigating Cloud and Web Services as
 software architectures for IoT; he hosted a visiting scholar from USP in Spring/Summer 2020.
 Several publications have recently resulted from these collaborations and further visits are being
 planned.

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The joint project “Computational Models for the reproduction of ceramic colours” between the
 University of Alba Iulia, University of Derby and IPEC Alba Iulia (leading ceramics suppliers for
 IKEA, concluded in December 2018). The Project aimed to optimise the reproduction and
 correction of ceramic colours and was financed by a grant of 103K Euro (PN-III-P2-2.1-PED-2016-
 1835). Three UoD Mathematics students supported by Erasmus traineeships worked on the
 statistical modelling and the design of a graphical user interface in the Summer of 2018 under the
 leadership of Bagdasar. Two of them, Manzal and Chandni Mohammad, were also sponsored by
 the University’s Undergraduate Research Student Scholarship scheme (URSS), in line with our
 strategy of investing in talent. The results have been presented at the URSS conference in October
 2018 and the Jiangsu 20-20 workshop in China in December 2019.
 Our involvement in the Jiangsu 20-20 collaboration creates a significant link to China, with
 leadership by Paneerselvam and Yuan, but also now involving further colleagues such as Reiff-
 Marganiec who presented at the Jiangsu 20-20 AGM in 2020. Yuan is using the consortium to
 explore opportunities for his work in Data Science in Agriculture and food security.

 4.3 Contributions to the scientific community
 UoA members have played a wide range of leading roles in the scientific community, for example
 as conference organisers, session chairs, journal editors, keynote speakers, chairs or members
 of professional panels, or advisers to professional bodies. Expertise exercised in this way is
 brought back to benefit the overall academic community of the College. Example individual
 contributions are given below.
 Visiting Roles: Some of our more senior staff have been invited for research visits funded by
 grants offered or secured by the inviting organisations, such as Kurugollu’s 4 week visit to Tubitak
 Marmara Research Centre, Turkey (2019), Reiff-Marganiec visit to China University of Petroleum
 (2014, 2019) and Harbin University (2019) as well UNIFEI (Brazil, 2018, 2019). Xue holds Visiting
 Professorships at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, the Chinese Meteorological Administration,
 China and at Chongqing University, China.

 Ali Khan has been nominated ACM Distinguished Speaker in July 2020, with presentations
 focusing on data analytics and software engineering for medical informatics.
 Our researchers are further recognised and shaping research agendas nationally and
 internationally through invited contributions to funding review panels. For example, staff are expert
 reviewers for: Austrian Research Promotion Agency (FFG) funding programme “R&D
 Infrastructure Funding” (Reiff-Marganiec) (2016-present); UKRI Science and Technology
 Facilities Council “Projects Peer Review Panel” (Barnby) (2019); NOW (Dutch Research Council)
 Open Competition Domain Science (Xue, 2019) and Member of Associate College of Engineering
 and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) (Kurugollu).
 Editorial positions and esteem factors. Staff members hold editorial positions for journals,
 contribute to conferences with invited presentations as well as holding roles as Technical
 Programme Committee or Conference chairs. Staff also contribute as session chairs, programme
 committee members and frequently present work at conferences, however we see this as a
 baseline expectation so do not report here. The following list highlights, organised by staff
 members, some of their involvement in these activities:
    •   Anjum: Keynote Talk, 13th International Symposium on ‘Smart Micro Grids for
        Sustainable Energy Sources enabled by Photonics and IoT Sensors’ (Cyprus 2016),
        Programme Chair 12th International Conference on Utility and Cloud Computing (UCC
        2019) combined with long standing service to UCC (General Chair in 2017 (Texas) and
        2015 (Cyprus) and Organising Chair in 2014 (London)), General Chair IEEE/ACM
        International conference on Fog and Edge Computing (FEC 2017, Madrid) and
        Programme Chair, 3rd International Symposium on Big Data Computing, Applications and
        Technologies (BDCAT 2016, Shanghai, China).
    •   Bagdasar: Chair of "The Knowledge Triangle: Mathematics Applied to Industry", within the
        Exploratory Workshop on "Internationalisation of Higher Education: Challenges and
        Rewards" (2015, Alba Iulia, Romania) and co-Chair and local host of 2nd IMA Conference
        on Theoretical and Computational Discrete Mathematics (2018, Derby).

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Farid has contributed to the standards roadmap white paper for the IEEE 2957 Big Data
        Governance and Metadata Management standard in the areas of healthcare and mental
        health.
    •   Kurugollu: Technical Program Chair of 5th International Conference on Cloud and Big
        Data Computing (ICCBDC 2021), Programme chair of 3rd International Conference on
        Cloud and Big Data Computing (ICCBDC 2019), General chair of 2nd International
        Symposium on EmeRging Technologies in the Era of 5G-based Internet of Things, 2020,
        General co-chair, 2nd International Workshop on Vehicular Networks over Future Internet
        Architecture, 2019, Guest Editor for Special Issue in Sensors Journal, 2020.
    •   Paneerselvam: Programme Chair for IEEE RTDPCC 2019, Programme Chair for IEEE
        DMTS 2019, Reviewer for IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, IEEE
        Transactions on Sustainable Computing, IEEE Transactions on Cloud Computing and
        IEEE Access Journal,
    •   Reiff-Marganiec (since joining Derby in 2019): PC co-Chair of SOSE 2020 (IEEE Service
        Oriented Software Engineering) and elected as General co-Chair of SOSE 2021, General
        Workshop Chair for the IEEE Services Congress 2020 (overall decision making on all 9
        workshops associated with the conference to ensure suitable alignment, relevance as well
        as quality control), Invited panellist at IEEE Big Data Service 2020 panel on “Big Data and
        AI for Tomorrow”, Guest Editor (Special Issue “Recent Advances in Web Services
        Research, IEEE Transactions on Service Computing, 2019 ) and reviewer for IEEE Access
        Journal, International Journal of Distributed Sensor Networks, IEEE Transactions on
        Service Computing.
    •   Xue: Associate Editor for the International Journal of Remote Sensing published by Taylor
        and Francis Group and Associate Editor for the International Journal of Digital
        Earth published by Taylor and Francis Group.
    •   Yuan: Reviewer of IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, Peer-to-Peer Networking
        and Applications, IEEE Access, IEEE Internet of Things Journal, ACM Transactions on
        Intelligent Systems and Technology, Information Sciences – Journal, Chair for MLHI2020
        (at UCC2020), Workshop co-chair of ScalCom 2019.

 Overall, we presented an environment that is vibrant and enabling our applied research as well as
 ECRs to flourish. The Environment has significantly evolved from our REF2014 submission in
 terms of internal investment, but also in terms of external funding, outputs and activity profiles,
 and we consider direction of travel over the last 7 years as one to continue and grow.




                                                                                            Page 11
