Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Edinburgh Napier University

 Unit of Assessment:
 Unit of Assessment 18 - Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Research Structure

 Law research at Edinburgh Napier University (ENU) is conducted by members of the Law
 Subject Group, situated within the Business School (TBS) and the School of Health and Social
 Care (SHSC). UoA 18 Consists of 6 REF submitted staff, 5 from TBS, and 1 from SHSC.

 Law Research was led by Professor Jill Stavert from 2011 to 2018. From January 2018
 Stavert has continued to lead the Unit of Assessment (UoA) whilst, as Law Subject Group
 Leader, Dr Ramandeep Chhina, and since July 2019, Head of Subject, Professor Richard
 Whitecross have assumed overall Law Research leadership. The group adopts a collegiate
 approach to research strategy and leadership, which supports staff members to develop as
 leaders in their own areas. This has facilitated meaningful and diverse contributions to the
 overall law research strategy in the period. UoA members also sit within two distinct schools to
 support interdisciplinarity and increase the potential for impactful research.

 Within the Unit, particular staff research strengths include; rights, equality and justice issues
 relating to potentially vulnerable groups of persons (e.g. persons with mental disability and
 children and young persons), the relationships of these groups with the state and related service
 provision, and legal societal change (e.g. anti-corruption). Our research addresses
 contemporary legal problems at international, regional and national levels. It uses a range of
 methodologies, including analytical, comparative, historical, and socio-legal approaches.

 Particular areas of research strength include:

 •      Anti-corruption and economic crime and law (Chhina)
 •      Access to justice (Stavert, Whitecross)
 •      Family and Child law (Dr Lesley-Anne Macfarlane, Whitecross)
 •      International criminal law (Dr Clare Frances Moran)
 •      Legal anthropology (Whitecross)
 •      Law and society, including Roman Law (Dr Leslie Dodd)
 •      Mental health and capacity law and related human rights (Stavert)

 Law forms part of the Accounting, Finance and Law subject grouping within TBS. In SHSC legal
 research was originally situated within the Mental Health Theme, but since January 2021 it has
 resided within the Health and Social Care Sciences subject group. Research in the Unit broadly
 fits into two groups:

 •        The Centre for Mental Health and Capacity Law – This group was originally situated
 within TBS but now resides within SHSC, and was established by Stavert in November 2013.
 The main objective of the Centre is to support and undertake excellent interdisciplinary research
 in this area of law and policy. It also aims to provide a mechanism within which impact from
 research can be realised and maintained.

 •        Child and Family Law and Policy Research Group – This group is situated within
 TBS and is currently led by Whitecross. It was established in 2015 by Macfarlane and
 Whitecross, who have also recently received Royal Society of Edinburgh funding to create a
 multi-disciplinary Research Centre for Scottish Child and Family Law and Policy (2020-2022).

 In the REF period these two groups have influenced the research environments of both TBS and

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 SHSC. They have enabled interdisciplinary collaborations and networks, both cross-university
 and externally, which have built individuals’ confidence for undertaking high quality and impactful
 research.

 Research Strategy

 Research activity in TBS is governed through the School Research and Innovation Committee.
 The committee co-ordinates the delivery of the Research and Innovation strand of the academic
 strategy within the School, and monitors its performance with reference to Academic KPIs.

 From October 2020, committee membership has been increased via the establishment of the
 role of ‘Research Lead’ for each Business School subject group. Research Leads now form a
 critical link between the research leadership team and members of each subject group. They will
 lead the development of research activity within their subject groups, contribute to the
 development and implementation of the research strategy, represent their group on the School
 Research and Innovation Committee, and act as a communicative bridge between the
 committee and individual researchers. Research governance is complemented by TBS
 Research Degrees Committee (headed by Whitecross), and TBS Research Ethics Committee,
 which take any necessary decisions and actions required at School level for research degree
 and research integrity matters.

 Research activity in SHSC is also governed through its School Research and Innovation
 Committee (of which Stavert is a member), and its Research Degrees and Research Integrity
 Committees, which operate in a similar manner to TBS. The Centre for Mental Health and
 Capacity Law falls within the interdisciplinary Mental Health research grouping, and is focused
 on the interface of law, policy and human rights in relation to mental health and mental capacity.

 The school and unit are committed to the University’s overarching research strategy as outlined
 in REF5a. Future school strategies are informed by the institution’s five-year focus on staff
 development, increasing innovation, and developing international research partnerships, and
 aim to feed into the broad strategic aims of the University. Future interdisciplinary opportunities
 will be guided by the new University Themes.

 The University-level research centre structure is currently being revised and is establishing
 several formal research centres to complement the new themes of Health, and Culture &
 Communities (REF5a). The International Centre for Management and Governance Research
 (TBS), the Military Transitions Centre for Education, Research and Public Engagement (TBS)
 and a Mental Health research centre (SHSC) are proposed in relation to the Unit. These formal
 research centres will provide organisational structures which will strengthen the research culture
 in both schools. The structures will directly implement research strategy, driving forward
 research momentum, and will aim to provide increased opportunities for collaborative and
 interdisciplinary research and training.

 UoA18 also has a specific and closely aligned law research strategy which aims to address
 current and future societal issues. The strategy reflects the applied nature of the proposed new
 groupings, to allow the Unit to swiftly respond and adapt to urgent research needs. For example,
 enabling the Centre for Mental Health and Capacity Law to respond nimbly to address the legal
 and practical implications of COVID-19 on health and social care provision for those with mental
 health issues.

 Unit Research Objectives

 Research objectives during the assessment period and which will be carried forward over
 the next five years include:

 (1) Maintain and further develop a vibrant research environment and culture in which areas
 of research strength are encouraged and can flourish in terms of productivity, quality and impact.

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This will be supported by the University’s commitment to investing in people (REF5a).

 (2) Maintain and develop interdisciplinary legal, academic, professional and stakeholder
 networks to increase the visibility of our research and its outputs. This will allow researchers to
 effectively respond to national and international law research priorities. This will be supported by
 the University’s strategic commitments to innovation and internationalisation (REF5a).

 (3) Be research leaders in our areas of strength.

 (4) Make a high quality UoA submission to REF2021 and the subsequent REF.

 As will be seen from evidence elsewhere in this statement, and from outputs and impact case
 studies accompanying this submission, this objective is being met, and there is demonstrable
 ongoing improvement in research activity and quality.

 Over the next five years the aim is to continue to improve against the existing research
 objectives in alignment with University and School strategies. The Unit will seek to increase
 engagement with national and international research priorities for child, mental health and
 capacity, and international criminal law. For example, researchers will seek to give effect to the
 European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR), United Nations Convention on the Rights of
 the Child (UNCRC), United Nations Convention on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination
 (UNCERD) and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities
 (UNCRPD). Supporting and developing collaborations via new University-led themes and
 centres and increasing interaction with key stakeholders via innovation and partnerships will
 significantly assist with this objective. The unit will also aim to continue its involvement in current
 law and policy reform to increase opportunities for impactful research.

 Research Impact

 In alignment with ENU’s Academic Strategy, the Unit is committed to conducting research that
 has practical applications. Research in the period has contributed to development of law and
 related policy and practice, either via direct contribution to legal reform and evaluation, or by
 influencing the debate which has informed this. As has been outlined, the strong interdisciplinary
 approach of the Unit has facilitated meaningful impact in terms of the operation, review and
 reform of the law.

 Research impact has been supported and enabled in a variety of ways. The Unit has provided
 additional workload allocation to support researchers in ensuring impact. Researchers have also
 been supported in presenting and disseminating their research findings at events or policy
 briefings to governments and key stakeholders, and by membership of stakeholder advisory and
 policy boards and committees. This has in many cases created pathways to impact, which have
 subsequently resulted in significant benefits to research users.

 The two submitted impact case studies were both facilitated via these avenues and
 opportunities. These are explained below along with other examples of opportunities to support
 impact in the period.

 Working with national and international agencies, government and regulatory bodies, and
 legislatures

 Europe and international
 Chhina was a consultant on the EU Council of Europe Joint Projects against Economic Crime in
 Kosovo (2017), in Georgia (2017-2018), in Albania (2018-2019) and Montenegro (2018). In this
 role she wrote technical papers with recommendations for law changes and guidelines which
 were provided to beneficiary institutions and other relevant stakeholders, including the Financial
 Intelligence Unit of Kosovo, and the Georgian Ministry of Justice and Financial Intelligence Unit.


                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As an expert on anti-corruption at the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe
 (OSCE) (2017), she wrote a technical report analysing current best practice, and a curriculum to
 promote anti-corruption awareness among school students in Albania. She also worked in
 cooperation with the relevant stakeholders, including the Albanian Ministry of Education and
 Sports, to design anti-corruption awareness and education materials for the students.

 In 2016 Stavert presented research findings on her paper Using the UN Convention on the
 Rights of Persons with Disabilities to support the rights of people living with dementia at
 Alzheimer Europe, and the European Parliament’s lunchtime debate. Together with other
 members of the Three Jurisdictions Project research team, she also attended a meeting of the
 UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities at the Head Quarters of the UN High
 Commissioner for Human Rights in Geneva.

 National
 Macfarlane’s Scottish Parliament funded research on UNCRC and ECHR issues surrounding
 the forthcoming Family Law (Scotland) Act resulted in her reporting findings to the Scottish
 Parliament’s Justice Committee (2019-2020). She also provided the parliament with advice on
 legal and policy developments relating to the Children (Scotland) Bill 2019.

 Stavert and Colin McKay’s (visiting professor) research on coronavirus emergency measures
 and persons with mental disabilities led to an invitation and admission onto the Scottish
 Parliament COVID-19 Register, to provide expert advice on the impact of Scottish Government
 and Parliament responses to the pandemic. Earlier, in 2014, Stavert also gave evidence on the
 Mental Health (Scotland) Bill to the Health and Sport Committee at the Scottish Parliament.

 Similarly, additional research allowance in her workload allocation has allowed Stavert to
 contribute as an expert member to; the Scottish Government Supported Decision-Making
 Advisory Group (2018-date), Adults with Incapacity (Scotland) Act Reform Deprivation of Liberty
 Working Group (2017-2019), the Mental Health (Scotland) Act 2015 implementation steering
 group (2015-2016), the Scottish Government Independent Review of the Mental Health (Care
 and Treatment)(Scotland) Act 2003 in relation to Learning Disability and Autism (2018-2019), the
 Scottish Mental Health Act Review executive team (2019-2022) (where she also leads the
 Review’s Capacity and Support for Decision-Making workstream), Mental Welfare Commission
 for Scotland led (coronavirus) Emergency Powers Scrutiny Advisory Group, and Scottish
 Government Adults with Incapacity (Scotland) Act Emergency Legislation Commencement
 Consideration Group.

 The strategy to allow time for dissemination of research findings has also allowed her to address
 members of the UK Government review of the English Mental Health Act, and contribute to
 research in relation to this review (August 2018). She has also been able to write guidance on
 Deprivation of Liberty (updated) (2015) and Supported Decision-Making Guidance (2015-2016),
 and has undertaken a literature review on Article 2 ECHR and psychiatric deaths investigations
 (2020) by the Mental Welfare Commission for Scotland.

 In December 2016, Whitecross presented research findings from a Royal Society of Edinburgh
 funded project on contact cases to legal academics, policy makers and legal practitioners. He
 also presented a policy briefing to the Scottish Government Family Law Policy Unit in August
 2017. Extra research time allowed Whitecross and Lindsay to present their research on Case
 Management in Family Actions to the Scottish Civil Justice Committee in May 2017, and
 Whitecross and Mair to present findings on the impact of the disjuncture between contact cases
 and criminal cases involving domestic abuse before Minister for Community Safety (October
 2019).

 Whitecross was also invited as the keynote speaker by the Scottish Government and Law
 Society of Scotland to present his research on civil court cases involving domestic abuse to
 invited representatives from the judiciary, Faculty of Advocates, legal profession, Scottish Legal
 Aid Board and third sector (February 2019). He has also attended as an invited expert

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contributor to the Varieties of Democracy Project, Kellogg Institute for Governance, USA and
 Gothenburg University, Sweden (annually since 2014).

 Information and training

 Judicial training
 In 2020, Macfarlane delivered a Judicial Training Brief on the Children (Scotland) Act 2020, and
 in 2017, Stavert delivered a presentation on deprivation of liberty and adults with incapacity at a
 training session at the Judicial Institute for Scotland.

 Stavert also wrote training materials for medical and general members of the institute regarding
 the amended mental health legislation excessive security provisions (2015-2016), and delivered
 lectures and workshops as part of Mental Health Tribunal for Scotland panel members training
 (2017). She is also a regular invited speaker at Law Society of Scotland and Legal Service
 Agency conferences and seminars.

 Whitecross was invited by the Scottish Government and the Law Society of Scotland to develop
 trauma informed practice training for legal professionals (2020).

 Seminars and workshops
 The Law Subject Group and the Centre for Mental Health and Capacity Law both hold annual
 seminar series which, as well as including high-quality external academic and practitioner
 speakers, have also provided opportunities for Law staff to showcase their own research and
 build external and cross-school collaborations (see Section 4). More recently, the Centre for
 Mental Health and Capacity Law, responding to the coronavirus crisis, has hosted its events via
 webinar for 2020/21.

 The aim of the Unit is to increase opportunities for research dissemination, collaboration and
 networking under the auspices of the newly proposed research centre for Scottish Child and
 Family Law and Policy (see above).

 Stavert ran a workshop on Employer Responses to Dementia in the Workplace at the Scottish
 Trades Union Congress ‘Dementia and the Workplace’ Conference in September 2016 and
 November 2019 (with Dr Valerie Egdell of ENU and now of the University of Northumbria).

 Whitecross and Chhina were invited participants to the Scottish - Sweden Comparative
 Workshop lead by the Scottish Police Institute for Policy Research. The Workshop enabled them
 to network with colleagues from the Scottish Government and other Scottish Universities.

 Other
 In 2018, Whitecross was invited by the Royal Society of Edinburgh to provide a case study
 based on his research on S.11 (7A-E) Children (Scotland) Act 1995. He also presented research
 on domestic abuse and contact cases to women’s organisations in Glasgow (2017), and
 participated in the Legal Aid Review roundtable with Martyn Evans, Professor T Mullen
 (Glasgow) and Professor C Tata (Strathclyde) at Queen Margaret University (2017).

 Professional committee and groups
 Stavert is a member of the Law Society of Scotland Mental Health and Disability Committee,
 Alzheimer Scotland Human Rights and Policy Committee, the Mental Welfare Commission for
 Scotland National Advisory Committee and Scottish Human Rights Research Advisory Group.
 Whitecross has been the Vice Convenor of the Law Society of Scotland Administrative Justice
 Committee as well as being a member of its Immigration and Asylum and Equality Law
 Committees. He was appointed by the Law Society of Scotland as Examiner in Scots Private
 Law and Obligations in 2017. In 2019, he was appointed Vice Convenor of the Heads of Scottish
 Law Schools, in addition to being invited to join a Royal Society of Edinburgh Working Group on
 the British Academy’s consultation into Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (February – April
 2017). In December 2020, he was appointed to the National Taskforce for Human Rights United

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Nations Convention on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination Reference Group.

 Interdisciplinary Research

 The structure of the Unit within the Centre for Mental Health and Capacity Law and the Child and
 Family Law and Policy Group provides a supportive framework for inter-disciplinary research.
 The applied nature of each research group, combined with their proximity to the work of other
 research in TBS and SHSC, has led to many collaborations between Law staff and researchers
 in other areas. The proposed multi-disciplinary Research Centre for Scottish Child and Family
 Law and Policy will also continue to foster interdisciplinary research, and allow for great impact
 in terms of the operation, review and reform of the law.

 A specific objective of the Centre for Mental Health and Capacity Law is to provide an
 interdisciplinary platform to respond to the various challenges proposed by mental health and
 capacity law and healthcare related rights. Fulfilling this objective, the projects it and Stavert
 have been involved in to date have worked with social scientists, psychologists, psychiatrists,
 other mental health professionals and persons with lived experience of mental disability and their
 carers and families. The Employer Responses to Dementia in the Workplace and Mental Health
 Tribunal for Scotland project, as well as the law reform scoping exercise leading to The Case for
 Report report are just two concrete examples of this.

 The interdisciplinary nature of the Centre is further strengthened by the fact that Stavert is
 currently situated within the School of Health and Social Care, although she maintains research
 links with the Law research and subject group. The Centre’s research is heavily influenced by its
 inter-school activity, and via the involvement of key external key representatives in its Expert
 Advisory Group, who are able to ensure that proposed research addresses real societal needs
 and support the dissemination of research findings. Notable areas of research collaboration
 have included responses to dementia in the workplace, and mental health and capacity law and
 related human rights in law reform and supported decision-making.

 The ability of the centre to conduct interdisciplinary and impactful research has been further
 augmented by the engagement in March 2020, on a part time fixed term contract, of Colin
 McKay as a visiting professor (formerly Chief Executive of the Mental Welfare Commission for
 Scotland and senior civil servant responsible for mental health and incapacity law reform with
 the Scottish Government). Along with Stavert, he is currently a member of the Scottish Review
 of Mental Health Law executive team and his current appointment with ENU will continue until
 the autumn of 2022.

 Whitecross’s collaboration with Tibetologists, Buddhologists, legal anthropologists and
 constitutional law theorists was highlighted at a January 2021 University of Vienna and Kyoto
 University Workshop on Himalayan Law and Society, where he presented a paper entitled
 Article 3 and the role of Buddhism in the 2008 Constitution. In addition, Whitecross is an invited
 panellist and discussant in the American Bar Foundation Law and Buddhism Colloquium
 organised by Professor T Ginsburg (Chicago) (2021). Macfarlane and Whitecross secured
 further Royal Society of Edinburgh funding to run workshops during the autumn of 2019.

 Open Research Environment

 Unit activity takes place within the context of relevant School and University policies and all
 submitted members of staff are registered with ORCID.

 Research Integrity

 Unit activity takes place in accordance with relevant School and University research integrity
 requirements. UoA18 fits under the ethical auspices of both TBS and SHSC ethics committees,
 depending on the researcher and project in question. Each school has a dedicated research
 integrity webpage, and researchers are encouraged to seek information and support from

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 dedicated integrity leads.

 In SHSC and TBS all research projects during application development undergo ethical review
 by a team of academics from a range of disciplines This is in addition to professional body
 review if required (e.g. NHS ethical approvals, Home Office). Approval is followed by compliance
 monitoring in terms of data management, subject recruitment, and project conduct. All projects
 present a formal data management plan prior to approval.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy

 Whilst the teaching requirements of the LLB programme and other teaching programmes
 requiring law input are important, appointments of Law staff are also made on the basis of the
 contribution individual candidates can make to our law research culture.

 Law staff members deemed ‘significantly responsible for research’ on the census date are three
 lecturers (Macfarlane, Moran, Dodd), one associate professor (Chhina) and two professors
 (Stavert, Whitecross). All are permanent staff members and have Ph.Ds. Chhina, Dodd,
 Moran, Stavert and Whitecross are all currently FTE. Dodd is an Early Career Researcher.
 Macfarlane was FTE, and following maternity leave (2016-2017) was initially on a 0.6 contract,
 changing to 0.8 in 2018. Moran was on maternity leave (2019 2020) before returning full time.

 In order to flexibly support research capacity, the Unit has ensured sufficient research staff have
 consistently been in place over the period. Several research assistants, attached to the Centre
 for Mental Health and Capacity Law (and its projects), have been employed on fixed term
 contracts, and short-term student research assistance placements have been provided
 throughout the wider research group. These positions have supported the activity of more
 experienced research staff as well as providing valuable experience.

 The Centre for Mental Health and Capacity Law has two Visiting Professors; Professor Peter
 Bartlett, University of Nottingham, and Colin McKay (see above). In 2018 it also attracted two
 visiting academics funded by their own institutions; Professor Penelope Weller, RMIT University,
 Melbourne, and Dr Shih-Ning Then, QUT, Centre for Health Law Research, Brisbane. The
 engagement of these academics with the Centre has substantially helped to increase its national
 and international reach and profile in the field of mental health and capacity law and related
 rights. Their involvement has also led to researchers from the Unit being involved in many
 successful collaborations (see Section 4) and law reform.

 Staff Development

 TBS and SHSC both have designated Heads of Research (0.4 FTE). Both they and the
 Research, Innovation and Enterprise Office provide research support to UoA18 in terms of
 advice on funding streams, costings and the preparation of funding proposals, as well as access
 to internal funding support for projects and conferences and other external event attendance.
 Early Career Researchers (including research assistants) are supported in applying for such
 support. Research mentoring from senior staff is also available both with the Unit and across the
 Schools.

 New academic appointments are awarded protected research time to establish a research
 programme in their first year (0.2 FTE), after which the allocation is commensurate to the level of
 their research activity. Career development is pursued through a formalised progress of reviews
 to inform strategic planning, running parallel to the promotions framework (REF5a), which
 ensures consistency between individual development plans and Unit, School and University
 level objectives.



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Students

 UoA 18 currently has 1 PhD student. As the Unit is still growing, there have been challenges in
 recruiting doctoral students due to funding and the research profile of law group members.
 Therefore, the key aim of the Unit has been to raise its own research profile with a view to
 attracting more doctoral student applications.

 During the assessment period staff have supervised 6 doctoral completions. 1 PhD student and
 4 DBA’s have completed in the Unit. In addition to self-funding students UoA 18 has also
 benefitted from two Business School funded doctoral studentships awarded in 2013 and 2019.
 When applying for research funding, the opportunity to seek doctoral student funding within the
 context of the bid is encouraged where appropriate, and research assistants who are
 undertaking doctoral studies are routinely supported by means of flexible working arrangements.


                               2016/2017      2017/2018     2018/2019     2019/2020
                    Year


                    PhD             0             0              0             1


                 Research
                  Based
               Professional         1             1              2             0
                Doctorates
                  (DBA)
                                  Doctoral Completions in the Unit

 All research students supervised by staff within the Unit benefit from research supervision
 protocols, guarantees and progress reviews, and the Researcher Development programme, as
 provided across the University as a whole. Opportunities also exist for interdisciplinary research
 studentships, both within and across schools, which can be supervised by Unit staff members
 and staff in other subject areas.

 Postgraduate research students within the Unit also benefit from School and University research
 structures. A senior academic staff member is the Research Degrees Lead in TBS and SHSC,
 with oversight of research degree conduct and related activities, for example University paid
 work for research degree students. Research Degrees Leads are supported by school-based
 committees, comprising academic staff and Heads of Research, who assess all progress reports
 and approve examination team composition prior to scrutiny by the University Research Degrees
 Committee (REF5a). Research degree student representatives contribute to the School and
 University committees ensuring the postgraduate research student community voice is heard.

 Postgraduate research supervisors must undergo compulsory training and ensure compliance
 with our Research Degrees Framework. Similarly, academic skill sets are recognised and we
 equip and support postgraduate research students to identify their own professional
 development needs.

 Equality and Diversity

 67% of submitted staff in the unit identify as Female, and 15% as Male. With regards to ethnicity;
 17% identify as Asian, 66% identify as White, and 17% as Unknown. 33% identify as having a
 disability. The age profile of Category A staff is; 25-35: 17%, 35-45: 50%, 55-65: 33%. 100% of
 submitted staff are on permanent contracts.



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Law Group was able to accommodate a return to work on reduced hours and compressed
 days following a period of maternity leave for a research active member of staff (Macfarlane).
 University policy regarding staff return from maternity leave allowed this arrangement, which
 permits flexibility so that the returning staff member is able to continue to develop their research
 career despite new additional caring responsibilities. Staff are also supported via the University’s
 occupational health policy.

 SHSC is working towards Athena Swan Bronze award status. Staff undertake compulsory
 training in leadership, equality and diversity within the School, ensuring line management
 support is underpinned by such good practice. All interview panels are, where possible,
 balanced in terms of gender ratio. Equal opportunity in terms of conference attendance is
 provided, and where a care-giver is required to attend with a member of staff, this is financially
 supported. In other aspects the school follows institutional policies, e. g., support for staff with
 protected characteristics, and supporting wellbeing. SHSC ensures requests for arrangements
 for flexible or remote working to support staff with these requirements, including caring
 responsibilities, are assessed under our institutional policy.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 In the period £224,087 has been successfully received in UoA 18. The breakdown by source is
 as follows:

 1. BEIS Research Councils, The Royal Society, British Academy and The Royal Society Of
 Edinburgh (£19,406)

 2. UK central government bodies/local authorities, health and hospital authorities (£28,830)

 3. UK-based charities (£173,812)

 Live awards amounting to £185,907.20 (Stavert) existed at the census date.

 Both TBS and SHSC have dedicated research managers, covering pre-award (supporting grant
 writing and costing) and post award (contracting and monitoring). They also have dedicated
 research budgets to support staff (REG) and postgraduate students (RPG). Unit members and
 postgraduate research students are therefore entitled to call on these funds on an equal basis
 with other School staff and postgraduate research members.

 We recognise the challenges associated with securing research funding for solely legal research
 projects and our own developing research profile. We have therefore consciously adopted a
 research income strategy of identifying funding opportunities which are most conducive to
 interdisciplinary research, and have targeted collaborations with other academics both within
 ENU and at other universities. Examples of successful funding applications via this approach
 can be seen in the received AHRC funding for the Three Jurisdictions project, Carnegie Trust
 funding for the Employer Responses project and Nuffield Foundation funding for the Mental
 Health Tribunal projects. These and other examples are outlined fully in Section 4.

 Infrastructure and Facilities

 In TBS, technical and support staff, estate and facilities, advanced equipment, IT resources and
 significant archives and collections are provided. Doctoral students have a large shared office,
 fully refurbished and equipped during this REF period, with individual desk spaces and
 computers. This is situated alongside staff office accommodation. A subject specialist librarian
 works with doctoral students, supporting them in conducting literature reviews, searches, and
 accessing relevant papers. Doctoral students also have access to specialist IT support. PhD
 students are provided with guidance on their CVs and how to prepare for an academic job

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interview, including having the opportunity for mock interviews.

 Participation in central training, education and writing workshops are actively encouraged. SHSC
 fosters strategic relationships with NHS organisations, such as the Scottish National Blood
 Transfusion Service. It employs two full time, permanent research technicians, who support
 ECRs, contribute to industry-led research activity (Innovate UK), train PGR students in
 equipment use, and maintain equipment and manage infrastructure upgrades aligned to
 research requirements. Technicians also run a seminar programme, where all researchers and
 postgraduate students deliver their research, reinforcing our ‘by and for researchers’ approach to
 research culture development.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration and Contribution to the Discipline

 Several members of the Unit engage in intra and interdisciplinary, and inter-School and
 institutional collaborations. Examples of important collaborations include:

 Chhina’s EU Council of Europe Joint Projects and OSCE project, and Macfarlane’s
 collaboration with Professor Elaine Sutherland (Stirling University) in connection with the
 Convention on the Rights of the Child Implementation Project and its 2015 colloquium in
 Edinburgh and resultant publication.

 Stavert’s previous and current collaborations include:
   (a) the AHRC funded 2015/2016 Three Jurisdictions project led by Professor Wayne Martin
 (Essex University) and including; Professor Sabine Michalowski (Essex University), the Northern
 Ireland Human Rights Commission (Colin Caughey), Law Society of Scotland (Adrian Ward),
 Alex Ruck Keene (barrister, London), TC Young Solicitors (Alison Hempsey) and the Mental
 Health Foundation.
   (b) a law reform scoping exercise with the Mental Welfare Commission for Scotland with
 resultant report Scotland’s Mental Health and Capacity Law: the Case for Reform (2017).
   (c) as PI, with co-investigators Dr Valerie Egdell (ENU), Professor Michael Danson (Heriot Watt
 University), and Dr Louise Ritchie and Professor Debbie Tolson (University of the West of
 Scotland) in a Carnegie Trust funded project with resultant report Employer Responses to
 Dementia in the Workplace (2018).
   (d) a collaboration with Dr Paul Hutton (SHSC) on the project Accelerating the development of
 a psychological intervention to support treatment decision-making capacity in psychosis:
 Feasibility of an Umbrella trial funded Chief Scientist Office Scotland.
   (e) a collaboration with Professor Michael Brown (Queen’s University Belfast) for the project
 The Mental Health Tribunal for Scotland: The views and experiences of patients, Named
 Persons, Practitioners and Tribunal members, funded by the Nuffield Foundation (2017-2021).

 Other collaborations from Stavert have resulted in publications, such as:
  -a contribution to International Journal of Human Rights 2018 special issue with Dr Joanna
 Ferrie (University of Glasgow) and Dr Elaine Webster (Strathclyde University), Dr John Love
 (Robert Gordon University) and Professor Colin Clarke (University of West of Scotland).
  - a contribution to Laws special issue ‘Concerns, Contradictions and Reality of Mental Health
 Law’, edited by Professor Penelope Weller (RMIT University, Melbourne, Australia).
  - Book chapters resulting for symposia in 2018 and 2019 at the Oñati International Institute for
 the Sociology of Law to which she was invited (see below).

 She is also a member of the organising committee of the UK and Ireland Mental Diversity Law
 Network (funded by the Wellcome Trust) with Professor Peter Bartlett (University of Nottingham),
 Dr Lucy Series (Cardiff University), Dr Amanda Keeling (Leeds University) and Dr Julie Gosling
 (independent researcher). A current proposed collaboration includes Professors Penelope
 Weller and Stuart Thomas (RMIT University, Melbourne, Australia) and Professor Amy Watson
 (University of Illinois, Chicago) for which funding was applied for in 2019 to the Australian

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Council for the project Cognitive impairment, mental health and the criminal justice
 system.

 Whitecross’s collaborations have included those with:
   (a) Dr Claire Lindsay of TBS on a Scottish Civil Justice Council/ Scottish Courts and Tribunal
 Service project with resultant report in 2017.
   (b) Professor Jane Mair (University of Glasgow), resulting in a paper Domestic Abuse in Civil
 and Criminal Proceedings presented at ‘Reforming the Children (Scotland) Act 1995’, October
 2019, Edinburgh, organised by the Children and Young Person’s Commissioner Scotland and
 Together Scotland.
   (c) Professors Jane Mair and Michele Burman (University of Glasgow), resulting in a paper
 Understanding Domestic Abuse in Civil and Criminal Cases: Preliminary Review, presented at
 ‘Improving the experience of Family Justice in Scotland’ research conference, organised by the
 Scottish Government, Edinburgh, in October 2018.

 Macfarlane and Whitecross have also collaborated to create a research network to establish
 the aforementioned multi-disciplinary Research Centre for Scottish Child and Family Law and
 Policy, with funding from the Royal Society of Edinburgh.

 Attendance at academic events
 Researchers in UoA18 have presented research at major academic conferences, seminars and
 symposiums, regionally, nationally and internationally (Europe, US, Scandinavia and Africa).

 Chhina presented at the 4th Annual International Conference on Law and Policy, University of
 Oxford, August 2017. Moran (2017) and Stavert (2014-2019) presented at the Socio-Legal
 Studies Association Annual Conference, and Stavert at the International Academy of Law and
 Mental Health Congresses (2013, 2015, 2017 and 2019). In 2018, Moran also presented at the
 British International Studies Association International Law Working Group Workshop,
 International law and universality and European Society of International Law Annual Conference,
 University of Manchester, and in 2017 at the U!REKA Research Conference, Royal Society of
 Edinburgh, Edinburgh and Society of Legal Scholars Annual Conference, UCD, Dublin.
 Whitecross presented at the European Conference on South Asian Studies, Zurich, July 2014,
 the 15th IATS Seminar (2019) and 3rd European Conference on Domestic Violence, Oslo (2019).

 Invitations to speak at academic events
 Unit members have also been invited speakers at various academic events. Macfarlane was an
 invited Expert at the Convention on the Rights of the Child Colloquium, Stellenbosch University,
 March 2014. She was also been invited to attend an Expert Colloquium in Bergen, Norway, in
 2017.

 Moran was invited to present at a symposium at the iCourts Institute, Copenhagen, in May 2016
 and to speak at the European Society of International Law conference in September 2018. She
 was also an invited speaker at ‘Populism, Nationalism, and Human Rights’ at the University of
 Maastricht (2018), ‘The Paris Peace Conference and the preservation of power’ at the University
 of Edinburgh (2019) and delivered a Guest lecture on 'Non-state actors and responsibility in
 international criminal law' Symbiosis Law School, Pune, India in its Distinguished Speakers
 Series (2020).

 Stavert was an invited discussant at a conference Rethinking Deprivation of Liberty in a Health
 and Social Care Context held and organised by Queen Mary University, London, in September
 2015. She was, as already mentioned, an invited expert at symposia at the International Institute
 for the Sociology of Law, Onati in 2018 and 2019, and at the International Spring School Human
 Rights and Mental Health at the Institute for Medical Ethics and History of Medicine, Ruhr
 University Bochum, Germany, in 2019.
 Whitecross delivered an invited presentation Endangered Species: Law, Regulation and
 Managing Human and Wildlife Conflict in Bhutan at the School of Oriental and African Studies

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (2015). In addition, he was an invited presenter at both the First and Second Conference on
 Buddhism and Law hosted by the State University of New York (Buffalo) in 2016 and 2019
 respectively. At the first he presented a paper entitled “Of Texts and Drama: Delivering Justice in
 Bhutan” and the second, “Translation, Transmission and Legal Texts”. In 2019, he gave the
 keynote, Law, Buddhism and the Himalayas organised by the Faculty of Law, Department of
 Legal Philosophy, Seville University (2019) first Himalayan Law conference.

 Academic event organisation
 Research group members have also been involved in organising high-profile academic
 conferences or events. Macfarlane co-organised the CRC-IP (Convention on the Rights of the
 Child – Implementation Project) Expert Colloquium in June 2015 with Prof Elaine Sutherland,
 attended by global experts (US, Canada, NZ, Ireland, S Africa, Finland, UN Committee on the
 Rights of the Child).

 Moran was a co-organiser of ‘International law in the Age of COVID-19: The Impact of the
 Pandemic on Peace and Security’ (2020) and ‘Perspectives on Conflict’ conference at the
 University of Ghent (2014).

 Stavert is a member of the organizing committee of the UK and Ireland Mental Diversity Law
 Network (see above) which, since 2016, has hosted biennial conferences at the University of
 Nottingham, and seminars and webinars between such conferences. She has been asked to
 organise sessions at each of the biennial International Association of Law and Mental Health
 Congresses, including a member of the scientific programme committee for the 2017 and 2022
 congresses, and is a member of the World Adult Capacity Congress 2022 local organising
 committee and leads it’s academic programme for this event.

 In 2014, Whitecross was the panel organiser of a multi-disciplinary panel on Bhutan for the
 European Association of South Asian Studies (Zurich). In 2015, he organised a Family Law
 Academic Network event (for Child and Family Law academics from all of the other Scottish
 Universities) at ENU. In 2017, Whitecross and Moran co-organised a series of Workshops,
 funded by the Royal Society of Edinburgh, on unaccompanied minors. In addition, Whitecross
 and Macfarlane co-organised three workshops funded by the Royal Society of Edinburgh on
 Twenty Years of the Scottish Parliament: Child and Family Law (2019).

 Membership of legal scholarship bodies
 Members of the Unit are also well represented on legal scholarship bodies. Moran is a member
 of the Steering Committee of Scottish Universities Law Network on Europe and a member of the
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee of the Society of Legal Scholars. She is also a
 member of the European Society of International Law.

 Moran, Stavert and Whitecross are or have been members of the Socio-Legal Studies
 Association and Macfarlane and Whitecross are members of the Family Law Academic
 Network. Stavert and Moran are or have been members of the Society of Legal Scholars.

 Macfarlane is a member of the International Society of Family Law. Stavert is a Director and
 Council Member of the Scottish Universities Law Institute (SULI) and Whitecross is a member
 of the UK Legal Education Research Network and the Law and Society Association (USA).
 Moran is a member of the Glasgow Human Rights Network.

 Visiting scholarships
 Moran secured Carnegie Trust Visiting Scholar to attend Columbia University for three months
 in June 2018 to work on publications.

 Editorships and peer reviewers
 Staff regularly act as reviewers for numerous journals such as; Journal of Social Welfare and
 Family Law and Juridical Review, Italian Law Journal, The Age of Human Rights Journal,
 International Journal of Human Rights, the Journal of Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing,

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International Journal of Law and Psychiatry, Laws, Medical Law International, Law and Social
 Inquiry, Law and Society Review, Journal of Social Identities, East Asia Forum, Journal of Asian
 Law, Asian Law Journal, Journal of Democratic Politics, European Bulletin of Himalayan
 Research, Asian Policies and Politics, Journal of the Commonwealth and Law and Legal
 Education.

 They have also acted a reviewers for book publishers such as Oxford University Press, Pearson
 Publishing, the University of Edinburgh Press, Berghahn Press and Cambridge University Press,
 and have been editors for journals such as Law and Buddhism, International Journal of Mental
 Health and Capacity Law and Juridical Review.

 Funding body reviewers
 Further academic contribution can be witnessed by Unit members being invited to review
 applications by various funding bodies. Moran, Stavert and Whitecross by UKRI, Moran and
 Whitecross for the Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland, Stavert by the Dutch
 Research Council, and Whitecross by the MRUK/ESRC, AHRC and British Academy.




                                                                                          Page 13
