Institution: University of the West of Scotland
Unit of Assessment: 17: Business and Management Studies
1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Structure of research
The School of Business and Creative Industries (SBCI) provides the institutional home for all re-
search activities in UOA17 alongside UOA34 for Creative Industries which constitutes nearly one
third of the School. A further 10 colleagues have been returned to other UOAs, including UOA20
and UOA24. From the business and management side of the School a total of 44 staff are sub-
mitted to REF2021. There are strong links between the constituent parts of the School, for exam-
ple, with collaborations on digital teaching and research and in the co-location of our doctoral
student community.

This part of the School has experienced two significant reorganisations since 2014 and the crea-
tion of SBCI in early 2019. Within the new structure business and management has retained its
strong identity and has reinvigorated its longstanding commitment to working with leaders, busi-
ness, enterprise and professional bodies.

These changes have been pivotal for our PhD completions increasing from 3 per annum to 7 per
annum. The number of staff with PhDs and engaged in supervision has increased through recruit-
ment and staff development, from around 40% in 2014 to 70% today. We have had 7 staff partic-
ipate in the UWS Grant Accelerator programme, and 4 in the UWS Crucible programme. These
staff are a key target for further support and mentoring to bring on our next generation of research
leaders.

We have nearly tripled the average annual level of grant income and have recently become the
top Business School provider of Management Knowledge Transfer Partnerships in the UK, secur-
ing approaching GBP2,000,000 income.

The research is currently structured within 4 groupings: (1) Social Innovation, Leadership & Man-
agement, (2) Business Innovation and Transformation Technology, (3) Centre for Africa Research
in Enterprise and Economic Development and (4) Management and Professional Education.

(1) Social Innovation, Leadership & Management (SIL&M); Centre Directors Gibb and Harri-
son.
The group includes 18 active researchers, and approximately 36 PhD students.

The group has projects ranging from supporting female entrepreneurship in migrant camps,
through fair and decent work in health and social care, to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
leadership in the private sector. This is seen in funded projects involving Harrison, Gibb and
Hassan from the UWS Protracted Crisis Research Centre (PCRC); Crammond with ESS col-
leagues Sidhva and Kaparounaki on ‘Empowering Syrian Refugee Women in Protracted Crisis
Situations through Enterprise Education in Jordan’. These all involve training programmes focus-
sing on building resilience through skills development and enterprising education. This grouping
accounts for the impact case study in Decent Work.

Gibb and Ishaq are members of the Oxfam-UWS partnership, which has conducted inter-disci-
plinary research (in social science, education and health) in fair and decent work (FDW), contrib-
uting to policy development for addressing poverty in Scotland with Oxfam. As a result, Oxfam
has developed and produced a manifesto and reports influence the Scottish Parliament to main-
tain and extend progress on paying the Living Wage Scotland. Other examples include, Ishaq’s
research on equalities themes with the ethnic minorities’ staff experiences of academic libraries
(SCONUL, Society of College, National and University Libraries). His research is of an applied
nature with implications for policymakers, societies, organizations and communities. During his
time on the Board of the Scottish Football Association (SFA), Ishaq had significantly advanced
equality in all aspects related to the development of the game at both professional and grassroots


                                                                                             Page 1
level (e.g., the establishment of a para-football league, the only in the world; the achievement of
the Advanced Level of Equality Standard for Sport).

A second strand, of the group’s work, complementing the first, concerns leadership within Social
Innovation. Harrison’s interests are in Leadership, in organisational learning and crisis, and his
text is used in several business schools and is in the top 25% most downloaded e-books in the
Palgrave MacMillan collection. Mackie’s work on Talent Management in Scotland’s Public Ser-
vices resulted in a dissemination event supported by The Improvement Service and held in Ed-
inburgh in June 2017 with over 50 human resource management (HRM) practitioners attending
from across Scotland’s public services.

A third strand relates to social innovation, enterprise and entrepreneurship. Reilly’s work focuses
upon third sector entrepreneurship and employability. This facilitates companies to develop more
effective services, which means more people back in work, through Routes to Work, a virtual
reality product, as a ‘3rd Safe Space’ to allow vulnerable groups to access workplace environ-
ments via VR simulations. Livingstone is supporting the development of enterprises in remote
and rural areas through the Oak Tree Inn Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP), which involves
strategic support and digital, social and transformational technologies including developing cloud
commerce, digital marketing and virtual tourism and promotions. A direct impact has been the
protection of jobs and survival during the COVID-19 emergency, and scope to adapt and thrive
thereafter.

A fourth strand focuses on the responsibility in finance and operations. Guo conducted original
research on CSR, and social and environmental accounting; he was awarded ‘Best Developmen-
tal Paper’ by the International Business & International Management Special Interest Group at
British Academy of Management Annual Conference 2016. Fletcher looks into financial literacy
(including personal budgeting, inclusion and gender) and accounting, focusing on image and cor-
porate social responsibility/social and environmental accounting and emerging markets. Kou-
roukilis focuses on reconfiguration methodologies for retail supply chains, sustainability assess-
ment of bio-fuel to energy supply chains, knowledge management in the supply chain for new
product development, and sustainable performance evaluation in supply chains. Beloucif has in-
vestigated the links between strategy, corporate reputation and Islamic studies.

Strategically, looking ahead to the UWS plan for future research foci, this group is connected to
the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) in Growth (Goal 8), Industry (Goal
9), Gender Equality (Goal 5), and Equality (Goal 10).

(2) Business Innovation and Transformation Technology (BITT); Directors Frew, and Tar-
bert
BITT is an interdisciplinary unit for applied research specialising in knowledge exchange, digital,
social, and transformational technologies. It is dedicated to realizing the positive and integrated
potential of digital, social and transformational technologies for sustainable business growth, fu-
ture education, health and wellbeing. There are overlapping applications of Accelerated and Im-
mersive Education - educational innovation integrating digital, social and transformational tech-
nologies to enable fully online live to curated education. This allows students to engage, interact
and learn via a personalised ecosystem of digital to immersive educational experiences remotely.

BITT builds on a portfolio of research including StalkerVR - a pioneering digital and virtual reality
project for Action Against Stalking (Innovation Voucher (GBP5K) with follow-up Digital Trans-
formation project (GBP10K). DigitalSelf, a consultancy project (GBP10K), involved building a ma-
jor platform to service virtual and augmented reality lifestyles. An enabling ecosystem offering
‘intimate immersion’ where consumers can virtually placeshift to experience travel and tourism,
sport, music and entertainment, arts and heritage, and education.

Knowledge exchange activities play a major role in developing pathways to impact. The original
work by Struthers and Johnston has been pivotal to SBCI’s current leading position in KTPs.


                                                                                              Page 2
This has since evolved to include a large portfolio (GBP776,000) of UK government funded man-
agement KTPs (mKTP). ‘Digital Growth and Training Programme’ for North Ayrshire’s Enterprise
and Business Growth Teams, for example, is to be scaled up for Scotland and UK wide enterprise
network. VisitArran is a project working with business across Arran. This project integrated VR
with interactive TouchCast, promotions and a digital campaign. We are also incorporating appli-
cations for virtual and augmented reality for North Ayrshire Council, as part of “Routes to Work”
KTP and with Celtic Football Club (FC) in developing CyberCoaching using accelerated and im-
mersive education applications for nutritional education. Frew and Tzanidis were shortlisted for
educational innovation integrating digital, social and transformational technologies for the Guard-
ian Education Award, Herald Higher Education Awards and Digital Pioneers Awards.

The research of this research grouping is aligned with UWS strategic themes, and the World Eco-
nomic Forum Centre for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, United Nations’ ‘Sustainable Develop-
ment Goals’ and Scottish Government’s Scottish Technology Ecosystem Review.

Several colleagues (Conlon, Johnston, Frew, Reid, Struthers, Tzanidis) have recently secured
KTP funding to support the development of impact, with a range of organisations. These include
West Coast Construction – a project integrating the Cloud Commerce and Business Transfor-
mation approach designed to digitally and technologically transform the company.

Other projects include the inaugural global conference ‘Action Against Stalking, Future Events:
ExperienceXR’ focusing on how transformational DARQ technologies will challenge and change
events and event experience, social Isolation and Loneliness - ‘New Frontiers in Wellbeing: Im-
mersive Technologies and Digital Dreamscapes’, all examples of the future applications of trans-
formational technologies to break digital divide, open education, enterprise and innovation. This
thematic grouping is associated with UN SDG Growth (Goal 8), Industry (Goal 9), and Equality
(Goal 10).

(3) Centre for Africa Research in Enterprise and Economic Development (CAREED)
CAREED (https://www.uws.ac.uk/research-2021/research-institutes-centres-groups/careed) was
established in 2015 and has 12 academic staff and 15 PhD students. The key mission of CAREED
is twofold: a) to conduct applied research on Africa in a range of topics to enhance enterprise,
economic development and livelihoods, especially within the agricultural sector; and b) to collab-
orate extensively with a range of international organisations, including at UN level, who focus on
African economic development, and with African diaspora organisations within the UK.

This twin mission and the research outputs of CAREED cut across 5 main research areas: com-
modities and trade in Africa; supply chain/logistics and value chain analysis; entrepreneurship
(especially female) in Africa; governance and ethics; and microfinance and social business. CA-
REED members have interacted, individually and collectively, at different levels of society and
economy in relation to Africa. Examples include UN level interactions in the commodities and fe-
male entrepreneurship research areas; ongoing research on logistics/supply chains through
funded projects in African countries such as Kenya and Rwanda; and in female entrepreneurship
both in African countries (e.g., Uganda) as well as with African diaspora organisations in the UK.

The reach of these collaborations is possibly unique among similar Africa focused research cen-
tres across the UK. The crucial role of diaspora organisations is often ignored in relation to ongoing
research on African economic development, despite being vital stakeholder communities who can
raise awareness of the challenges but also the opportunities within African economies).

CAREED also has a strong group of ongoing and completed PhD students who are either from
the continent or are studying various aspects of African economic development. These PhD stu-
dents play an active role in contributing to the Centre including planning the annual conferences
and fortnightly seminars. 5 CAREED conferences have been organised to date, attracting a grow-
ing audience with high-level speakers from around the world including leading UN experts from
UNCTAD (United Nations Conference on Trade and Development); African embassies based in
the UK; and African diaspora organisations in the UK.

                                                                                               Page 3
UN SDGs are relevant to the work of CAREED:
        The UNSDGs are key to the research work carried out in the above inter-connected areas
by CAREED researchers. Specific SDGs that apply include: 1. (No Poverty); 2. (Zero Hunger); 5.
(Gender Equality); 10. (Reduced Inequalities; 12. (Responsible Consumption and Production);
and 17. (Partnerships for the Goals).
        SDGs 5, 10 and 12, in particular, are pivotal to the applied nature of the research carried
out across: commodities and trade; female entrepreneurship; and supply/ global value chains in
Africa. Indeed, having an SDG focus has been a strong factor in steering CAREED to concentrate
its research in and across these inter-connected research areas.

Struthers is a researcher in the area of commodity price volatility in developing countries. He has
collaborated with a number of UN organisations such as the FAO in Rome and UNCTAD in Ge-
neva. In 2015 he was appointed Honorary Consul for Ethiopia in Scotland and in 2018 was ap-
pointed Chancellor of Mount Kenya University, one of the largest private universities in Africa.
Adewole’s research focuses on: Humanitarian Relief Logistics and Supply Chain; Logistics and
Supply Chain Infrastructure in Developing Countries; Green Logistics and Sustainable Supply
Chain Management. Nziku has a particular interest in female entrepreneurship and government
strategies/policies for promoting enterprise and innovation in developing countries. She has pre-
sented at the International Council for Small Businesses (ICSB) Conference and has made
several keynote speeches in research conferences, such as the Think-Tank International Con-
ference on Women Entrepreneurship. She has also taken part in the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) Panel on "Multi-year Expert Meeting on Investment, Inno-
vation and Entrepreneurship for Productive Capacity-Building and Sustainable Development"
where she was invited to speak on Sub-Saharan Female Entrepreneurship. External involvements
include: UNCTAD’s EMPRETEC programme on female entrepreneurs; the Global Women En-
trepreneurship Project.

Gemech is an econometrician with a research portfolio that includes commodity price volatility
and with Struthers has co-authored papers on the coffee sector in Ethiopia and India. Beloucif’s
research focuses on strategy, corporate reputation and Islamic studies. Hassan conducts re-
search on environmental accounting, among other research areas and her research paper won
‘best paper’ at a Cairo University International Conference on Accounting in 2015. Harrison con-
ducts research on Leadership in Africa and is chair of the British Academy of Management (BAM)
Leadership section and co-chair of the BAM Africa section. He recently secured a grant for stud-
ying women in protracted displacement in Nigeria.

(4) Management and Professional Education (MPE) Directors; Turner, Crammond
This thematic group is associated with UN SDG Education Goal 4 (Gender Equality) and Goal 5
(Equality). Crammond is author of a text on entrepreneurship education, and an editorial board
member and reviewer for multiple journals in teaching practice fields. From 2018 he was involved
in a national, cross-university ‘Scale Up’ project, aiming to implement an educational and training
programme for Scottish businesses. He is a Fellow of the Management and Business Educator
(CMBE). Duff’s research concerns social mobility and accountancy and relations between teach-
ing and research. Given UWS is the UK’s leading HEI in widening access, this focus on social
mobility plays a vital role in developing accountancy education within UWS. Gustafsson’s re-
search on entrepreneurial cognition and leadership can be defined as fruitful cross-fertilisation
between cognitive psychology, entrepreneurship theory and empirical research in entrepreneurial
context. She has links with Faculty of Economics at Moscow State University (EF MSU). Gillon
researches leadership in education, as well as supporting professional development in Organiza-
tion Development. Johnston researches and writes on the teaching of economics in Universities.
Keegan researches and publishes in student retention and integration, especially in the context
of management education. Turner has interests in research in event bidding, has operational
leadership in teaching and learning and is an active researcher and promoter of research in this.
Murray’s work in developing human capital in entrepreneurs further complements this group



                                                                                             Page 4
UWS has worked with BAM in developing the BAM Education Practice Award which recognises
inspiring and impactful management education practice. UWS hosted a BAM Teaching Excel-
lence, Scholarship and Impact Symposium in 2016.

1.2 Current REF period: Review of REF2014 Objectives
Since REF2014, we have adapted and grown our research activity, in the number and quality of
outputs, the size of our PGR community and in almost trebling grant funding. Our interest in
corporate social responsibility, knowledge exchange and socially relevant projects and research
reflects UWS’s long-standing values, which align well to the UN SDGs. Recent recruitment has
radically altered our staff portfolio with a growing number of early career researchers (ECRs), most
recruited because of their fit with current and evolving research areas.

SBCI works in collaboration through its many partnerships with an emphasis upon applied re-
search that contributes to clean economic growth, social innovation and development nationally
and internationally. We are multiple-accredited, interdisciplinary business school and the no. 1
provider of management KTPs in the UK (25% of UK’s total number of mKTPs). Alongside
our growing PGR community, we have a flourishing DBA programme. Knowledge Exchange, En-
terprise and Impact lie at the heart of who we are.

REF2014 has been based on three subject groups: Accounting, Finance and Law (Financial
Accounting and Tax Unit, Management Accounting and Applied Economics Unit, Law Unit); Man-
agement Organisations and People (Management Unit, Strategy and Leadership Unit, People
and HR Unit); Marketing, Innovation Tourism and Enterprise (Events and Tourism Unit, Mar-
keting Unit, Innovation and Operations Unit). Therefore, we identified four priority areas in
REF2021:
      Focus Research & Knowledge Exchange in Enterprise and Innovation, Leadership, Or-
ganisational and Performance and People Management and Accounting and Financial Markets.
      Embed research with knowledge exchange to achieve greater impact.
      Internationalisation.
      Increase the number of submitted staff by 100%.

Focus Research & Knowledge Exchange: Our 2014 submission included the three small, con-
centrated groups listed above. These have evolved into the much larger subject knowledge group-
ings presented above.

Embed research: this has been achieved through our sector-leading uptake of funding suc-
cesses for mKTPs and being instrumental for the institutional growth of KTPs to the current com-
bined portfolio of GBP6,900,000. These span across technical innovation, people, organisa-
tional performance and finance spectrum.

Internationalisation: Central to a focused approach in developing the international element of
research is our Centre for African Research on Enterprise and Economic Development (CA-
REED). Additionally, UWS has been the first and only Scottish university to have developed
professional training stemming from our research activity for the China State Administration for
Foreign Experts Affairs (SAFEA) that delivered 23 training courses to more than 500 senior
executives from across China (GBP1,200,000).

Increase the number of submitted staff: we have more than trebled the number of staff returned.
By submitting 34.2 FTE Cat A staff in REF2021 against the benchmark figure of 10.9 FTE Cat A
staff in REF2014, BCI UOA17 has increased the submission by more than three times. This in-
crease is due to many factors including the recruitment of research active staff; institutional staff
development programmes supporting staff to complete doctoral study; researcher development
opportunities within Grant Accelerator and CRUCIBLE programmes; a formalised approach to
providing mentors to support ECRs from within the School; external mentors for aspiring research
leaders; allocating increased research allowances to established researchers.



                                                                                              Page 5
Reflecting the interdisciplinarity of our work, some senior colleagues’ outputs are to be submitted
to other UOAs (e.g., MacPherson, McGillivray, to UOA24; Johnston to UOA23; Elliott to UOA20).
This phenomenal growth in research active staff has occurred throughout a period of significant
organizational change, showing our ongoing commitments to supporting research.

1.3 Strategy: Next Five Years
As we move onto the next phase of our development our objectives are to:
      Maintain a supportive research environment aligned with UWS strategic goals and UN
SDGs.
      Invest in the development of our early and mid-career researchers and providing mentoring
support.
      Focus upon our research strengths by investing in existing and emerging signature re-
search groupings.
      Value and deliver high-quality outputs and world-class impact from all stages of the aca-
demic career.
      To expand our impactful research, building on the KTP portfolio to support innovation in
enterprises across priority sectors (including public and third sector) and communities we serve.
      To develop a new generation of business and management research leaders and re-
searchers, aligned with UWS local, national and global priorities.

SBCI aspires to be the partner of choice for enterprise and our various communities of practice.
Due to the pandemic, during 2021, we will renew and refresh our research strategy as we grow
the new senior research leadership within the School. Our plan highlights growing recognition of
our work with enterprise from CPD, masterclasses, KTPs and creating incubator space to support
new businesses. Our aim is to be embedded and leading within the economic ecosystem.

Although the existing research groupings will be central to the UOA’s development, we recognise
that additional groupings will emerge. As part of this and in addition to the above objectives, we
have set the following priorities in further strengthening our research environment:
      Use a targeted approach to recruit new staff and build a significant critical mass of re-
searchers in each area with a goal to produce internationally excellent research.
      As partner of choice for enterprise, we will establish an Enterprise Subject Group, drawing
together our existing work with small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and our work with
business support professionals to make an impactful contribution to economy and society.
      We will maintain a supportive research environment through structures, workload manage-
ment and allocation, and culture which demonstrably enables our researchers to flourish.
      Having robust succession planning by investing in staff development for mid-career re-
searchers, our senior leaders of the future.

1.4 Achievement of Impact
UWS was created from a merger of the former University of Paisley and Bell College in 2007. The
roots of business and management, with strong links to industry and enterprise, stretch back to
the creation of the original Paisley Technical College in 1897. Since REF2014 business and man-
agement within the School have continued to generate significant knowledge exchange and im-
pact with practitioners and policy makers nationally and internationally. We are embedded within
the community of the West of Scotland and nationally with strong relationships with Scottish En-
terprise and regional Chambers of Commerce, Inverclyde, Renfrewshire, South Lanarkshire
Councils and with Ayrshire economic development consortia. We work with Chartered Man-
agement Institute (CMI) and the Small Firms Enterprise Development Initiative (SFEDI) to
provide support to management professionals and training the business support professionals
who work closely with SMEs to build efficiency and effectiveness and who will play a major role in
the post- COVID-19 recovery.

Although our School Board has oversight and responsibility for impact, a dedicated enterprise
group is driving our agenda around upskilling and business support for SMEs. Some of this is
through our growing KTP portfolio and some through training business support professionals. The


                                                                                            Page 6
investment of resource reflects our strategic aim to be partner of choice for enterprise. The KTP
programme is supported by a School lead as well as by a dedicated UWS Research and Innova-
tion Business Development Officer.

Our aspiration is to maximise benefits of inter-organisational workplace learning and innovation.
This clear impact mission and our focus bode well for our ongoing impact strategy, one that is
grounded in knowledge co-creation and shaping practices. While nationally embedded, our foot-
print is international across the research groupings. All researchers are thus encouraged to con-
sider international impact from their research from the inception of a research proposal through to
the dissemination of knowledge and a commitment to monitor and evaluate impact over the longer
term. Research and impact form part of the assessment in recruitment and are considered for
each member of staff through our MyContribution performance and development process. With
recent investment in new posts and strong growth in other areas of activity, research and impact
will see investment increase for academics within the School.

1.4.1 Impact Case Studies and Impact Approach
The overall focus of SBCI on knowledge exchange as a key route to impact and its strategic po-
sitioning within the sector resulted in the following impact case studies:

Improving commodities and trade, logistics/supply chains and the role of female entrepre-
neurship in Africa are 3 established and inter-related areas we have had a prolonged impact
across. The research underpinning this impact can be identified and measured individually and
collectively, and at different levels of society and economy. Examples include UN level interac-
tions in the commodities and female entrepreneurship research areas; impact on logistics/supply
chains through funded projects in African countries such as Kenya and Rwanda and impacts in
female entrepreneurship both in African countries (e.g., Uganda) as well as with African diaspora
organisations in Scotland and the UK. The crucial role of African diaspora organisations has been
a major element in CAREED’s mission as a facilitator or “influencer” in this process.

Fair and decent work (FDW) is a newer area of research, addressing the major global challenge
of progressing job quality, living standards and wellbeing. Our research starting in 2016 within,
and beyond, the pioneering Oxfam-UWS partnership has contributed to a culture supportive of
FDW. We have contributed to social policy developments in Scotland concerned with decent work
as a pathway out of poverty. Beyond this, among employers, we contribute to a climate of support
for progressive Organization Culture Development and change to deliver FDW. This is evidenced
in the larger employment sectors such as Local Authorities, and also the harder to reach and
influence SME sector, more recently in social care work in care homes for the elderly.

Knowledge Exchange (KE) impact has been developed over years, following from early research
that looks at workplace learning within and between organisations, intra- and inter-organisational
innovation and relationships within KTPs. Johnston and Struthers were pioneers in linking the well-
established areas of research with the world’s oldest government-funded knowledge transfer
scheme, and through this influencing the rapid development of UWS’s current portfolio. This insti-
tutional steering has had wide-reaching economic benefits directly through businesses we support
and indirectly through the long-term partnerships with these businesses that contribute to the
growth of the KTP portfolio and other types of joint innovations beyond KTPs (see the impact case
study).

1.5 Interdisciplinary Research
Each of the research groupings thrive because of their inherent interdisciplinarity. We have UOA17
staff engagement in the UWS-Oxfam partnership, and in the teams working with Scottish Funding
Council Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) projects with the PCRC. We also work with
social science and engineering colleagues and CAREED projects, which incorporate logistics and
leadership. Although led from within UOA34, the Protracted Crisis Centre pulls together Business
alongside Arts & Media, Sociology and Law.



                                                                                            Page 7
The impact of these efforts to encourage interdisciplinarity may be seen in the outputs of CAREED.
For example, Adewole and Struthers work in logistics and value chains in Africa and Nziku and
Struthers work combining economics and enterprise. Similarly, Gibb and Ishaq’s contribution to
fair and decent work within the Oxfam-UWS partnership project team, which also includes, Social
Science, Law, Education, and Health.

1.6 Open Research Environment
Open access, open data and open platforms are all strategic concerns for UWS, which we as a
School and UOA support. Versions of all outputs are made available through the institutional re-
pository, which goes above and beyond the REF open access policy. Collaborative and citizen
science projects have great potential in our areas of research, and we are highlighting this as a
key area for development across all groupings. While KTPs are the leading edge of our engage-
ment into practice, we are targeting greater public engagement through local, national and inter-
national virtual and actual events via non-academic networks and partnerships.

1.7 Research Integrity
UWS has a rigorous process to maintain research integrity that includes a multi-level steps to any
relevant issues through School and University Ethics Committees. All research projects are sub-
mitted for ethical approval and are peer reviewed on methodological and ethical grounds. We also
undertake in-school peer reviewing of funded research applications, including a consideration of
ethical issues.

2. People

2.1 Staff Development Strategy
 UWS provides a generous provision for maternity, parental, compassionate, domestic and per-
sonal leave as well as a policy on flexible working. In the REF period, several members of the
school have taken advantage of these arrangements without any detriment to their career devel-
opment. Central to our staff development strategy is to thus build and maintain a supportive re-
search environment in which excellent research and impact can flourish. The School supports
early career researchers and career development at all stages in research careers. We are mind-
ful, throughout, around issues of equality and diversity. Resources, strategy and culture to support
our research excellence have been the primary focus throughout this REF period. We have
strengthened the visibility of individual PURE profiles, and research presence on platforms like
Research Gate and Google. This has helped all staff develop and review research objectives and
the School to develop priority areas.

We provide support for ECRs whereby we target output development through coaching rather
than mentoring for writing, led by Gillon arranging writing workshops. The dialogue on research
activity and plans which emerges from these, can help inform on REF goals and more widely
evolve the research culture. Seminars on impact have been delivered to PGR students and School
staff, as part of our popular school seminar series, augmented by some special seminars on, for
example, Business Beyond Brexit.

We nurture new and fresh research leadership within the School, through targeted continuing pro-
fessional development for aspiring research leaders inside UWS, for example with Gibb partici-
pating in the research leaders UWS in-house programme; Hassan being mentored by Tarbert;
Crammond and Johnston being given challenging roles in external networks representing the
School in Scotland wide initiatives.

The increased international diversity of staff reflects our commitment to be a School with an inter-
nationally leading knowledge exchange position. Most staff in BCI are engaged in active collabo-
rative relationships with researchers in other academic institutions, nationally and internationally.
The first international KTP in Scotland with an African partner is one example of our international
aspirations.



                                                                                              Page 8
Complementing our development, recruitment and promotion practices, we support our research-
ers with research time tariffs in their workload allocation model. Our Divisions are the main units
for managing individual research objectives, while the School Research Strategy Group oversees
development of the research strategy and culture. The MyContribution process identifies individual
research plans and ambitions for outputs, knowledge exchange, impact and generating research
income. While the expectation is that staff meet on a regular basis, the processes requires a 6-
month and annual review.

Research mentoring plays a vital role. Support is available for any member of staff especially for
staff in their first full-time academic position and where our MyContribution process identifies men-
toring as an important individual developmental need. An activity plan (workload model), ensures
the fair allocation of duties, including appropriate, reduced, teaching loads for the ECRs and those
carrying major administrative roles. All research staff are guaranteed research time within the ac-
tivity plan.

There has been a significant investment and knowledge exchange activities, including KTPs and
other engagements with industry to enable ECRs and researchers at different career stages to
propel the impact of their research and as the school seeks to develop its impact in the broadest
possible sense.

2.2 Staffing and Recruitment
Recent recruitment of 32 staff across the school has been at the ECR level. Our School and UOA
is recognised to be imbalanced at the Professorial level, currently. Two professors returned to
another UOA play vital roles within the entire School by including ECRs in grant applications and
developing outputs. We will continue to recruit fresh talent and develop their research capacity
and skills well. This is seen in the number of staff we have developed who have been able to
successfully move on to other institutions, here still represented in our Category B pool this REF.

2.3 Support for Early Career Researchers
Harrison is a co-leader of the University wide Early Career Research Network, so we are inti-
mately involved in this at all levels, from the strategic to the practical. We have enjoyed the use of
mentoring, probation, appraisal and training, and the unit’s implementation of the Concordat to
Support the Career Development of Researchers. The participation in the UWS grant accelerator
programmes is an example. It is designed to develop and enhance the knowledge and skills
needed to develop successful grant applications for external funding agencies. This includes men-
toring and an emphasis on female participants, with a ratio of 6:1, contributing to their development
Reid, Burnett, Will, Fletcher, Hassan.

UWS Crucible is a flagship project to develop research leaders, which runs in some years. It is a
programme for early career researchers that aims to provide participants with the time and space
to see the bigger picture with relationships which may lead to interdisciplinary collaborations now
or in the future. In Crucible 2017 UOA17 participants were Harrison and Reilly and in Crucible
2020 UOA17 participants were Leung and Crammond. Crammond subsequently developed a
cross school research project emerged from this which obtained internal funding. Harrison devel-
oped the GRFC project in Nigeria. Reilly developed 2 KTPs.

Support for our ECRs is available in the form of targeted training, research mentoring, reductions
in teaching load during their first three years of appointment and the completion of a career devel-
opment plan combined with a variety of courses provided by University for their personal and
professional development. Subject Groups have systems of peer review for publication and grant
applications. ECRs are expected to join one or more groupings and present their work to research
seminars.

2.4 Academia – Industry Exchange
Our flagship KTP programme is the key pillar of our rich industry engagement, across the three
existing research groupings identified above, and it drives wide-ranging industry engagement at
the institutional level (e.g., KeyFM Ltd. is now involved in two KTP projects across UOA17 and

                                                                                               Page 9
UOA12 and has led to a strategic partnership, co-designing ISO Standards for facilities manage-
ment). Our strategy is to build on this to create KTP clusters with research groupings, resulting in
greater research income, demonstrable and measurable impact and to fund PGR studentships.
More than 20 colleagues have been involved in KTPs. Further, our long-standing work with CMI,
delivering Certificate/Diploma programmes in coaching and mentoring, provides another oppor-
tunity for staff to engage with industry. An emerging strand is our work with SFEDI (Small Firms
Enterprise Development Initiative) in which we train the trainers, the business support profession-
als who will play an important part in our emerging from the COVID-19 emergency. This work has
been ongoing since 2015 (Murray, Frew, Burns).

2.5 Research & Impact Rewards
KTP success of staff has resulted in reinvestment into KTP teams to support their further engage-
ment with industry and academia through so-called staff development accounts (e.g., costs of
industry-related travel, organising joint events, conference attendance). Some staff have been put
forward for rewards based on their research and impact. These include some who received a
financial reward. Others have been promoted because of their research and impact, including
Reilly (to Senior Lecturer) and Gibb and Ishaq (to Reader).

2.6 Research Students
During this REF period, there have been 50 verifiable doctoral completions associated with
UOA17 (23.5 submitted to REF4a). This is due to growing demand and a sign of our vision for,
and commitment to, research as well as institutional partnerships and collaborative supervisory
arrangements exist with Hochschule der Medien (HdM) Stuttgart, Germany. Doctoral students
benefit from separate funds administered by the School and each student receives an additional
GBP1,000 research funds towards fieldwork and conference attendance in addition to a laptop
and networked workstation with laptop dock and monitor. The School, supported by the Univer-
sity’s Doctoral College, provides subject-specific support (i.e., doctoral research training including
sessions on ethics, fieldwork and practice-based research).

Strategically, we support our postgraduate researcher development through-life from the transition
into higher education to employment and later ambassadorial roles. On the latter, we have in this
period specifically focused on other academic institutions, enriching their diversity. Somoye: Dean
of a Business School at a Nigerian University; Kolade: Lecturer at Northampton University;
Freese: Lecturer at Hamburg University of Applied Sciences; Omeihe: Lecturer at Edinburgh Na-
pier University. Afridi: Assistant Professor in Management at Hail University in Saudi Arabia. Pa-
rajuli: Assistant Lecturer at Coventry University. Rahman: Lecturer at the University of Sunder-
land. Other employment and ambassadorial destinations have been in employment in various
sectors that are relevant to our UOA. Zhang: Syndicated Banking Consultant for Chinese Invest-
ment Bank in London; Wang: Economist in Central Bank of China; Obasi: Researcher in Oil and
Gas Company in Nigeria; Isah Dara: Statistician at UK Office of National Statistics (ONS);
Schoelhammer: Project Leader Innovation Management Intedis GmbH & Co KG; Abijo: started
his own business as independent/freelancer to advise start-ups and small businesses on aspects
of sustainability businesses; Reuther: Executive Director – Continental Network (British Academy
of Management).

Several PhD graduates have joined UWS. Harrison in Management; Burnett lecturer in HRM;
Hofmann lecturer in HRM; Khan Lecturer in Management; Clark Lecturer in Management;
Chacha in HRM; and Murray Entrepreneurship. The percentage of staff either with a PhD quali-
fication or studying for one has therefore risen from approximately 40% in REF2014 to 70% in
2020.

Our PGR admissions focus upon the quality of applicants, and alignment with our thematic inter-
ests. A thorough induction within the School complements our Doctoral College’s programme.

In addition to rigorous progression monitoring, the Doctoral College, in tandem with the UWS
Academy, is responsible for generic research training across the University. These training
courses are important, especially in relation to training needs assessments and alignment with the

                                                                                              Page 10
Vitae framework, but students across the Schools of ESS and BCI also need to access more
bespoke research training opportunities, especially those related to social sciences and arts and
humanities. The University focuses on its strategic priority areas and aligns its provision to the
requirements and expectations of the Scottish Graduate School of Social Science and the Scottish
Graduate School for Arts and Humanities – UWS is a paying member of both.

Following the creation of two new Schools - Education and Social Sciences (ESS) and Business
and Creative Industries (BCI) - in the summer of 2019, there was an expressed desire by both
Deans to maintain and extend elements of good practice in managing the PGR student experience
built up by McGillivray and Matemba in the then Schools of MCS and Education, respectively, and
to find a mechanism to smooth the reorganizational transition, involving staff from what was the
School of Business Enterprise. Hassan, who was a Reader in the former School of B&E is cur-
rently Deputy Director for PGR and mentored by Vice Principal Research, Innovation and Engage-
ment.

The central location of the PGR community facilitates good access to supervisors, although in
2020 most of this has been conducted virtually. The doctoral student community is housed in a
central location, around a large, open shared space with self-catering facilities to encourage the
less formal aspect of community. The space provides an area in which informal gathering supple-
ments the research seminar programme. The rationale is that not only does this arrangement
create a critical mass of doctoral students, but it ensures continuity with arrangements that existed
within three schools which merged into two. Such arrangement encourages a truly cross-discipli-
nary approach with a wide range of visiting speakers and internally delivered seminars. Finally,
our development of new and established supervisors involves experienced researchers working
with less experienced researchers. For example, Gibb with Zhang, Tarbert with Tzanidis, Ishaq
with Hoffman, Gillon with Jeffries, Harrison with McQuade, and Struthers with Nziku.

There is a planned schedule of fortnightly events (research colloquium) held in a shared space
and designed for ESS and BCI students (and staff when appropriate). These events include stu-
dent presentations, a ‘research topic’ (including ethics, publication, vivas) and supportive discus-
sion about PGR related matters. Each PGR student is expected to present at least twice during
their studies. First, within the first 12 months to present to others besides the supervisors the area
of research interest and then later after data collection (second/third year) another paper/presen-
tation to share how the research has progressed and what findings are emerging. This is also
accessible remotely, and regular “teachmeets” have taken place during the COVID-19 lockdown.

2.7 Equality & Diversity
The School applies all University equality, diversity and inclusivity strategies and processes to
create a diverse and inclusive research culture. All researchers complete Unconscious Bias Train-
ing and relevant research integrity training. The Dean sits on the University Equality, Diversity &
Inclusivity Committee and ensures updates are cascaded quickly to all staff. The Dean is also the
University’s “senior disability ally” and works with colleagues across all the Schools, championing
the commitment to disability equality through development of a Disability Staff Network. Staff with
protected characteristics (e.g., disabilities) are supported through Occupational Health to access
enabling equipment, including IT, to support them to reach their full academic potential including
in research.
Almost one third of our 34.2 FTE Cat A returned researchers are female, which closely reflects
the proportion of female colleagues within the School. Staff on parental leave have optional ‘keep-
ing in touch’ days, popular with those who have delegated research project leadership. The School
provides an informal but flexible approach to support carers including scheduling of learning and
teaching activity and no school meetings before 9.30 am. Indeed, the School supports all staff with
flexible working arrangements where the business need can support this. Staff returning from pro-
longed absence are encouraged to make use of a central fund to support the re-establishment of
research.

All applications for promotion are viewed equally irrespective of status, mode of work, or protected
characteristics. For example, a lecturer combining part time work with caring responsibilities

                                                                                              Page 11
achieved promotion to reader, recognising the high quality of research outputs rather than quan-
tity. The School’s professoriate consists of 5 males and three females with 3 female readers and
two males. Six staff have completed the Aurora Women in Leadership Programme.

We aspire to be a diverse and inclusive research community and more than one third of Cat A
returned researchers are from ethnic minorities from a corresponding workforce of one quarter.
This represents a significant increase since 2014 and reflects a more inclusive approach to re-
cruitment and staff development support for new colleagues alongside investment in the develop-
ment of external research networks. Ishaq is co-chair of the BME staff network. The age range of
our Cat A staff extends from 28 to 70 years. Nineteen of our researchers are older than 50. Recent
recruitment has seen an influx of 18 early career researchers, with potentially another 9 ECRs to
be appointed in a recruitment round. We are also targeting mid-career researchers for staff devel-
opment to ensure effective succession planning and to promote a diverse research leadership
team.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Research Income and Funding Strategy
Aligning with our aspiration to be the partner of choice for knowledge exchange, enterprise and to
build our reputation for research led impact, KTP funding remains a top priority. We have been
extremely successful in this area. We now have KTPs with 12 partners; West Coast Group; The
Oak Tree Inn; IPIG; ACS Clothing Ltd; Consult lifts; Albion Environmental Ltd; Key FM; ONeill
Gas; Routes to Work; FarmTrack; Lochlie Construction; MODO; Sonas; ISO. This includes the
first Africa Agriculture KTP in the UK – also the first international KTP in Scotland) and #1 in the
UK for the BEIS funded mKTPs with 8 awarded mKTPs currently. A KTP project, supporting
Africa Agriculture is the first KTP in Scotland to be developed with an African partner.

Complementing the above, research income includes a range of research projects that are funded
by national, local and international organisations. Examples of this include Action Against Stalking
(GBP7,500; now resulting in the launch of the first of its kind Centre of Excellence in this area in
the UK), Poppy Scotland Project (GBP22,000), GCRF funding for women in protracted displace-
ment (GBP15,000), British Academy COVID-19 Special Grant (GBP10,000), Network on the In-
tersectionality of Women Entrepreneurs. (GBP15,000), World Bank Sponsor: World Bank
(GBP30,664), Lottery Fund/Natural Heritage Scotland. (GBP10,000), Chartered Accountants in
Australia and New Zealand (AUD20,000)

Processes to support this include a School level peer review of grant applications and a dedicated
support from a professional research support office. The School’s research from non-KTP funding
has also secured research contracts with award values as shown below, the great bulk of these
in UOA17. The School had a combined total of GBP298,000 in period 2008-2014. This period thus
shows an increase, without including the significant income from KTPs secured in 2020 (approxi-
mately GBP2,000,000).

The research income (4b) for REF2014 for UOA19 was GBP298,000 and for REF2021 UOA17
this has increased to 334,590, an increase of 12.3%. The plan is to emulate the recent successes
of staff members working in interdisciplinary teams, for example Struthers, GBP339,235 grant
from the Department for International Development (DFID)/Innovate UK in 2019 has co-investiga-
tors who are submitted for UWS in UOA7 and UOA11.

Colleagues within UOA17 have acted as co-investigators in projects led by PIs within the School,
but submitted to other UOAs, including the Centre for Culture, Sport and Events (CCSE), the
GCRF-funded PCRC and the UWS Immersive Centre. Core to our School’s funding strategy is to
invest significantly in staff development. There are four highly active, research intensive, income
generating centres located within the School with three submitted to other UOAs. In the 18 months
since the School was created, a growing number of opportunities have arisen for ECRs to work
closely with colleagues in the various research centres as co-investigators (i.e., buddy system)


                                                                                            Page 12
which is central to their development and to the School growing grant income in all UOAs. Men-
toring, grant writing workshops, pump-priming and the sharing of successful grants are all part of
our developing competence in successful grant writing to complement the significant success of
our KTP portfolio.

3.2 Organisational Investment
As a School with a desire to build its reputation through impact arising from its research, the focus
upon enterprise funding is a high priority, with dedicated leads in KTP, enterprise and CPD, re-
spectively. The School is at the centre of academic leadership within the UWS Student Innovation
Hub initiative created in 2020 that will see approximately GBP500,000 worth of investment in
innovation spaces. Our strategy for developing other sources of research income crosses the
full breadth of our research groupings and we prioritise a collaborative and interdisciplinary ap-
proach to research bids with partners inside and outside the UK to maximise our opportunities.
Processes to support this include grant writing workshops, a School level peer review of grant
applications and dedicated support from a professional research support office.

3.3 Support Staffing and Infrastructure
The School has a dedicated member of the professional services staff to support research.
Knowledge exchange activities within the school are supported essentially alongside a vibrant
group of scholars who engage in a wide range of enterprise activities. This complements UWS’s:
        Research Services team (providing advice, costing and management of grant applications
jointly with academics and School-level support member of staff),
        KTP Centre (managing KTP projects through-life in liaison with the School-level support
member of staff),
        CPD Centre (engaging with the School-level support member of staff to monitor expertise
development and availability) and
        Doctoral College (engaging with School-level support member of staff for progress moni-
toring purposes).

3.4 Specialist Research Infrastructure for Impact
The UWS Immersive media lab (GBP205,000 investment) is located in Paisley where our VR
headsets, cameras, specialised computing equipment are located alongside the Fujitsu Innova-
tion Lab (GBP20,000 investment). Several of our UWS Immersive doctoral research students
benefit from this dedicated research facility where they are co-located as a distinct research clus-
ter. The labs have hosted two research symposia and VR exhibitions in 2017 and 2019 with inter-
national guests such as Catherine Allen from Limina Immersive (CEO of the UK’s only VR cin-
ema), Dan Tucker curator from Sheffield Docfest’s Alternate Realities and Tobey Cofey, head
of digital development at the National Theatre.

In addition to the above specialized facilities, our staff and research students benefit from access
to a research seminar room where regular seminars are hosted by both the research students
themselves and the research centres including the Centre for Culture, Sport and Events, PCRC,
the Scottish Centre for Island Studies and the Centre for African Research on Enterprise and
Economic Development, as well as the Business and Management seminar series.

3.5 Cross-HEI Infrastructure Collaboration
Our institutional partnerships with Universities of Applied Sciences in Germany bring together a
formidable array of facilities that are used by our PGR students. While the nature of our research
does not require substantial physical infrastructure, benefitting from complementary facilities that
exist in Germany is of benefit for students who engage in research that due to a particular angle
in the topic of research need facilities in both partner institutions (including access to national
databases, facilities and academic/industry consortia).

3.6 In-kind Benefits
All KTP companies and industry partners provide in-kind benefits to UOA17. Our ‘Gold-Silver-
Bronze’ approach to evaluate industry partnerships (see REF5a) includes business and enterprise


                                                                                             Page 13
mentoring, contributions to education programmes and access to data and facilities (e.g., KeyFM
developing smart built asset management testbed to benefit UOA17 and UOA12).

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
We collaborate, engage with or develop relationships with networks and partnerships through sev-
eral research groupings or initiatives, including the Oxfam-UWS partnership, CAREED, CMI,
SFEDI, and the PCRC. External partners include British Academy of Management (BAM) as
active members (Johnston, Gillon, Harrison, Telford, Jeffries) on BAM committees as well as at-
tending conferences. UWS has also initiated the creation of the BAM Continental Network now
led by one of our PhD graduates. Other research collaborations are created through the Char-
tered Institute of Management (CMI) (Burns, Ishaq, Will, Greener and Telford) and the Small
Firms Enterprise Development Initiative (SSFEDI) (Murray). Ishaq is an Equality and Diversity
Advisory Board Member of the Scottish Football Association (SFA) since 2017; CIMA (Hassan,
Tarbert); CIPD (Hoffman, Quinn, Gibb); DMI (Digital Marketing Institute) (Tzanidis).

Internationally, collaboration focuses on joint PhD supervision and exchange visits with research
staff (e.g. German partner institutions; Siberian Transport University, which played a key part
on securing a significant relationship with SAFEA). Further, Gustaffson has developed links with
the Faculty of Economics at Moscow State University (EF MSU) and Karelia University of
Applied Science, Joensuu, Finland; Gibb is a member of the Social Innovation Academy.

4.2 Engagement with Users, Beneficiaries and Communities
The engagement emerges from the above research collaborations and specific external roles staff
have developed over the years. Livingston is a member of the Digital Skills Strategic Advisory
Board - commissioned by the Scottish Funding Council (SFC) to provide a report to the Govern-
ment on digital skills development and education links with industry. Telford is on the Executive
Committee of the Academy of Marketing. As a CMI Accreditation Centre, the largest in Scotland,
with full Educational approval to offer CMI qualifications we engage with managers as a commu-
nity through education programmes. We are currently working towards obtaining the Chartered
Manager Assessment Centre status. Various colleagues who are members have obtained the
membership via individual application and assessment. We run various events under the
UWS/CMI banner, organising and operating these events ourselves.

We are the only university in Scotland approved by the Institute of Enterprise and Entrepreneurs
(IOEE) and Small Firms Enterprise Development Initiative (SFEDI) to deliver its Diploma in Busi-
ness and Enterprise Support, relevant to organisations with a wider economic development remit.
We have full membership is Chartered Accreditation of Business Schools (CABS). As part of this
membership, we have opportunities for staff to engage in a range of CPD, sector wide confer-
ences/conversations. Staff within the School have the opportunity to obtain the CMBE (certified
management and business educator), a recognised professional designation and framework for
CPD. The School is currently reapplying for the Small Business Charter (SBC) which is an
award for business schools recognised for their excellence in supporting SMEs. It provides busi-
ness schools with a framework to deliver nationally recognised business support.

We have over 50 BAM members in the School who include early career researchers, mid-career
researchers, experienced academics, and doctoral students. Some of the members also hold sig-
nificant positions in British Academy of Management. Gillon is a member of the council; Harrison,
the Chair of the Leadership and Leadership Special Interest Group and Track Chair of African
Studies and Jefferies, the Chair of the Organisational Transformation, Change and Development
Special Interest Group.

4.3 Contribution to Economy and Society

Considering the Innovate UK assessment of GBP7.5 return for every GBP1 invested in
KTPs, our major contribution to the economy and society across the UK and internationally stems

                                                                                         Page 14
from knowledge transfer and CPD activities. In addition, several colleagues engage in activities
that further our significant contribution to economy and society. Talbot’s research about the en-
trepreneur as the driver of economic growth of smart specialisation informed the development of
Dumfries’ Midsteeple Quarter as a community-led regeneration effort through Dumfries High
Street Limited. The Council amended its Town Centre Development plan and this experience also
influenced the Scottish government nationally. Carnicelli, has through the School contributed to
The School Learning Community project of the Renfrewshire Council; Events and Tourism ser-
vice; learning Projects with Renfrewshire Council; the Glasgow Rocks Basketball project; and De-
velopment of an Impact Instrument for the Lochwinnoch Arts Festival; and development of the
Scottish Marine Science strategy. Smith’s research in the fields of entrepreneurship, leadership
and criminology can broadly be unified under the rubric of applications and settings of entrepre-
neurship, and crime prevention in the food chain, which has informed both agriculture industry and
policing policy. McKinstry’s research in business and financial history, which contributed to the
Paisley ‘City of Culture’ bid in 2018, alongside Frew, Ding and others. Borodzicz’s research,
on the other hand, particularly focusing on crisis and risk management, has informed the devel-
opment of BS 11200:2014: Crisis Management. Guidance and Good Practice.

4.4 Discipline, Interdisciplinarity and International Priorities
Our research groupings which relate to local and international (UN SDG) agendas are specifically
designed to enable our contribution to the sustainability of the discipline, support for and exem-
plars of interdisciplinary research, and responsiveness to national and international priorities and
initiatives. Engaging in research and innovation in close collaboration with the industry that leads
to publishing highly impactful outputs, balancing discipline specifics and interdisciplinarity, is the
main mechanism through which we enable vibrancy of our contribution to the discipline. This ap-
proach enriches research-informed teaching, providing the platform for PGR opportunities. We
encourage cross discipline collaborations within and out with the divisional structure. We are con-
sciously seeking to link these up through interdisciplinary themes concerned with, for example,
digital and social innovation, most clearly evidenced in the KTPs we have and the scope of our
future groupings.

Our international priorities will embody the key SDG themes we address in our groupings, with our
priorities being as follows: (1) developing further our work in Africa, especially around agriculture
and female entrepreneurship; (2) linking in research projects to our teaching led engagements
with China, combining digital and social innovation; developing fair and decent work research pro-
jects with international partners.

4.5 Wider Influence and Contributions
Staff have editorial roles in a range of journals; The Journal of Social Business, Journal of Euro-
pean Industrial Training, Leadership and Organization Development Journal International Journal
of Intellectual Property Management, Humanities and Social Sciences Communications, Interna-
tional Journal of Business Research and Management, Industrial Marketing Management, Journal
of Risk Research, Meditari Accounting Research.

Nziku has well-established relationships with the following institutions: University of Dar Es Sa-
laam Entrepreneurship Centre (UDEC), Mzumbe University, Tanzania; Hochschule Bonn-Rhein-
Sieg, Germany; Maastricht School of Management, Netherlands; and in advising potential women
entrepreneurs in Scotland and in Africa in a mentoring capacity.

Our UOA has contributed around 128 conference papers in the period. We have 9 instances of
media coverage, and 9 of public engagement. 18 talks have been given by 9 staff. 4 are members
of boards, and 7 report having done consultancy projects.

Examples of our Industry connections are through CPD and Consultancy: for example, with North
Ayrshire Business Gateway short CPD ‘Digital Growth and Training Programme’ for North Ayr-
shire’s Enterprise and Business Growth Teams. A StalkerVR - a digital and virtual reality project
for Action Against Stalking (Innovation Voucher (GBP5,000) with follow-up Digital Transformation


                                                                                              Page 15
project (GBP10,000). Also, DigitalSelf, a consultancy project (GBP10,000) building a major plat-
form to service virtual and augmented reality lifestyles. An enabling ecosystem offering ‘intimate
immersion’ where consumers can virtually placeshift to experience travel and tourism, sport, music
and entertainment, arts and heritage and education.

VisitArran – project (GBP17,000) working with a series of exceptional business across the island
of Arran. This project integrated VR with interactive TouchCast, promotions and a digital cam-
paign. This highly successful project demonstrated by the metrics that saw the promotion and
digital campaign drive and increase new visitor traffic by over 177,000 over six weeks.

City of Culture 2021 - Project developing digital skill sets working with local authority and third
sector groups. Including new web site build, social media marketing and interactive touch training
and development (GBP17,000).

Accelerated and Immersive Education - educational innovation integrating digital, social and trans-
formational technologies to enable fully online live to curated education. It allows students to en-
gage, interact and learn via a personalised ecosystem of digital to immersive educational experi-
ences from the comfort of their home.

Examples of conferences, Media and others include:

●       Keynote for Action Against Stalking Conference - Cyberstalking ‘iPredator to Virtual
Stalker: The Rise of DARQ Dreamworlds’ interviewed BBC and STV Scotland Tonight.
●       Keynote for Royal Highland and Agricultural Society of Scotland (RHASS) – ‘Future
Events: ExperienceXR’ focusing on how transformational DARQ technologies will challenge and
change events and event experiences. In wake of COVID-19 the focus and content of this keynote
has become highly apposite.
●       Keynote for Open University and Glasgow University Conference on Social Isolation and
Loneliness - ‘New Frontiers in Wellbeing: Immersive Technologies and Digital Dreamscapes’.
●       McKinstry was a substantial contributor to the BBC documentary “The Town that Thread
Built”.
●       InstaVR - Interview for one of the global leaders in virtual reality technologies ‘Societal
Transformation via Digital and Transformational Technologies’ highlighting the future applications
of transformational technologies to break digital divide, open education, enterprise and innovation.
●       Accelerated and Immersive Education – educational innovation integrating digital, social
and transformational technologies and shortlisted for Guardian Education Award, Herald Higher
Education Awards and Digital Pioneers Awards.




                                                                                            Page 16
