Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Keele University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA30 Philosophy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit’s context and structure
 Philosophy is a small but research-intensive unit in the faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences.
 It has a substantial graduate community and a lively programme of conferences and graduate
 events. In this REF period, Philosophy exponentially increased its range of collaborative projects.
 It also reshaped its research environment by establishing itself as a centre for Kantian Studies
 and expanded the research base for its impact activities.

 In REF2014 Philosophy was part of the School of Politics, Philosophy and International Relations,
 which reconfigured in 2019 into the School of Social, Political and Global Studies where it was
 joined by Criminology, Sociology and Education. At School level, research is managed by the
 Head of School (HoS) and the School Research Director, supported by the School’s Research
 Committee, which includes the School’s UoA Leads, the PGR student Lead, and the Senior School
 Manager. Research strategy, priorities and performance are the responsibilities of Heads of
 School, supported by the Faculty Dean of Research and the Faculty Executive Dean, and are
 coordinated through the Faculty’s Research Committee.

 The five core researchers in the unit (Allen, Baiasu, D’Oro, Head, Tartaglia) have crosscutting
 research strengths in the areas of Kantian studies (Baiasu, D’Oro, Head), history of philosophy
 (Baiasu, D’Oro, Head, Tartaglia), metaphysics (Allen, Baiasu, D’Oro, Head, Tartaglia), and a
 shared underlying concern with metaphilosophical questions. They also have intersecting
 research interests with colleagues submitted to other UoAs in ethics and professional ethics
 (Baiasu, Jonathan Hughes, Wrigley) and normative political philosophy (Baiasu, Monica
 Mookerjee).

 This extended cross-school research environment is overseen by the Forum for Philosophical
 Research, which coordinates, and provides a public front for, the activities of two centres: the
 Centre for Professional Ethics at Keele (PEAK), created in 2002; and the Keele-Oxford-St
 Andrews Kantian (KOSAK) Research Centre, which began its activities in 2014. Since its
 inauguration in 2008, the Forum has a yearly lecture (The Jean-Jacques Rousseau annual lecture)
 and conference with international speakers. Other routine activities of the Forum include the
 following fixtures: reading groups; staff work in progress seminars, graduate seminars, the
 organization of the Royal Institute of Philosophy lectures and of other conferences in conjunction
 with PEAK and KOSAK.

 1.2 Progress against 2014 research objectives
 In 2014 Philosophy had just embarked on a strategic redirection of its research environment
 motivated partly by a decline in professional doctorate applications and partly by an attempt to
 reflect its growing reputation as a centre for Kantian Studies and a shared concern in
 metaphilosophical issues.

 In the period 2014-2020 the unit faced the following challenges:
 a) Growing PhDs in more traditional areas of the subject in response to declining demand for
     professional doctorates in medical ethics
 b) Maintain a high level of grant capture per capita despite a shift in the predominant research
     focus.
 c) Explore new avenues for achieving impact beyond the area of professional ethics

 Philosophy’s objectives in the period 2014-2020 should be understood against the background of
 this intellectual re-orientation, from professional ethics to more traditional areas. These objectives
 were:
 1) to develop further excellence in individual research

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2) to increase the external visibility of the unit through funded collaborative projects
 3) to increase the number of research students beyond the area of professional ethics

 The unit has achieved all of its aims, and exceeded them, in a number of areas as detailed below:

 1) All colleagues have made important contributions to the discipline during the assessment
 period. Dr Allen is a metaphysician whose expertise on properties has led to invitations to provide
 expert evidence to The House of Commons and the Scottish Parliament (cf. 1.4). Prof Baiasu has
 made extensive and significant contributions to Kant studies and ethics which have been
 recognized by the award of the prestigious Ad Astra prize and the nomination for a Humboldt
 Research Prize by the University of Siegen for his work on Kant (cf. 4.4). Dr D’Oro has made a
 long-standing contribution to Collingwood studies and metaphilosophy. Dr Head has brought the
 philosophy of Anne Conway to the attention of a larger audience. Prof Tartaglia has made a
 significant contribution to metaphilosophical debates on the meaning of life, and through his ICS
 (Jazz-Philosophy fusion) to the public understanding of philosophy. Prof Wrigley’s research
 (outputs entered in Law UoA) has made major contributions to professional ethics that greatly
 influenced the shaping of public policy and significantly contributed to the use of an analytic
 philosophical approach to engage with issues of applied ethics and policy. Noteworthy among
 those selected as outputs are Allen’s “Kinds behaving badly: intentional action and interactive
 kinds”, (Synthese, which prompted the invitation to provide expert evidence), Baiasu’s “Right’s
 Complex Relation to Ethics in Kant” (Kant Studien) and “Constitutivism and Kant’s Transcendental
 Philosophy: how to pull the Rabbit out of the Hat” (Philosophia); D’Oro’s “Collingwood’s idealist
 Metaontology” in D’Oro and Overgaard (ed.) The Cambridge Companion to Philosophical
 Methodology (2017); Head’s The Philosophy of Anne Conway (Bloomsbury 2020) and Philosophy
 in a Meaningless Life (Bloomsbury 2016) God and Titans, (Bloomsbury 2020) both by James
 Tartaglia. Researchers in philosophy presented at a large number of conferences as invited and
 keynote speakers and took up several non-stipendiary fellowships (cf. 4.4). The outputs selected
 are the tip of a large iceberg. Publications during this period soared (with approximately 100 items
 uploaded to the Keele repository) and included several high-profile edited collections and
 numerous guest-edited special issues (cf. 4.1).

 2) The unit increased its external visibility by intensifying research collaborations (cf. 4.1) often
 enabled by substantial external grant income from a wide and diverse range of funders (such as
 Marie Curie, British Academy, Templeton, Royal Institute of Philosophy, APRAF, Nuffield Council
 on Bioethics Commission, ECPR, Barrow-Cadbury Trust) which facilitated research cooperation
 between academics from different institutions and between academic and non-academic partners
 (cf. 3.2). Philosophy also enhanced its external visibility through the organization of many events
 at Keele and other venues. In addition to the yearly conferences supported by the Forum for
 Philosophical Research and KOSAK (“Themes from the Work of Howard Williams”, 2014; “Kant’s
 Doctrine of Virtue”, 2015; “Justice and Responsibility”, 2016; “The Moral Law”, 2017; “Kant’s
 Republican Idea: Ethics, Politics and the Problem of Progress”, 2018), the following conferences
 also took place at Keele: “Schopenhauer’s Fourfold Root” (2014); “Loss, bereavement and
 compassionate care: Challenges and Opportunities in the Criminal Justice System” (2014); “The
 Ethics of Disordering” (2016); “30 Years of Medical Ethics and Law: looking back, moving forward”
 (2017); “The Role of Compassion in decision-Making when working with Vulnerable and
 Marginalized people” (2018). Conferences and panels were organized outside Keele in Berlin,
 Siegen and Oxford with funding from Baiasu’s British Academy Newton grant (cf. 3.2) and other
 venues with ECPR funding to The Kantian Standing Group and Templeton.

 3) PhD completions in the assessment period closely approximated to an average of one PhD per
 member of staff. This is a significant result obtained against the background of a re-direction in
 the areas of supervision. This objective was achieved by:
 a) Boosting recruitment through the unit’s participation in the AHRC North-Western consortium
     Doctoral Training Partnership (AHRC NWC DTP).
 b) Promoting the Philosophy MRes and MPhil as feeders to the PhD.



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 c) The organization of several summer schools for graduate students and postdocs and graduate
    conferences funded by the AHRC NWC DTP, aimed at raising the visibility of the unit among
    the UK postgraduate community (cf. 2.3)

 1.3 Strategic objectives for 2025
 In the next five years, Philosophy will seek:
 1. To continue to support excellence in individual research by nurturing the environment for the
 preparation and submission of work to high-quality journals and top publishers.

 2. To further enhance visibility of the unit through collaborative projects supported by external
 funding bodies (as well as internally); and the organization of events supported by the Forum,
 KOSAK and PEAK.

 3. To maintain and, if appropriate, increase, in a sustainable manner, the number of research
 students registered on PhD degrees.

 4. To pursue a broad-based approach to impact development aimed at widening further the
 research base from which impact activities are pursued.

 1.4 Enabling Impact
 Colleagues engaged in impact activities are supported by the Research and Innovation Support
 Enhancement (RaISE) team (cf. 3.1). This support includes extensive training in impact and public
 engagement activities and access to the faculty’s Impact Acceleration fund. Support mechanisms
 to incentivise impact activities are also built in the School’s approach to staff development and
 include flexible research leave (for time-sensitive work) and a flexible work allocation model for
 additional research time. (cf. 2.2). The support mechanisms within the faculty and the school
 ensure that Philosophy is well-equipped to navigate the challenges faced by relatively small units
 which seek to generate high-quality impact activities from their research.

 At unit level the main strategy regarding impact has been that of:
 a) broadening the research base from which impact cases are drawn, reflecting the adjustment
     in research focus and areas of postgraduate supervision.
 b) enabling early identification of impact activities to ensure the vitality and sustainability of the
     unit beyond 2021.

 The unit identified several impact activities underpinned by research outside the area of
 professional ethics. Allen’s contribution to the public understanding of the sex-gender distinction
 on social media platforms (cf. 4.2) drew attention to her work as a metaphysician of properties and
 kinds and led to an invitation to provide an expert opinion for the House of Commons Consultation
 on the Revision of the 2004 Gender Recognition Act. October 2018. (Letter sent to Baroness
 Nicholson on October 12th, 2018). She was also asked to provide the Scottish Parliament with an
 expert opinion on the proposed Census (Amendment) Scotland Bill, Published 7th February 2019
 regarding the proposed change to the wording of the Scottish census to remove the category of
 ‘sex’ and replace it with self-identified gender. Baiasu’s British Academy Newton Advanced
 Fellowship which sought to develop a theoretical framework for the resolution of deep ethical
 conflicts through ethical reasoning (cf. 3.2) would have led to the creation of a Research Centre
 for Justice and Critical Ethics at the University of Kocaeli (Turkey), had it not been for the unfair
 dismissal of many academics, including the co-applicant Ruhi Demiray due to the political situation
 in Turkey. Baiasu’s extensive research in Kant’s ethics also informs an attempt to influence public
 policy regarding the distribution of health resources. He is working closely with James Doble,
 Assistant Director Governance and Monitoring Officer at Stoke-on-Trent City Council and a
 member of the Senior Management Team, to develop an application for an AHRC Collaborative
 Doctoral Award on distributive justice and desert in association with the Council and the Labour
 Party. Tartaglia’s has captured themes from his two monographs in song by fusing Jazz and
 Philosophy. The two impact cases selected, James Tartaglia’s “Jazz-Philosophy fusion” and
 Anthony Wrigley’s “Integrating Ethics into Policy and Practice for Issues on the Margins of Life”,
 reflect the unit’s strategy to broaden the research base from which its impact cases are drawn

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 while maintaining continuity with its past. Tartaglia’s impact case reflects the unit’s attempt to
 broaden its portfolio of impact activities; Wrigley’s impact represents continuity with areas of
 research excellence from REF 2014.

 The impact activities not selected as case studies in this assessment period will be nurtured in the
 next and will benefit from the same school and faculty level support mechanisms.

 1.5 Interdisciplinary research
 The promotion of interdisciplinarity has a long pedigree at Keele since the university started its life
 as an institution that offered only or primarily joint honours degrees and has been recently further
 consolidated by the creation of three interdisciplinary Research Institutes, amongst these the
 Keele Institute for Social Inclusion (KISI), a pan-institutional, interdisciplinary institute that enables
 researchers to develop new communities for impact of which all philosophers are members (cf.
 3.1). The two impact cases submitted are highly interdisciplinary. Tartaglia’s impact case study
 (Jazz-Philosophy Fusion) involves a close collaboration with jazz musicians and actors. Wrigley’s
 impact case study (Integrating Ethics into Policy and Practice for Issues on the Margins of Life)
 involves collaborations with academics in Law and Medicine and Health Sciences. Baiasu’s
 research on Kant’s ethics and its implications for the distribution of health resources have involved
 a collaboration with John Solas, a sociologist at Bradford University, and some of Jonathan Head’s
 work on Anne Conway is at the intersection of Philosophy and Theology and has appeared in
 theological journals. In addition, the co-presence of Philosophy and Politics within the same school
 enabled the joint organization (by Politics and Philosophy) of reading groups and seminars for
 staff and visiting speakers which funded through the School’s Research Strategy Fund (RSF3).

 1.6 Open research environment
 This Unit is at the forefront of developing an open research environment; research outputs are
 made openly available, which began in advance of the current REF policy and is reflected in its
 100% open access compliance for REF 2021. The Unit goes beyond the REF policy by also
 making book chapters openly available for others to utilise. The Unit works with partners to seek
 external funding for open research and has secured Gold access for three publications in this REF
 period. Where this has not been possible, it utilises Keele's research repository.

 1.7 Research integrity
 Keele has an effective system in place for sustaining and enhancing research integrity, with which
 the unit engages, including through the Faculty’s Research Integrity Champion (cf. REF5a). This
 ensures that our research complies with frameworks and standards set by funders and other
 bodies, and it provides colleagues with opportunities to attend seminars and training on a range
 of topics, including conducting research with vulnerable participants, exploring sensitive topics,
 and managing research data. The Faculty’s Ethics Research Committee reviews all grant
 applications including sections on ethical information. These faculty-wide systems ensure that
 Philosophy can nurture a culture of good practice and research integrity without imposing a
 disproportionate burden on a relatively small unit.

 2. People

 2.1 Unit profile and staffing strategy
 Philosophy comprises 5 full time members of staff (Dr Sophie Allen, Prof. Sorin Baiasu, Dr
 Giuseppina D’Oro, Dr Jonathan Head, Prof. James Tartaglia). Dr Allen (whose areas of expertise
 are metaphysics, philosophy of language metaphilosophy and philosophy of mind) and Dr Head
 (whose areas of expertise are history of early modern philosophy, Kant and Schopenhauer and
 who completed his PhD at Keele under the supervision of Prof Baiasu) were appointed in this REF
 period to complement existing research strengths and ensure appropriate coverage of supervisory
 needs at postgraduate level. The unit is well-balanced in terms of seniority (of the five, two are
 lecturers, one reader, and two professors, with two promotions to professor in the REF period:
 Sorin Baiasu and James Tartaglia). There is also a good gender balance (2 female / 3 male). The
 unit is internationally and ethnically diverse with 2 out of 5 being citizens of states other than the
 UK and one from an ethnic minority group.

                                                                                                    Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Philosophy’s research environment is enriched by colleagues in the School of Social Political and
 Global Studies (Dr Monica Mookherjee), philosophers in Centre for Professional Ethics (PEAK) in
 the School of Law (Prof Anthony Wrigley, Dr Jonathan Hughes), Philosophy’s Senior Research
 Fellow, Dr Stephen Leach, who completed his PhD under the supervision of Dr D’Oro, Dr Ruhi
 Damiray, mentored by Sorin Baiasu as part as the Intra-European Marie Curie Fellowship 2013-
 15, (cf. 3.2) as well as four post-doctoral visiting fellows (cf. 4.1). From September 2020, Dr Gabriel
 Dupré joined Keele on a three-year Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship, mentored by Dr Sophie
 Allen.

 2.2 Staff development and support mechanisms for research and impact activities
 Philosophy has a full and active commitment to Vitae’s Concordat for Promoting Excellence in
 Research. Colleagues at all career stages benefit from professional training and development
 opportunities (including training on dissemination strategies, enhancing people’s online research
 identity, open access and PGR student supervision) organized by the University’s Academic
 Development team. At school level, researchers are supported through mentorship arrangements
 and ongoing appraisals.

 Postdoctoral fellows are mentored by the member of staff leading the research project, are
 integrated in the unit’s research culture, and are entitled to financial support for the organization
 of events. Early career staff have a mentor who advises them on all matters including research.
 Their workloads allow for more time to prepare new modules and for taking part in the Teaching
 and Learning in Higher Education Programme that leads to HEA fellowship accreditation.

 All academic staff are appraised yearly by the HoS and School Director of Research. Discussions
 include past activities, plans for publications, grant applications and impact activities as well as
 consideration of milestones for progression in accordance with Academic Role Expectations.

 As a norm, colleagues with significant responsibility for research have 20% of their time ring-
 fenced for research, with additional time awarded for significant public engagement and impact
 work. Research active staff are eligible to apply for one semester research leave every eight
 semesters (early career staff apply after 6 semesters), with pro-rata arrangements for part-time
 staff. Applications are reviewed by the Faculty Research Committee. Research leave may be
 brought forward (or postponed) to fit externally funded leave, accelerate time-sensitive impact
 work or allow for better management of teaching. For example, Tartaglia’s leave was anticipated
 to enable him to step up the impact activities early in this REF cycle.

 2.3 Research students
 During the REF period 6 PhD students completed successfully with an average of 12 students
 registered each year on the PhD programme. The female to male ratio is approximately one to
 five, which is low but in line with the national average for Philosophy. The unit considered these
 figures as part of the Athena Swan submission (the School was awarded bronze in 2019) and
 deliberated on ways to encourage more vigorously talented female students to consider graduate
 studies in Philosophy.

 Philosophy aims to recruit PGR’s both internally and externally: the total population during the
 REF period was 84 FTE. Internally students are recruited through the MRes (which has a focus
 on Metaphilosophy) and the MPhil. There is a good balance of internally and externally recruited
 students with 11 students currently registered on the MPhil, indicating a steady flow of internal
 progressions to PhD beyond 2021.

 A significant number of PhD students are in receipt of either external or internal funding. 6 are
 recipients of AHRC NWC DTP studentships (Philosophy is a member of the AHRC North-Western
 Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership with Prof Baiasu currently acting as lead for the
 Philosophy Pathway); 4 were awarded the faculty’s Graduate Teaching Assistantships; 2 were
 funded by a combination of the Adrian Piper Research Archive & Keele Acorn Funding and Faculty
 funding; 1 received Faculty support through a fee-waiver and 1 was funded from the government

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of their native country. Of these Gonzalez Estrada is now a Professor of Philosophy and Head of
 Department in Costa Rica and Head is a permanent lecturer at Keele. In addition, Adam Balmer,
 who completed in 2019 is now a teaching fellow at Leeds.

 The Code of Practice on Postgraduate Research Degrees is the framework through which Keele
 University delivers its postgraduate research (PGR) degrees. All postgraduate researchers are
 also members of the Keele Doctoral Academy (KDA), which was established in 2020 to
 encourage research collaboration across faculties, promote best practice, enhance the training
 opportunities available to postgraduates, and prepare them for careers beyond Keele.
 Responsibility for PGR students lie with the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences. The
 Faculty’s Postgraduate Research Committee monitors student progress oversees student support
 and administers supervision and examination arrangements ensuring that the academic and
 pastoral needs of PGR students are fully met, thus enabling supervisors to focus on academic
 needs. Upon arrival PGRs receive an induction into the Faculty and the School during which they
 are acquainted with the facilities and support available to them, and the monitoring and
 progression requirements. Students have a lead supervisor with subject expertise and a second
 supervisor with complementary expertise. Colleagues with no prior supervisory experience are
 required to complete the ‘Research Supervisor Development Programme’ and are allocated a
 ‘supervision mentor’ until they have seen one research student through to successful completion.

 Student progress is recorded on their Personal Development and Learning Plan (this outlines
 students’ research objectives, programme of work, and supervisory meetings) and monitored via
 formal milestones which ensure students complete on time which are aligned with the Keele’s
 PGR Code of Practice.

 Training needs are identified and regularly reviewed through students’ Personal Development and
 Learning Plans. Generic research training needs are met by the KDA, which offers a range of
 training events on topics including conference presentations, dissemination and networking
 strategies, grant applications and writing for publishing. Subject specific training needs are met
 through research training modules (e.g., “Metaphilosophy”, “Philosophy of the Social Sciences”,
 “Individual Research Orientation”). Students are encouraged to attend specialist courses, such as
 the yearly ECPR Summer School in Methods in Normative Political Philosophy organised either
 at Keele or other participating institutions by Prof Baiasu and other summer schools such as the
 2017 Idealism and Autonomy of the Human Sciences Summer School with funding from the
 Templeton Foundation (D’Oro, Giladi Papazoglou). The doctoral pathway conference of the AHRC
 NWC DTP at which students from the 5 participating institutions showcase their research is often
 held at Keele and enables networking with PhD students from other institutions. Students who
 take the Higher Education Practice programme, leading to HEA accreditation, are allocated a
 teaching mentor.

 PGR students are provided with high-quality and well-equipped office space and integrated in the
 unit’s research culture. They are invited to present their research at the Philosophy Postgraduate
 Research Seminar, the conferences organized by the KDA, and to participate in all research
 events, including public activities. For example, Amy Kings and Aaran Burns took part with Sorin
 Baiasu in the Pint of Science series on “Are my shares different to yours? Probably; should they
 be? Probably not” (https://pintofscience.co.uk/event/philosophically-speaking) - the event sold out.
 Students are encouraged to apply for funding to present at conferences and to organise their own
 events. Adam Balmer and George Carpenter obtained school funding to organise the student-led
 “Scientism and Consciousness” conference at Keele in 2017. Amy Kings secured funding from
 the Udo Keller Stiftung Forum Humanum to present at the Claremont Philosophy of Religion
 Conference in February 2019. A good number of our PhD students successfully apply for internal
 faculty funding to present their research at conferences: Adam Swinbank received funding to
 present aspects of his PhD thesis at the British Idealism conference (Gregynogg 2015) and at the
 British Idealist Specialist group of the Political Science Association (Bristol 2016) by for the
 Research Strategy Fund (RSF2).



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The faculty infrastructure for the administration of research, the internal funding available to
 research students and the participation in the AHRC Northwestern Consortium DTP have enabled
 a small unit to support a large graduate community relative to its size.

 2.4 Equality, diversity and inclusion

 The unit values diversity and is committed to equality of opportunity. The Chair of the Faculty
 Research Committee is one of our LGBTi role models. Our championing of diversity is
 evidenced in our explicit messaging in job adverts, and colleagues involved in staff and PGR
 recruitment undertake mandatory EDI training. EDI training (including ‘bullying and harassment’
 procedures supported by awareness raising and training) is part of our induction processes for
 new staff and PGR supervisors. Senior colleagues receive additional training, including
 unconscious bias training (now being rolled out to all). Our commitment to EDI is also embedded
 in our structures the School has an EDI Committee (with an EDI Lead), which considers the EDI
 implications of decisions and procedures. The School received an Athena SWAN Bronze award
 in 2018, and the University has received a Bronze Race Equality Charter Award in 2019 and is
 now working towards it Race Equality Action Plan and is recognised as a Level 2 Disability
 Confident Employer.

 New colleagues attend a day-long induction, including a session on EDI. Further training is offered
 via several other programmes, including the ‘Research Supervisor Development’ one (which all
 new PGR supervisors take) and the ‘Recruitment and Selection’ one (for staff on interview panels).

 The unit further promotes gender equality by encouraging colleagues to engage with the relevant
 development opportunities offered by the University. Female colleagues have taken part in the
 Springboard programme and Aurora leadership development initiative and have benefited from
 women-focused promotion workshops and the female-only promotion mentoring scheme.

 Support to colleagues with specific needs is provided through several channels. The ‘Maternity
 Returners Fund’ is aimed at colleagues coming back from maternity or adoption leave (cf. REF5a)
 and helps buy in sessional teaching or marking support. The School in which the unit is based is
 responsive to requests for flexible working (including timetabling adjustments) following maternity
 and adoption leave, as well as for colleagues with other caring responsibilities and those suffering
 bereavement. In addition, the School (working with Occupation Health) has ensured that any
 colleagues with disabilities or in need of specialist equipment have received the appropriate
 logistical support. Over the last cycle this has included furnishing individuals with voice-recognition
 software, specific hardware equipment, and appropriate office furniture. The research leave policy
 invites applicants to outline any circumstances (such as maternity or adoption leave, caring
 responsibilities, disability/ill health, or career breaks) that may have restricted their ability to
 demonstrate a track record of excellent performance in research and to communicate these,
 confidentially, to their Head of School and the Faculty Dean of Research, who will together assess
 the case. Colleagues on fractional contracts have the same opportunities to apply for research
 leave as those on full-time contracts.

 The University has a mentoring scheme for female colleagues who are within a couple of years of
 promotion and offers specific promotion workshops for such colleagues. There are also
 opportunities to take part in the Springboard female personal development programme, and the
 Aurora female leadership development initiative, delivered by Advance HE.

 All aspects of equality and diversity are taken into careful consideration in reviews of staff
 performance and promotions. The University-wide Academic Role Expectations explicitly state
 that career breaks, fractional appointments and personal circumstances are taken into
 consideration. They are similarly considered in annual staff appraisals, when past performance
 and future strategies and targets are discussed and agreed upon, as well as in promotion
 applications.




                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Close attention was paid to equality and diversity issues in the construction of the unit’s REF
 submission, and all those in decision-making roles undertook specific REF E&D training. Outputs
 were selected for submission on the basis of quality, which was ascertained through a process of
 internal reading and assessment overseen by the UoA Lead. This was complemented by external
 assessment of outputs.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Strategies for generating research income and supporting infrastructure
 Philosophy’s main challenge during the period, was to broaden the research base for funding
 applications to reflect the adjustments to its research foci.

 At unit and School level the key strategy for generating research income has been to incentivise
 applications for external funding through operating a flexible work allocation model which
 considers time dedicated to grant applications (cf. 2.2) and encouraging the organization of
 internally funded small-scale events leading to larger projects. Colleagues can apply either for
 faculty funding aimed at pump-priming activities that will lead to grant proposals, or for school
 funding to enable small-scale activities leading to grant proposals such as travel to meet up with
 collaborators. To enable sharing of good practice the school runs workshops on grant writing and
 funding strategies, engagement, and impact activities as part of its annual research away day.

 Colleagues are also encouraged to apply for funding for interdisciplinary collaborations from
 Keele’s interdisciplinary research institutes, in particular, the Keele Institute for Social Inclusion
 (KISI) of which all philosophers are members. KISI offers a space for discussion, debates, and
 ideas-sharing between academics and non-academics, and provides an effective platform for
 researchers to build partnerships with civil society, creative organizations and businesses to
 develop coproduced projects. KISI provided small funding for a collaboration between Wrigley and
 Dana Rosenfeld (now at the University of Westminster) to carry out a rapid literature review,
 “Mental Health Across the Life Course and its Implications for Social Inclusion and Human Rights”.
 It co-funded, together with the Royal Institute of Philosophy, the conference on “The Role of
 Compassion in decision-Making when working with Vulnerable and Marginalized people” (Keele
 2018) which brought together academic and non-academic staff from health and palliative care,
 social work, justice and the prison service and charity sectors and enabled some of the impact
 activities detailed in Wrigley’s ICS. KISI also enabled a collaboration between Baiasu and John
 Solas (Sociology, Bradford) on the distribution of health care resources from a Kantian
 perspective.

 At faculty level the implementation of the unit’s strategy is supported by the Research and
 Innovation Support Enhancement (RaISE) team. RaISE draws together professional services staff
 with expertise in research development, governance, integrity, ethics, contracts, public
 engagement, commercialisation, and impact. The team provides support for the development of
 research and innovation projects involving Keele University and its external partners, it routinely
 alerts the school to specific funding calls or new schemes and overviews a cross-disciplinary
 anonymous peer review system on grant applications which has improved the quality and
 effectiveness of research proposals, implementation and impact.

 There has been considerable investment in training and personal development programmes
 related to research and impact at faculty level. DRIE organized workshops (often with external
 experts) on grant applications to specific funders or schemes and provided advice on navigating
 European funding opportunities post-Brexit. Similarly, there have been workshops on public
 engagement plans and activities, engaging effectively with policy makers, and developing links
 with charities and arts organizations, as well as the annual ‘Impact and Engagement Festival’ at
 which colleagues showcase impact arising from their research, and share best practice. Visiting
 speakers have included experts from Research England, Fast Track Impact, the National Council
 for Voluntary Organisations, the National Coordinating Centre for Public Engagement and other
 organizations. There has also been media and communications training with external coaches.
 This specific training is accompanied by a range of opportunities for personal development around

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research, including programmes for early-career colleagues, coaching for mid-career staff, and
 schemes for the development of research leadership.

 3.2 Research income

 Philosophy’s total grant income for this REF period exceeded £300,000, with an average of 43k
 for each year (26K in 2014), equivalent to a 66% increase in the yearly average income from the
 previous REF period. This was a significant achievement obtained against the background of a
 significant, strategic reshaping of the unit’s research environment. The unit secured substantive
 external grant income from a wide and diverse range of funders including Marie Curie, British
 Academy, Templeton, Royal Institute of Philosophy, APRAF, Nuffield Council on Bioethics
 Commission, ECPR, Barrow-Cadbury Trust. Amongst the funding received are:

 “A Kantian Approach to Current Tensions between Modern Law and Religious
 Commitments” (Marie        Curie     Intra-European     Fellowship October      2013-September
 2015, €310,000. Prof Baiasu - Scientist in Charge and Team Leader, Dr Ruhi Demiray (Kocaeli
 University, Turkey) - MC Postdoctoral Fellow. The research focused on the problematic relations
 between modern law and religious commitments, as they have been arising in contemporary
 European societies and Turkey, for instance, the French ban on face-veils or the new Turkish law
 on education envisioning courses on the Koran in public schools. The project enabled several
 publications by Ruhi Demiray as well as S. Baiasu (2017) "Kant's Critique of Religion: Epistemic
 Sources of Secularism", in Diametros.

 “Dealing Ethically with Conflicts between deep Commitments: A Dual Critical-Hermeneutic
 Account” (Baiasu, Co-Applicant, 50% British Academy Newton Advanced Fellowship 2015-19,
 £56,000.) aimed to establish long-term cooperation between the host institution (Keele University)
 and the university of the applicant (Kocaeli University, Turkey) and consolidate the relation
 between Prof Baiasu and Dr Demiray first established in 2013-15. The project is designed to
 formulate a theoretical framework for the resolution of deep conflicts through ethical reasoning, it
 led to a special issue (2016) of Studi Kantiani on 'The Ethical and the Juridical in Kant', co-guest-
 edited by S. Baiasu and R. Demiray, including a co-authored introduction and single-authored
 paper by S. Baiasu, "Ethical and Politico-juridical Norms in the Tugendlehre", as well as Baiasu’s
 "Staying Philosophically on the Surface: Constitutivist and Naturalist Quests for Normativity") in
 Demiray, R. and Wall P. (eds.) Reason, Normativity and Law: New Essays in Kantian
 Philosophy (University of Wales Press, 2020).

 “Hope and Death: Despair and Absolute Hope in the Face of Inevitable Death” (Wrigley,
 The John Templeton Foundation) $65,500 [£46,988]). Hope and Optimism: Conceptual and
 Empirical Investigations, Philosophy Non-Residential Fellowship with the University of Notre
 Dame and Cornell University USA, 2015-16, $65,500 [£46,988]). The project aimed at establishing
 how hope might be maintained in situations that we might otherwise consider as being entirely
 hopeless, such as the prospect of death. It developed a secular account of hope and made a case
 for maintaining hope without deceit in the face of inevitable death.

 “Distortions of Normativity” (Baiasu, Senior Visiting Research Position at the University of
 Vienna, ERC Advanced Grant, 2013-2014, €50,000) The fellowship enabled the publication of
 Baiasu, S. (2014) “Kant’s Justification of Welfare, in Diametros; Baiasu, S. (2017) “Sincerity,
 Desert and Institutions”, in Baiasu, S. and Loriaux, S. – eds, Kantian Sincerity in Politics and
 International Relations (Routledge) as well as many other papers and two guest edited special
 issues (Philosophia and Kant-Studien).

 “Integrating Loss and Bereavement Assessment” (Wrigley, 33%; Barrow-Cadbury Trust
 2016, £19,735). The project aimed at making recommendations on how to achieve high-quality
 care for young people in the criminal justice system who have experienced loss and bereavement
 by identifying the ethical foundations of such care provision. It began with a workshop on ‘Loss,
 bereavement and compassionate care: Challenges and Opportunities in the Criminal Justice
 System’, an interdisciplinary seminar to explore collaborative research and promote networking

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 opportunities (December 2014) with approximately 30 attendees from academia and professional
 areas such as palliative care, social care, chaplaincy and the prison service. This event received
 RSF3 funding and consolidated the Palliative and End of Life Care Research Group at Keele. It
 led to a collection co-edited by the project investigators: Read S, Santatzoglou S, Wrigley AJ
 (Eds.). 2018. Loss, Dying and Bereavement in the Criminal Justice System. (1st ed.). Routledge.

 “Idealism and the Philosophy of Mind” (D’Oro, Giladi Papazoglou, Templeton Foundation
 2015-16 £ 15,967, D’Oro 100%) explored the metaphilosophical implications of non-
 reductive philosophy of mind and enabled the organization of a conference in London in 2016
 and a summer school at Keele in 2017, a special issue of Inquiry and enabled the writing of one
 of the outputs submitted, “Between Ontological Hubris and Epistemic Humility: Collingwood, Kant
 and Transcendental Arguments”.

 European Consortium for Political Research ECPR
 Smaller but regular pots of funding for a sum in excess of £15,000 from the ECPR to the Kantian
 Standing Group enabled Prof Baiasu to organize numerous international symposia.

 “Multi-disciplinary Fellowship” (Tartaglia, APRAF Berlin, 2015-2016, €5,000). This, together
 with faculty RSF4 funding kicked-started Tartaglia’s collaborations with musicians which enabled
 the recording of the album Continuum of Selves and led to the ICS Jazz-Philosophy fusion.

 “Genome Editing” (Wrigley and Dr Aisley Newson, Sydney Health Ethics, University of
 Sydney) Nuffield Council on Bioethics, 2014, £3,000). The project resulted in the writing of
 “Background Research Paper on Genome Editing”, commissioned by the Nuffield Council on
 Bioethics that eventually led to various submissions of evidence to the UK government and the
 Australian Government’s Senate Inquiry, as detailed on Wrigley’s ICS.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research collaborations
 Effective support exists to foster meaningful collaborations with colleagues from other academic
 institutions; and to develop relationships with non-academic partners. In addition to funding from
 KISI, collaborations are also encouraged through the Faculty Visiting Fellowship scheme which,
 in this REF period enabled Dr Christopher Chapman, Dr Simon Reader (post-doctoral visiting
 fellows 2015-18 and 2017-18); Dr Tracy Llanera and Prof Nick Smith (faculty visiting fellows 2018),
 to spend an extended period of time at Keele.

 This REF period has seen a marked acceleration of collaborative projects aimed at increasing the
 visibility of the unit (one of the strategic objectives for REF 2021 cf. 1.2). Some of these
 collaborations were externally funded (cf 3.2), some unfunded. Many of them resulted in the
 production of high profile edited collections and special issues of journals. Some partnerships were
 the result of public engagement and impact activities.

 Allen is a member of the Sex and Gender Network, which include philosophers from Sussex
 (Kathleen Stock), York (Mary Leng), UCL, MIT (Alex Byrne), University of Melbourne (Holly
 Lawford-Smith), Pepperdine University (Tomas Bogardus), The Open University (Jon Pyke),
 University of Barcelona, Leeds University, among others) which have led to engagement with the
 public and research users (cf. 4.2 and 4.3 below). Baiasu has an ongoing collaboration with John
 Solas (Sociology, Bradford) aimed at developing impact activities relating to his research on
 desert. Baiasu’s collaboration with Ruhi Demiray resulted in a guest edited special issue of Studi
 Kantiani with papers from the 2014 Keele Kant festival funded by Marie Curie; with Sylvie Loriaux
 (Laval) resulted in the publication of a co-edited collection of Sincerity in Politics and International
 Relations (Routledge 2017); with Christoph Hanisch (Ohio) led to a special issue on constitutivism
 of Philosophia (2016); with Herlinde Pauer-Studer (Vienna) led to a special issue of Kant-Studien
 on ethics and politics in Kant (2016); with Adrian Moore (Oxford) and Edward Kanterian (Kent) led
 to a special issue of Kantian Review on Moore’s reading of Kant; with Alberto Vanzo to an edited
 collection, Kant and the Continental Tradition (Routledge 2020). In addition his collaboration with

                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Mark Timmons (Arizona) led to the co-edited volume Comparing Kant and Sartre (Palgrave 2015)
 and The Kantian Mind (Routledge March 2021). D’Oro’s collaboration with Soren Overgaard
 (Copenhagen) led to the co-edited volume The Cambridge Companion to Philosophical
 Methodology (CUP 2017); with Karim Dharamsi (Mount Royal) and Stephen Leach (Keele) to the
 co-edited volume Collingwood on Philosophical Methodology (Palgrave 2018); with Paul Giladi
 and Alexis Papazoglou to a guest edited issue (Inquiry 2018) on Idealism and the Metaphilosophy
 of Mind, with funding from Templeton; with James Connelly (Hull) to a special issue on
 Collingwood’s philosophy of history for the Journal of the Philosophy of History and on
 Collingwood’s philosophical methodology for Collingwood and British idealism Studies. Head’s
 collaboration with Dennis Vanden Auweele (Leuven) led to a co-edited volume, Schopenhauer's
 Fourfold Root (Routledge, 2016). Tartaglia’s collaboration with Stephen Leach (Keele) led to two
 co-edited collections: Consciousness and the Great Philosophers: What would they have said
 about the mind-body problem? (Routledge 2016) and The Meaning of Life and the Great
 Philosophers (Routledge 2019). Wrigley’s collaboration with Prof Sue Read (School of Nursery
 and Midwifery, Keele) and Dr Sotirious Santatzoglou (School of Law, Keele), funded by the
 Barrow-Cadbury trust led to the co-edited volume Loss, Dying and Bereavement in the Criminal
 Justice System (Routledge 2018). These are just some examples but provide an illustration of
 how the outputs selected represent only the tip of a large iceberg.

 4.2 Contributions to public understanding
 Allen has enhanced the quality of public debate by engaging with transgender debates on social
 media platforms such as twitter and contributed to the public understanding of the sex-gender
 distinction in debates concerning the identity of transgender women in non-academic journals,
 including: “If transwomen are women, what is a woman?”, https://medium.com/@s.r.allen/if-
 transwomen-are-women-what-is-a-woman-d36121bdd926; How not to find out who counts as
 woman: a response to Carol Hay, https://medium.com/@s.r.allen/how-not-to-find-out-who-counts-
 as-a-woman-a-response-to-carol-hay-f3b48e7dad80; Doing better in arguments about sex and
 gender (with Jane Clare Jones, Holly Lawford-Smith, Mary Leng, Rebecca Reilly-Cooper, and
 Kathleen      Stock):     https://medium.com/@s.r.allen/doing-better-in-arguments-about-sex-and-
 gender-f8f02258aff8.). Baiasu contributed two pieces to The Conversation on the themes
 of ‘Justice and Critical Ethics’ (https://theconversation.com/elin-ersson-plane-protestors-brave-
 solo-stand-for-human-rights-proves-the-power-of-action-100546) and “Distributive Justice and
 Desert’      (https://theconversation.com/why-fairness-matters-more-than-equality-three-ways-to-
 think-philosophically-about-justice-140954) (over 23,000 readers, shared on Twitter and
 Facebook over 2,500).

 Wrigley contributed a number of widely read articles in The Conversation, including the lead article
 on The Conversation’s topic series ‘On Human Experiments’: http://theconversation.com/human-
 experiments-the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly-39876 and a major article on the development of
 genome       editing     with    Prof     Ainsley       Newson     of      Sydney        University:
 http://theconversation.com/genome-editing-poses-ethical-problems-that-we-cannot-ignore-
 39466. His article for The Conversation on the Paralympic athlete Marieke Vervoort’s position on
 euthanasia was republished in Newsweek in Japan ahead of their hosting the Olympic Games:
 http://www.newsweekjapan.jp/stories/world/2016/09/post-5878.php

 There were also several contributions to popular philosophy magazines, such as Philosophy Now
 (D’Oro, Tartaglia), public lectures at the Ashmolean Museum and the Bloomsbury Institute of
 philosophy (D’Oro).

 4.3 Engagement with research users
 Colleagues have engaged with a range of key research users and beneficiaries to develop impact
 from their research. Allen provided expert opinion to the House of Commons and the Scottish
 Parliament (cf. 1.4). Baiasu collaborates with Stoke-on-Trent City Council and the Labour party
 (cf. 1.4). Collaborations between Wrigley and Prof. Sue Read (School of Nursing and Midwifery,
 Keele) and Dr. Sotirios Santatzoglou (School of Law, Keele) on the Barrow- Cadbury Trust (2016-
 18) funded project “Integrating Loss and Bereavement Assessment” (cf. 3.2) provided a guide for
 professionals with recommendations specifically for practitioners working with those who were

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 dying in prisons through terminal illness and with young people in the criminal justice system who
 had experienced loss and bereavement as to how to achieve high-quality care. Collaborations
 between Wrigley and Dr. Ainsley Newson (Sydney Health Ethics, University of Sydney, Australia)
 on a project on the ethics of Genome Editing funded by – Nuffield Council on Bioethics (cf. 3.2)
 resulted in an ethical evaluation for an emerging biomedical technology (gene editing). That led to
 various submissions of evidence to the Australian Government’s Senate Inquiry on this topic.
 Wrigley also published in the Pulse (the leading publication for GPs in the UK), and The Nursing
 Times (the leading publication or nurses in the UK) as detail in his ICS.

 4.4 Contribution to, influence on, recognition by the discipline and indicators of wider
 influence
 Colleagues contributed to the discipline through editing collections and special issues,
 membership of editorial boards, external grant reviewing, journal refereeing, hosting of visiting
 fellows, organization of conferences and doctoral summer schools.

 Colleagues guest edited special issues for (among others) the British Journal for the History of
 Philosophy, Collingwood and British idealism Studies, Inquiry, the Kantian Review, Kant-Studien,
 the Journal of the Philosophy of History, Philosophia, Studi Kantiani. They have a presence on the
 editorial boards of several philosophical journals. Baiasu is Chair of the Steering Committee of the
 ECPR Kantian Standing Group and one of the editors in chief for Public Reason. He is a member
 of the Advisory Board of Estudos Kantianos and on the Editorial Board of Con-textos Kantianos
 and Cilicia Journal of Philosophy. He is also Member of the Board of Trustees for the Adrian Piper
 Research Archive Foundation Berlin (2014-2017) and on the advisory board the UK Kant Society.
 D’Oro is an executive editor of the Journal of the Philosophy of History; Tartaglia is associate
 editor of Human Affairs and editor of the Routledge series The Great Philosophers and Wrigley is
 a member of the editorial board for The Journal of Medical Law and Ethics. They are regularly
 asked to act as external assessors for a varieties of funding bodies such as the European Science
 Foundation, The British Academy, The DAAD, the Social Sciences and Humanities Research
 Council of Canada, The Australian Research Council, The Romanian National Research Council,
 the Research Foundation Flounders, the Aarhus Institute of Advanced Studies, and the National
 Science Centre. Additionally, Baiasu and D’Oro have been members of the AHRC peer review
 panel since 2017 and all members of staff are routinely involved in the refereeing of papers ranging
 from Mind and the Australasian Journal of Philosophy to The Journal of Medical Ethics. Many of
 them regularly review manuscripts for Oxford University Press, Bloomsbury, Brill, Routledge and
 others.

 In addition to the conferences organized at Keele (cf. 1.2), colleagues contributed to the
 sustainability of the discipline by organizing events outside Keele. Baiasu is chair of the steering
 group of the ECPR Kantian Standing Group and routinely organizes events at the venue of the
 ECPR conference; D’Oro and Head organized symposia at the conference of the British Society
 for the History of Philosophy in 2015. Staff have also been involved in the organization of doctoral
 summer schools funded by the BA and ECPR (Baiasu, Keele 2015, Limerick 2016) and by
 Templeton (D’Oro, Keele 2017). In addition, Baiasu is pathway lead for the AHRC Northwestern
 consortium DTP and organized several training events for PhD students from the participating
 institutions at Keele (cf. 2.3).

 There are several indicators of wider influence and esteem. In 2016 Baiasu received the Ad Astra
 Prize for Excellence in Research in the category of Humanities and Social Sciences, a prize for
 researchers of Romanian origin with affiliation abroad. In 2020 he was offered the title of
 Distinguished Research Fellow at the University of Oxford’s Uehiro Centre for Practical Ethics on
 the basis of previous collaboration with the centre on a project concerning the distribution of health
 resources and has been put forward for a Humboldt Research Prize by the University of Siegen
 in relation to his work on Kant. A special issue of the Journal of the Philosophy of Life, “Nihilism
 and the Meaning of Life: A Philosophical Dialogue with James Tartaglia”, guest edited by Masahiro
 Morioka (Waseda, Japan) was devoted to Tartaglia’s monograph Philosophy in a Meaningless
 Life (Bloomsbury 2015), one of the outputs selected for REF, and in 2014 Wrigley was
 commissioned to write a “Background Research Paper on Genome Editing” by the Nuffield Council

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on Bioethics. His research has been cited by the Australian Government’s Senate Inquiry into
 Mitochondrial Replacement Techniques (2018).

 Members of staff receive regular invitations to speak at conferences. Allen was a keynote speaker
 at the “What do we do when do metaphysics?” conference in Dusseldorf 2018 and at the Vienna
 Forum for analytic philosophy conference in 2016. Baiasu was keynote speaker at “The Concept
 of the Will in Classical German Philosophy” (München 2017) and at the colloquium on
 Enlightenment and Secularism at the Department of the History of Philosophy, the Institute for
 Philosophy, Jagiellonian University, (Krakow 2016). D’Oro was keynote speaker at the conference
 on the role of the Philosophy of History in (Oulu 2017) and Strawson (Leuven 2019). Tartaglia was
 keynote speaker at the annual conference of European Pragmatism Association in Helsinki 2018
 and performed at several venues as part of his Jazz-Philosophy fusion project including
 Birmingham and Keele in 2016 and the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford 2017. Wrigley was an invited
 plenary speaker and panel member at the Association of Palliative Medicine Conference,
 Addenbrooke’s Hospital (March 2014). He was an invited speaker at the National Council for
 Palliative Care flagship conference (March 2016) and at the ‘Emerging Reproductive
 Technologies, Ethics, Law and Policy’ conference (Sydney, 2015). Wrigley was also an invited
 expert contributor to the Nuffield Council on Bioethics working party meeting on ‘Ethical issues
 raised by possible applications of genome editing and human reproduction’ (31st July 2017); Public
 Health England’s Independent Review of the Dying Matters programme workshop (6th October
 2016); The fact-finding meeting on ‘Vulnerability’ (May 2014) for the Nuffield Council on Bioethics
 (2015) Report on ‘Children and Clinical Research: Ethical Issues’; the Nuffield Council on
 Bioethics Scoping Workshop on ‘Ethical and Regulatory Challenges in Genome Editing’ (April
 2015).

 Some members of staff have held visiting fellowships. Baiasu was Senior Visiting Research fellow
 at the University of Vienna in 2014 as part of the “Distortions of Normativity” ERC Advanced Grant
 2013-2014 (€50,000) and from 2020 and Wrigley was Philosophy non-residential fellow at Notre
 Dame and Cornell Universities in the USA as part of the Philosophy of Hope and Optimism,
 Templeton (2015).




                                                                                            Page 13
