Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Institution: University of South Wales

Unit of assessment: B11 Computer Science and Informatics

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


The Unit of Assessment (UoA) saw the following major advances in its research culture during
the REF period:
    • Increased income by 95% compared to the previous REF period and widened funding
      sources.
    • Significant external stakeholder engagement leading to a broader spectrum of impact
      types.
    • Extensive reorganisation and reorientation of research and research strategy across
      the UoA and University.

 Context and Structure
 15 staff members are returned in the Computer Science and Informatics Unit of Assessment
 (UoA). They principally are from the School of Computing and Mathematics, within the Faculty
 of Computing, Engineering and Science, with one each from the School of Engineering in the
 Faculty of Computing, Engineering and Science (Roula), and the School of Health, Sport and
 Professional Practice in the Faculty of Life Sciences and Education (McCarthy).

 Six of these 15 UoA staff members (Cunliffe, Higgs, Langford, Roula, Tudhope, and M
 Ware) were also returned in the REF 2014. The rest are experienced staff whose research
 now fits within the UoA (Kulon, McCarthy, A Ware); existing staff whose independent
 research has developed since the REF 2014 (Binding, Eden, Miknis); or more recently
 appointed staff with established research profiles (Elmesiry, Qasem, Usman). Further staff
 without significant responsibility for research also contribute to the overall research culture,
 including through PhD supervision, commercial activity and broader external stakeholder
 engagement.

 One member of staff returned in the REF 2014 is being returned under a different UoA and
 seven from the REF 2014 have left to take up new academic or industry posts.

 During the REF 2021 period, the 15 staff within the UoA undertook research across five broad
 topic areas, as indicated below:

  Geographical Information Systems                   Higgs†, Langford‡, M Ware‡
  Hypermedia                                         Binding*, Cunliffe‡, Tudhope†
  Biomedical Computing                               Kulon‡, McCarthy†, Roula‡
  Cyber Security and Forensics                       Eden+, Elmesiry+, Qasem+, Usman+
  Artificial Intelligence                            Miknis+, A Ware†
‡
 Associate Professor; Lecturer/Senior Lecturer; Professor; *Research Fellow
                          +                    †



These topic areas essentially mirror those of the REF 2014, though the Mobile
Telecommunications area is not included after its lead, Professor Al-Begain, left to become
President of the Kuwait College of Science and Technology. While the Faculty of Computing,
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Engineering and Science (FCES) still has a commercial interest in Mobile
Telecommunications, through its Centre of Excellence in Mobile and Emerging Technologies
(CEMET), it is not currently an active research area within the UoA.

Research and Impact Strategy: 2014-2021
The UoA’s medium-term strategy, as identified in the REF 2014, was to grow sustainably and
increase research capacity through appointments and externally-funded projects. It
emphasised the importance of long-term collaborations with external stakeholders and
identified major projects within Geographical Information Systems (GIS) (with the Wales
Institute of Social and Economic Research, Data and Methods) and Hypermedia (with the
ARIADNE and SENESCHAL projects) as immediate areas to build on.

Roughly the same number of staff are being returned in the REF 2021 as in the REF 2014: 15
(13.7 Full-Time Equivalents) in 2021 compared with 14 (13.5 FTE) in 2014 . Over this period,
the UoA successfully appointed new staff, but this growth was offset by staff leaving to take up
posts elsewhere. Key staff in GIS and Hypermedia have been retained, providing continuity in
those areas.

 Annual PhD completions are slightly lower than in the previous REF period, but remain steady.
 This is partly due to a more challenging UK funding environment. However, the UoA has been
 particularly successful in achieving external funding for Knowledge Economy Skills
 Scholarships (KESS) in partnership with industry, under the Welsh European Funding
 programme. Thirteen KESS PhD students and three KESS MRes students have received
 scholarships.

 Annual income from grants and commercial activity has nearly doubled, compared with the
 previous REF period. The University supported the key funded research projects (WISERD,
 ARIADNE, SENESCHAL) identified in the REF 2014 strategy from central QR funds. This
 facilitated continued expansion in these areas, including the current WISERD Civil Society2
 ESRC Centre and the H2020 ARIADNEplus projects. Additional central support included the
 competitive University PhD studentship (beginning March 2013) on geosemantic technologies
 for archaeology resources (GIS and Hypermedia). This followed the University Research
 Strategy to encourage integrative, interdisciplinary projects between research groups.

 At the time of REF 2014, University of South Wales research was structured around five pan-
 university, thematic Research Institutes. Research Institute membership was selective (based
 on REF potential), by application only, and subject to an annual review with the Institute
 Director. Members were granted ring-fenced research time and access to funds. Staff in this
 UoA submission were members of the Computing and Mathematics Research Institute.

The Institute’s strategic plan prioritised external income generation and quality research
publications. It included a scheme to incentivise significant external funding bids (via
contributions to staff members’ personal Quality Research (QR) budgets) and a discretionary
fund for supporting research and impact via bids for Research Assistant (RA) bridging funding,
specialist equipment, pilot studies, tutorial support and conference travel etc. Cunliffe, Kulon,
Langford, Roula, and M Ware benefited from discretionary fund support, and most members
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


received some incentivisation funding. Boosting interdisciplinary collaboration was another
priority, exemplified by the collaboration between Roula (School of Engineering) and
McCarthy (Faculty of Life Sciences and Education).

The Computing and Mathematics Research Institute also provided support for research impact.
Kulon, for example, received £17k of bridging funding for a RA. This funding enabled a six-
month clinical trial and was matched by the long-term collaborator, Cardiff and Vale University
Local Health Board, to support the project for a further six months.

In 2018, the University moved away from Research Institutes and appointed Faculty Heads of
Research. The new framework is more inclusive, open and encouraging, aimed at: expanding
the volume of quality research; prioritising people; maximising impact; and diversifying income.
The University Research Strategy and its associated policies are now operationalised at
Faculty level, principally through the Faculty Research Committee. This Committee oversees
resources including QR funding, the prioritisation of research capital and additional time
allocations for research. Cunliffe and Tudhope are members of the Faculty Research
Committee, ensuring that researchers from the UoA have a voice in research strategy at both
Faculty and University level.

Staff currently have access to a number of Faculty funding schemes. These include a Small
Research Grant scheme (e.g. Kulon was successful with a 2019 bridging funding bid which
supported a collaboration with Cardiff and Vale University Health Board); a Research
Investment Scheme (e.g. Roula successfully bid for £8,800 to support work on Contactless
Bioimpedance Monitoring in 2019); and a Faculty Prospecting Fund to provide travel monies
for staff to attend meetings when there is a clear opportunity for generating income.

 Geographical Information Systems has successfully built on its programme of work examining
 geographical variation in a range of public and private services. This has benefitted
 collaborating stakeholder organisations, such as the Welsh Government’s Department for
 Economy, Skills and Natural Resources and Tenovus Cancer Care. This work is returned as
 an impact case study in the REF 2021.

 Higgs continues to serve as Co-Director of WISERD (Wales Institute of Social and Economic
 Research, Data and Methods) and directs WISERD's Training and Capacity Building
 programme. The project was awarded £8m of additional funding from the ESRC Large Centres
 competition in 2019 and a further £4.6m of funding from its partner Universities. The University
 has directly supported GIS interdisciplinary engagement in the ESRC WISERD Civil Society
 (Large Centres ESRC Initiative) Research Centre (2014-2019) through an extension of the RA
 post and 20% of Higgs’ time as WISERD Co-Director. The University is further supporting the
 WISERD Civil Society 2 project (2019-2024) with a PhD studentship and 26% of Higgs' and
 10% of Langford’s time.

Hypermedia has continued to expand its work on Knowledge Organisation Systems
(ARIADNE/SENESCHAL projects). The work has included a number of collaborating
stakeholder organisations, such as the Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical
Monuments of Wales, Historic England, Historic Environment Scotland, and the Archaeology
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Data Service. From central QR funds, the University has supported Hypermedia’s
interdisciplinary research on archaeological semantic interoperability via key continuity bridging
funding (Binding) across the series of externally-funded AHRC and EC projects. Ongoing
work includes projects funded by Historic England and H2020. This work is returned as an
impact case study in the REF 2021.

The University further supported research impact via a series of internal and external
consultant workshops and one-to-one sessions with researchers. Sponsored annual
University-wide impact awards also stimulated and highlighted impact achievement, with
external guests attending the award ceremonies. Both impact case studies submitted as part of
this submission have won University impact awards:

            Best International Impact 2018: Binding and Tudhope, for their innovative work in
            transnational data integration. This involved collaboration with partners across 11
            countries to improve the accessibility and visibility of Europe’s archaeological
            resources.

            Best Future Impact 2019: Higgs, for his work with Tenovus Cancer Care to optimise
            the location and delivery of mobile cancer services, improving access and helping to
            reduce patients’ stress, anxiety and fatigue.

Overall, the UOA’S REF 2014 strategy has been pursued successfully.

Research and Impact Strategy: 2021-2027
The University’s high-level organisation and management of research has changed
significantly since the REF 2014. In 2019, the University’s “USW 2030 Vision” strategy
document identified four interdisciplinary Accelerated Development Areas (ADAs) to be
targeted for future investment: Sustainable Environment; Crime, Security and Justice; Health
and Wellbeing; and Creative Industries. These ADAs will guide the future direction of research
activity, promote interdisciplinarity, and provide a focus for the allocation of QR funding and
investment by the University. The ADAs will provide new opportunities for interdisciplinary
collaboration across the University. Staff within the UoA retain a high degree of autonomy, and
existing research programmes and areas of expertise will likely be maintained within the new
ADA framework. The medium-term strategy from 2014, of growing capacity at a sustainable
rate and building on existing strengths remains. The emphasis on applied, interdisciplinary and
collaborative research continues.

 The UoA’s current strategic objectives are to:

        •     Maintain the trajectory of increased funding.
        •     Achieve a sustainable increase in PhD student numbers.
        •     Increase the number of staff with Significant Responsibility for Research (SRR) and
              grow research activity among staff without SRR.
        •     Encourage and support the cultivation of long-term collaborations with external
              stakeholders, with an emphasis on measuring impact and quantifying benefits.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Geographical Information Systems will continue its successful involvement with WISERD to
improve the development of public policy and practice in Wales and build on existing
collaborations with governmental and non-governmental partners, such as Sport Wales, and
the Care and Social Services Inspectorate Wales. It will strengthen its relationship with the
Senedd/Welsh Parliament to better inform government policy. It will also explore the potential
of drone surveying.

Hypermedia will build on existing successful collaborations with cultural heritage partners, such
as Historic England, and identify new funding opportunities to support these collaborations.
There are plans to develop Knowledge Organisation Systems (KOS) services with new
collaborators and networks. New collaborations include work on conservation technologies
with the University of Arts, London, Stanford University Library and other partners.

 Biomedical Computing will continue existing successful collaborations to develop new
 diagnostic tools, with healthcare partners, such as Cardiff & Vale University Health Board and
 the Institute of Dermatology. The next stage for some work programmes will be clinical trials.

 The lead for Cyber Security and Forensics, Professor Blyth, left the University to take up a post
 in industry. Recognising the area’s strategic importance, new appointments were made
 (Elmesiry, Qasem and Usman). This expands the breadth of expertise, and the Internet of
 Things has been identified as a key topic for future development. The University of South
 Wales, the Welsh Government and Thales (a multinational technology company) are working
 together to establish a National Digital Exploitation Centre, which will include an Advanced
 Cyber Institute for academic research. The recently established Pan-University Cyber Network
 is an opportunity to further grow interdisciplinary working.

 Artificial Intelligence currently has only a small number of staff with SRR, so there is a need to
 build capacity. This additional capacity is likely to come through staff development. The
 recently established Pan-University AI Network provides additional opportunities for
 collaboration and growth.

2. People

Staffing strategy and staff development
The Faculty of Computing, Engineering and Science’s (FCES) Faculty Strategy and Action
Plan 2017-2020 (FSAP) requires that all new academic staff are active practitioners or
researchers, and assigned a research mentor. Academic staff recruitment will focus on Early
Career Researchers, and new staff will need a PhD and a record of publications. Staff
recruitment is guided by strategic growth goals in specific research areas, such as the
appointment of Elmesiry, Qasem and Usman in Cyber Security and Forensics, and teaching
requirements.

The FSAP includes a target for a 20% increase by 2021 (relative to its 2017 base) in the
number of staff who have generated a research, pedagogical or professional output in the
previous two years. A process of undergraduate and postgraduate module rationalisation has
been undertaken to reduce overall workload and provide staff with more time for research and
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


scholarship. Existing staff are also encouraged to undertake a PhD and 50% funding is
available via the University Continuing Personal Education scheme. Two members of staff
have completed PhDs during the REF period, one is currently in progress, and a further
proposal is being considered by the Faculty Research Degrees Committee.

Staff development is managed through the Development and Performance Review Scheme.
Staff members meet annually with their Line Managers to review achievement against previous
objectives, set new objectives and identify any development needs. A mid-point review is held
to review progress against existing objectives.

Staff career development is fully supported by the University through a range of internal and
external opportunities. For example, Research and Innovation Services (RISe) provides a
variety of specialist workshops and masterclasses to help academics develop successful
funding applications and deliver impact from their research. 60% of staff in the UoA have
undertaken this training during the REF period. Roula also participated in the Welsh Crucible
Scheme in 2013. This external and competitive pan-Wales programme develops future
research leaders and encourages cross-disciplinary research. As part of the scheme, Roula
was awarded a grant to undertake a research project with Cardiff University entitled 'Social
communication in autism spectrum disorder: The role of synchrony explored using computer
pattern matching'.

Staff involved in research student supervision undergo mandatory continuous training on
regulations and good practice through multi-day workshops and drop-in sessions. New staff
are required to complete the University’s PgCert in Teaching and Learning in Higher
Education. Upon completion, staff are awarded Advance HE Fellowship. Experienced staff are
also encouraged to gain this status via application.

Appointments to Associate Professor and full Professor are made by the University’s Higher
Academic Awards Committee (HAAC) in recognition of research excellence and in line with the
University’s Research Strategy. Each appointment is reviewed every five years by the HAAC.
Kulon was appointed Associate Professor in 2013. The four Professors and five Associate
Professors in the UoA have all been reviewed and reappointed during the REF period.

 Research and Innovation Services (RISe) runs Advance HE's Postgraduate Research
 Experience Survey (PRES) every two years. It also runs Vitae’s Careers in Research Online
 Survey (CROS) and the Principal Investigators and Research Leaders Survey (PIRLS)
 annually. Feedback has resulted in numerous improvements, such as changes to the
 Development and Performance Review Scheme to better reflect research objectives and
 achievements.

 Research Students
  Date period                    Number of Doctoral Degrees
  01-08-2013 to 31-07-2014                   4
  01-08-2014 to 31-07-2015                   8
  01-08-2015 to 31-07-2016                   5
  01-08-2016 to 31-07-2017                   3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  01-08-2017 to 31-07-2018                      6
  01-08-2018 to 31-07-2019                      6
  01-08-2019 to 31-07-2020                      1
  Total                                         33

34 PhD and two MRes students currently are being supervised by UoA and wider computing
staff. Postgraduate research students are supervised by a Director of Studies and one or more
additional Supervisors. At least one member of each supervision team must have supervised a
minimum of two successful completions. Supervisors undertake mandatory continuous training
monitored by the Faculty Research Degrees Committee (FRDC).

Students meet with a member of their supervisory team, usually their Director of Studies, on a
weekly or fortnightly basis, as required. Supervisory meeting notes are uploaded to the
University’s research management information system (Haplo PhD Manager), which both the
student and supervisory team can access and contribute to. The system also captures student
training activities and facilitates effective progress monitoring by the FRDC and Graduate
School Board. Individual student progress is monitored annually by the FRDC. The FRDC also
oversees suspensions, extensions and changes to supervision teams, and monitors supervisor
workload. A Ware is Chair of the FRDC and Cunliffe is a member. The postgraduate students
also have a representative on the FRDC. Cunliffe is also a member of the Faculty Ethics
Committee, which is responsible for the ethical scrutiny of staff and student research projects.

 Between 2013 and 2017, the University’s Postgraduate Research Centre provided an
 environment for research students from multiple disciplines to come together and support each
 other through their development as early career researchers. In 2018, a University-wide
 Graduate School was established. This administers (via Haplo PhD Manager) research
 students’ journey to graduation, supports students and supervisors, and facilitates network
 development and research engagement through a Research Engagement Fund (£750 per
 student). It also hosts an annual postgraduate conference. The Graduate School is based on
 the same campus as the School of Computing and Mathematics, providing easy access for
 students.

 New research students are encouraged to engage with the Graduate School’s training events,
 which provide a framework for developing and delivering impactful research. These training
 workshops are mapped to the domains of the Vitae Researcher Development Framework
 (RDF). Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships (KESS) postgraduate students attend an
 externally-led residential KESS Graduate School during the early or mid-phase of their
 research programme. Here, the focus is on working effectively with others outside their
 research environment and interacting with different project stakeholders.

 As part of their development, research students can contribute to undergraduate teaching,
 either informally or as Hourly Paid Lecturers (HPLs). Their teaching responsibilities range from
 supporting practicals, to preparing and delivering taught activities.

The Faculty offers Graduate Teaching Associate (GTA) posts. These support graduates to
develop the skills and experience required to become lecturers. GTAs are enrolled as part-time
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


PhD students and employed as part-time lecturers. At the end of the five year GTA period, the
University aims to move the student into a permanent lecturer’s position. One GTA is currently
working within the School of Computing and Mathematics.

Research students are allocated their own desk, computer (including necessary standard and
specialist software) and storage space in an office shared with other research students.
Research student offices are located alongside computing staff offices on the University's main
Treforest campus. Remote log-in facilities allow for flexible working.

Equality and diversity
The UoA is fully committed to supporting equality and diversity across the University and the
wider subject discipline. All staff undertake mandatory Equality, Diversity and Inclusion training.
Cunliffe is a member of the School of Computing and Mathematics self-assessment team,
working towards achieving an Athena Swan Charter Award for the School. Staff from the
School founded the Women in Cyber, Wales sub-cluster in 2018.

While the UoA included one female staff member in the REF 2014, there are none in the
current submission. This reflects an underrepresentation of female academics across all
grades within Science, Technology Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) subjects at the
University, particularly at Associate Professor and Professor level. While the University has
launched several initiatives to address this, such as the Women’s Development Programme,
the impact has yet to feed through to the UoA.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income
The UoA generates both research and consultancy income. During the current REF period,
more than £5.9 million has been generated, compared to just over £3 million in the previous
REF period, an increase of 95%.

  Date period                    Income (£)
  01-08-2013 to 31-07-2014          637,274
  01-08-2014 to 31-07-2015         1,009,855
  01-08-2015 to 31-07-2016          688,515
  01-08-2016 to 31-07-2017          798,384
  01-08-2017 to 31-07-2018           892,005
  01-08-2018 to 31-07-2019           915,405
  01-08-2019 to 31-07-2020         1,043,682
  Total                            5,985,123

Research income was received during the REF 2021 period from sources including the AHRC,
ESRC, Historic England, Historic Environment Scotland, WEFO, the European Commission
and the Welsh Government. Research and Innovation Services manages grants and provides
specialist advice and support for grant applications.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Commercial income, totalling just over £900K, has been generated through work for
companies and organisations, such as Cyber Security work with the Defence Science and
Technology Laboratory and GCHQ. Business Services provides specialist advice and support
for commercial work.

Specialist Research Facilities
The School of Computing and Mathematics is located in a single block on the University's main
Treforest campus. All staff and research students have a high-quality research setting with
individual networked desktop PCs installed with standard and appropriate specialist research
software, such as NVivo, MATLAB (signal and image processing toolbox), and National
Instruments LabVIEW software. Staff receive professional IT support from an on-campus team.

The University has four campus library collections, each reflecting the subjects taught on that
campus. The main library collection at the Treforest Learning Resources Centre provides
immediate access to a wide range of resources and services for staff and students.

The Cyber Defence Centre is a commercial research and consultancy laboratory. It was
established in 2017 with £150K of Faculty funding. It initially included staff time buyout and
funding for a Research Assistant. The laboratory provides hardware and software support for
commercial work undertaken for industry clients, law enforcement and government agencies,
including London Metropolitan Police, South Wales Police, Dyfed Powys Police, West Mercia
Police, Isle of Wight Police and Avon & Somerset Police.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

The Centre of Excellence in Mobile and Emerging Technologies (CEMET) is based in the
Faculty of Computing, Engineering and Science. The Centre supports Welsh businesses
seeking to create new products, solutions and services, through bespoke collaborative
development projects using technologies such as AI, Augmented and Virtual Reality, and the
Internet of Things. CEMET has worked with 82 companies from across Wales. The programme
is part funded by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), through the Welsh
Government.

The University is a partner in the pan-Wales, ESF-funded Knowledge Economy Skills
Scholarships (KESS) programme. KESS supports PhD and MRes scholarships, with the
students working in collaboration with a Welsh industry partner. There are currently 13 KESS
PhD students and three KESS MRes students within the UoA. Partners have included industry
(Symlconnect, CGI, ITSUS Consulting Ltd, Thales, ObjectTech Group Ltd, Tata Steel Ltd), the
public sector (Cardiff and Vale University Health Board, National Health Service Wales
Informatics Service, Sports Wales) and third sector organisations (Tenovus Cancer Care).

The University of South Wales is a hub for the Technocamps schools outreach programme
which supports digital upskilling across Wales. The current project, Enhancing STEM
Attainment (September 2018-September 2021), is funded jointly through WEFO (with a £1.2M
ESF grant) and the Welsh Government (with a grant totalling £84K). At the University hub,
there are five full-time and three part-time funded posts. The University hub has already
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


delivered the programme to over 700 secondary school pupils. It has also delivered
Continuous Professional Development (CPD) sessions to teachers and worked with over 500
primary school pupils. Staff from the University hub actively disseminate their project
experience, presenting at the 2020 Online Teachers and Advisors Conference, for example.
School of Computing and Mathematics staff have also contributed to Technocamps events,
giving guest lectures about their research.

Two companies were established by staff during the REF period. Thermetrix Ltd was
established in 2016 and designs and implements bespoke optical instrumentation. The Awen
Collective Ltd was established in 2017. It is a software company producing cyber-incident
response solutions and digital forensics software for Industrial Control Systems, Robotics and
Internet of Things devices. The University provided support to these companies through early
stage funding and staff time to develop the companies.

British Bobsleigh and Skeleton (BBSA) has employed a company to produce a sensor system,
developed for it by McCarthy, which monitors athletes during training. Initial work to support
this project was funded by an I2S grant (Innovation and Impact Scheme, HEFCW backed
funding to support innovation and engagement). McCarthy was awarded Proof of Concept
Funding under this scheme, to demonstrate a technology: comparative accelerometer system
for enhancing training, protection and performance in elite sport and beyond.

Geographical Information Systems
Since 2008, Higgs has served as Co-Director of the Wales Institute of Social and Economic
Research, Data and Methods (WISERD). WISERD is a national interdisciplinary social science
research institute, designated as a National Research Centre by the Welsh Government. It is a
collaborative venture between the universities of Aberystwyth, Bangor, Cardiff, South Wales
and Swansea, and is currently funded by an ESRC Large Centres Grant with contributions
from the participating universities. WISERD is now a Partner Centre of the ESRC National
Centre for Research Methods. Higgs directs WISERD's Training and Capacity Building
programme and will lead the organisation of training events across WISERD’s disciplines,
which are delivered to a wider UK audience.

WISERD has been awarded (from October 2019) £8m of additional funding from the ESRC
and a further £4.6m from partner universities, including the University of South Wales. As part
of this Third Phase of funding, it is undertaking a five-year programme (2019-2024) of policy
relevant research to address Civil Society, Civic Stratification and Civil Repair in Wales, the UK
and internationally. The research will be inter-institutional and multidisciplinary and produce
new evidence on the changing nature of civil society.

As part of its work examining geographical variation in a range of public and private services,
GIS has worked with organisations including Sport Wales, the Care and Social Services
Inspectorate Wales, the Welsh Government’s Knowledge and Analytical Services and
Department for Economy, Skills and Natural Resources divisions, and Tenovus Cancer Care.
There is also an ongoing collaboration with researchers based at the School of Earth and
Environmental Sciences, University of Queensland, Australia.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Langford has been awarded a 2020 Academic Fellowship by the Senedd Commission (the
Senedd/Welsh Parliament’s corporate body) to pursue research on using network-based
accessibility models to examine variations in the provision of financial services in Wales. Key
objectives include informing members of the Senedd about geographical patterns in access
levels to in-branch banking and ATM facilities across Wales; and the potential impacts on local
communities of recent and future reductions in service provision.

School of Computing and Mathematics staff members include a qualified Civil Aviation
Authority (CAA) commercial drone pilot, who specialises in drone surveying, photography and
mapping. Surveying features such as coastal erosion, non-indigenous plant proliferation and
land slip for both research and commercial purposes is an ongoing area of development.

Hypermedia
Hypermedia research outputs have informed the UK historic environment strategy as well as
major European archaeological data centres.

Funded projects (Tudhope, Binding) overlapping the REF period include an AHRC Follow-On
Fund project on semantic web services and Linked Data in archaeology, in collaboration with
strategic partners at English Heritage, the Archaeology Data Service, RCAHMS and
RCAHMW. This has been followed by a Historic England (formerly English Heritage) funded
project on Linked Data for the Historic Environment. A transatlantic Digging into Data project
with the Universities of Manchester and Drexel (Philadelphia, USA) also developed tools for
the automatic generation of subject metadata.

Building on the UK semantic technologies work, two European Commission archaeological
research infrastructure projects led to international collaboration. The ARIADNE FP7 project
(2013-2017) for archaeology involved 24 partners, including most existing European national
services and data centres. It integrated archaeological data infrastructures to widen access to
the various distributed datasets. University of South Wales’s role as Leader of the Linked Data
Work Package built on the AHRC-funded research. The follow-on ARIADNEplus H2020 project
(2019-2022) extends the collaboration (with over 40 partners) and deepens the data
integration. USW work on vocabulary mapping made a significant impact on the multilingual
capability of the European projects. The mapping focus was continued in an AHRC-funded
Linked Conservation Data Phase 2 networking project, led by University of Arts (London) and
Stanford University, to enhance UK and USA collaboration and support further work. Other
partners include the Bodleian library, British Museum, National Gallery, National Galleries
Scotland, Getty Research Institute, and the Library of Congress.

USW also collaborated with the University of Florence, Italy (PIN research agency) on a
European Open Science Cloud for Research Pilot Project on Natural Language Processing
(NLP) for Italian language archaeological texts, building on work for ARIADNE. Other NLP
work includes two Welsh Government-funded projects (Cunliffe, Tudhope) to develop a
Welsh Natural Language Toolkit to underpin NLP Welsh language software development.

Binding has created an archive of European NKOS Workshops from 2000 on Github as a
community resource for the Networked Organisation Systems/Services community. Tudhope
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


and Binding are also currently involved with the AHRC-funded Matrix Project to investigate
supporting tools for archaeological phasing analysis (led by Historic England).

Cunliffe was an Academic Collaborator in the RE-DrAW consortium. Led by the University of
South Wales, with Aberystwyth University and the University of Surrey, it was funded by the
(AHRC/NESTA) Digital R&D fund for Wales. The consortium funded and supported
partnerships in the Welsh creative industries by using mobile and digital technologies to
improve audience engagement. Partners included NoFit State Circus and National Theatre
Wales/Theatr Genedlaethol Cymru.

 Within the REF period, Cunliffe has undertaken interdisciplinary collaborative research into the
 relationship between ICT and minority language maintenance with academics from the
 University of Waikato, New Zealand; the University of Hamburg, Germany; the University of
 Maastricht, The Netherlands; the University of Missouri – Kansas City, USA, and Yorkville
 University, Canada.

Biomedical Computing
As part of an ongoing collaboration with Cardiff & Vale University Health Board’s Rehabilitation
Engineering Unit (REU), Kulon is investigating new techniques to improve the postural
assessment of patients with severe neuro-musculoskeletal and postural conditions. The
research has led to the development of a new 3D Interactive Digital Human Model (DHM) and
a novel heuristic method to dynamically control a digital skeleton to represent spinal shape
from a set of anatomical markers. The REU has devoted substantial resources to the research
and continues to contribute by making available clinical facilities and laboratories. The REU
has used the DHM in clinical demonstrations, such as at seminars held at the Artificial Limb
and Appliance Service (ALAS) and Cardiff Medicentre, attended by 20-30 representatives of
NHS Trusts' Medical Physics and Rehabilitation Engineering Units. A prototype version of the
DHM was described in the Cardiff and Vale University Health Board’s July 2017 newsletter,
which was sent to 14,000 NHS employees.

A new project – “Clinical Decision Support System for Skin Monitoring and Melanoma
Detection using Machine Learning” – began in October 2019, funded via the KESS program.
The research is testing whether successful implementation of a machine learning algorithm on
a mobile platform can improve General Practitioners’ ability to confidently diagnose and
manage patients with suspected skin cancer within their practice. This could reduce the need
for time-consuming and costly referrals for face-to-face dermatologist consultations. This
project is being conducted in collaboration with the Clinical Bioinformatics team, Cardiff & Vale
University Health Board and the Institute of Dermatology, University Hospital of Wales, Cardiff,
represented by Dr Richard Motley. Dr Motley is Chairman of the Speciality Training Committee
for Dermatology in Wales, which oversees the training of dermatologists in Wales, and has
pioneered the teledermatology service in Cardiff.

A long-term collaboration between McCarthy and co-workers in China (Lui, and co-workers at
Harbin University) and Australia (Cascioli) is approaching a solution to aid people with sensory
or high nervous system dysfunction who are subjected to prolonged periods of sitting and
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


therefore predisposed to skin ulceration. The work to generate a sensor-based alert system
based on a predictive algorithm should soon be clinically trialled.

McCarthy is collaborating with back pain researchers in the Vrije University Amsterdam, The
Netherlands, to use bespoke data analysis software to perform a new variant meta-analysis.
This makes available much more data, providing a greater depth of analysis.

Artificial Intelligence
Research work in Artificial Intelligence is benefitting the local economy. For example, the
University is involved in a Knowledge Transfer Partnership with Wey Education, an innovative
online secondary school, which is using AI to facilitate the delivery of teaching material and
automated assessment marking. Meanwhile, Tata Steel is funding two PhD students who are
working on techniques to help predict equipment breakdown so preventative measures can be
taken before failure occurs. The University is also involved in a tripartite Smart Partnership with
Aurora International Consulting and IBM Watson, investigating the use of AI technologies to
determine the accuracy and rigour of Risk Assessment reports produced for the construction
industry. Two PhD students funded by National Health Service Wales Informatics Service are
investigating how machine learning techniques can be applied to health data to ensure that
resources are used in the most effective way.

A Ware is a Visiting Professor at ITM Universe Vadodara, Gujarat, India, where he is involved
in work on medical information systems. This complements his role as Director of the Welsh
Institute of Digital Information – a health informatics collaboration between the NHS Wales
Informatics Service (NWIS), University of Wales Trinity Saint David, and the University of
South Wales. Over the last five years, A Ware also helped to develop in Uganda a cheap but
effective means of detecting cervical cancer.

Cyber Security and Forensics
The University of South Wales, the Welsh Government and Thales (a multinational technology
company) are working together to establish a £20m National Digital Exploitation Centre. The
Centre will provide Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs) and microbusinesses with a
base to test and develop their digital concepts, and a research lab in which multinationals can
develop major technology. The University will also run an Advanced Cyber Institute at the
Centre for academic research. It will operate a Digital Education Centre to enable SMEs,
schools and individuals to acquire the skills they need to protect themselves online. The
Faculty has appointed four KESS-funded PhD students, with Thales as the industrial partner.

A School of Computing and Mathematics staff member is a Home Office advisor, working with
the UK Forensic Science Regulator on setting UK standards. They are also Chair of the F3
(First Forensic Forum), a member of the Interpol Digital Forensics Expert Group, and a
member of the UK Government Digital Forensics Specialist Group. Another staff member from
the School has served on the Welsh Government's Cyber Resilience Board.

 The University won the 2019 and 2020 Cyber University of the Year Awards, and was a finalist
 at the 2019 FinTech Awards Wales.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Within the REF period, Usman has undertaken collaborative research in applied cyber security
with academics from Griffith University, Australia; King Khalid University, Saudi Arabia; Bahria
University, Pakistan; Comsats University, Pakistan; Ch. Charan Singh University, India;
International Islamic University, Pakistan; Istanbul Gelisim University, Turkey; Yeungnam
University, South Korea; Quaid-i-Azam University, Pakistan; and Brandon University, Canada.

Visiting Appointments
A Ware is a Visiting Professor at the University of Kurdistan Hewlêr, Iraq, and at ITM Universe
in India. He is also a Visiting Professor at NWIS (NHS Wales Informatics Service).

Cunliffe is an Affiliate of the Center for Computed-Mediated Communication at Indiana
University, USA.

 Usman is a member of the Network Security Group at Griffith University, Australia. He is also
 co-supervising PhD students at Quaid-i-Azam University, Pakistan.

 There are currently three Visiting Professors and four Visiting Fellows associated with the UoA.
 The Visiting Professors are: Kurt Ammer (former Medical Vice-Director of the Institute for
 Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation at the Hanuschkrankenhaus in Vienna, Austria); Andrew
 Beckett (a Managing Director and EMEA Leader for Cyber Risk Practice at Kroll); and Graham
 Machin (National Physical Laboratory). The Visiting Fellows are: Keith May (Historic England);
 Renato Rocha Souza (Austrian Centre for Digital Humanities); Ricardo Angelo Rosa Vardasca
 (Universidade do Porto); and Andreas Vlachidis (UCL).

 Conference and Workshop Organisation

 Cunliffe has served as a Programme Committee Member for the International Conference on
 Web Information Systems and Technologies (2010 to 2020) and for the International
 Conference on WWW/Internet (2009-2019), and as a Scientific Committee Member for the
 International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (2016, 2018).

 Higgs was Conference Chair for the WISERD Annual Conference University of South Wales,
 July 2018. Higgs has been a Panel Member for the RGS/IBG Geographical Information
 Science Research Group: Best Dissertation in the area of Geographic Information Science,
 since 2012.

 Higgs and Langford are on the organising committee for the GIS Research UK conference to
 be held in Cardiff in April 2021.

 Kulon was a Session Chair at the IEEE International Conference on Medical Measurements
 and Applications (MEMEA 2016), Benevento, Italy.

Tudhope has co-organised nine workshops on Networked Knowledge Organisation Systems /
Services during the REF period at the Theory and Practice of Digital Libraries and the Dublin
Core Metadata Initiative conferences. Two NKOS Special Issues of the International Journal
on Digital Libraries (Springer, 2015, 2018) followed, with Tudhope a co-guest editor for both. A
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


third Special Issue, also co-guest edited by Tudhope, was published in the Journal of Data
and Information Science (National Science Library of the Chinese Academy of Sciences,
2020). Tudhope has served on the Programme Committee for the following conferences and
workshops within the REF period: Computer Applications and Quantitative Methods in
Archaeology (CAA); Dublin Core Metadata Initiative (DCMI); UK Conference of the
International Society for Knowledge Organisation (ISKO-UK Review Panel); Joint Conference
on Digital Libraries (JCDL); International Conference on Theory and Practice of Digital
Libraries (TPDL); International Workshop on Semantic Web for Cultural Heritage (SW4CH),
W4A.

 Usman has served in different capacities, including as publication chair, organising committee
 member and/or TPC member for numerous IEEE conferences. These include: IEEE DASC
 2020; IEEE ISST-ITS - TrustCom 2019; IEEE DependSys 2019; IEEE Workshop - ISA in IoS
 2018; IEEE ICET 2018; IEEE ICCAIS-2018; IEEE IBCAST 2018; IEEE Intellect 2017 and IEEE
 IBMSGS 2015 and IEEE UWCSN 2014.

 Journal Editorships

 Cunliffe (Editor-in-Chief) and Tudhope (Editor) have edited The New Review of Hypermedia
 and Multimedia journal, published by Taylor & Francis, since 1997.

 Cunliffe has been a Section Editor for the Australasian Journal of Information Systems since
 2018.

 Higgs is an Editorial Board Member for the International Journal of Health Geographics.

 McCarthy is Associate Editor of Chiropractic and Manual Therapies (BMC/Springer-Nature)
 and has recently guest edited the journal Sensors (MDPI: Humidity sensors issue). He is
 currently guest editing a follow-up issue on the application of sensors.

Usman was a lead guest editor of a special issue on Security, Privacy, Trust, and Access Control
in Industrial Applications, IEEE Transactions on Industry Applications, May/June 2020. He was
a co-guest editor of a special issue on Computational Intelligence for Human-in-the-Loop Cyber
Physical Systems, IEEE Transactions on Emerging Topics in Computational Intelligence,
2020/2021. He is also an Editorial Board member of the Smart Science journal. Usman is an
invited co-guest editor of a special issue on Blockchain Technologies in IoT: Current Applications
and Future Directions, Sensors, 2021.

Advisory Board Membership

Cunliffe:
       Member of the Welsh Language Technology Ministerial Advisory Board (since 2012).
       Involved in the creation of the Welsh Government's “Welsh Language Technology
       Action Plan” (2018).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


        Member of the Advisory Board for the Digital Language Diversity Project, funded under
        the Erasmus+ scheme (2015-2018).

        Member of the Advisory Board for the VirtuLApp (Virtual Language App) Strategic
        Partnership Project, funded under the Erasmus+ scheme (since 2019).

        Member of the Advisory Committee of the National Welsh Language Technologies
        Network, project sponsored by the Welsh Government (since 2020).

        Management Committee Substitute (UK), COST Action Management Committee,
        COST Action CA19102, Language In The Human-Machine Era (since 2020).

Langford:
      Academic Fellow appointment by the Senedd Commission (2020), “Exploring
      geographical patterns in the changing landscape of financial services provision in
      Wales.”

 Usman:
      Member of a recruitment panel of ICT executive and lower-level staff at Islamabad High
      Court, Pakistan. Adviser to the recruitment panels of several ICT and Cyber Security
      companies.

 Invited Keynote and Plenary Talks

 Cunliffe:
        Invited speaker (jointly with Dr Jeremy Evas, School of Welsh, Cardiff University),
        Network to Promote Linguistic Diversity Conference on Unlocking the Potential of
        Technology to Promote Constitutional, Regional and Small-State Language Usage
        (Cardiff, 2014).

        Invited speaker, Mercator/SOAS congress on Multilingualism & Social Media
        (Leeuwarden, 2014).

        Invited speaker, AHRC research network on Television from small nations: building a
        network for cultural and commercial success. (Cardiff, 2015).

        Invited speaker, AHRC Research Network on Language Revitalization and Socio-
        cultural Transformation (Aberystwyth, 2017).

        Invited Keynote lecture, “Can social media provide breathing spaces for minority
        languages?”, at the Conference on Frisian Humanities (Leeuwarden, 2018).

        Invited speaker, Federal Union of European Nationalities (FUEN), Non-Kin-State
        Working Group, Annual Meeting (Constanta, 2019)

        Invited speaker, Minority Languages in the Digital Age. Usage, Maintenance, and
        Teaching Conference (Griefswald, 2020).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



Tudhope:
     Invited presentation, virtual heritage conference on Open Science and FAIR data
     (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Re-usable) organised by the University of Tours
     (2020).

Usman:
     Invited article: Enhancing Cybersecurity in Commercial Aviation, Aviation Business
     (2020).

A Ware:
      Invited Keynote lecture “Neural Networks: A Brief History and Futuristic Glance”,
      International Conference on Information Science & Communication Technology
      (Karachi, 2019).

       Invited Keynote lecture “Applications of AI: A Pragmatic Perspective”, World Congress
       in Computer Science, Computer Engineering & Applied Computing (CSCE’18), (Las
       Vegas, 2018).

       Invited Keynote lecture “Mining for Data’s Golden Nuggets”, Frontiers of Information
       Technology (Islamabad, 2017).

       Invited Keynote lecture “The Advance of Intelligent Systems”, Second International
       Conference on Emerging Trends in Engineering Sciences & Technology, (Karachi,
       2017).

Prizes and Awards

Cunliffe:
       Contributed a chapter to the Palgrave Handbook of Minority Languages and
       Communities, which was awarded the 2020 British Association for Applied Linguistics
       book prize.

Elmesiry:
      Best paper award, co-author, “Privacy-Preserving Threat Hunting in Smart Home
      Environments”, at the International Conference on Advances in Cyber Security, 2019.

Tudhope:
     Outstanding paper award in the 2016 Emerald Literati Network Awards for Excellence,
     co-author, “Negation detection and word sense disambiguation in digital archaeology
     reports for the purposes of semantic annotation”. Earlier version awarded best post-
     doctoral paper at 7th Metadata and Semantics Research Conference (MTSR 2013).

Usman:
     Best paper award, co-author, "Dynamic Trust Evaluation of Learning Objects", at IEEE
     ComTech, 2017.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



A Ware:
      Best paper award, co-author, "NiHA: A Conscious Agent" at 10th International
      Conference on Advanced Cognitive Technologies and Applications (COGNITIVE
      2018).

Learned Societies

Kulon was elevated to the grade of Senior Member of the IEEE in 2016.
