Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Cardiff University
 Unit of Assessment 17: Business and Management Studies
 1. UNIT CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE, RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY
 1.1. School strategy and objectives
 Cardiff Business School is a strong and sustainable research community that enables colleagues
 to thrive and make distinctive and important research contributions to their disciplines and beyond.
 Since 2014, the School has developed a holistic strategy based upon a Public Value ethos that
 prioritises real-world social scientific research of international relevance, underpinned by
 intellectual curiosity and oriented towards our five flagship Grand Challenges - Decent Work,
 Fair and Sustainable Economies, Future Organisations, Good Governance and
 Responsible Innovation. These challenges are central to our research strategy and feature
 heavily throughout this statement, in addition to being reflected in our ten impact case studies
 (S1.7).
 We have worked to sustain a vibrant and interdisciplinary research culture that integrates
 international academic excellence with tangible and widespread impact; an environment where
 collegiality, inclusivity and participation are the dominant values, and our scholars can
 contribute not only to their research base but also to society. Since REF2014, we have
 extended the intellectual, social and economic impact of our research, while striking a balance
 between autonomy and support, so colleagues develop fulfilling and rewarding research careers.
 The development of the Public Value Business School at Cardiff from 2014 onwards was a
 considered response to the soul-searching following the financial crisis (2007/8) and fears of
 culpability regarding ethics in business education. The strategy was influenced by close working
 with two social scientists: John Brewer of Queens University, Belfast (author of ‘The Public Value
 of the Social Sciences’); and Mark Moore at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard
 University (author of ‘Creating Public Value’).
 Public Value stakeholder workshops, attended by Brewer and Moore, enabled us to collectively,
 and thoroughly, debate what kind of Business School we were and could be. This inclusive
 process of strategy development (detailed in Kitchener and Delbridge, Academy of Management
 Learning and Education 2020), helped us clarify our core purpose – to deliver economic and social
 value through interdisciplinary research and education oriented towards Grand Challenges. Key
 developments in the School’s strategy during the REF period can be found in Figure 1.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our strategy prompted a systematic articulation of our organisational culture coordinated by the
 School’s new representative internal body, the Shadow Management Board (S1.3) which
 reinvigorated the School’s core values for strategic and operational implementation (see Figure
 2).




 We have gained external recognition for our distinctive strategic orientation. Our 2017 re-
 accreditation from the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) noted that
 “Cardiff Business School has developed a unique and compelling vision focused on Public
 Value which is culturally embedded within the School, including in its research, teaching and
 engagement programs” and commended us for our “interdisciplinary research with socio-
 economic impact”. We feature in the ITN film produced for the Chartered Association of
 Business Schools on ‘Business Schools for Good’ (our film can be viewed here
 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GaVO_lOOp9w) and, beyond higher education, we were
 awarded the Best Large Responsible Business in Wales 2019 by Business in the
 Community for our implementation of Public Value principles and practices. We produce a regular
 Public Value Report, which aids internal monitoring of the School’s performance regarding
 economic activity, carbon footprint, and supply chain.
 1.2. School research strategy and objectives
 Since 2014, we have worked to strengthen our position as a leading international centre for
 business and management research, with 184 research active (Teaching and Research [T&R]
 and Research [R]) staff, who have generated £15m of research income, an increase from
 £10.4m in 2014.
 The School encourages a diverse range of research and methodologies across the full range of
 business management and economics disciplines, so colleagues can develop expert mainstream
 and specialist knowledge. We are known for critical, challenging and theoretically informed
 research, demonstrated by the leading role we have played on the boards of international theory
 journals such as Academy of Management Review, Perspectives on Public Management and
 Governance, and Organization Theory.
 Our research strategy is key to the achievement of our Public Value ambitions and our sense of
 purpose has allowed faculty to broaden the scope of their research endeavours. Our values have
 evolved into important Public Value principles for research: co-creating knowledge, developing
 interdisciplinary connections, sustaining a culture of collegiality, and inclusive
 engagement (see S3).
 In 2015 we began to orient our discretionary research support towards five broad and
 inclusive Grand Challenges and prioritised collaborative research projects involving early
 career colleagues. This placed us at the forefront of internationally significant interdisciplinary
 research focused on areas such as Responsible Innovation where Tim Edwards and De Luca,
 with colleagues from Computer Science, ensured that technology-driven innovations designed in


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Africa (water) and Latin America (species conservation) were consistent with community
 preferences and sustainability.
 Launched in 2016, our Public Value Engagement Fellowships (PVEFs) provide seedcorn
 funding and workload hours to enable colleagues to develop new engagement
 relationships based on the co-creation of research and teaching. For example, the partnership
 between Jean Jenkins, her students, and Anti-Slavery International produced collaborative
 research to support Baroness Young’s Modern Slavery (Transparency in Supply Chains) Bill. We
 have strengthened existing relationships and created new partnerships (with United Nations,
 Highways England, and the International Red Cross), deepening our engagement with a wider
 range of stakeholders drawn from the full spectrum of economy and society.
 Our Public Value orientation was boosted by Cardiff’s University’s commitment to the San
 Francisco Declaration on Research (DORA). In our preparations for REF2021, and more broadly,
 we have actively embraced the opportunity to move beyond journal rankings and metrics to
 consider research studies on their merits, informed by REF criteria, and viewed in relation
 to social, economic and environmental impact. Our recruitment and promotion processes do
 not refer to journal rankings.
 1.3. Research leadership and supporting structures
 Cardiff Business School is one of ten Schools within the Arts, Humanities and Social Science
 (AHSS) College; one of three Colleges within Cardiff University. We benefit considerably from the
 strategic objectives and research culture established by the Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research,
 Innovation and Enterprise, the University Deans for EDI and Research Culture and Environment,
 and the AHSS Dean for Research and Innovation, such as opportunities to secure funding for
 cross-department interdisciplinary research (S1.5).
 At School level, research leadership is distributed, which ensures strategy is developed and
 tested from the bottom-up (see Figure 3). The Associate Dean for Research, Innovation and
 Engagement (ADRIE) is our lead research champion and institutional liaison, but colleagues
 across the School contribute to the development of the School’s research strategy.




 Since 2014, two additional Management Board positions have been created with research
 responsibilities including a new Associate Dean for Doctoral Studies (upgraded from Director
 of PhD Programme role) and a new Associate Dean for Technology, Systems and Data to
 promote Big Data research activities and strengthen the use of data in decision-making.

                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research governance is provided by Management Board and our Research Innovation and
 Engagement Committee (known as Research Committee) which is a deliberative forum for
 research strategy and its implementation. Chaired by the School’s ADRIE, members include T&R
 and R staff representatives from each academic section, PhD students, the Chair of the School’s
 Research Ethics Committee, Associate Deans for Doctoral Studies and Technology, Systems and
 Data, and our Director of Research Engagement and Impact (DRE&I) (see Figure 4).




 Strategic discussion and oversight of research also sits within the remit of our Shadow
 Management Board, which was introduced in 2015.
                       Case Study: Shadow Management Board (SMB)
 Public Value prompted the establishment of a Shadow Management Board to widen participation
 in strategic decision-making. The Board’s design was Informed an Athena Swan action plan and
 our research on accountability and governance (see Downe and Ashworth impact case). SMB
 includes faculty and professional service representatives and influences School decision-making
 by providing constructive challenge while developing its own policy proposals. The School’s
 research strategy has been a priority focus for the SMB since its inception. The current Dean was
 the inaugural Chair of the SMB, while the current chair is former Associate Dean for Research,
 Mike Reed.
 Faculty in the School are organised within five large academic sections: Accounting and Finance
 (AF); Economics (ECON); Logistics and Operations Management (LOM); Management,
 Employment and Organisation (MEO); and Marketing and Strategy (MS) that meet frequently.
 Each section co-ordinates activities, such as research awaydays, seminars and reading groups,
 and holds a research budget.
 We have introduced Deputy Section Heads for Research, Innovation and Engagement
 (DSHRIEs) for each of the five academic sections who perform a key role at Research Committee,
 along with additional section representatives to ensure good research engagement. Members of
 our Research Office also attend Research Committee to provide advice on implementation and
 due process.
 1.4. REF preparation process
 The development of our REF submission illustrates our distributed and consultative approach. The
 process was coordinated by a REF Sub Committee, jointly chaired by the Dean and ADRIE and
 included the DSHRIEs, Associate Deans for Doctoral Studies and Technology, Systems and Data
 and Doctoral Studies, the School’s DRE&I and the AHSS Dean for Research and Innovation.
 Three previous Associate Deans for Research (Mike Reed, Delbridge and Naim) were members,



                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 providing continuity and experience, while the Committee’s way of working reflected our open and
 transparent approach to the development of the School’s REF submission.
 Our output reviewing process was aligned with the REF2021 Code of Practice, overseen by REF
 Sub Committee and managed by the DSHRIEs. As previously, the School double reviewed
 outputs against REF criteria without reference to the CABS or any other journal list. A proportion
 of interdisciplinary outputs were subject to external review, while a further sample of outputs was
 third-reviewed. The Sub Committee also monitored progress on the REF impact case studies,
 while a working group contributed to our Environment Statement.
 1.5. Research communities
 Our research strategy supports faculty to develop discipline-specific expertise and insight, while
 engaging in collaborative research across disciplines. Colleagues can contribute to a range of
 research communities and groups:
 • Externally funded research centres. Substantial and sustained ESRC, EPSRC and industry
   awards fund these internationally recognised centres of excellence, including the Wales Centre
   for Public Policy (WCPP) funded by the ESRC/Welsh Government; the Centre for Advanced
   Manufacturing Systems at Cardiff (CAMSAC) funded by the EPSRC/Welsh Government; and
   the PARC Academy Institute of Manufacturing, Logistics, and Inventory funded by DSV-
   Panalpina.
 • Internally funded disciplinary communities of practice. These well-reputed and long-standing
   groups are oriented around the School’s core disciplinary strengths and academic sections.
   They meet regularly to hear from international speakers and progress individual and collective
   research agendas. For example, each year our Employment Research Unit (ERU) and Centre
   for Organisation Research (CORGies) host a joint PhD conference to support Early Career
   Researchers (ECRs) and their development.
 • Internally funded Business School interdisciplinary research units. Resourced by our Agenda
   Setting Events funding, these reflect Public Value priorities. For example, the Cardiff Corporate
   Governance Group held its inaugural conference in 2018 focused on Responsible Corporate
   Governance with keynote speakers such as Brian Cheffins (Cambridge), Jonathan Kalodimos
   (Oregon State) and Nadia Massoud (Melbourne).
 • Match funded Arts, Humanities and Social Science research centres. Faculty contribute to
   prestigious College-wide institutes and groups, including the ESRC-funded Wales Institute of
   Social and Economic Research and Data (WISERD) (Melanie Jones, Jean Jenkins, Davies)
   and Welsh Government/NESTA funded Y Lab (the Public Services Innovation Lab for Wales)
   (Delbridge, Downe). We were pivotal to the development of the highly innovative Social
   Science Research Park (SPARK; and the new building known as sbarc | spark); the first
   dedicated and purpose-built facility for interdisciplinary social science-led research and
   innovation of its kind, representing £56.5m of University investment (S3).
 • Match funded University Research Institutes. Colleagues make significant contributions to
   these high-profile institutes with strong connections to the School’s strategy. For example,
   Bosangit is collaborating with colleagues from the Sustainable Places Research Institute,
   which is co-directed by Peattie, on a £200,000 UKRI-funded project focused on sustainable
   tourism within Mayan communities, while Beynon is Ambassador to the Data Innovation
   Research Institute.
 1.6. Research outcomes
 The School’s research performance reflects our challenge-oriented and partnership-focused
 Public Value strategy. Our submission has depth and breadth in research publications, while our
 research income has grown by 44% from £10.4m to £15m (2014-2019), pump-primed by
 over £300,000 of School seedcorn funding.
 Research income is derived from a range of sources including £4.2m UKRI awards. We were
 awarded four Horizon 2020-funded projects such as COGOV, which is focused on ‘Co-
 production and Co-governance: Strategic Management, Public Value and Co-creation in the
 Renewal of Public Agencies across Europe’. We have attracted substantial ERDF funds
                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 including a five-year project ensuring that Welsh SMEs and social enterprises maximise
 opportunities arising from the roll-out of superfast broadband provision. 13 years of successive
 EPSRC research funding has sustained our Advanced Sustainable Manufacturing Technologies
 institute (ASTUTE) which supports SMEs (S3). Finally, we have almost doubled our Knowledge
 Transfer Partnership (KTP) awards from six to 11 since 2014, worth a total of £630,000.
 In 2014, we signalled our aspiration to enhance international research collaborations with leading
 and developing universities across the world. This ambition has been achieved through:
 • University and School strategic partnerships - which prompted collaborations with KU Leuven
   (Delbridge, Sarah Jenkins, Kitchener), Xiamen (Xiao) and Melbourne (Hardy and Thomas) and
   discipline-specific collaborations, such as between public management researchers at Cardiff
   University and Aarhus (Andrews, Ashworth, McDermott) and logistics colleagues at Cardiff
   University and Politechnico Milano (Gosling, Kumar, Lynch, Purvis, Syntetos).
 • Elite international research networks - including the Centre for Interuniversity Research on
   Globalization and Labour (CRIMT) which enables colleagues such as Doering, Hann,
   Hauptmeier and Nash to develop international connections.
 • Visiting Fellowships – such as our long-running Montague Burton Visiting Fellowship
   programme which has hosted renowned international scholars since 2014, including Peter
   Gahan (Melbourne), John Budd (Minnesota), Lise Lotte Hansen (Roskilde), and Cathie Jo
   Martin (Boston). On average, we host fifteen international visitors at any one time, compared
   with 8-10 in 2014.
 • ECR workshops - we have hosted joint PhD conferences, for example with FGV-EAESP, Sao
   Paulo, Brazil, while the School was a founding partner in an annual ethnography workshop for
   doctoral students and ECRs with EM Lyon, Esade Barcelona and VU Amsterdam.
 Figure 5 shows how we benefit from a diverse set of geographical collaborations which have
 generated research publications and other research outputs.




 Since 2014, we have further sustained and deepened collaborations with partners such as
 the Trades Union Congress, International Labour Organization, Confederation of British Industry,
 Institute of Directors, the Office for National Statistics, and the Association of Certified Chartered
 Accountants. The Institute of Directors (Wales) is now headquartered with the School, enabling
 us to work closely with business leaders and attend UK Government round-tables.
 Public Value has prompted us to forge relationships with new partners to address Grand
 Challenges, such as our institutional partnership with the world’s first Future Generations
 Commissioner, Sophie Howe (an Honorary Fellow of the School), prompting joint work on
 topics such as responsible public procurement.


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.7. Research impact
 Led by our DRE&I, our research engagement and impact strategy ensures faculty have the
 opportunity and support to coproduce impact, while remaining prominent within their
 disciplines and international networks. The DRE&I has led a programme of activity which has
 raised the profile of research impact, delivered one-to-one advice on designing pathways to impact
 in UKRI funding applications, and guided the narrative development of impact cases.
 We have been successful in gaining ESRC IAA awards (S3) and provide generous impact
 funding within our Research Committee funding programme. The School sits within a wider
 ecosystem that is highly conducive to research collaboration and the coproduction of impact with
 local, national, and international partners, including the Welsh and UK Governments, the Office
 for National Statistics, Cardiff Capital Region Board, and Nesta. Our broader impact and
 engagement strategy is anchored to our five Grand Challenges, which are reflected in our ten
 impact case studies (Figure 6).




 Colleagues are currently being supported to co-produce future impact cases. Our REF2021
 impact case authors have shared their learning and future cases are in development focused on
 sustainable food supply (Ocado, Yeo Valley), forecasting for social good (Wales Ambulance
 Service and United Nations High Commission for Refugees) and disability equality in the legal
 profession (Law Society). Our two cohorts of Public Value Entrepreneurs in Residence (PVEiR)
 have facilitated research connections, including the collaboration between Yaina Samuels and
 Yousafzai on female entrepreneurship (S4).
 1.8. Research ethics, academic integrity and open access
 Public Value ensures that the School adopts an ethical and responsible approach to research.
 Our School Research Ethics Committee (SREC) provides oversight and governance in liaison with
 the Cardiff University Open Research and Integrity Ethics Committee (ORIEC). The Chair of SREC
 is a member of ORIEC and reports directly to Management Board, reflecting the Committee’s
 independence and status. Discussion of research ethics and academic integrity takes place at
 induction and both staff and students undertake Epigeum online ethics training, in addition to
 University research integrity training. Ethics review processes align to the ESRC’s Framework for
 Research Ethics, with independent review by two members of the SREC.
 Cardiff University has formally recorded open access compliance on research outputs since 2014
 and supports Gold open access via a substantial institutional fund. The School follows an
 enhanced version of the University’s open access process and promotes open access training.
 We proactively monitor publication acceptances to enhance our compliance.

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.9. The future
 Medium term strategic developments will be shaped by COVID-19 and its severe social and
 economic consequences. Our Public Value commitment means we are ready to respond to these
 challenges and proactively support the post-COVID social and economic recovery. For example,
 Henley is leading the Wales Productivity Forum within the ESRC Productivity Institute, while
 colleagues are coordinating government inquiries on the impact of the pandemic on disabled
 people, BAME communities and women entrepreneurs (Foster, Ogbonna, Edwards). In the
 School, wellbeing is a continued priority as colleagues respond to the challenges of homeworking
 and wider COVID-19 pressures. We have also begun to address research-related gender
 disparities that have been exacerbated as a result of the pandemic (S2).
 Overall, the School will continue to sustain a dynamic, inclusive and collegial research culture, so
 that researchers can influence their disciplines and the wider world. Throughout the next REF
 period we will:
 • Progress internationally relevant social science research in each of our Grand
   Challenge areas through a targeted programme of internal funding, our PVEFs and via the
   significant opportunities from our prime membership of the University’s Social Science Park
   (SPARK).
 • ‘Walk the talk’ by practising research-informed social, environmental and economic
   responsibility to reduce our carbon emissions, improve sustainability in our supply chain, and
   promote ethical governance so we can make further progress towards an inclusive, low
   carbon and high wellbeing research environment.
 2. PEOPLE
 2.1. People strategy
 The challenges currently facing our society - environmental, technological, economic and health -
 require strong organisational resilience that builds from people-centric workplaces. Colleagues
 are central to our School and Public Value mission. As demonstrated in RAE 2008 and REF2014,
 we have long prioritised the development and support of our staff, and we continue to benefit from
 high levels of continuity and retention. Since 2014, staff turnover has remained constant at
 around 2% of faculty, compared to the HE sector average of 8% of academic staff (UCEA,
 2019). Colleagues report that they stay with us for a range of reasons:
 2.1.1. Appointment of ECRs
 Continuity in the School reflects a long-standing practice of appointing promising ECRs on open-
 ended contracts and providing an environment that enables them to become scholars of
 international standing. This ‘home grown’ approach is evident within our Management Board. Nine
 of the 11 members of Management Board joined Cardiff as ECRs, including the Dean, Deputy
 Dean, along with the majority of Associate Deans and Section Heads, while 40 of our 67
 Professors joined Cardiff as students (five), research assistants (13) or junior lecturers (22).
 Since 2014, we have appointed 60 junior lecturers to ensure the School has an open, outward-
 facing and international research culture. Colleagues have been appointed from over 20 countries,
 researching topics that include: sustainability in Chinese corporations (Li); working conditions for
 Uber drivers in South America (Zorzoli); green supply chains in India (Mogale); and developments
 within the EU’s circular economy (De Angelis).
 2.1.2. A culture of collegiality
 Collegiality is demonstrated by extensive co-authoring between colleagues but also through an
 enthusiastic non-transactional commitment which is evidenced in staff surveys. This includes
 providing advice on research development and supporting colleagues who are experiencing
 extenuating circumstances. It can be seen in vibrant research seminar activities at Section, School
 and College level, with high levels of engagement in research-focused annual away days,
 conferences and reading groups. We place a strong emphasis on collegiality within our
 recruitment and induction processes.


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.1.3. Continuity in School leadership
 Since the School’s creation in 1987, only internal candidates have been appointed as Dean, even
 under external recruitment processes. Successive Deans have understood the School’s history
 and strengths and prioritised collegial relationships. This has produced greater transparency and
 consistency in decision-making, inclusive forms of strategic change and left us less vulnerable to
 higher turnover rates.
 2.1.4. People-focused policies and practices
 These have been extended since 2014, informed by our own research. We have embedded our
 Returners’ Leave Scheme for colleagues returning to research and protected research time for
 ECRs on Grade 6 Lectureships (S2.2). Following in-school research, revised workload allowances
 and independent study weeks were introduced to create additional time for research. Committees
 apply consideration of workload and wellbeing in their decision-making, while staff development
 policies extend beyond standard mentoring approaches.
             Case Study: Safeguarding Workload and Wellbeing during COVID-19
 At the outset of the COVID-19 crisis, the School initiated a policy of designating Fridays as
 Wellbeing Days, without online meetings and emails, when colleagues would be encouraged to
 undertake activity that boosted their wellbeing. Wellbeing Fridays were subsequently implemented
 across the University from April-June. The School has continued to designate Friday as a Quiet
 Day and introduced Quiet Weeks over the summer period to provide meeting-free time to focus
 on research or take annual leave. We have also incorporated a one hour lunchbreak within the
 academic timetable to aid student and staff wellbeing.
 2.1.5. Career progression opportunities.
 The School has a 95% success rate in the University Promotions process, with 70 members of
 staff promoted to senior lecturer (33 female, 37 male), 22 to Reader (11 female, 11 male) and 21
 to Professor (seven female, 14 male) since 2014. This compares favourably to the 2008-mid 2013
 period when just 34 staff were promoted (only seven to Professor).
 2.2. Staff profile
 We employ 217 faculty, 184 of whom are eligible for REF2021, with colleagues evenly distributed
 across the five academic sections of the School. Lectureship appointments are open-ended, with
 the majority of academic staff (175) employed on T&R contracts, and 18 on Teaching and
 Scholarship (T&S) contracts. We have 24 R-only staff whose appointments are supported by
 externally funded research projects, nine of whom have significant responsibility for research. 12
 work in the ESRC-Welsh Government funded Wales Centre for Public Policy (WCPP). The School
 also provides fractional appointments to facilitate part-time working.
 T&R faculty work to a standard University Workload Allocation Model with a 40:40:20 split between
 research, teaching and administration/citizenship. A Workload Allocation Model Standing Panel
 with representatives from across the School and the trades unions, oversees the implementation
 of the model. Administrative roles have respective workload allocations, and adjustments are
 made for research project responsibilities. ECRs work to a reduced teaching load (67%) without
 administrative responsibilities so they can progress publications, build their international profile
 and develop as fully rounded academics. The 40% allocation for research for T&R staff has been
 retained during COVID-19.
 2.3. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 2.3.1. Promotion of EDI research
 We enthusiastically promote equality, diversity and inclusion and our approach is evidenced by
 our prioritisation of equality-focused research, proactive policy making and equality
 outcome achievements linked to the Grand Challenges of Fair and Sustainable Economies and
 Decent Work. Faculty have extended the reach and significance of their EDI research since 2014
 including scholarship on: disability at work (Wass and Melanie Jones; Foster), equality and
 inclusion in public services (Andrews and Ashworth), diversity in the accounting profession
 (Edgley and Sharma), BAME leadership within the FTSE 100 (Ogbonna), the gender pay gap

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Parken and Ashworth); and women and BAME entrepreneurs (Yousafzai, Tim Edwards, Henley).
 PVEFs have been awarded to scholars researching disability for a second year running, while
 several of the School’s REF2021 impact case studies have an EDI focus. Research expertise in
 EDI leaves us well-placed to implement University EDI policies.
 2.3.2. EDI structure and organisation
 Since 2014, the School has mainstreamed EDI with responsibilities distributed across the School
 and embedded within agenda items for all committees. The School has its own EDI Officer to
 support policy implementation. This includes coordinating an objective procedure for agreeing
 reasonable adjustments which has enabled us to support seven colleagues to balance their work
 commitments to date.
 2.3.3. Embedding EDI
 The School ensures colleagues are afforded equal opportunities to excel and progress. Examples
 include:
 • Our Returners’ Leave Scheme which supports colleagues with protected characteristics when
   they return from paternity/maternity/adoption leave or after caring responsibilities. Colleagues
   receive six months protected time to complete or re-establish research, and arrangements can
   be adapted according to need. The School has approved 15 applications for Returners’ Leave
   including two cases where leave was granted twice.
 • A new system where PhD applications are circulated School-wide that has resulted in a more
   equitable allocation of supervision positions, the proliferation of interdisciplinary supervision
   panels, and a greater opportunity for ECRs to gain supervisory experience.
 • The application of EDI principles and Extenuating Circumstances processes to Research
   Committee funding schemes at all stages.
 • The award of PVEFs to an ECR who joined three months previously, and to a faculty member
   who was on maternity leave.
 • The incorporation of EDI into REF preparations. Each member of our diverse and inclusive
   REF Sub Committee undertook EDI-training aligned to their REF roles. Informed by the
   University’s REF2021 Code of Practice on inclusion, transparency and staff engagement, the
   Sub Committee received gender and career grade profiles produced by the Associate Dean
   for Technology, Systems and Data that informed the development of our submission.
 2.3.4. Priorities
 The School has taken a proactive approach with the establishment of a new Committee to prioritise
 and lead action on race equality. We are determined to make progress on this aspect of EDI during
 the forthcoming REF period.
                             Case Study: Race Equality Committee
 Recent events have underlined that inequality, disadvantage and discrimination remain prevalent
 within society and are reflected within organisational structures, behaviours and practices. In
 response, the School has established a Race Equality Committee that includes staff and students
 and reports directly to Management Board. Informed by our own research (Ogbonna, 2019), the
 Committee will ensure our workplace culture, learning environment, education curricula and
 teaching practices are diverse, inclusive and non-discriminatory, while addressing attainment gaps
 and amplifying BAME voices within the School.
 As one of the first three Business Schools to obtain a Bronze Athena Swan accreditation, we are
 due to submit our re-accreditation in 2021. An EDI Action Group is developing the School’s future
 objectives for gender equality, which include the need to achieve a greater representation of
 women at senior levels and address COVID-related impacts on research.
 We have made progress since 2014 with a significant number of women among newly promoted
 senior staff, including the Dean, Thomas, Wass, Daunt, Foster, Jean Jenkins and McDermott to
 Personal Chairs and Dhanani, Harris, Sarah Jenkins, Koenig-Lewis, Le, Purvis, Yousafzai, Slater,

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wang, and Yani-De-Soriano to Reader. We have privileged ECR appointments in external
 recruitment which has produced an overall 50:50 ratio of men and women appointed during the
 REF period. Nevertheless, there is greater diversity in some disciplines relative to others.
 We celebrated International Women’s Day (2018) with videos from seven women from the School
 who volunteered to explain and promote our values. The films can be seen in this YouTube playlist
 (Figure 7).
 Figure 7. Promoting our Values: International Women’s Day (2018)




 2.4. Staff development
 2.4.1. HR policies
 Colleagues that join the School begin with induction linked to the University’s ‘Your First 90 Days’
 programme, which involves a welcome session that emphasises Public Value, collegiality
 and citizenship. Research Office colleagues advise faculty on support structures, funding
 opportunities and research processes. The session provides an opportunity for interdisciplinary
 interaction and collaboration, as colleagues meet counterparts from across the School.
 Each new colleague has a ‘buddy’ for day-to-day guidance and a mentor for bespoke career
 advice. ECRs have a probation mentor to support them in meeting their three-year review period
 requirements, while undertaking University Academic Practice modules, completing doctoral
 supervision training and publishing research outputs. The Business School has a strong track
 record of probation completions (99%), with probationers often meeting requirements ahead of
 the three-year deadline.
 Colleagues receive ongoing support from the School as their service continues. The Cardiff
 Academic provides clarity on expectations which are translated to social sciences by AHSS, and
 then to business and management by the School. Each member of staff has an annual
 Performance Development Review (PDR) with their line manager that reviews progress,
 objectives and career plans. Line managers provide guidance to their colleagues, supported by
 an in-School Line Management Development Programme. PDRs incorporate discussion of
 training and development, while every colleague is a member of a discipline-based research
 community and can draw on support, insight and experience from fellow colleagues. Mentoring is
 standard practice, with an expectation that colleagues will be mentors and mentees.
                  Case Study: Research-Informed Line Management Training
 Since 2014, our research has been put into practice in recognition of the pivotal role that line
 managers play in advancing careers (McDermott et al., 2015). Drawing on our strengths, the
 School now provides a supplement to the generic line management training in the form of a
 bespoke Line Manager Development Programme, which has been very well received. The four-
 day programme delivered by faculty members with research expertise focuses on effective line
 management, and incorporates sessions on stress and mental health from MIND and peer
 coaching techniques.




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.4.2. Reward and recognition
 Effective performance is viewed holistically, highlighted in PDRs and rewarded through the
 Outstanding Contribution Award process or a Senior Salary Review (SSR) for Professors. Faculty
 are encouraged to progress their careers via the University’s promotions process, where the
 School has been successful in achieving a 95% success rate (S2.1).
 Given the size and scale of the School (3500 students and 217 academic staff), it is important to
 view performance holistically. We consider research ‘in the round’ and celebrate the publication
 of research outputs; research funding; engagement relationships; societal and economic impact;
 and doctoral supervision. The Professorial SSR values effective performance across four activities
 - research, teaching, leadership and international - while all promotion applicants pass through a
 test of citizenship known as the Citizenship Gateway.
 We have enjoyed considerable success at the University’s Celebrating Excellence Awards for
 initiatives that have enhanced the Student and Staff Experience (Kumar), and the University’s
 Research Impact and Innovation Awards (Syntetos, Naim). We plan to introduce our own School
 awards during the forthcoming REF period to recognise a wider range of contributions.
 2.4.3. Researcher development opportunities
 Colleagues highlight that they benefit from the sharing of expertise and we encourage a range of
 research-focused activities to sustain this peer support:
 • International conferences - we have hosted around 80 conferences since 2014 ranging from
   home-grown events (e.g. Interdisciplinary Approaches to Taxation Conference), to large-scale
   society conferences. We partnered with the Network for Advancing and Evaluating the Societal
   Impact of Science (AESIS) to host the first international conference on the impact of social
   science and humanities research, and we will host the ISBE conference in October 2021. The
   2020 Logistics Research Network Annual Conference on Sustainable and Resilient Supply
   Chains during Crises was our first online conference, drawing a record number of delegates.
 • Writing workshops - these are led by eminent international scholars, including some of our
   fractional appointments such as Courpasson (EM Lyon), Hardy (Melbourne), and long-term
   academic partners (Sarosh Kuruvilla, Cornell). With EM Lyon we initiated the European
   Organization Theory Development annual workshop series which we hosted in 2015. Journal
   workshops led by esteemed journal editors, such as Gerardo Patriotta, Journal of Management
   Studies (2019) are popular with colleagues.
 • Away days - each section convenes a research-focused annual away day where colleagues
   make short presentations and return energised and inspired. We have found innovative ways
   to sustain activities during the pandemic – for example, Morgan’s ‘pitchinars’ encourage MS
   faculty to ‘sell’ their research ideas and receive feedback via Zoom.
 • Reading groups - these are led by ECRs and reflect the diversity in our research. They include
   Scott’s Consumer Behaviour group for the GW4 university network (Bristol, Bath, Exeter,
   Cardiff), Purvis’ journal club for LOM colleagues, and a new group in the MEO section focused
   on Marxism.
 • Development programmes - Colleagues value their access to programmes such as the Welsh
   Crucible scheme, while Cardiff Futures (an internal leadership development programme led by
   the Vice-Chancellor) has been attended by nine School colleagues, including two DSHRIEs. It
   supports ECRs to develop their careers and shape University policy. Eight senior colleagues,
   including the Dean and Deputy Dean, have attended the University’s Professorial Development
   Programme. Research-only colleagues benefit from the Cardiff Researcher Programme which
   outlines the University’s expectations of its researchers and provides workshops, online
   modules, career advice and one-to-one coaching.
 2.5. Support for research
 The School provides financial support for research, in addition to workload hours, while our
 Research Handbook is a useful online resource. Consistent with good practice in business and
 management, the School provides an Individual Research/Scholarship Budget (IRB/ISB) for

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 faculty set at £3,000 per annum, which supplies resource for conferences and research
 expenses. Since REF2014, the School has removed IT spend from the IRB to focus the budget
 on research. Research-only colleagues are provided with an Individual Research Fund (IRF)
 (£1,000).
 Pump-priming support comes via competitive applications to the School’s Research Committee.
 Since 2014, we have provided seedcorn, impact, international visitor and agenda-setting
 conference funding of £327,000 through 143 awards, with the majority going to ECRs. We have
 protected financial support for research, despite COVID-19, both in terms of IRBs and Research
 Committee spend.
 We offer to organise teaching to provide concentrated research-focused time and, since 2014, we
 have introduced block-teaching arrangements and independent study weeks to support wellbeing
 and create additional research capacity. Our Research and Scholarship Leave Scheme gives
 faculty with five years’ service the opportunity to take leave for 12 months. Applications are
 reviewed by a sub-group of Research Committee and successful candidates are provided with an
 additional £3,000 IRB. Since 2014, 29 staff members have been awarded research leave.
 We became aware of an impression that research leave necessitated international travel that was
 deterring colleagues with caring responsibilities from making applications. Once we clarified
 international travel was not a compulsory element of research leave, applications doubled from
 six per year to 12 in 20/21. The School has maintained its research leave programme, despite
 COVID-19, with nine colleagues awarded leave and proceeding as planned, and a further three
 deferring to 21/22. Colleagues in the School have benefited from the University’s Research Leave
 Fellowship Scheme (URLS) which enables them to focus on large scale studies, writing projects
 or develop new technological expertise. The associated Cardiff Disglair Lectureship programme
 facilitates research leave while supporting postdoctoral researchers to transition into their first
 posts. We were awarded a Disglair Lectureship in 2019 won by Zorzoli.
 2.6. Impact and engagement support
 Our strategy prioritises engaged, collaborative research with societal and economic benefits. We
 have supported faculty to coproduce impact through the provision of Research Committee funds,
 AHSS impact awards and 150-hour workload reductions for our impact case authors. Colleagues
 gained an additional £75,382 through ESRC IAAs, with four of our impact case studies
 focused on the real Living Wage, equality and disability at work, the gender pay gap and
 public accountability, benefiting from the funding.
 Our PVEF programme enables colleagues to develop engagement relationships by providing
 funding (£2,000), time (150 hours), and a Fellowship title for 12 months. Eleven Fellowships have
 been awarded to date, focused on Grand Challenges, including ‘Career experiences of disabled
 people’ (Foster, Decent Work), ‘Democratising forecasting’ (Rostami-Tabar, Future
 Organisations), and ‘Measuring climate change emissions from SMEs’ (Li, Fair and Sustainable
 Economies).
 2.7. Doctoral studies at Cardiff Business School
 As in 2014, our aim is to continually enhance support for a dynamic doctoral community of creative,
 talented researchers to sustain vitality within the School. We re-oriented our PhD programme
 around Grand Challenges to meet our REF2014 objective to align staff and student interests, while
 our proactive promotion of the programme via the University website, findaphd.com, and social
 media increased the quality of applications and diversity of student intake (see Figure 8). We
 currently have 180 PhD students.




                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 The PhD application process is EDI-compliant with part anonymised applications and a
 reasonable adjustment consideration at application, interview and study stages.
 We are a major partner in the ESRC Wales Doctoral Training Programme (DTP) that was
 established in 2016, leading two ESRC collaborative pathways in Business and Management and
 Economics. We offer Pathway Studentships along with Public Value Studentships, supported by
 Anne Whipp and the Hodge Foundation, and funded opportunities from the ESRC, Welsh
 Government, Welsh Water, Costain, Transport for Wales, Panalpina, Coleg Cymraeg and the
 Institute of Directors, amongst others.
 In 2014 we stated an ambition to develop international partnerships to enhance doctoral student
 mobility. Students benefit from our membership of the European Institute for Advanced Studied
 in Management (EIASM) and the European Network of Doctoral Programmes in Business
 Administration (EDAMBA). Two recent graduates (Haiyan and Reynolds) were commended as
 top 10 entrants in the annual EDAMBA doctoral dissertation competition, while the 8th EDAMBA-
 EIASM consortium at ESADE Business School resulted in new School supervisory training with
 Dr Stan Taylor in May 2019. Student mobility has been boosted through the opportunity to visit
 leading overseas institutions (e.g. The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, and St Gallen
 University), while PhD students can engage in flagship internship initiatives (e.g. with UK and
 Welsh Government).
 With Swansea and Bangor, we initiated an annual Welsh Postgraduate Research
 Conference to showcase and develop the research of doctoral students. The conference
 involves around 80 students making presentations and connecting with leading partners such as
 Centrica and the ONS. Students particularly valued sessions on coproducing impact, so a bespoke
 ESRC course on Business Knowledge and Engagement Credibility for Social Science ECRs and
 PhDs has been organised for 2020/21.
 2.8. Doctoral programme and related support
 PhD students are an integral part of the School community. A new Associate Dean for Doctoral
 Studies post was introduced to ensure the PhD programme has strategic priority and
 prominence at Management Board, while doctoral students are represented on all committees,
 in addition to coordinating their own student-staff panel.
 Our twin track PhD programme has Business Studies and Economics pathways, which are led
 by the Associate Dean for Doctoral Studies and a respective Deputy PhD Programme Director
 (one for Economics and one for Business Studies). The Business Studies pathway involves one
 year of intensive dedicated research training on the MSc Social Science Research Methods, plus
 three years on a PhD topic (1+3). The Economics Pathway comprises a four-year programme
 based on a 2+2 format. With two years of advanced dedicated course work, the first at MSc
 Economics level in core subjects and the second, the Masters of Research in Advanced
 Economics, involves enhanced study in microeconomics, macroeconomics and econometrics plus
 specialist areas.


                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our doctoral students are supported with resources including dedicated office space, IT
 facilities, plus a budget of £1,050 in support of their fieldwork, while each academic section
 coordinates seminars and activities to encourage doctoral student participation. Expert
 supervision and guidance is provided through a panel of two to three supervisors. Since 2014, all
 students have a research plan that outlines the development of their thesis and highlights
 their Public Value contributions.
 Progress is supported via an annual review, led by an independent chair, that considers wellbeing
 issues and makes recommendations for adjustments or extensions as appropriate. Annual
 reviews are supplemented with interim reviews and supported by a Postgraduate Research
 Extenuating Circumstances Panel. Pastoral care is provided by School Student Support and
 Wellbeing Services, the Deputy Directors for Business Studies and Economics, the Associate
 Dean, and Dean.
 Training and development provision includes:
 • A bespoke training and development plan – this is developed by each student and incorporates
   initiatives from the School, Doctoral Academy and University. Students attend doctoral training,
   workshops and seminars organised by our academic sections, such as the recently introduced
   ‘PhD Development Seminar Series’ to connect PhD students and researchers during
   lockdown. Attendance at international workshops, e.g. the European Doctoral Education
   Network (EDEN) is encouraged.
 • Doctoral Academy workshops - these are delivered in Cardiff with partners such as the GW4
   Alliance, and include induction events, online training platform sessions (i.e. Coursera, EdX,
   LinkedIn Learning), and student-led events (Images of Research, 3-minute thesis).
 • School career development and writing workshops - such as Hardy’s ECR-focused sessions
   and journal workshops.
 • Conference induction - students have a conference strategy that prepares them for the
   conference circuit via attendance at doctoral-specific sessions (e.g. at the British Academy of
   Management).
                      Case Study: Cardiff Doctoral Student Opportunities
 Violina Sarma was a Doctoral Student at Cardiff Business School between 2014 and 2020 and
 focused her thesis on collaborative decision-making for hierarchical forecasting. Violina was
 awarded the Cardiff Award ‘Above and Beyond Award’ for 2019/20 and passed her viva
 successfully in September 2020. She is employed as a Research Associate at the School and has
 written a blog with 5 tips for making the most of being a PhD student.
 Diego Bermudez started his PhD in 2017 which is funded by one of the School’s Public Value
 Doctoral Studentships. His research on payment technology processes based on systems theory
 led to an internship with Welsh Government focused on the analysis of the sustainability and
 resilience of the public procurement process in Wales. Diego is an active student representative
 and student mentor.
 There is a strong sense of community within the doctoral student cohort which we encourage
 through welcome sessions, virtual social events, and an annual dinner. During COVID-19, we
 have supported our students with enhanced communication, repatriation, extensions, and
 adjusted progress monitoring processes. Our Doctoral Studies Manager established an AHSS
 Doctoral Managers’ Forum to share best practice between Schools, while the School developed
 a doctoral mentoring scheme in conjunction with the Pro Vice-Chancellor Student Experience’s
 Doctoral Wellbeing Working Group.
 Supervisors are supported so that our students receive the highest quality advice and guidance.
 PhD supervision is appropriately credited within the University’s Workload Model. It is a probation
 requirement for ECRs to undertake supervisory training and colleagues usually serve as
 successful second or third supervisor before becoming primary supervisors. Since 2014, the
 School has instigated a new training workshop on viva chairing, so all faculty have an
 opportunity to examine and chair viva examinations.

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                           Case Study: Doctoral Supervision Training
 Leading-edge supervision training has been provided in order to prepare colleagues for their
 responsibilities. In 2019, the School initiated a series of workshops for doctoral supervisors, led
 by Doctoral Education expert, Dr. Stan Taylor. These best practice supervision sessions were
 attended by 40 academic colleagues and form the basis of the UKGCE good supervisory practice
 framework. The School and the Doctoral Academy are piloting an OUP-Epigeum online module
 based on Dr Taylor’s workshops which will enable colleagues to begin to gain recognition for
 research supervision from UKCGE.
 Our average PhD completion rate over the last six years exceeds the AHSS average at 70%
 and we are delighted to see doctoral graduates progress to faculty positions in leading
 international and UK institutions, including Bristol, Cardiff, Copenhagen, Edinburgh, Exeter,
 Grenoble, King’s College London, Liverpool, Lisbon, Madrid, Melbourne, Missouri, NEOMA,
 Nottingham, Pompeu Fabra, Swansea, Sussex, Xi’an Jiaotong, Zhongnan.
                         Table 1: PhD Completion Rates 2010/11-2015/16

           Student start                Withdrawals        Submitted in      Submission
                              Intake
               year                     and transfers        4 years            rate
              2010/11           27             3                 14              58.3%
              2011/12           22             3                 16              84.2%
              2012/13           21             6                 10              66.7%
              2013/14           23             0                 15              65.2%
              2014/15           16             0                 14              87.5%
              2015/16           20             2                 11              61.1%
              Six-year
                               129             14                80              69.6%
              average

 3. INCOME, INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES
 3.1. Overarching strategy
 External funding enables us to achieve our Public Value ambitions and prioritise real-world social
 scientific research of international relevance, underpinned by intellectual curiosity and oriented
 towards our five flagship Grand Challenges.
 We secured a 44% increase in research income between 2014-2019, following a sector-wide dip
 between RAE 2007 and REF2014. This includes £4.2m from UK Research Councils and reflects
 our prioritisation of Grand Challenges which enabled us to achieve particular success in securing
 Global Challenge, ESRC Impact Accelerator and Knowledge Transfer Partnership funding awards
 (S1). It also comprises the substantial re-investment in established centres of excellence such as
 WCPP and ASTUTE. Data published in a recent report by the Chartered Association of Business
 Schools (Research Income for Business and Management: HESA Data from 2008/09 to 2018/19)
 placed us in the top five within the Russell Group for our overall research income (see
 Figure 9).




                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Research funding has enabled us to promote and extend a core set of principles that are
 fundamental to Public Value research: co-creating knowledge; developing interdisciplinary
 connections; sustaining a collegial research culture; and inclusive engagement.
 3.1.1 Co-creating knowledge
 Our strategy advances a model of collaborative research, where researchers and stakeholders
 are equal partners in the co-creation of knowledge. Research funding supports this model of co-
 creation by underpinning established centres of research excellence.
 Addressing the Responsible Innovation Grand Challenge, since 2013 our logistics experts have
 sustained a long-term collaboration with global logistics firm, DSV-Panalpina, to develop
 sustainable supply chain solutions and produce leading-edge research. Led by Syntetos, the
 PARC Academy Institute for Logistics, Manufacturing and Inventory supports the co-location of
 Business School researchers with five Panalpina staff. The value of this joint venture is
 demonstrated by extensive research outputs and an impact case study on financially sustainable
 supply chains, but also by its longevity. The mutually beneficial relationship was reinforced in 2019
 when Panalpina and new parent company DSV committed a further five years of funding
 via an investment of £720,000.
 Researchers have addressed the Fair and Sustainable Economies Grand Challenge through
 CAMSAC - a centre of excellence for broad-based, cross-disciplinary research in advanced
 manufacturing technologies, processes and systems. Focused on the economic and
 environmental sustainability of manufacturing firms and their supply chains, funded projects like
 ASTUTE demonstrate important advances in collaborative research with a wide range of SMEs,
 while collaborations with Costain and Highways England produced co-authored research
 outputs and an impact case study focused on innovative procurement in infrastructure projects.
 3.1.2 Developing interdisciplinary connections
 Interdisciplinary relationships are central to addressing our five flagship Grand Challenges.
 Research funding allows us to promote interaction between disciplines through our new social
 science-led research park (SPARK) and via our interdisciplinary research groups.
 Our commitment to interdisciplinary scholarship is seen in our active leadership and participation
 in the creation of the world’s first social science-led research park (SPARK) to co-locate several
 hundred social scientists and their research partners to work on societal challenges. The School
 has supported SPARK since its inception, seconding a leading organisation theorist (Delbridge)
 to spearhead its design and development over the REF period. This significant personal
 commitment enabled the vision to become a reality, and as a result, research centres such as
 the WCPP and WERU will be located within this purpose-built, £65m, 12,000 m2 building
 from 2021 onwards. The conception of SPARK exemplifies the Public Value research principles
 elaborated in this section of the statement.
 Our Responsible Innovation Network (RIN) encourages collaborative relationships to ‘promote the
 understanding, practice and diffusion of responsible innovation’. Interdisciplinary teams from the

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Business School have secured internal and externally funded Global Challenges Research Fund
 (GCRF) awards totalling over £100,000. These projects have supported female and refugee
 entrepreneurs and engaged Cardiff schoolchildren in the responsible use of social media.
 Addressing the Good Governance Grand Challenge, our Corporate Governance Research Group
 is one of the leading interdisciplinary centres of its kind, bringing accounting and finance
 organisation studies and legal scholars together with public policy and governance specialists to
 address and prevent corporate governance failures. Supported with our internal Public Value
 funding, the group has organised conferences focused on board-level diversity, corporate
 governance in emerging markets, responsible financial investment, and behavioural finance.
 3.1.3 Sustaining a collegial research culture
 Public Value promotes collegiality in research (S2). Through research funding we have been able
 to prioritise and develop two key aspects of collegiality – the creation of opportunities for ECRs to
 engage in research projects and the provision of altruistic academic leadership and peer support.
 As one of the School’s major research centres, WCPP provides an excellent illustration of a
 nurturing and developmental research environment where ECRs have thrived and advanced their
 careers. The success of our Public Policy Institute for Wales led to its transformation in 2016 to
 the WCPP (a ‘What Works Centre’), after receiving a significant re-investment (£7.3m) from
 the ESRC, Welsh Government and Cardiff University. The Centre now has 20 staff (17
 Academic/Researchers, three Professional Services) and is central to our mission to address
 Grand Challenges through its promotion of evidence-informed policy in inter alia waste recycling,
 homelessness, sustainable procurement and EU migration. Recognised as an exemplar in
 evidence-based policy by the OECD, its success can be seen in recurrent funding, research
 outputs, two Impact Case Studies related to Future Organisations and Good Governance, a
 runners-up award in the 2019 ESRC Impact Awards, and a Cardiff University Impact and Policy
 Award (2017).
 The Centre creates important opportunities for researchers to collaborate with leading
 policy experts and advise ministers and public service leaders to make evidence-informed
 policy decisions. WCPP researchers operate with a high degree of autonomy. Colleagues are
 provided with development opportunities and benefit from the experience of their leads, while
 belonging to an academic section of the School for wider engagement with research and teaching.
 Several Centre researchers have developed independent research strands and form part of the
 University’s REF submission (Connell, McKillop), with some advancing to more senior positions
 (Denny) and Future Leader Research Fellowships (Healy).
 Colleagues provide academic leadership and foster collegiality through KTP projects which
 have almost doubled from six in REF2014 to 11 projects valued at £630,000. This fruitful
 mode of funding has facilitated relationships with organisations, such as Ocado, Active Quote,
 Qioptiq, Centrica, Shine Food Machinery and Panalpina, whilst also providing a highly beneficial
 experience for ECRs and serving as a strong platform for future applications. For example, the
 KTP with Ocado resulted in a succession of collaborative projects.
 Research mentoring has also been provided through our internal Cardiff University
 Undergraduate Research Opportunities Programme (CUROP) and Cardiff University
 Student Education Innovation Projects (CUESIP). These small but significant projects facilitate
 collaborative research with in-built peer support and provide project leadership experience while
 giving undergraduates a paid opportunity to work with faculty. We have been successful in
 securing 35 of these awards since 2018 for projects focused on ethical marketing, community
 engagement, inclusive classrooms and festival legacies.
 3.1.4 Inclusive engagement
 Public Value necessitates a holistic approach to engagement in order to secure input and
 investment from a full range of stakeholders. Through external research funding we have been
 able to advance these aspirations since 2014 and work with partners that reflect the full spectrum
 of economy and society.



                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our success is exemplified by the Welsh Economy Research Unit (WERU) which has been in
 existence since our inception in 1987 and sits at the forefront of its field in evaluating economic,
 social, and environmental impacts. An authoritative source on regional economic analysis, with
 specific expertise on Wales, the Unit addresses the Fair and Sustainable Economies and Future
 Organisations Grand Challenges, contributes two impact case studies, and publishes the journal
 Welsh Economic Review. The Unit’s success is underpinned by a mix of awards that enable
 a locally responsive, relevant, and self-sustaining research model.
 Since 2014, the team has secured 16 research grants, generating an income of £1.64m,
 working in conjunction with Welsh Government, Natural Resources Wales, General Dynamics,
 RWE Npower, National Museums of Wales, UK Sport, Arup, Kronospan and additional
 stakeholders. The inclusive approach is demonstrated in a £1.1m European Union-funded project
 on the economic impact of Superfast Broadband, which has highlighted the plight of rural
 businesses disconnected from the digital economy. This evidence prompted Welsh Government
 to enhance business support to digitally excluded organisations across Wales.
 This kind of inclusive engagement can be seen in research across the School. Projects addressing
 the Decent Work Grand Challenge have been able to give voice to under-represented and
 excluded communities, and include research from: Jean Jenkins on the employment conditions
 of garment workers at the sharp end of supply chains in India and Bangladesh (ESRC
 £500,00); Foster on workplace experiences of disabled people in the legal profession (DRILL
 £160,000); and Hann with Citizens UK to assess the impact of the real Living Wage on those in
 poverty (ESRC Collaborative Studentship). In the area of Good Governance, Kitchener’s COGOV
 project COGOV profiles case studies of co-production in social care that themselves are co-
 produced with service users (H2020 £250,000), while in the field of Responsible Innovation,
 Tim Edwards’ GCRF project with Computer Science colleagues focused on alleviating poverty
 while addressing climate change in Ethiopia and Eritrea (ESRC £30,000).
 3.2. Institutional investments
 We have been proactive in shaping and contributing to collaborative University institutes. In
 addition to our role within SPARK, colleagues addressing the Decent Work Grand Challenge have
 been heavily engaged with WISERD; a national, interdisciplinary, social science research institute,
 supported by ESRC and Welsh Government funding. Our engagement with WISERD enables us
 to gather and analyse data on inequality in the workplace (Melanie Jones, Parken), and focus on
 labour exploitation in supply chains (Jean Jenkins and Davies).
 Business School colleagues also initiated the development of Y Lab, a partnership created
 between the University and NESTA (£1.8m investment), reflecting an emphasis on
 Responsible Innovation and Future Organisations in the context of public services. Linked to the
 School of Social Sciences, Y Lab again exemplifies our vision of interdisciplinary, challenge-
 focused research.
 3.3. Infrastructure, facilities and support
 3.3.1. Infrastructure
 We have been working to sustain and extend the culture and conditions that enable the co-creation
 of internationally relevant social science research through a combination of facilitative
 leadership, excellent professional services support, facilities and resources.
 The School’s leadership on research is distributed so colleagues benefit from a multi-layered
 research infrastructure. In addition to the Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research, Innovation and
 Enterprise and AHSS Dean for Research and Innovation, members of the School’s Management
 Board advise on research, while the ADRIE facilitates the development of research strategy, policy
 and practices via the School’s Research Committee. Research Centre leaders play a significant
 role in capacity building and researcher development and our collegial culture is vital in sustaining
 the School’s thriving research environment and providing day-to-day peer support and mentoring.
 Research advisory services operate at School, AHSS and University levels. Researchers can
 access in-house professional service support from the School Research Office, led by a
 Research Services Manager, with staff dedicated to impact, research ethics and research funding.

                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Office enables colleagues to identify opportunities and provides advice on grant eligibility,
 ethical approval, finances and submission. ‘Cardiff Research Information Sessions’ (e.g. on
 applications for UKRI funding), are also organised by Research Office colleagues. The School’s
 Doctoral Programme Office is co-located with the Research Office and facilitates the development
 of ECR initiatives, including conferences, and in-house training sessions.
 The School’s External Engagement and Events team has been strengthened since 2014. The
 team coordinates our Executive Education provision and eases knowledge flow between the
 School and key partners to facilitate research relationships, including the long-standing connection
 between the School and DSV-Panalpina. Essential advice comes from the School’s
 Communications Officer who profiles our research online and via social media, while a new
 recording studio in the School supports podcasting and digital engagement.
 Our School teams work closely with AHSS and the wider University to provide seamless support
 for academic colleagues and to signpost to additional support. Within AHSS, the Research team
 supports the ten Schools with specific funder training programmes and enables ECRs from the
 School to network with a larger cohort of their peers.
 University Research and Innovation Services colleagues provide specialist advice and
 support for managing large bids including specialist multi-institution costing and pricing, contract
 negotiation, match funding, commercial development, due diligence and funder relationship
 management. This support is specialised around key funders such as ESRC, Marie Skłodowska-
 Curie and European Research Council fellowships and Horizon 2020. The Research Systems
 team provides researchers with technical solutions for managing research information, while
 colleagues regularly attend and present at the Cardiff University Innovation Network (CUIN).
 3.3.2. Facilities
 The capital costs of social science research remain relatively low and researchers deploy their
 IRBs to facilitate their research needs. Our School’s Information Services Committee ensures
 that we are meeting technology and software requirements through the resourcing of
 databases, such as the Financial Times, IBIS, Morningstar and SNL Financial. The School makes
 an annual investment of £250,000 on databases, which is supplemented by a further £250,000
 per annum from University Library Services for sources such as Datastream, Bloomberg,
 Economist.com, Proquest, and OECD Library.
 In common with the sector, the School has dedicated librarians and library facilities. Staff and
 students have access to approximately 60,000 books and 2,000 journals, while the library houses
 a number of specialist collections, including one of the country’s few European Documentation
 Centres, an Annual Reports Collection and Archive and an international statistics collection.
 The School has invested in the creation of good working and meeting spaces. We have
 benefited significantly from the addition of a £13.5m Postgraduate Teaching Centre (PTC), which
 was awarded BREAM status due to its eco-design and offers excellent facilities. These include
 our Executive Education Suite which provides a comfortable and contemporary space for
 networking, impact and engagement activities. Since 2014, we have instigated a sustainable
 refurbishment programme for our staff building at our Aberconway site. A collaboration with two
 local social enterprises and the local Institute for the Blind allowed the School to modernise and
 refresh working spaces through a circular supply chain. The School is keen to further upgrade its
 facilities for PhD students and an investment case will be submitted to the University Executive
 Board in 2021.
 3.3.3. Funding support
 In addition to the advisory support outlined above, we provide pump-priming resource to facilitate
 collaborative research that generates knowledge with economic and social benefits. Since 2014,
 the School has spent over £300,000 within three funding streams to support i) research, impact
 or engagement activities ii) agenda-setting events, workshops and conferences and iii)
 international relationships. These investments have strengthened our research performance
 as, besides producing research outputs, they have prompted successful research grant capture.
 For example, Jean Jenkins’ 2014 seedcorn project focused on working conditions in the


                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 garment industry led to ESRC awards totalling over £500,000, while Wang’s seedcorn project
 enabled her to secure an ESRC-funded Wales DTP Studentship on Food Poverty and Blockchain.
 We support colleagues to strengthen research bids and grant applications through:
 • A School Peer Review scheme involving 50 of our leading researchers and an AHSS
   SuperTrack peer review process supported by experienced ESRC panel members.
 • A series of research information sessions where colleagues (Melanie Jones, Wallace, Henley)
   advise on grant capture and share experiences from UKRI award panels.
 • Access to an institutional library of successful grant applications.
 4. COLLABORATION AND CONTRIBUTION TO THE RESEARCH BASE, ECONOMY AND
 SOCIETY
 4.1. Introduction
 The School’s Public Value strategy necessitates outward-facing, proactive and collaborative
 relationships with partners and colleagues from other academic disciplines. We view success in
 terms of our impact on core intellectual disciplines and our influence on the wider economy and
 society. We address the REF reporting requirements for this section by showing how colleagues
 have combined their intellectual contributions to their scholarly communities with the generation
 of social and economic impact relative to our Grand Challenges (S4.2.1-S4.2.5) including a
 COVID-19 postscript (S4.2.6). We then provide examples of high-level recognition of our work,
 before outlining our future research strategy (S4.3-S4.5).
 4.2. Grand Challenge contributions
 4.2.1. Decent Work
 Since 2014, we have extended our long tradition of research in the field of employment and
 organisation studies, with the production of research outputs and two impact case studies
 focused on enhancing policy and practice on disability equality in employment (Wass and Melanie
 Jones) and strengthening uptake of the Real Living Wage (Heery, Hann and Nash).
 The world of work faces a series of challenges regarding job quality, employee wellbeing, the
 impact of technology and workplace inequalities. In the field of employment relations, Hann and
 Nash conducted a succession of surveys with ACAS exploring levels of employee participation
 with analysis of key findings published in the Industrial Relations Journal, while Gooberman,
 Hauptmeier and Heery have established Cardiff as a centre for research exploring the role
 and impact of employer organisations.
 Our research exploring the ‘hidden’ or ignored aspects of work and organisation has been
 recognised by major awards. These include the study of how deception is normalised at work by
 Sarah Jenkins and Delbridge which was awarded the biennial Roland Calori Prize for Best
 Paper 2017-18 in Organization Studies in 2019, while Pandeli, Marinetto and Jean Jenkins
 presented the first analysis of experiences of prison employment in Work, Employment and
 Society (2019) and were awarded the 2020 Sage Prize for Innovation and Excellence.
 Our research on EDI in the workplace has broken new ground and includes collaborative research
 with the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales which has been reported in
 Critical Perspectives on Accounting (Edgley and Sharma), international comparative perspectives
 on disability published in the European Journal of Industrial Relations and Work, Employment and
 Society (Foster) and the career experiences of BAME FTSE CEOs (Ogbonna) published in the
 Human Resource Management Journal and presented at the House of Lords.
 Since 2014, the School has been highly proactive in influencing policy debates on Decent Work.
 Building on our research expertise on the real Living Wage, the Dean is a UK Living Wage
 Commissioner and independent chair of the Welsh Government’s new Social Care Forum. These
 activities have enabled the School to directly impact the campaign for the Real Living Wage and
 promote improvements to working life nationally and locally. The Business School also
 represented the University in the successful campaign to designate Cardiff as a Living
 Wage City in 2019.

                                                                                          Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                      Decent Work Case Study: Job Quality in Social Care
 Sarah Jenkins benefited from seedcorn funding and research leave to undertake research in
 collaboration with the Wales Cooperative Centre exploring employment practices, job quality and
 employee ownership in cooperative organisations in settings, such as social care. The research
 resulted in the coordination of a Social Care Action Group of stakeholders to enhance the working
 conditions of social care workers and influence the implementation of recommendations from the
 Welsh Government’s Fair Work Commission. External recognition of the work has followed, as
 Sarah is a core member of the research team that has been awarded an ESRC/Health Foundation
 UK Centre Award for Evidence Implementation in Adult Social Care.
 4.2.2. Fair and sustainable economies
 Since 2014, we have invested in research that emphasises the need for fair and inclusive
 economies that deliver financial and environmental sustainability. A stream of research projects
 and research outputs feature here, along with two impact cases studies focused on
 addressing the causes of the gender pay gap (Parken and Ashworth) and the enhancing
 the environmental impact of sporting and cultural events (Munday and Collins).
 We have a sustained reputation for analysis of economic policies and their impact, through the
 work of our macro and regional economists working within WERU and the Julian Hodge Institute
 of Applied Macroeconomics (JHME). For example, Munday advised Welsh Government
 Committees on regional economic modelling (2015-16), while Calvin Jones informed Welsh
 Government’s nature-friendly COVID-19 economic recovery plans, and Le and Meenagh regularly
 supply the UK government with forecasting analysis.
 We have a burgeoning body of research outputs, especially in green and sustainable
 logistics, with Harris and Naim publishing their cutting-edge work in the International Journal of
 Production Economics, Journal of Cleaner Production and Management Decision, while work
 reporting the impact of economic activity on the environment has been published in Energy and
 Environment and Planning C (Calvin Jones). Finally, Wass, Melanie Jones, Foster and Parken
 secured ESRC research funding to determine why certain groups continue to be excluded
 from full economic participation, while publishing their work in journals such as Human
 Resource Management, Industrial Relations Journal and Gender, Work and Organization.
 Recent ECR appointments reflect our commitment to this Grand Challenge. Ferns has
 published well-received research on corporate responses to the climate emergency in
 Organization Studies and Journal of Business Ethics. Li has secured a Public Value Engagement
 Fellowship to partner with the Federation of Small Business to help Welsh SMEs measure carbon
 in their supply chain. Meanwhile, Kaya is investigating the gender pay gap by sector in
 collaboration with ESRC Centre WISERD, and with research funding from the Centre of Manpower
 Economics.
 Colleagues have been engaged with University Research Institutes to investigate aspects of the
 sustainable economy and accelerate impact. The Water Research Institute, co-directed by
 Munday, focuses on sustainable water management for people and ecosystems, and the
 Sustainable Places Research Institute, co-directed by Peattie, sources responsible solutions
 to diminishing resources and the climate emergency.
 Finally, informed by our research on maximising community benefits from procurement
 (Harland, Walker) and in line with our Small Business Charter responsibilities, the School
 has been leading efforts to review procurement structures and processes. This has involved
 reviewing our supply chain, partnering with the Future Generations Commissioner for Wales to
 develop an overarching framework for public procurement in Wales (Lynch), and contributing to
 Cardiff University’s Procurement Steering Group (Calvin Jones).
        Fair and Sustainable Economies Case Study: Addressing Financial Exclusion
 Ahmad Jamal researches at the intersect of marketing, ethnicity and consumption and has
 developed a specific reputation in the field of Islamic finance with research findings reported in the
 Journal of Business Research. Ahmad coordinated with Cardiff University colleagues in the
 Schools of Computer Science and Informatics and Social Sciences, the Islamic Banking and

                                                                                               Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Finance Centre UK, Tesco and Asda to secure funding from Innovate UK to support members of
 BAME community through a digital platform - Assadaquaat Community Finance (ACF). Additional
 funding led to the launch of an entrepreneurship programme for Muslim women, while Welsh
 Government has endorsed ACF as a key partner in addressing the inequalities experienced by
 BAME communities.
 4.2.3. Future organisations
 Since 2014, we have promoted research that addresses the challenges facing business
 organisations, involving the need to navigate technological change, demographic shifts, the
 climate emergency and transient populations, while working collaborative working to meet societal
 and economic demands. This involves challenging both theory and practice to inform the
 remodelling of business with action-oriented research programmes that develop solutions to
 complex problems. Colleagues have published a wide range of articles in this area while
 developing two impact cases focused on driving sector-led service improvement (Downe)
 and influencing future energy investments (Calvin Jones).
 Our research activity reflects a renewed emphasis on the efficacy of alternative business
 models. Developed with organisations such as Social Enterprise UK, this includes research on
 Fairtrade towns, published in the Journal of Business Ethics and the European Journal of
 Marketing (Peattie, Samuel). The challenges of digitalisation and technological change have been
 highlighted in articles published in the Journal of Business Research and Journal of Economic
 Behavior and Organisation, offering insights into use of social media and behaviour within the
 mobile gaming market (Dineva, Jang, Regianni). Our seedcorn projects also reflect this future-
 focus, such as a new study on materialism and wellbeing within increasingly fragmented
 consumer-oriented societies (Moldes Andres).
 We support smaller organisations to face their future challenges, including SMEs and social
 enterprises. Our commitment in this area is demonstrated by the Small Business Charter
 Accreditation awarded by the Chartered Association of Business Schools in recognition of
 the emphasis on entrepreneurship and focus on SMEs in our teaching, research, and engagement
 activities. Our popular future-focused monthly Breakfast Briefings have provided opportunities to
 develop and sustain collaborations with the small business community, while Directors of Business
 in the Community, the Institute of Directors, and the Wales Cooperative Society each contribute
 to our International Advisory Board.
 The School’s commitment to future-focused collaborative research is demonstrated through a
 major pro bono project, where our Deputy Dean worked with Wales’ Future Generations
 Commissioner to establish the actions that public organisations must take to be cognisant
 of future skills needs. This included recommending how compulsory schooling might change
 and develop so national curricula enable pupils to respond to tomorrow’s economic, community
 and citizenship challenges.
                  Future Organisations Case Study: Tackling Food Poverty
 Yingli Wang has expertise in e-logistics, technological innovation and inclusion in digital supply
 chains. Her research has a direct impact on her local community as she is highly active within the
 South Wales Food Poverty Alliance, for whom she produced a strategic report - Call to Action on
 Food Poverty in South Wales - and has personally supported the development of the first social
 enterprise to address food poverty in Cardiff, the Dusty Forge. She was awarded the Societal
 Impact Award in Cardiff University’s Impact and Innovation Awards for 2020 and her community
 operational research has been presented to the World Economic Forum in Geneva and published
 in the European Journal of Operational Research.
 4.2.4. Good governance
 Since 2014, our research on Good Governance has advanced considerably covering multiple
 themes including:
 a) The composition and effectiveness of corporate boards
 b) Transparency and accountability in company reporting
 c) The role of evidence in public policy making

                                                                                           Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 d) Public management and governance
 e) Contemporary ethics and values within public organisations
 Research outputs from scholars in accounting and finance and organisation studies have reflected
 these and other governance challenges, profiling issues of board independence and CEO
 background (Mira and Goergen), behavioural finance (Eshraghi) and the role of sense making
 within Corporate Boards (Pye). We launched a new interdisciplinary Cardiff Corporate
 Governance Research Group, prompted by successive governance scandals and behaviours
 and practices exhibited at the time of the worldwide financial crisis. The group held its first
 international conference in 2018.
 Colleagues have further extended the School’s reputation for research in public
 management and governance through a series of publications in journals, including the Journal
 of Public Administration Research and Theory, Public Administration and Public Administration
 Review, in addition to management journals, such as the Strategic Management Journal and the
 British Journal of Management. Cardiff editors (Andrews; Martin) have also shaped the strategic
 direction of journals in the field, such as Journal of Public Administration Research and
 Theory and Policy and Politics during the REF period.
 We have been ranked in the Shanghai World Rankings top ten for research on public policy and
 governance consistently since 2014, peaking at 4th in 2017. Our strong reputation in this field has
 extended since 2014 with the transformation of the Public Policy Institute for Wales into the WCPP
 (S3.1.3) and is demonstrated by a critical mass of research outputs, in addition to two impact
 case studies on improving public services through joint scrutiny (Ashworth and Downe)
 and enhancing the effectiveness of policy making (Downe).
 The School has actively promoted the concept and practice of Good Governance. WCPP has
 hosted a series of high-profile collaborative roundtables, while colleagues sit on a range of
 governance boards and committees (e.g. Farrell advises the HM Inspectorate of Constabulary and
 Fire and Rescue Services). Research on responsible finance has been reported in Forbes,
 Financial Times, Harvard Business Review and the Boston Globe. We reformed our own corporate
 governance system by establishing the Shadow Management Board to widen participation in
 decision-making.
                      Good Governance Case Study: Responsible Finance
 Arman Eshraghi has examined corporate behaviours that promote diversity and consumer
 protection. He elaborated understanding of corporate misconduct, the monitoring role of boards
 of directors and the optimal design of corporate boards to support diversity. His current research
 published in Corporate Governance and Accounting Organization and Society analyses the
 stewardship behaviour of institutional investors and explores the range of psychological dilemmas
 they experience in coping with risk and uncertainty. This research has significant implications for
 the fiduciary responsibility of institutional investors, as detailed in a recent article in the Financial
 Times. Arman has also been creating tangible societal impact by convening advice surgeries on
 financial literacy for those experiencing homelessness in Cardiff.
 4.2.5. Responsible innovation
 Since 2014, we have accentuated our focus on the drivers and outcomes of innovation processes,
 along with the social, financial and behavioural consequences of technical and technological
 change. Scholars from logistics (Kumar), marketing (De Luca) and organisation studies (Tim
 Edwards) have collaborated to produce research outputs in this area, while two impact case
 studies focus on innovative procurement in infrastructure projects (Gosling and Naim) and
 developing financially sustainable supply chains (Syntetos et al.).
 We have one of the largest Logistics and Operations Management research groups in the
 UK with a worldwide reputation for co-created knowledge on innovation in transport, logistics
 and supply chain operations. CAMSAC has promoted the co-creation of knowledge in
 manufacturing (S3.1.1), while ASTUTE (S3.1) has resulted in a £200m investment for West Wales
 and the Valleys, plus a further £15m to support manufacturing adaptation that delivers long term
 environmental and social sustainability.


                                                                                                  Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have deepened our reputation for research on the social impact of innovation
 coordinated through the School’s interdisciplinary Responsible Innovation Network (RIN) (S3) and
 our newly established Centre for Innovation Policy Research (CIPR) which will co-create
 knowledge by working with the Innovation Advisory Council for Wales on the future Welsh
 Innovation Strategy (Delbridge and Henderson). Recent studies include Rostami-Tabar’s
 applications of forecasting to scenarios of social good, which have coproduced impact with the
 International Red Cross and the Welsh Ambulance Service.
 Finally, the School has promoted the concept of Responsible Innovation within the University and
 wider Cardiff region. This can be seen through our collaborations with the Schools of Computer
 Science, Maths and Engineering on Blockchain and Artificial Intelligence, but also in our initiation
 of the new Social Science Park (SPARK). Our research has prompted the development of
 new £10m Challenge Fund involving Cardiff Capital Region and Y Lab which will create
 commercial opportunities by developing solutions to three societal challenges: accelerating
 decarbonisation; improving the health and wellbeing of the region’s citizens; and supporting,
 enhancing and transforming communities.
               Responsible Innovation Case Study: Evaluating Citizen Science
 Research conducted in the Brazilian Rainforest by Tim Edwards and colleagues from Computer
 Science examines the educational and emancipatory effects of citizen science in the Ribeiro
 Valley, Sao Paulo, Brazil. A School seedcorn grant prompted research that was subsequently
 supported through GCRF, Fundacaon Getulio Vargas and ESRC IAA funding. It investigates
 enquiry-led learning and explores how this can be designed around student collaboration to enable
 a supportive social infrastructure for curricular innovation focused on technical developments.
 Working with Brazilian academics (particularly ecologists) and local community activists, the
 research has shed new light on the opportunities and limitations of citizen science and technical
 innovation.
 4.2.6. Grand Challenges COVID-19 postscript
 The global pandemic required an urgent collaborative response from academics, industry and
 government and our Public Value approach ensured we were primed to play our part. Here we
 provide just several examples of the ways our researchers reacted to this unprecedented global
 crisis.
 Decent Work - COVID-19 has exposed pre-existing pay inequalities and, in response, Hann, Nash
 and Heery produced ‘live’ research reports to inform the Living Wage Foundation so they
 could design their high-profile campaign to enhance pay for key workers. Concurrently, on
 the Living Wage for Wales Leadership team, Heery and Ashworth have been liaising closely with
 Welsh Government Ministers and officials to address issues of low pay in areas, such as social
 care.
 Fair and Sustainable Economies - the economic effects of the pandemic have been felt acutely by
 the small business sector. Henley’s analysis of the impact on the self-employed illustrated that
 female and older business owners have been particularly badly affected. With Southampton
 colleagues, Henley has been awarded UKRI emergency COVID-19 research funding to
 conduct further investigations and is Co-Investigator at the ESRC £32m Productivity
 Institute. Munday is currently auditing the effectiveness of COVID-19-related business support
 for Welsh Government.
 Future Organisations - in response to the grave disparities between communities in COVID-19
 contraction and mortality rates, Ogbonna led a review for the First Minister of Wales to
 determine the influence of socio-economic factors on the impact of the virus on BAME
 communities. His report revealed discrimination and a lack of representation combined to
 produce societal and economic inequalities with tragic consequences. Ogbonna has since been
 appointed to lead the implementation of a new Race Equality Plan for Wales. Foster is leading an
 investigation for Welsh Government into COVID-19 impacts on disabled people, while Tim
 Edwards has been asked to examine effects on women entrepreneurs.
 Good Governance - WCPP responded rapidly to support decision-makers in Wales. This involved
 preparing briefing papers to support the work of Wales’ Counsel General, Sir Jeremy Miles and
                                                                                             Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 convening high-level policy roundtables with participants, such as the former Prime Minister
 Gordon Brown, Rebecca Heaton (UK Committee on Climate Change) and Paul Johnson (IFS).
 WCPP will lead a new £2m ESRC-funded International Public Policy Observatory located
 within sbarc | spark to aid policy makers leading the COVID recovery.
 Responsible Innovation - shortages of protective healthcare equipment during the COVID-19 crisis
 necessitated a rapid reaction from the manufacturing sector. Our logistics researchers contributed
 to the national healthcare effort when they re-directed Welsh-Government-funded equipment
 for a ‘Remaker Space’ for Cardiff Business School to Panalpina HQ in Milton Keynes to
 manufacture PPE for the NHS.
 4.3. Recognition of our contribution to social science research
 A strong research base is central to our ability to deliver economic, environmental, and social
 impact. Since 2014, Cardiff Business School faculty have continued to make notable contributions
 to their disciplines. These contributions are evidenced by significant research outputs and grant
 awards, but also through a series of prestigious honours and achievements.
 4.3.1. Awards
 Our leading status in social science is reflected in a series of prizes and awards that reflect:
 a) Substantial career contributions – including Hardy’s prestigious Joanne Martin Trailblazer
    Award from the Academy of Management, Eshraghi’s Development Bank of Japan Shimomura
    Fellowship and Kumar’s Distinguished Professor Award from the Industrial Engineering and
    Operations Management Society.
 b) Recognition of outstanding scholarship - including the Tamer Cavusgil Award (2019) for the
    article that has most advanced International Marketing Management (Robson), Beryl Radin
    Award for Best Article in Journal of Public Administration Research and Theory 2018
    (Andrews), the Roland Calori Prize for Best Paper in Organization Studies 2019 (Sarah Jenkins
    and Delbridge), the 2020 Sage Prize for Work, Employment and Society (Pandeli, Marinetto,
    Jean Jenkins), the most downloaded paper in the International Journal of Production
    Economics 2015 (Harris), Outstanding Article in the Non-Profit field 2018 (Lee), inclusion in 50
    Years of Journal of International Business Studies Anniversary Issue (Wang), and Cardiff
    University Research Innovation Awards 2016, 2019, 2020 (Found, Kumar, Naim and Syntetos).
 c) ECR achievements – including Scott’s Sidney J. Levy Award (2018), Yau’s award for the Best
    Paper in Industrial Marketing Management Journal (2018), Flynn’s Outstanding Paper Award
    for the Journal of Small Business and Enterprise Development (2018), and Best Case (2016),
    Best Dissertation (2020) Awards for Gomes and Musilek from the CMS Division of Academy
    of Management.
 d) Doctoral awards - Wirardanti was one of three doctoral students shortlisted for the MEL
    Palgrave Macmillan Prize for the Best PhD Thesis in Maritime Economics and Logistics (2019),
    while de Matos won a University of Pavia Best PhD Thesis Prize for International Political
    Economy, European Integration and Related Fields (2019). ESRC Postdoctoral Fellowships
    have also been awarded to Reynolds (2020) and Soehardjojo (2019).
 Colleagues have won numerous Best Overall Paper Awards at conferences, including Andrews
 at the International Research Symposium in Public Management (2018), Beynon from the
 International Conference of Global Innovation and Knowledge Academy (2016) and the Irish
 Academy of Management conference (2018); Henley at the 40th Annual Institute of Small Business
 and Entrepreneurship conference, Calvin Jones’ Moss Madden Medal from Regional Science
 Association (2014), and Reynolds, Koenig-Lewis and Doering at the Institute of Place
 Management Conference (2017). Best papers were won by numerous ECRs such as Mardon at
 the Consumer Culture Theory Conference (2016). Rostami-Tabar at the International Symposium
 of Engineering and Operations Management (2017) and Xue at the International Symposium on
 Global Manufacturing in China (2015).




                                                                                               Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.3.2. Editorial contributions
 Since 2014, colleagues have held new and prestigious Editor or Associate Editor positions in over
 20 peer-reviewed international journals, while a further 66 colleagues have contributed as
 members of journal editorial boards. Colleagues continue to contribute as editors or editorial
 board members to journals that include the Academy of Management Review, Academy of
 Management Learning and Education, Accounting and Business Research, Asian Journal of
 Shipping and Logistics, British Accounting Review, British Journal of Industrial Relations, British
 Journal of Management, Critical Perspectives on Accounting, European Journal of Finance,
 Human Relations, International Journal of Management Reviews, International Marketing Review,
 Journal of Business Research, Journal of International Business Studies, Journal of Heuristics,
 Journal of International Marketing, Journal of Management Mathematics, Journal of Management
 Studies, Journal of Product Innovation and Management, Journal of Public Administration,
 Organization Science, Organization Studies, Organization, Perspectives on Public Management
 and Governance, Policy and Politics, Research and Theory, Sustainability Science and Work,
 Employment and Society.
 Examples of individual contributions include Delbridge and Wilmott as Associate Editors with
 Academy of Management Review, Daunt as Associate Editor of the Journal of Services Marketing,
 Demir as Associate Editor for the Journal of Management Mathematics, Eshraghi as Senior Editor
 at Finance Research Letters and Gilmore as Series Editor for Dialogues in Critical Management
 Studies. Melanie Jones and Robson are Associate Editors at the British Journal of Industrial
 Relations and Journal of International Marketing, while Syntetos is Co-Editor in Chief of the Journal
 of Management Mathematics and Associate Editor of the Journal of Operational Research
 Society. ECR contributions include Social Media Editor at Management Learning (Cara Reed) and
 Editorial Assistant at International Review of Economics (Regianni).
 4.3.3. UKRI panels and learned societies
 Colleagues are expected to contribute to UKRI peer reviewing colleges and we are well
 represented on UKRI Research Grant Assessment Panels for the ESPRC (Naim) and ESRC
 (Downe, Henley, Melanie Jones, Slater). Delbridge and Henley are UKRI Future Leaders
 Fellowship panel members, whilst Delbridge is contributing to the ESRC COVID-19 assessment
 panel, ESRC task and finish group on Business Engagement and the REF2021 Business and
 Management Studies Sub-Panel. Colleagues also advise non-UK Research Councils in Australia,
 Brazil, Canada, China, Ireland, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, and Norway.
 We encourage active leadership within learned societies, such as the Academy of
 Management, Academy of Marketing Science, American Economic Association, American
 Marketing Association, American Society of Quality, Association of Business Historians, British
 Accounting and Finance Association, European Group of Organization Studies, European
 Operations Management Association, Financial Management Association, International
 Association of Maritime Economists, International Research Symposium for Public Management,
 Production and Operations Management Society, Regional Studies Association (RSA) and the
 Royal Economics Society.
 Henley is the Deputy President of ISBE, De Luca is the only non-US member of the Product
 Development and Management Association Board of Directors, Edgeley chairs the Welsh
 Technical Sub-Committee for the Institute of Taxation, Munday is the lead for the RSA in Wales,
 while Syntetos is the Director of the International Institute of Forecasters and elected secretary to
 the Committee of Professors in Operational Research. Walker was President of the International
 Purchasing and Supply Education and Research Association until 2017 and has played a leading
 role in its annual conference since 2014.
 Career contributions have been recognised through the award of distinguished fellowships
 such as to the Academy of Social Sciences (Hardy, Kitchener, McDermott, Morris, Reed), the
 Institute of Mathematics and its Applications (Syntetos), the Learned Society for Studies in
 Organising Healthcare (McDermott), the Learned Society for Wales (Henley, Kitchener, Morris
 and Reed), the National Institute of Economic and Social Research (Dixon), Institute of Labor
 Economics (IZA) (Melanie Jones), Royal Academy (Willmott), Royal Society for Arts,
 Manufacturers and Commerce (Collie), and Royal Society of Arts (Tim Edwards).

                                                                                              Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.3.4. Professional and partnership associations
 We encourage widespread engagement with professional associations, including with the
 Chartered Institutes of Logistics and Transport, Management, Marketing, Personnel Development
 and Purchasing and Supply, the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants and the Institute
 of Chartered Accountants for England and Wales. Public Value has prompted engagement with
 new associations, such as the Centre for Climate Change and Social Transformations,
 Global Labor Association, International Societies for Business and Society and the Circular
 Economy, the Group for Organizations and the Natural Environment, Sustainable Transitions
 Research Network, and the UN World Tourism Association.
 4.3.5. Advisory roles
 We continue to provide active service to public bodies. De Widt is Independent Adviser to the
 Welsh Government Local Government Finance Distribution Group, Farrell chairs Academi Wales,
 Foster is a mentor to Disability Rights Wales, Melanie Jones is the Economic Intelligence Partner
 to ONS, Martin sits on the ESRC What Works Council and is Chair of the Building a Resilient
 Britain: Working Group on Supporting Services, while Morgan chairs International Advisory Boards
 at Copenhagen and Split Business Schools. Paczos is a member of the COVID-19 Advisory Group
 to the President of the Polish Academy of Sciences. Potter is the Chair of the Chartered Institute
 of Logistics and Transport Wales, and he, Beresford, Wells and Zhou have informed UK and
 Welsh Parliamentary inquiries on the impact of Brexit on UK ports, the automotive industry and
 international trade.
 4.3.6. Contributions to Business and Management community
 The School has consistently demonstrated a strong commitment to strategic leadership and
 capacity building within Business and Management. Since 2014, we continue to actively
 engage within the British Academy of Management (BAM), Chartered Association of Business
 Schools (CABS), EFMD, UNPRME, and Society for the Advancement of Management Studies
 (SAMS). For example, Ashworth is the inaugural Chair of CABS’ New Deans Network, Kitchener
 has been appointed as Co-Chair of the CABS Business Schools and the Public Good Taskforce
 while Thomas was a member of SAMS Council.
             Case Study: Leadership Contribution to Business and Management
 In 2020 Rick Delbridge was awarded the British Academy of Management Medal for Leadership
 in recognition of his outstanding research and capacity-building support for Business and
 Management research. His contribution is illustrated through leading roles on the BAM/CABS
 Development Programme for Directors of Research and SAMS Council. The medal reflects his
 advocacy for Business and Management within the social sciences as a Fellow of the Academy
 of Social Science, a member of the Board of the Campaign for Social Sciences, and panel member
 of several UKRI awarding bodies including the Strength in Places Assessment Panel chaired by
 Dame Kate Barker and Sir Peter Bazalgette. Rick was a member of the REF2021 Interdisciplinary
 Advisory Panel for assessing interdisciplinary research and after completing his term as Associate
 Editor of Academy of Management Review in 2014, he established JMSSays in the Journal of
 Management Studies with Roy Suddaby (2015).
 4.4. Additional sources and mechanisms of support
 Grand Challenges cannot be addressed in isolation and through a single disciplinary lens. Since
 2014, the School has amended its existing structures to facilitate collaborative research, the
 coproduction of impact and co-creation of knowledge.
 4.4.1. Strategic engagement opportunities
 a) International Advisory Board - established in 2006 to support and guide our strategy and
 facilitate research and engagement opportunities, we extended its membership in 2018. Recent
 recruits include a new Chair, Adele Blakeborough OBE, Chair of the Social Business Trust;
 Cerys Furlong, entrepreneur and Chief Executive of Chwarae Teg, an NGO that promotes gender
 equality; Erin Gill from Arup, a global consultancy firm that is employee-owned and oriented
 towards social value; and Derek Walker, the Chief Executive of the Wales Cooperative Centre
 and leading expert on the foundational economy.

                                                                                           Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 b) Public Value Entrepreneurs in Residence (PVEiRs) - we have recruited two cohorts of PVEiRs
 since 2014 who have been actively engaged in facilitating research, including Amanda and Eifion
 Griffiths from Melin Tregwynt who have supported student action research projects.
 4.4.2. Faculty networking opportunities
 a) Breakfast briefings - we facilitate collaboration and engagement through these monthly
 sessions oriented around Grand Challenges that run with dual contributions from academia and
 practice. Our briefings regular draw in advance of 100 delegates and help to profile the School’s
 research. Recent topics included briefings on homelessness, sports governance, gender pay
 gaps, water sustainability, and COVID-19 sessions on job quality and working from home.
 b) Stakeholder roundtables - we actively facilitate problem-oriented roundtables that involve
 faculty and stakeholders. Discussions have been convened on public procurement, Brexit, the
 funding of health and social care, and waste to wealth (with Business in the Community).
 c) High profile conferences - since 2014, we have hosted around 100 events per year that range
 from focused and smaller-scale workshops to major international conferences. These have
 covered topics such as global commodity chains, interdisciplinary perspectives on taxation and
 forecasting for social good. We will be hosting conferences for the Logistics Research Network
 and ISBE in 2021.
 4.5. Closing statement
 Cardiff Business School is a strong and sustainable research community that enables colleagues
 to thrive and make distinctive and important research contributions to their discipline and beyond.
 Building on our success, we have developed a holistic strategy based upon a Public Value ethos
 that prioritises real-world research of the highest international standard, underpinned by
 intellectual curiosity, and focused on our five Grand Challenges - Decent Work, Fair and
 Sustainable Economies, Future Organisations, Good Governance and Responsible
 Innovation. Our strategy relies on a vibrant and interdisciplinary research environment that
 enables the integration of international academic excellence with tangible and widespread impact.
 The School will continue to maintain and extend its dynamic, inclusive and collegial research
 culture, so that researchers can influence their disciplines and the wider world. During the
 forthcoming period, we will:
 • Progress social science research of international standing in each of our Grand
   Challenge areas through a targeted programme of internal funding, our PVEFs, and via the
   significant opportunities from our prime membership of the University’s Social Science Park
   (SPARK). We will support the rapid co-creation of knowledge and evidence required to support
   the social and economic COVID-19 recovery. We have already diverted resource to enable
   colleagues to make the vital policy and practice contributions that are required and have turned
   our attention to the implications of pandemic for our five Grand Challenges.
 • ‘Walk the talk’, by practising research-informed social, environmental and economic
   responsibility to reduce our carbon emissions, improve fairness within our supply chain, and
   enhance awareness of ethical issues, sharing our learning with the Business and Management
   community. We will address the climate emergency and, informed by our research, re-double
   our intellectual efforts to contribute and develop sustainable approaches and solutions through
   our scholarly contributions. We remain determined to practise a greater level of social,
   environmental and economic responsibility within our own Business School operations and
   make further progress to an inclusive, low carbon and high wellbeing research
   environment.
 These aspirations will not be straightforward to achieve but with a clear Public Value purpose and
 strategic direction, expert social scientists collaborating to address Grand Challenges, high levels
 of internal continuity and collegiality, and partners ready and willing to co-create knowledge, we
 will be well placed to build on success, meet these challenges and make significant progress
 toward a better future.




                                                                                             Page 29
