Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Manchester

 Unit of Assessment: 7 (Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1 a) Research structure and strategy:

 Based in the Department (formerly School) of Earth and Environmental Sciences (DEES),
 University of Manchester (UoM) the Unit research combines the natural sciences to create novel
 discovery-led understanding of Earth systems, and deliver solutions to some of society’s most
 pressing challenges, such as climate change, biodiversity loss, and resource sustainability. The
 world-leading excellence of our 73 researchers (70.78 FTE) is evidenced by 1,889 papers in the
 REF period (238 in Nature Index Journals) with an average 17.9 citations (18% in top 10% in the
 field), 3 Clarivate Highly Cited Researchers, 259 graduating doctoral students, GBP70,600,000 of
 competitively acquired research funding, and global collaborations spanning 113 countries. We've
 led major advances since REF2014 across atmospheric processes, sub-surface energy
 geoscience, planetary science, ecology and evolution, mineralogical and biogeochemical controls
 in the Earth’s critical zone, and the biochemistry of extinct species.

 For example, we have:
     demonstrated that the silicate Earth is not more depleted in halogens than in other
        elements of similar volatility by determination of their solar system abundances in
        chondritic samples;
     provided a research platform for Sellafield Ltd. to enhance treatment of radioactive
        effluents, reducing discharges of alpha-emitting radionuclides to the environment saving
        GBP25,000,000 in treatment costs;
     made novel measurements of black carbon to explain quantitatively how absorption is
        enhanced by addition of condensing species, and assessed how this varies globally;
     explained the long-standing puzzle of how low viscosity basaltic magma fragmentation
        produces highly hazardous explosive eruptions compared with normal basaltic activity;
     delivered improved global hydrocarbon exploration and development success for our major
        industrial partners in petroleum geoscience and carbon capture and storage, and
        demonstrated how deep-water sedimentary processes govern global microplastics
        distribution;
     revealed that climate extremes have significant and persistent impacts on soil bacterial
        networks, which are less stable than previously thought, with implications for ecosystem
        functioning and responses to future disturbances, and
     revealed the nature and extent of biotic disruptions taking place following the Chicxulub
        impact, when the meteorite that caused the most recent mass extinction hit Earth.

 Since REF2014, research within the Unit has evolved and grown, increasing staff numbers by
 54%, PhD students by 63% and UKRI funding by 62%. The Unit has developed strategically,
 consolidating areas of strength with key appointments and proactive succession planning. Our
 discipline base was broadened through incorporation of the Ecology and Evolution research group
 in 2016, with 14 academic staff, formerly submitted within UoA5, strengthening synergies between
 biological sciences and our existing strengths. This has enabled novel multidisciplinary
 collaborations across the Unit, resulting to-date in 39 co-authored outputs. Interdisciplinarity was
 further enhanced in 2019 in a reorganisation that saw DEES join a new School of Natural Sciences
 (SNS), with Chemistry, Physics and Astronomy, Maths and Materials Science, facilitating
 multidisciplinarity across the natural sciences, whilst maintaining collaborations with the School of
 Engineering (SE) which sits alongside SNS within the Faculty of Science and Engineering (FSE).

 Review of REF2014 Objectives

 At REF2014, the Unit’s research had consolidated into 3 multidisciplinary research groups:
 Planetary and Earth Science, Molecular Environmental Science, and Atmospheric Science which

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 we envisaged, alongside key new appointments, would enable expansion of RCUK, overseas and
 industry research funding. We anticipated, and have delivered, growth in nuclear waste disposal,
 quantification of recent climate change, genomics for geomicrobiology applications, analysis of
 samples from extra-terrestrial exploratory missions, stratigraphic prediction, water pollution, large-
 scale atmospheric modelling, aerosol-cloud-dynamics-radiation interactions and remote sensing.
 Since 2016, our broadened discipline base enabled greater ambition, delivering research in 7
 restructured multidisciplinary groups: Isotope Geochemistry and Planetary Science; Molecular
 Environmental Science; Atmospheric Science; Geosciences; Basins, Stratigraphy & Sedimentary
 Processes; Ecology & Evolution; and Ancient Life, whilst introducing cross-cutting challenge
 themes in Earth & Planetary Science, Environment & Society, and Life on Earth. This facilitates
 the strategic alignment with UKRI and industry, and with societal needs, that were embedded in
 our REF2014 plans. This organisational structure (Figure 1) has enabled us to surpass our
 objectives.

 Our themes align with societal grand challenges, reflected in our ability to attract considerable
 Official Development Assistance (ODA) funding (>GBP5,000,000). We have realised our
 envisaged growth in UKRI funding: awards increased from GBP5,800,000 in 2014 to
 GBP9,400,000 in 2020 with income/FTE increasing from GBP188,000/FTE 2013-14 to
 GBP232,000/FTE in 2018-19. In 2019-20 UoM received the largest share of NERC awards (14)
 and income (GBP8,600,000) of all UK institutions. At REF 2014, we had used the “clear alignment
 of our research activities with societal and commercial challenges”, partnering with teams in China,
 Brazil, USA and India to establish international research leadership. Consequent substantial
 expansion of our ODA portfolio during REF2021 with continued work in China and India, and
 expanded partnerships in Myanmar, Bangladesh, Vietnam and Indonesia has consolidated this
 leadership.

 We have significantly diversified and grown beyond our 2014 plans, through reorganisation,
 replacement of retired staff and appointment of Early Career Researchers, targeting growth areas
 and supported by both internal and externally funded Fellowships. Strategic inclusion of the
 Ecology and Evolution group has added a substantial BBSRC portfolio, complementing notable
 NERC success and sustained STFC support for planetary science. Rapid growth and
 strengthening of volcanology and petrology was enabled by key hires and Fellowship success.




   Figure 1: Relationship between our research groups and themes, circles indicating research
                            group activity alignment with the themes.


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Structure and Achievements

 We are a world-leading centre for research into the physical, chemical and biological processes
 underpinning Earth and Environmental sciences, through measurement, theory, and application
 using combinations of cutting-edge laboratory, field and modelling techniques.

 Challenge Themes

 Our three challenge themes coalesce staff from multiple research groups (Figure 1) to influence
 and respond to major scientific and societal challenges. Each has a champion, who coordinates
 direction, and flexible membership, providing agility to respond to opportunity and evolving
 interests (examples in Section 3) and a platform to frame research in emerging areas.

 Earth & Planetary Science: aims to understand the origins and evolution of the Earth, its
 atmosphere, oceans and life, and other planets and minor bodies in the Solar System. We use
 multidisciplinary approaches to study processes that formed the Earth and other planets,
 investigating fundamental questions, providing a framework to address future challenges for
 humanity.

 Environment & Society: addresses challenges that societies are facing now and in the future.
 Collaborating with academic, industry, government and NGO partners, we investigate processes
 underpinning sustainable use of the Earth’s resources, and examine the resilience of our planet
 and society in the face of rapid change. This research leads to both academic advances and
 substantial positive impact on people's lives.

 Life on Earth: seeks to quantitatively understand the origins and evolution of life on Earth and its
 interactions in contemporary ecosystems. We study all kingdoms of life, examining how they
 evolved, and how they survive and interact with each other and their environment. We work at
 molecular to planetary scales, across diverse habitats, and tackle both applied and fundamental
 questions.

 Research Groups

 Our seven multidisciplinary research groups underpin our challenge themes (Figure 1), each
 comprising a critical-mass of REF-returned staff with complementary expertise and shared
 interests, infrastructure and tools.

 Isotope Geochemistry & Planetary Science (IGP, 8 staff) studies the earth and solar system
 through mission involvement, sample analysis and remote sensing using the latest techniques of
 isotopic and elemental analysis. Their interests range from the prehistory of the Solar System
 through the formation and evolution of minor bodies and terrestrial planets.

 Molecular Environmental Science (MES, 12 staff) has global research programmes on arsenic
 groundwater poisoning, improved water quality in distribution networks, nuclear environmental
 science and conversion of waste metals into high-value nanomaterials for use in industrial
 catalysis, healthcare and remediation.

 Atmospheric Science (AS, 12 staff) conducts field, remote-sensing, laboratory and modelling
 studies of atmospheric processes including cloud microphysics, air pollution, bioaerosols, dynamic
 meteorology, surface-atmosphere interactions, greenhouse gas fluxes and ultra-violet radiation.
 The group hosts 9 NERC National Centre for Atmospheric Science (NCAS) staff, enhancing world-
 leading capabilities in remote sensing, atmospheric aerosol and cloud physics.

 Geosciences (GEO, 12 staff) volcanology, petrology and rock mechanics research includes work
 on high-pressure high-temperature kinetics of crystal growth, satellite remote sensing of volcanic
 degassing, impact of dust on aircraft engines, investigation of volatiles and mantle dynamics,
 grain-boundary sliding and the viscosity of the mantle and shale properties.

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Basins, stratigraphy & sedimentary processes (BSSP, 8 staff) has research foci including
 stratigraphic prediction of siliciclastic and carbonate depositional and metasomatic processes,
 palaeoenvironmental reconstruction and multi-scale imaging of pore networks in sedimentary
 rocks. We apply seismic geophysics to inform understanding of subsurface fluid flow, essential for
 carbon sequestration studies.

 Ecology & Evolution (EE, 12 staff) explores responses of species and ecosystems to
 environmental change that is pivotal for biodiversity conservation and sustainable ecosystem
 management. The group works on novel mechanisms underpinning plant stress tolerance,
 adaptation of microalgae to environmental pollution, environmental impacts on wildlife
 populations, microbial evolution, and relationships between soil biodiversity and ecosystem
 functioning under global change.

 Ancient Life (AL, 7 staff) examines soft-tissue preservation and the survival of biomolecules,
 invertebrate morphology and evolution, evolutionary linkages of extinct vertebrates, evolution of
 the human hand and new methodology for identifying bone tissues, including novel spectroscopic
 imaging and extracting proteomics data from difficult materials.

 Overarching objectives for the next 5 years are to:

    develop, nurture, support and lead cross-university multidisciplinary collaborations to
     produce solutions to global challenges (see Sections 1b and 1c)
    provide development, support and inspiration for our world-class researchers to enable our
     staff to maximise their capability, ambition, drive and vision to transform our understanding of
     the solar system and the lithosphere, biosphere and atmosphere of the Earth (see Section 2)
    contribute to the continuous improvement and optimal use of our departmental, university,
     national and international research infrastructure (see Section 3).
 As general measures of success we expect our research income per FTE and proportion of
 publications in the top 1% and top 10% in their field, to be comparable with those of top-five UK
 Units.

 We are well-placed to respond to societal challenges in the forthcoming Covid recovery. We align
 our challenge-theme activities with the UK Government Research and Development Roadmap,
 2020 and the Delivery Plans of UKRI and its Councils (our major funders), and will continue to
 take advantage of University Institutes and structures (see Section 1b below and the institutional
 statement (IS) 2.iii). UoM recently launched its Sustainable Futures Platform to stimulate cross-
 University collaborations, at the core of our Unit activities. Our research has been strengthened
 by the Feb 2021 appointment of Chris Jackson as Chair of Sustainable Geoscience, and we
 envisage expansion of our nuclear waste remediation work, research on sustainable soils and
 biodiversity, and in environmental pollution during the low carbon transition, with emphasis on
 health impacts. Digital environmental research, including into Future Cities, will expand, aligned
 with the newly awarded NERC Digital Solutions programme and the UoM Digital Futures platform.

 1 b) Interdisciplinary research:

 Interdisciplinary research lies at the heart of the Unit. We have made use of our new thematic
 structure, staff growth, the Faculty restructure and pan-University research institutes to transform
 how we manage, nurture and promote our multidisciplinary research portfolio.

 The creation of SNS and SE has enhanced interactions and enabled greater coherence of
 strategic multidisciplinary research across FSE. Our staff have played a leading role in driving this
 agenda (Taylor is SNS Research Director; Nixon is Faculty Business Engagement Clean Futures
 Lead) and examples of success include: building drone capacity for environmental monitoring with
 the Department of Mechanical, Aerospace and Civil Engineering (MACE); leading the first UK
 meteorite recovery expeditions to Antarctica (2019-20) with the Department of Maths; leading the


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 first X-ray absorption spectroscopy analysis of plutonium at the UK’s Diamond Light Source with
 the Department of Chemistry; and conducting 4-D X-ray microtomography experiments under
 magmatic conditions with Department of Materials.

 Across the University, a network of institutes has been developed to drive interdisciplinary
 research (IS 2.2), the most important for the Unit being:

 1. Manchester Environmental Research Institute (MERI) brings together researchers from
 across UoM to provide evidence and solutions for the challenges of our changing environment
 (led from the Unit);
 2. Dalton Nuclear Institute (DNI) addresses major challenges associated with nuclear power,
 such as plant life extension, new nuclear build, decommissioning and radioactive waste
 management (led from the Unit);
 3. Manchester Institute of Biotechnology (MIB) develops new biotechnologies with applications
 in human health, the energy economy, food security and the environment;
 4. Institute for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence (IDSAI) acts as an access point to, and
 enables interactions between researchers and problem holders in, data science and artificial
 intelligence, part of the University’s Digital Futures platform (IS 2.iv);
 5. Manchester Urban Institute (MUI) enables urban research and stakeholder engagement,
 training and impact-generation with the next generation of urban activists, decision-makers and
 researchers.

 UoM also hosts national institutes that facilitate our research including the Henry Royce Institute
 (Royce) (accelerating commercial exploitation and impact of innovations in materials) and Tyndall
 Centre for Climate Change (researching energy systems, carbon budgets and pathways, the
 water energy food nexus, communities, and circular economy).

 Unit staff have leadership roles within our institutes (Coe MERI Director; Johnson MERI theme
 leader; Livens DNI Director; Heath, Morris, DNI co-directors; Topping IDSAI Management
 Board; Buckley MIB Group leader). Examples of Unit-led research benefiting from the leadership
 and capacity provided by the institutes include (see also Section 3): MERI led the GBP2,300,000
 UKRI Clean Air Wave 1 Strategic Programme Fund (SPF) project OSCA, a 7-institute consortium,
 that delivered air quality data and analyses for the Programme and facilitated collaborative high-
 profile investigation of processes governing geographical distribution of environmental pollutants
 such as microplastics. DNI and Royce fostered major NERC, EPSRC, EU and industry-funded
 research programmes led from the Unit, delivering high-impact publications on the fate of
 radionuclides in natural and engineered environments, and multi-million pound cost-savings for
 decommissioning and remediation to the UK nuclear sector. IDSAI jointly held the UK’s first
 summit on Environmental Intelligence with the Alan Turing Data Science Institute, enabling
 integration of AS activities in a Turing-Health-programme-funded project (GBP157,000) and a
 Met-Office-funded collaboration on developing a new agent-based model of exposure
 (GBP188,000).

 Beyond the University, our national and international collaborations are driven through a
 combination of shared common interest and alignment with research-funder priorities and societal
 needs, ensuring the relevance and sustainability of our research base. We actively encourage
 researchers to explore all appropriate cross-sector mechanisms to enable this including: (1)
 engagement with and development of interdisciplinary research clusters across Universities (e.g.
 N8 AgriFood programme); (2) participation in funding body solutions-driven initiatives (e.g. UKRI
 Clean Air SPF wave 1 and 2 programme consultations); and (3) redirection of expertise and
 resource to urgent societal needs (e.g. Covid-related engagement with health professionals);
 collaborations illustrating each mechanism detailed in Section 4.




                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1 c) Enabling impact:

 Our Unit’s research is interwoven with societal and environmental challenges, providing
 opportunities for substantial impact. Researchers are encouraged to engage directly with industry,
 government and other beneficiaries, taking advantage of University, Faculty, School and
 Departmental structures and mechanisms to realise impacts of their research. The Faculty
 Business Engagement team promotes events enabling development of stakeholder connections
 and the Unit organises outreach activities within the research Institute interdisciplinary networks
 (see Sections 1b and 3). Our Faculty Impact Officers provide signposting to extensive networks
 and activities across Faculty and Unit impact activities are steered and encouraged by School and
 Department Impact Champions. Section 2 describes how staff impact activities are enabled and
 incentivised.

 We have actively developed collaborations with stakeholders and sought impact funding, winning
 11 EPSRC, 9 NERC, 2 BBSRC Impact Accelerator Awards (IAA), and attracting 5 Impact
 Fellowships funded through the EPSRC IAA and Dean’s awards to develop impact in the REF
 period. This has enabled impact via: (1) embedding our researchers within stakeholder
 organisations, leading to impact cases in nuclear industry (Morris) and jet engine management
 (Williams); (2) co-design of research with stakeholders leading to impact cases in vitamin D health
 policy (Webb); and (3) research leading to impact cases with the petroleum industry (Redfern)
 and arsenic pollution mitigation (Polya).

 BBSRC IAA awards were coordinated via UoM’s allocation of Global Challenge Research Fund
 (GCRF) QR as part of the UK’s official development assistance (ODA), supporting development
 of impact in areas such as groundwater remediation in SE Asia (Richards, Polya, Lloyd, van
 Dongen) and sustainable solutions to grassland degradation in China (Bardgett). Beyond GCRF,
 we have partnered with ODA collaborators worldwide (e.g. Bangladesh, China, India, Indonesia,
 Iraq, Kenya, Myanmar, Vietnam, Papua New Guinea, see Section 4). ODA-compliant local
 stakeholder engagement ensured direct benefit to host countries.

 Direct engagement of our staff with partners and stakeholders implementing policy has ensured
 sustained responsiveness and vitality of our impact. Examples include leadership of the High-
 Level Skills Sub-Group of the Cross-sector Nuclear Skills Strategy Group (Heath); acting as
 Deputy Chair of the DECC/BEIS Committee on Radioactive Waste Management and Chair of the
 Defra CBRN recovery Scientific Advisory Group (Livens); and roles on the Foreign Office
 Scientific Advisory Committee for volcanic risk (Burton) and as a Trustee of the Mersey River
 Trust (Boult). Engagement with key beneficiaries including those leading to our impact case
 studies is detailed in Section 4b.

 1 d) Open research environment:

 Open Research and Open Access (OA) publishing are institutional commitments (IS 2.v), and
 >99% of our Unit output submission is OA compliant. Library staff streamline our OA procedures
 through a web-based system, pay APC fees (GBP714,470 in REF period for 376 OA papers), and
 manage embargoes with minimal academic effort. The UoM OpenAccess+ scheme uses a Media
 Relations team to produce press releases and professionally edit media articles. Our OA culture
 extends to PhD and MSc theses, which are OA with a 1-year maximum embargo.

 The UoM New Academics Programme (NAP, Section 2) provides training in OA and the transition
 to an open research environment. This principle is further embedded in induction workshops
 delivered by the Unit Head of Research. All submitted grant proposals must have a data
 management plan ensuring secure storage space for datasets. Many researchers generate and
 use large environmental datasets and frequently use OA National and EU data archival services.
 The NERC Digital solutions platform (co-led by Topping) is working with the Sustainable Software
 Institute (SSI) to bridge stakeholder engagement with private and public bodies and the NERC
 data centres to ensure open data-compliant curation.


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1 e) Research integrity:

 We follow the UoM Code of Good Research Conduct (IS 2.v), aligning with the UUK Concordat to
 Support Research Integrity. Robust organisational structures promote a culture of integrity. A
 mandatory Research Integrity training course is repeated by all academics and PGRs every 3
 years and 95% of our researchers are currently compliant. Unit-focussed NAP (Section 2)
 induction and the “Ethics in Research” course reinforce research integrity. Unit-specific good
 practice is achieved by sharing outputs prior to publication and internal pre-submission review of
 funding proposals. Conduct is reinforced through a quarterly University-wide Ethics and Integrity
 e-Newsletter and a regular one-day course on “Introduction to Data Ethics”, coordinated by IDSAI.

 Unit researchers influence the codes of conduct of, and upholding of, professional standards within
 learned societies via committee membership, leadership, and membership (Section 4).

 Research Ethics Committees (REC) across the Institution report to the University REC (UREC).
 Departmental Leads (Director of Research and Head of Department) act as gateway to
 procedures, with five levels of approval, from departmental (low-risk PGR projects), to UREC (high
 risk staff/PGR projects), to national regulations, facilitated by an online Ethical Review Manager
 platform.

 Export control, data compliance, radiation protection licensing, animal and plant licences and other
 legal obligations applicable to research are centrally managed and cascaded as necessary
 through research support and the DEES Health and Safety Committee with compliance officers in
 each area. Appropriate training is provided and where necessary, attendance is monitored to
 assure compliance.

 The Head of Research and Head of Department act as Academic Malpractice Officers,
 responding, as required, to reports of malpractice in the Unit, conducting initial investigations and
 inputting to Faculty and University research malpractice processes.


 2. People

 2 a) Staffing and recruitment policy

 The Unit currently has 73 researchers, including 11 tenure-track fellows. In addition, we have 27
 technical staff, 20 professional support staff (9 operational, 4 research, 7 T&L), 49 post-doctoral
 research associates / non-tenure track fellows and 186 PhD students. Faculty administrative
 teams support research activities through financial administration, training and organisation of
 review committees.

 DEES has witnessed significant growth in academic staff from 48 in 2014 to 74 in 2020 (Figure
 2), driven by our REF 2014 research strategy, integration of EE and university tenure-track
 fellowship opportunities. 95% of category A staff have permanent contracts and the gender
 balance in the Unit is 30% female, 70% male.




                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




   Figure 2: DEES Staff profile: Left, Academic staff numbers 2020 cf. 2014. E&E = 2015 staff
   intake of Ecology & Evolution Research Group; TTF = Tenure Track fellows; TF = Teaching
                       Focussed academics; Right, Full staff profile 2020.

 We appointed high profile researchers (e.g. Burton, Johnson, Di Toro) to enhance leadership in
 areas we wished to grow a larger critical mass (e.g. volcanic geoscience, plant-soil ecology),
 successfully attracting increased PGR and ECR researchers in these areas. In addition, our
 nuclear environmental science sub-theme area has been strengthened by welcoming Heath and
 Livens.

 We have strengthened our academic pipeline by recruiting nine tenure-track research fellows
 through Faculty and University schemes (Dame Kathleen Ollerenshaw (DKOF) and Presidential
 Fellowships) and UKRI Future Leadership Fellowships (FLF), many of whom have already
 attracted significant external funding. These include Presidential Fellows McCormick-Kilbride
 (gas geochemistry), Neave (NERC Fellowship, magmatism) and Jones (Royal Society
 Fellowship, vertebrate evolution); DKOFs Tartese (isotope geochemistry, STFC fellowship), Legg
 (arthropod palaeontology), Richards (soil/water pollution) and Nixon (environmental
 biotechnology, NERC Industrial Innovation Fellowship, BBSRC fellowship); UKRI FLFs Cox
 (fungal diversity), Clay (volatile origins). Farrell was awarded a Leverhulme ECF (high-
 temperature rock dynamics). These are in addition to staff with Royal Society fellowships: Buckley
 (ancient Biomolecules), Shultz (mammal ecology) and Joy (meteorites).

 The Unit replaced retiring staff and made strategic hires, strengthening multiple areas. AS
 appointed four new staff: Garcia-Carreras (atmospheric modelling Lecturer) and Topping (digital
 environment Reader) transferred from NCAS, while Allan (aerosol science Reader) and Crosier
 (cloud microphysics Reader) have each taken 50% NCAS and 50% Department roles.
 Semchenko (soil ecology Lecturer) was appointed to support EE. BSSP was enhanced with the
 appointment of Kane (Reader) from petroleum industry. GEO appointed Hartley (igneous
 petrology, promoted to Senior Lecturer 2019) and Polacci (volcanology Senior Lecturer). Jones
 (meteorites) and Joy (lunar/meteroites) were appointed as Readers in IGP in 2015.

 An annual planning cycle allows each research group and degree programme to produce a three-
 year plan, highlighting where strategic hires would reach departmental goals. Revisions to
 research group and degree programme structures are considered before hiring priorities are
 proposed to the School of Natural Sciences and considered against the School and Faculty
 strategy and financial position. Additionally, opportunistic new appointments can be proposed,
 allowing for agility in achieving Unit, School and Faculty goals.

 2 b) Staff development strategy:

 In 2020 we re-structured departmental management to improve leadership, role-rotation and staff
 support. Research Group Lead and line management roles were separated, and all leadership

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 positions are now openly advertised and held for a defined period. This immediately increased the
 diversity of the leadership team. Each member of staff has a line manager who conducts regular
 informal meetings to discuss performance, probation/promotion targets and well-being. A formal
 annual performance and development review defines annual targets and develops training and
 development plans. Each line manager has ≤10 reports, permitting personalised support. Staff are
 mentored by a senior academic and belong to a research group (Section 1), providing community
 and inspiration throughout their careers.

 Induction and probation

 New academic staff (including TTF) are assigned to an appropriate research group and
 (decoupled) line manager, and follow an induction introducing the Departmental/University
 structures and processes. Three-year probation targets are defined with their line manager,
 following School-wide policies on research income (GBP300,000 in three years for ECR) and
 publications (1-2 senior-authored publications per year). A mentor is selected to guide probation
 and career development. A senior mentor oversees probationers’ development, coordinating the
 Faculty-run New Academics Programme (NAP), which comprises 300 hours of training and
 development focussed on research, innovation, impact, and postgraduate research supervision.
 New staff have a reduced teaching load, with duties increasing through probation as they pass
 through teaching elements of NAP. TTFs are awarded a Department-funded PhD studentship at
 the start of their fellowship, ensuring PhD supervisory experience.

 Formal annual review by the Departmental Promotion Committee assesses progress towards
 probation goals and highlights potential shortfalls, allowing extra support to be provided. TTFs are
 line-managed by the Deputy HoD which allows cohort development and social bonding of fellows
 who are distributed across the research groups.

 Staff training and well-being

 Staff development is vital to the success of both individual staff and the entire Department. The
 extensive University staff development portfolio covers both essential training and optional
 development opportunities to ensure that all staff benefit from the University’s strong ethos of
 social responsibility to its staff and the wider community. Examples include safety training, ethical
 development (e.g. unconscious bias), and personal development (e.g. leadership skills).

 We have a continuum of training and development opportunities, beginning with PhD students
 (see Section 2c) and continuing through ECRs (PDRAs, fellows and junior academics) to senior
 staff. We fully support the ethos of the Researcher Development Concordat and recognise the
 need to provide the best chance of securing employment both within, and outside, academia.
 PDRAs and ECRs are well-served by specific programmes for research staff including Teaching
 for Researchers, Research into Management and Impact Training for Researchers. PDRAs and
 fellows welcome the opportunity to contribute to teaching (up to 0.1 FTE) and we provide bespoke
 teacher-training, while they gain experience of supervision and project management through co-
 supervision of PGR, PGT and UG student projects. Higher Education Academy fellowship
 accreditation can be gained through the University Leadership in Education Awards Programme
 (LEAP). Senior staff aspiring to major leadership roles have followed the university Headstart
 programme (6 current staff). and more recently the externally run Inspiring Leaders Programme
 (9 completed, 5 in progress).
 All academics and probationers are given development opportunities and are encouraged to
 consider leadership roles, as appropriate to their development needs. This policy has enabled
 relatively junior staff to step-up to management tasks and gain experience, supported by more
 experienced leadership team members. The Unit offers mentors to PDRAs, fellows, junior staff,
 and the University offers external mentoring and mentor coordination opportunities.

 Staff well-being is actively supported, with regular social activities organised by research groups
 and department. The University invests GBP227,000 p.a. in comprehensive wellbeing services

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 offered to all staff and students. Our line management processes, and recently revised workload
 model, ensure fair distribution of responsibilities and help staff manage life-work balance. All
 students and staff have full access to support from the University counselling and mental health
 service.

 Promotions

 An annual promotions round is open to all staff. Clear progression criteria are circulated by Faculty
 who provide workshops on preparing promotion cases. Line managers discuss individual cases
 with each of their staff, encouraging development of a promotion case where likely to succeed.
 Line managers are trained in equality, diversity, inclusion and access (EDIA) and ensure that
 promotions are encouraged equally and meritoriously regardless of protected characteristics.
 Applications are reviewed by the departmental promotions committee and feedback is provided,
 allowing staff to revise and strengthen their case before final review. Faculty promotions
 committee review and make a final decision. Our promotion application and success rates (80%)
 are the same regardless of gender over the reporting period.

 Impact leave/sabbatical leave

 All academics are eligible to apply for academic leave (one semester/year after six
 semesters/years or pro rata part-time leave) for a major research, impact or teaching project by
 submitting an application and detailed plan for the leave period. Examples of leave-enhancing
 research and impact include Hodgetts who recently began a 2 year leave of absence to develop
 a spin-out company developing software for 3D visualisation of geological features; Polya won
 GBP1,600,000 in funding and co-authored 20 publications during a sabbatical year; Hollis
 significantly increased the number and quality of outputs, strengthened research impact and
 started a new collaborative project with Texas A&M University.

 Staff exchange programmes

 Staff are encouraged to widen experience through career breaks and staff exchanges with
 international research institutes and industry: Semchenko is taking a two-year career break
 through a Marie Skłodowska Curie fellowship at the University of Tartu, Estonia; Manning took a
 25% position while working on a USA palaeontological project (2016-18). Conversely, we hosted
 15 overseas and industrial researchers e.g. JSPS fellow Kazahaya, Tokyo University, which
 yielded four papers from 1 year hosting in 2019; a 3-month visit from Wang, Fudan University,
 leading to a visiting professorship in Fudan for Coe; and an honorary professorship for Rory
 Clarkson of Rolls-Royce, facilitating thriving mineral dust/ jet engine research.

 Support and rewards for developing impact

 Developing beneficial societal impact from Unit research is a priority, and embedded within all
 procedures. It is supported by previously discussed activities (e.g. outreach training for PDRAs,
 promotions, sabbatical leave, secondments and staff exchanges). The Department has an Impact
 Officer to assist development of impact activities, and 3 of our impact case leads won Faculty
 funding for impact fellows= support. Success in developing impact is recognised in two ways: it is
 one of several criteria upon which promotion is based, through knowledge exchange; and it meets
 University commitments to Social Responsibility through research with impact.

 2 c) Research students

 We have a diverse community of PhD, MPhil and MSc research students involved in all groups
 and themes within the Unit. Our PGR students drive inter-disciplinary, cross-faculty and cross-
 institutional research through collaborative programmes and doctoral training partnerships,
 including our NERC DTP, EPSRC CDT in Nuclear Energy (GREEN), NERC Oil/Gas CDT and
 NCAS/EPSRC Aerosol CDT. They provide substantial, high quality research outputs; research
 papers from the Unit that include at least one PGR author increased from 232 in 2014 to 462 in

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2018. Our impact cases have major contributions from PhD researchers, with two impact cases,
 examining radioactivity management at Sellafield and arsenic contamination in Asia, involving
 significant contributions from 6 and 7 PGRs respectively.

 We recruit students in an open and transparent process regardless of gender, ethnicity, disability
 and sexual orientation, on the basis of excellent academic quality, research potential and strategic
 fit to the Research Group in which they will be based. PGRs are recruited to advertised projects
 or apply with their own project proposals. Applicants are interviewed by a panel of two or more
 academic staff, who have completed Diversity in the Workplace and Unconscious Bias training.
 PGR numbers in the Unit have grown by 63% since 2014, with 186 currently active PGRs, giving
 a PGR/staff ratio of 2.6. We attract ~60% Home and ~40% Overseas PGRs. The gender balance
 has remained stable while our PGRs are now more ethnically diverse (Figure 3).




 Figure 3: Gender (left) and Ethnicity (right) characteristics of Unit PGRs for each academic year
                                                cohort

 On average, 50% of the annual student cohort is funded through UKRI scholarships (via EPSRC,
 BBSRC, STFC and NERC) or other UK funders such as the Royal Society. We also attract industry
 funding from Sellafield, National Nuclear Laboratory, Met Office, Rolls Royce, various energy
 companies (e.g. BP, Eqinor), and many others, such that >35% and >80% of our NERC and
 EPSRC studentships, respectively, have an industry partner. The remaining PGRs are funded
 through university scholarships (including 2 to 5 students per year from highly competitive
 President’s and Dean’s scholarships), various overseas funding agencies, or are self-funded.

 All PGRs have a supervisory team of two or more academic staff and a pastoral advisor. All
 supervisors are approved by the Head of PGR to ensure that collectively the team has proven
 supervisory experience, provides an excellent research training environment that is relevant to the
 project, and is complemented by the wider research groups, such as through group research
 seminars.

 Online student progression monitoring enables recording of attendance, completion of key
 milestones, and a written record of academic engagement, training completion, progression
 problems and resolutions. This allows provision of support and academic intervention, as needed,
 to assist PGRs towards on-time submission and completion (recorded within 5 years for full-time
 study). Counselling and well-being services are University provided and signposted through the
 supervisory team or the Department’s qualified mental health first-aider. Additional support comes
 through the Disability Advisory Support Service (DASS) where needed. As such, we can
 demonstrate excellent PGR performance, with >95% routinely passing end of year progression
 assessments at first attempt and reporting a high level of satisfaction (2019 PRES survey: 82% of
 the Unit’s PGRs were satisfied with their experience). We are achieving strong completion
 statistics, with a mean of 82.8% during the REF period, with >80% of PGRs gaining an award with
 no or minor revisions at first submission. All PGR programmes allow flexible working and can be
 taken on a full-time or part-time basis. Efficient special circumstances processes allow flexibility


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to changing situations, such as extensions for Covid delays, interruptions for long-term sick leave,
 maternity/paternity leave, or interruptions for professional development.

 All PGRs discuss and agree a bespoke training programme with their supervisory team, which is
 reviewed regularly. There is mandatory induction and training in transferable skills including
 research ethics and integrity, alongside extensive training options available from the Faculty
 Researcher Development programme and elsewhere (e.g. data science, science dissemination,
 research impact). Unique training opportunities are available through DTPs, CDTs and
 internships, providing experience with industrial and employability relevance. The excellence of
 our training environment is evidenced by high employability of our PGR graduates: after
 graduation, 52% follow academic careers, 12% public sector and 36% private sector.

 2 d) Equality, diversity and inclusion

 UoM is unique in placing Social Responsibility (including EDI) alongside research and teaching as
 one of the three equal pillars of its strategy. The University provides mandatory EDI and
 unconscious bias training, and EDI is central to everything the Unit does, evidenced by major
 changes instigated through our Athena Swan Action Plan, and we have held Athena Swan Bronze
 status throughout the period. For example, all leadership positions are fixed-term and openly
 advertised, with staff from underrepresented groups being actively encouraged to apply. Our
 leadership team has gone from being entirely white male 5 years ago to having a composition
 reflecting our diversity (see Table 1 below). Our active Equality, Diversity, Inclusion and
 Accessibility (EDIA) committee proposes initiatives based on lived experiences, which are
 actioned through our Department Leadership Team. Recent initiatives include having EDIA
 observers on all appointment panels and complementing mandatory training with targeted
 activities in Department meetings.

 Staff from under-represented groups are targeted for leadership training. For example, staff
 nominated to complete the UoM "Inspiring Leaders Programme" have been disproportionately
 women. We lead the Women in Environmental Sciences network, hosted by MERI and aligning
 with the UN sustainable development goals (UN SDGs). The network engaged women from
 culturally and professionally diverse backgrounds at two workshops held in the UK in 2018 and
 2019. We are acting to increase fieldwork accessibility for students and staff with disabilities and
 improving support for students from different cultures. Our Widening Participation committee has
 the goal of increasing diversity, particularly BAME representation, amongst staff and students.
 This has led to an increase in BAME representation across research students from 24% in 2014
 to 37% in 2020 and staff from 6% to 9%. LGBTQ+ and disabled students and staff from UoA7 are
 contributing to Faculty initiatives to improve equality and diversity across the institution.

  Table 1: Distribution of research academic staff by career stage, role and gender in 2014 and
                                              2020.
                         RGL -Research Group Lead, LM – Line Manager

  DEES     Gender       All    Fellow    Lecturer    Senior Reader Professor           RGL       LM
                                                    Lecturer
           Female      16%      20%        13%        33%    29%      8%               0%        0%
  2014
           Male        84%      80%        88%        67%    71%     92%              100%      100%
           Female      30%      55%        44%        33%    30%     18%              29%       29%
  2020
           Male        70%      45%        56%        67%    70%     82%              71%       71%

 The Unit recognises the challenges faced by staff due to personal circumstances, including those
 with disabilities and caring responsibilities. All staff may request flexible working and such requests
 are automatically respected in teaching timetables. Currently, 8 staff have flexible contracts. All
 meetings occur within core hours (10am-4pm, excluding lunch) and agendas/minutes allow absent
 staff to contribute to discussions. Staff on leave have regular meetings with line managers and
 can apply for PDRA or teaching replacement for up to 6 months. Remote working is encouraged.
 In response to COVID we followed procedures described in the Institutional Statement on Covid

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mitigations. Staff with childcare responsibilities can request support for childcare when attending
 conferences. The Unit has a policy of actively developing the careers of part-time and fixed term
 employees and has an excellent record of developing staff onto permanent positions where this
 fits with their own career aspirations.

 All staff involved in the REF output and impact submission undertook EDI and unconscious bias
 training, and selection of submissions was analysed for possible bias, resulting in 33% female-led
 impact cases in REF2021, reflecting the Unit gender balance. Unit outputs submitted by male,
 female, white, BAME and disabled staff closely follow our actual distribution of protected
 characteristics, with 29% female and 71% male submissions.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3 a) Research funding and strategies:

 Our REF2014 strategy for growing research income identified 3 goals that align with the UKRI
 strategic landscape, and an increasing emphasis on solutions-based research from multiple
 funding agencies.

 (i) Further growth of our fundamental research capacity: We have achieved significant uplift
 in our research funding base over the REF period measured in volume and income/FTE,
 increasing from GBP36,400,000 (GBP760,000/FTE) in REF2014 to GBP72,595,656
 (GBP981,022/FTE) in REF2021. We have also maintained our balance of income across all
 streams since REF2014 but have increased our market share across UK Earth and Environmental
 Science HESA cost centres from 4.6% to 7% (Figure 4).


     (a)                                              (b)




                                                       (c)

    Figure 4: (a) Total Unit income by
    source 2013-June 2020 (HESA); (b)
    Annual Unit awards by Research
    Council; (c) Research income market
    share as percentage of total HESA
    income for Earth and Environmental
    Science academic cost centres.




                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UKRI Funding (Figure 3b): We have received GBP52,103,549 of UKRI income during REF2021,
 the majority (69%) from NERC. UKRI awards data for 2019-20 shows that UoM received the
 largest amount of NERC funding by award value of any HEI (GBP8,604,000, the Department
 led GBP5,542,000), over GBP1,500,000 more than any other. In the REF period we were awarded
 GBP6,737,399 from NERC to support NCAS at UoM. Notable NERC funding successes include
 3 awards in the Climate Sensitivity due to Clouds programme worth GBP1,820,945 (19% of total
 call value) and a large grant award focussing on basaltic magma (GBP1,631,229). STFC awards
 of GBP4,523,937, included two consolidated awards with a combined value of GBP2,671,129.
 BBSRC (GBP3,577,832) and EPSRC (GBP3,751,202) awards have underpinned our sustainable
 agriculture, biotechnology, and environmental clean-up research. The HEFCE-funded N8
 AgriFood programme supported a new Chair in Soils (Johnson, see Section 4).

 EU income: has totalled GBP6,607,636, including ERC awards in EE (Brown, Bardgett) and
 GEO (Burton, Mecklenburgh) and FP7 projects on clouds, vitamin D and nutrition, nuclear
 remediation and disposal, paleao-biomechanics, and volcanology. We are the UK hosts for the
 ACTRIS (Vaughan) and IAGOS (Gallagher) European Research Infrastructures for atmospheric
 science and are the UK lead in the new ATMO-ACCESS programme for collaborative access to
 EU atmospheric infrastructures (McFiggans).

 Industrial funding: BSSP has received GBP5,378,241 from the energy sector including BP, Shell
 and Equinor. Our nuclear research partnerships with Sellafield and NNL have resulted in
 GBP3,207,988 awards and MES has also been awarded GBP265,000 for work on water clean-up
 technologies (Evoqua and Arvia). GEO has worked with Rolls Royce on dust ingestion into
 engines, and Boots and Rolls-Royce have supported work on UV exposure and jet engine
 emissions respectively, that have been central to our impact cases (GBP250,000).

 Since 2014, the income from 23 prestigious Fellowships (see Section 2) has totalled
 GBP6,178,316 from NERC, BBSRC, MRC, STFC, Leverhulme, Royal Society, Daphne Jackson,
 1851, AXA, and Newton.

 (ii) Encouraging growth in large, multidisciplinary research programmes: We have
 increased our funding from large and multidisciplinary awards (e.g. NERC large grants, EU/ERC
 awards, UKRI SPF) compared to the previous REF period by 90%. We have been awarded 2
 UKRI Strategic Programme Fund awards (GBP650,000), over 15 NERC Research Programme
 (RP) and Consortium awards (>GBP13,000,000) and the EPSRC UK Collaboration for Research
 on Infrastructure and Cities (UKCRIC) Manchester Urban Observatory (GBP1,000,000). This has
 been driven by fostering integration of our researchers within our strong cross-University Institutes
 and alignment with UKRI themes.

 (iii) Growing our International Collaborative Research:. Official Development Assistance
 (ODA) funding growth has been a particular strength over the period. We have hosted Newton
 Fellowships with the Universities of Fudan and Sao Paulo, consolidating existing collaborations.
 Successes in 3 UKRI Air Pollution and Human Health (APHH) programmes secured
 GDP1,505,441 for 6 projects, improving air quality and consequent health outcomes in China,
 India, Vietnam and Indonesia. GBP1,252,642 ODA income has supported work on arsenic
 poisoning of ground waters worldwide, including FAR-GANGA (DST-NERC Newton Bhabha), and
 EPSRC and NERC-funded research on the controls on and remediation options for high arsenic
 ground waters in Cambodia, India, Argentina, Chile and Myanmar. These large multidisciplinary
 awards involve substantial international collaboration, which has driven a significant increase in
 internationally authored outputs in our return (see Section 4).

 (iv) Enabling this growth: UoM has developed a comprehensive research and business
 engagement team, including a dedicated Research Support Manager with 4 Research Support
 Officers providing support in developing grant applications and contract tenders. This service
 includes identification of opportunities, costings, contracts, and impact advice. A Faculty team of
 5 Research Strategy Coordinators provides support for writing and managing major collaborative


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 bids such as successful EPSRC National Nuclear User Facility (NNUF) and Radioactive Waste
 Management (RWM) bids.

 We support delivery of our funding strategy by: (i) providing targeted information on funding
 opportunities; (ii) developing our less experienced staff through research leader mentors; (iii)
 triaging all draft proposals, including full panel assessment of NERC standard proposals (31%
 success rate in 2020); (iv) running mock panels for fellowship, large grants and ERC interviews
 using recent panel members, producing high success rates (see Section 2); (v) running regular
 FSE training events on Fellowship applications; (vi) providing online material for ECRs on
 developing grant applications; (vii) releasing staff time for grant writing through pro-active load
 management and sabbaticals; (viii) promoting the spin-up of new research through department-
 funded PhD studentships, small equipment and pump-priming new initiatives. ECRs are
 proactively encouraged to benefit from these initiatives.

 ODA growth has been fostered through the University’s Internationalisation agenda (Flint, AVP
 Internationalisation), identifying key partner universities and investing in joint programmes, visits
 and studentships; encouraging visiting Professorships in partner universities (e.g. Coe, Lloyd –
 Fudan and CUG Beijing); allowing time for our staff to help shape international programmes, such
 as NERC-MoES and NERC-CNSF calls; and encouraging staff to access internally distributed
 GCRF funding via our research office and Institutes.

 3 b) Organisational infrastructure:

 Our academics play major roles in UoM research institutes (Section 1b and IS 2.iii) which drive
 our interdisciplinary research. MERI, set up in 2018 and involving >300 staff, fosters
 interdisciplinary environmental research across all 3 faculties. MERI facilitated the NERC funded
 Air Quality supersite (GBP750,000) and, together with the Manchester Urban Institute (MUI),
 created and maintains the EPSRC UKCRIC Manchester Urban Observatory, expanding our
 research into environmental data science.

 DNI coordinates cross-University nuclear power research, integrating >12 facilities across campus
 covering material science and radiochemistry, alongside access to the Dalton Cumbrian Facility
 (DCF). These make us the largest UK nuclear environmental research group, delivering high-
 profile and impactful science. Our Unit has benefitted from DNI-led capital infrastructural awards
 via EPSRC NNUF Radioactive Waste Management and Environmental Remediation Laboratory
 Refurbishment (RADER) (GBP1,855,166) and the Radioactive Waste Management Ltd. Trans-
 Uranium Waste Management Research Support Office (GBP2,498,634).

 The Henry Royce UK National Institute for Advanced Materials, funded by EPSRC and hosted at
 UoM, supports advanced materials research through a network of >900 scientists and
 >GBP300,000,000 of facilities. One of the Royce research themes, led by Unit staff (Livens) is
 Nuclear Materials and supports equipment for DNI research. Imaging applications using the Royce
 X-ray MicroTomography and MALDI-imaging facilities are being driven by AL and GEO.

 MIB provides state-of-the-art biological laboratories for AL and MES, and supports infrastructure
 and technical support for our biotechnology research, including biofuel production from algae, and
 energy and industrial biotechnology. The latter includes microbial systems for bioremediation,
 functional nanomaterial synthesis and catalysis. We make extensive use of MIB
 genomic/postgenomic tools including proteomics and metabolomics.

 Unit researchers interface with the Tyndall Centre through MERI, investigating impacts on air
 quality from wood-burning stoves, biomass renewable energy, carbon budgets and pathways, and
 IDSAI, through the Digital Futures platform, to develop the InnovateUK Smart City project
 CityVerve.




                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3c) Support infrastructure:

 Estate and facilities: Our estate of 7,433 m2 surrounds the University’s newly landscaped
 Brunswick Park. The Williamson Building houses our Environmental and Geoscience laboratories,
 including the Williamson Research Centre (WRC), home to our extensive environmental
 chemistry, isotope, mineralogical and advanced imaging facilities (Section 3f). New clean-room
 curation facilities house meteorite samples returned from the Antarctic by IGP. The Simon Building
 houses AS’s 10 m tall ice-cloud chamber and 18m3 Manchester Aerosol Chamber, both unique in
 the UK and part of EUROCHAMP2020 Research Infrastructure. EE and AL are co-located with
 the central facilities of the Faculty of Medical Biological and Health Sciences housed in the Michael
 Smith and Stopford Buildings. UoM has invested £2M in the “The Firs” Botanical Gardens, which
 includes state-of-the-art controlled environment growth facilities. Advanced equipment and IT
 resources are tailored to our research areas and are described in Section 3f.

 Technical and Support Staff: Our research is supported by 25 technical staff: 4 senior
 experimental officers provide integrated technical management; 8 externally funded research
 technicians; 3 senior technicians; 2 computing officers; specialist technicians provide horticultural
 support at “The Firs” and Manchester Air Quality Supersite. The School of Natural Sciences
 maintains a well-equipped mechanical workshop staffed by 13 technicians, with one dedicated to
 this Unit. Technical staff line management is provided by a technical operations manager, with
 senior EOs providing line management of more junior staff. Safety and environmental
 sustainability of laboratories are managed by our dedicated safety advisor.

 The UoM Library is detailed in IS 4.2. It provides leading research services to support our
 research including access compliance, data management planning, and metrics for benchmarking
 and informing research strategy.

 IT Services supports standard University services and has a specialised team (~40 FTE) who
 provide research support and training across software, data engineering, access to internal and
 external HPC, data storage facilities, visualisation and analytics. Our researchers routinely access
 institutional HPC, particularly the centrally-supported Computational Shared Facility (CSF) a
 cluster of >9500 nodes, to which researchers contribute nodes and additional infrastructure,
 increasing energy efficiency. These facilities underpin work on biomechanics, fossil imaging,
 atmospheric modelling and subsurface geoscience. We use the N8 HPC facility and ARCHER,
 UK’s National computing service for large-scale meteorological and air quality modelling.

 Significant archives and collections: The Manchester Museum at UoM hosts a collection of
 over 4.5 million objects that are used by staff across the Unit and we host our own extensive rock
 and mineral collection, curated to museum standards.

 3d) Equality and diversity:

 EDIA is embedded in how we support research funding applications (IS 4.1). Awards data
 monitoring allows us to identify under-represented groups in applications and awards by research
 funders. This is used by our Faculty support team to inform design of workshops to support
 applications, target assistance for review and feedback, and aid building of large research teams
 for major bids. Post-award support includes tracking Open Access publishing and impact
 generation.

 Access is considered through UoM’s planning and operational processes. Our buildings all include
 disabled toilet facilities, wide-door access, accessible light switches and swipe pads. Our estates
 team incorporate disability access when commissioning new developments, including floor
 levelling and disabled toilets in the new Firs greenhouses. Disability access requirements are
 identified through our Disability Support Services and implemented by our technical team. Our
 laboratory services and facilities run an access rota and flexible working allows technicians to
 meet the needs of everyone using our laboratories, ensuring safety for all.


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3e) Support for impact:

 Our infrastructure, facilities and expertise play an important role in developing our impact. Facilities
 are promoted externally through our Faculty Business Engagement team (Clean Futures lead
 Nixon) and Institutes. Our aerosol instrumentation has been used to support aero-engine
 emissions legislation development (Impact Case); our atmospheric chambers have supported
 studies of diesel emissions controls (GBP28,500) and aging of cosmetics (GBP22,000). Our
 mineralogical facilities are helping Rolls-Royce improve helicopter servicing in dusty environments
 (GBP166,000), and BSSP infrastructure and geological datasets are used with the petroleum
 industry to drive exploration and production efficiency (Section 3a). Our nuclear expertise and
 facilities are closely integrated into the UK Nuclear Industry, underpinning effluent treatment and
 decommissioning strategies at Sellafield, and deep disposal of nuclear waste. WRC facilities are
 used to continue joint development with UoM spin-out companies, including water remediation
 (Arvia and Evoqua) and improvements in water distribution with Salamander, which
 commercialised Hydraclam®, Chloroclam® hardware (licensed to Siemens). Webb has been
 supported by Boots for work on UV exposure and skincare (impact case);

 Our facilities underpin outreach and public engagement activities, notably the collections at the
 Manchester Museum and imaging facilities in the Royce (Manning).

 3f) Specialist research infrastructure:

 Our research groups maintain a wide range of specialist infrastructure, supported and developed
 through University and external funding. We have procured equipment through research grants
 worth in excess of GBP10,000,000 over the REF period:

 AS cloud-physics research has been supported by investment in cloud and precipitation
 instruments, including globally unique 3D real time holographic imaging spectrometers and
 miniature cloud detectors integrated into Global Research infrastructure (IAGOS). Investment in
 novel mass spectrometry for real-time analysis of particle and gas phase compositions has driven
 research in our pollution theme, and investment in new technology for online bioaerosol detection
 is driving new research. Additional capital investment has enabled installation of these instruments
 onto the NERC BAe-146 aircraft, keeping us at the forefront of airborne atmospheric science.
 Investment in a new suite of UV sensors provides long-term monitoring for Defra. Atmospheric
 modelling is underpinned by recent investments in both edge and centralised computing facilities
 including nodes in the CSF.

 MES facilities are hosted in WRC. The NNUF RADER (S3b) and the Nanoscale Imaging and
 Analysis Facility for Environmental Materials (GBP500,000) provide a new facility for wider
 community use, including new ICP-AES, ICP-MS, HPLC, GC-MS, high-throughput Illumina DNA
 sequencing, and a FEG‐SEM with XRF/EDS and Raman spectrometers. This investment has
 enhanced existing WRC facilities that include EPMA, XRD, X-Ray reflectometry, imaging FT-IR,
 SEM and optical microscopes.

 GEO also benefits from the WRC facilities, and maintain additional specialist high pressure
 experimental petrology and rock deformation laboratories. New investments in monitoring of
 volcanic gas emissions have enhanced this growth area. EPSRC-Rolls Royce funding has set up
 a new mineral dust laboratory, including a AJ100 Jet Mill System.

 BSSP hosts a state-of-the-art high end computing facility with leading industrial applications for
 seismic interpretation, geophysical log analysis, 3D modelling and visualisation, and a terrestrial
 Lidar scanner and drone with high resolution photogrammetry facilities are used for digital outcrop
 modelling. It also supports a petrophysical laboratory and petrographic suite, and benefits from
 the WRC.

 AL research has been supported by a Z+F 5010C Imager (Lidar, 190 m range) and a High Power
 Visualisation Workstation. We maintain a bioarchaeology facility for our comparative faunal

                                                                                                 Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reference collections, as well as scanning, imaging and 3D printing facilities, a taphonomy wet
 laboratory for experimental decay, and dedicated simulation laboratories.

 During the REF period, IGP received STFC investment for a state-of-the-art laser-ablation-
 Inductively-coupled-plasma mass spectrometer to examine processes in the solar nebula
 (GBP235,559). This adds to a clean room facility and a suite of mass spectrometric tools (ToF-
 SIMS, NG-RIMS, NI-NGMS, HELIX MC and VG5400 all operated as part of the STFC UK
 Cosmochemistry Analytical Network).

 EE laboratories have facilities to analyse microbial and faunal community composition (including
 DNA extraction, amplification and analyses), stable (13C) and radioisotopes (14C, 33P, 32P), nutrient
 and cation concentrations, greenhouse gases (CO2, CH4, N2O), and chemical and physical soil
 and vegetation properties. Two NERC Capital awards (GBP1,000,000) in 2017 funded a bespoke
 mobile isotopic greenhouse gas laboratory, portable CO2 and greenhouse gas analysers and a
 cavity ring-down spectrometer for isotopic analyses of CO2 and CH4. A newly refurbished growth
 room suite houses 10 climate-controlled environment chambers including some with CO2 control
 and facilities to continually pulse-label large plants with 13C at ambient CO2 concentrations.

 In addition to bespoke research infrastructure and our extensive use of facilities in our institutes
 (see 3b), our researchers draw on a range of University facilities. Notably, EE, which is primarily
 located in the Michael Smith Building, has access to extensive core facilities including a bioimaging
 suite, a broad range of mass spectroscopy equipment, genomic technologies, and flow cytometry
 available in the Faculty of Medicine, Biology and Human Sciences.

 3g) Shared research infrastructure:

 AS hosts NERC NCAS expertise and infrastructure for cloud physics, aerosol and remote sensing,
 that is delivered through the associated UK Atmospheric Measurement and Observation Facility
 and the NERC BAe-146 research aircraft.

 Synchrotron-based research has been important across all areas of the Unit. AL research
 undertaken at synchrotron light sources (Stanford Synchrotron Radiation Lightsource, Diamond
 Light Source, SOLEIL, and ESRF) has made them a world leader in the imaging and quantification
 of the chemistry and biomarkers from fossils and ancient artefacts. GEO staff have been
 innovators in using synchrotron-based imaging, diffraction and spectroscopy to observe the
 behaviour of rocks and magma systems under realistic sub-surface pressure and temperature.
 Our UoM office at Harwell supports this work, hosting a NERC Fellow (Ma).

 We make extensive use of observational and digital data from the British Geological Survey core
 repository to inform models for sub-surface rock structure and fluid behaviour, and have developed
 significant collaborations with BGS scientists. Awarded NERC isotope facility time (Keyworth,
 Edinburgh and East Kilbride) has been used to understand fluid - rock interactions and igneous
 geochemistry

 3h) Benefits-in-kind

 Use of multiple synchrotrons worldwide includes the SSRL, the Advanced Light Source, LBNL,
 Berkeley, the Canadian Light Source, the Swiss Light Source, and ANKA, Karlsruhe as well as at
 the Diamond Light Source in the UK. For the UNRI facilities use alone access equates to
 GBP5,544,000.

 AS has flown in excess of 1150 hours on the NERC BAe-146 research aircraft in the 2014-2019
 period worth >GBP13,000,000 based on FAAM costs per flight hour, not included in the UKRI
 income-in-kind summary data. Our Unit's ARCHER allocations exceeded 300M AUs during the
 period, equating to GBP168,000 at the UKRI cost rate of GBP560/MAU and has supported our
 atmospheric and magma ascent modelling.


                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4 a) Research collaborations, networks and partnerships:

 Our research is highly collaborative with researchers engaged in a wide range of Departmental
 and University-wide collaborations, national and international research projects and networks.
 Reflecting this, 88.5% of papers published during the REF period involve co-authors outside UoM,
 and 69.9% have co-authors outside the UK, covering 113 different countries worldwide (Figure
 5).


                                                                                                  30




                                                                                                300




   Figure 5: Global distribution and number of publications resulting from collaborations across the
    REF period; colour and size of marker scaled to the number of co-authored papers from each
                    country. This indicates the global reach of our collaborations.

 Our collaborative research is fostered via several mechanisms including: (i) strategic investments
 in staff with a remit to bolster collaborations via national research networks (e.g. Johnson, N8
 Chair); (ii) encouragement of staff to engage in exchange programmes and to take sabbatical
 leave, resulting in 15 visiting international scholars with >3 month visits (Section 2); (iii)
 development of extensive industrial partnerships and collaboration with stakeholders, leading to
 significant impact (Section 4b); and (iv) via the University’s flagship research institutes, especially
 the Manchester Environmental Research Institute (MERI) and Dalton Nuclear Institute (DNI)
 (Section 1 and 3). Collaborative, inter-disciplinary research is also fostered via our involvement in
 NCAS, which is a major plank of our world-leading research on remote sensing, atmospheric
 aerosol and cloud physics.

 The success of these mechanisms is evidenced by our involvement in multiple multi-partner
 collaborative projects and networks, including leadership of major NERC programme grants (e.g.
 Drivers of Variability in the South Asian Monsoon, Coe; Soil Security, Bardgett), NERC Large
 Grants (e.g. Disequilibrium Processes in Basaltic Volcanoes, Burton; Uncertainty in Climate
 Sensitivity due to Clouds, Choularton), and international consortia in the Air Pollution and Human
 Health (APHH) programme (e.g. AIRPRO, Coe, McFiggans; AIRPOLL, Allan, Coe; DelhiFlux,
 Allan), fostered through NCAS. Other outcomes of our support for international collaboration
 include our leadership of multi-partner GCRF/Newton funded projects addressing environmental
 challenges related to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals, including the restoration of

                                                                                                Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 degraded grasslands on the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau, China (Bardgett), and groundwater arsenic
 remediation in the Ganga River Basin, India (Polya).

 Our staff have also played significant roles in major national and international collaborative
 research networks. This includes acting as key players in major EU-funded consortia, such as
 ECOFINDERS, which enabled collaborative research across Europe on soil biodiversity and its
 role in ecosystem services (Bardgett) and ShaleXEnvironment, a multi-disciplinary project
 including academic and industrial partners on the environmental footprint of shale gas exploration
 (Taylor). Staff also have key roles in major European research networks, such as the European
 Network of Observatories and Research Infrastructures for Volcanology (EUROVOLC, Burton),
 bringing together the European volcanology research community, and EUROCHAMP2020
 (McFiggans), integrating advanced European atmospheric simulation chambers into a world-
 class research infrastructure and leadership of commercial aircraft air sampling (Gallagher). Our
 staff also coordinate UK activities of the EU Aerosol, Clouds and Trace Gases Research
 Infrastructure network (ACTRiS, Vaughan) and have leadership roles in several international
 research networks, including: (i) The first UK expedition to collect and curate meteorite samples
 from the Antarctic in partnership with the British Antarctic Survey (Joy); (ii) European Space
 Agency’s package PROSPECT involving a pan-European team measuring volatiles at the lunar
 South Pole (Joy, Tartèse); and (iii) Global Soil Biodiversity Initiative, a global community of >4k
 members promoting expert knowledge on soil biodiversity into environmental policy (Bardgett).

 4 b) Relationships with key beneficiaries to develop impact:

 Our extensive engagement with key users and beneficiaries is evidenced by the relationships
 underpinning our impact cases. Our long-standing relationship with industrial partners NNL,
 Sellafield, BNFL and Radioactive Waste Management (RWM) (Morris, Shaw, Lloyd) has had
 substantial mutual benefit and delivered broad impact in remediation, healthcare and the
 conversion of waste metals into high value nanomaterials for industrial catalysis. The provision of
 a research platform at Sellafield for the treatment of radioactive effluents has reduced discharges
 of alpha emitting radionuclides to the environment saving GBP25,000,000 in treatment costs. The
 substantial investment in nuclear environmental science from UKRI, EU and industry (Section 3)
 has enriched our research environment and delivered wider impact through the employment of
 research staff, including ESPRC/NERC impact fellows, and training of highly skilled postgraduates
 recruited to the environmental sector.

 We have developed strong industrial and regulatory body relationships in the aviation sector via
 our emissions research with Rolls-Royce. Much of this work has been conducted through a
 consortium funded by the European Aviation Safety Agency. This led to involvement with the
 International Civil Aviation Organisation panel on particulate emissions testing, which has driven
 changes in emissions regulation (Williams). We have extensive relationships with energy
 companies (e.g. BP, TOTAL, Equinor, Shell) (Redfern, Flint, Hollis, Huuse, Taylor, Schroeder,
 Hodgetts) and JIPS, including North Africa Research Group (10 companies), Slope (10
 companies) and PD3 (3 companies). These have delivered databases and models facilitating de-
 risking and decision-making of petroleum basins globally: beneficiaries include international
 energy companies (e.g. BP, Chevron, Repsol), national oil companies (e.g. Petrobras, Brazil;
 Woodside, Australia) and independent operators (e.g. Tullow Oil, Wintershall DEA, Petroceltic).

 We have established an extensive set of relationships to realise the impact of our research on
 arsenic in groundwater and public water supplies. Notably, Polya was appointed as an
 International Advisor to the Bihar State Pollution Control Board and has undertaken knowledge
 transfer activities with them via the DST(India)-NERC(UK) funded FAR-GANGA Water Quality
 project. The impact of our research on sunlight and vitamin D benefitted from involvement of Webb
 in the Scientific Advisory Committee on Nutrition, Public Health England, and the National Health
 Institute for Health and Care Excellence Advisory Committee on sunlight and vitamin D. The
 impactful nature of this research has involved significant funding from DEFRA, EU, BUPA, CRUK,
 Dunhill Trust and Walgreen-Boots Alliance projects (Webb), and PhD projects funded by BBSRC
 and Saudi Government.

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have also developed partnerships with national and regional Government Agencies to advise
 policymakers on fracking (e.g. Environment Agency, Allen) and air quality (Defra Air Quality
 Expert Group, Allan; TfGM PM2.5 Task and Finish Group, Coe). Our partnership with Chester
 Zoo supports PGRs and conservation fellows working on health and management of wildlife
 (Shultz, Walton, Gilman), and we have informed government policy on forest management for
 wildlife in Myanmar, through engagement with its Wildlife Conservation Society (Walton). Our staff
 also engage with instrument manufacturers, including the development of detector technology with
 Isotopix (Holland) and formal collaboration agreements with Agilent to develop LA-ICP-MS
 technology (Tartèse).

 4 c) Contributions to economy and society:

 Our relationships with key beneficiaries have enabled delivery of substantial economic and
 societal benefit, extending far beyond our impact case studies. Significant societal benefits have
 emerged from Department of Energy and Climate Change funded research on atmospheric
 methane (Allen), delivering policy-related advice and establishing environmental baselining of
 methane emissions from shale gas production in the UK. Internationally, advice to policymakers
 during our Air Pollution and Human Health work has contributed to improved air quality in China,
 India, Vietnam, and Indonesia (Allan, Coe, McFiggans). Participation in the All-Party
 Parliamentary Group on Electronic Cigarettes informed revisions to the UK Tobacco and Related
 Products Regulations 2016 in response to the EU Tobacco Products Directive (McFiggans).

 Substantial engagement with the aviation sector has led to near-realtime provision of cloud droplet
 data from a fleet of in-service commercial aircraft (including China Airlines, Lufthansa). This has
 enabled validation of weather prediction, leading to increased sales of cloud probes and
 development of cockpit safety technologies for flying through ice clouds (Gallagher).
 Partnerships with Rolls-Royce, the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory, and NATO on
 ingestion of sand and dust into gas turbine engines has influenced engine and filter testing
 protocols and led to a NATO Standard Agreement for compliance of engine durability in harsh
 environments. The work has informed cost of ownership assessment for manufacturers and end
 users and informed European Aviation Safety Agency policy on certification specifications for
 engines (Jones).

 Our volcanology collaborations with observatories in Italy, Montserrat and Papua New Guinea
 have improved volcano risk management leading to improved monitoring of the dispersion of gas
 and ash from eruptions using satellite SO2 imagery (Burton, McCormick-Kilbride). Bardgett was
 a contributing author of the UN State of Knowledge of Soil Biodiversity (2020) and EASAC’s
 Opportunities for Soil Sustainability in Europe (2018) reports, and was “thinker in residence” for
 the Royal Flemish Academy of Belgium (KVAB) on Soil Natural Capital, which have informed
 national and international policy on soil protection.

 We have demonstrated agility through research on the COVID-19 pandemic. Working with the UN
 Refugee Agency and Kitrinos Healthcare, we modelled COVID-19 epidemiology in refugee camps
 (Gilman) and informed a Defra report on the COVID-19 pandemic and air quality (Coe, Allan,
 McFiggans). We also contributed to collation of COVID-19 aerosol transmission related resources
 by the Aerosol Society (Allan) and with surgical clinicians we co-designed techniques for
 prevention of surgical COVID-19 transmission (McFiggans, Coe, Williams). Health-related
 benefits have also emerged from work with the Shillong Public Health Institute and National Vector
 Borne Disease Programme, India, providing guidance on infectious disease transmission
 (Walton), and the “Cloudy with a chance of Pain” research project resulted in an award-winning
 app and improved arthritic pain forecasting (Schultz).

 4 d) Engagement with diverse communities and publics:

 Engagement is a key part of UoM’s core goal of Social Responsibility and is delivered from local
 to global scales. Located on an inner-city campus, adjacent to some of the most deprived areas
 in the UK, we make special efforts to engage with our neighbours to create a sense of involvement

                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with the University and its research. This includes events at Manchester Museum, showcasing
 research at ScienceX, our annual Faculty science festival, partnering with schools with low HE
 participation, using our research to inspire students to enter higher education (e.g. our annual
 Earth Science Matters research experience days), and participation in a coordinated Schools
 outreach programme between Global Action Plan, the Phillips Foundation and UoM to assess air
 quality in schools, which has led to guidance for head teachers on improving air quality for children.
 We support the Manchester Geological Association with staff members serving on Council,
 hosting and delivering free public lectures and leading fieldtrips.

 We have developed significant engagement activities in developing countries. Notably, staff
 engage with local community members, leaders of rural indigenous communities, and local water
 authorities/operators in Cambodia, India, Chile and Myanmar on groundwater arsenic (Polya).
 Engagement with local communities has also been supported by the TIDE (Transformation in
 Distance Education) project in Myanmar, which provides training in environmental science and
 innovative pedagogical methods to 12 universities via residential schools, seminars, and training
 courses in Freshwater Monitoring and Statistics (Richards, Walton, Shultz, Gilman, Polya).

 We engage regionally, nationally and internationally via different media. AL researchers have
 frequently featured on national TV and radio to promote public engagement, with appearances on
 BBC News and The One Show, and Discovery Channel and Channel 4/5 documentaries. The
 Antarctic meteorite programme (Joy) attracted much public interest, with press coverage from
 BBC Radio 4 “The Life Scientific” and BBC Today Show, and our EE staff have contributed to
 public awareness of soil biodiversity via appearances on David Attenborough’s BBC programme
 “Extinction: The Facts”, Science in Action (BBC World Service), “Naked Scientist”, France24
 (Bardgett), and BBC Radio 4’s “In our Time” (Johnson). GEO volcanologists are regularly
 interviewed on national tv and radio. AS scientists have engaged with diverse publics through
 appearances on local/national TV to communicate research on pollution reduction in Manchester
 and other major cities, airborne pollution from moorland fires, and changing traffic pollution due to
 Covid-19 (Coe). They have also acted as panellist with local authority leaders on air pollution and
 mitigation in Manchester and engaged with MPs in the House of Commons on Air Quality policy,
 both via Policy@Manchester (Coe).

 Staff have also contributed to major national public outreach events, including public talks such as
 the Hay and Cheltenham Science Festivals, and exhibits at the Royal Society Summer Science
 Exhibition. Our reach has expanded significantly via our social media portfolio, which has
 developed greatly during the REF period: examples include our new Cosmic Cast YouTube
 channel (4000 listens since 2019), the Earth and Solar System blog (15,696 views from 142
 countries in 2019), and Departmental and research group-level Facebook, Twitter and Instagram,
 reaching an audience of > 7,000 followers.

 4 e) Contribution to sustainability of discipline

 Our flexible workload allocation model recognises and rewards staff involvement in external
 research advisory roles that help to shape the research agenda. For example, staff have served
 on national and international scientific advisory boards, including NASA’s Apollo Curation and
 Analysis Planning Team for Extra-terrestrial materials (Joy), the Advisory Board of the National
 Centre of Competence in Research Planets (Gilmour), Rothamsted Board of Directors and
 Netherlands Institute for Ecology (Bardgett), and on UKRI advisory committees, including The
 EPSRC Energy Scientific Advisory Committee (Morris), and the Science Strategy Board of
 NCAS (Coe). We have also contributed to development of Earth and environmental sciences
 through leadership of the EPSRC CDT in Nuclear Energy (GREEN) and involvement in the
 NERC Oil Gas CDT and NCAS and EPSRC Aerosol CDTs.

 Our interdisciplinary research directly aligns to and informs environmental policy. Through our
 nuclear research we’ve built industrial partnerships focused on safe clean-up and disposal of
 radioactive waste, and established the Centre of Expertise in Effluent Treatment with the support
 of Sellafield Ltd and the National Nuclear Laboratory. Another example is our NERC Soil Security

                                                                                               Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research (Bardgett, Johnson), aligned to national (e.g. UK Government 25-year Environmental
 Plan) and international policy/platforms on biodiversity (e.g. IPBES); climate mitigation (e.g. COP
 21) and microplastics research (Kane) is aligned with emerging environmental challenges.
 Aspects of our research also directly align with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG).
 Examples include research on arsenic exposure (Polya) with Public Health England and other
 agencies, which has contributed to SDG 6 on clean water and sanitation and led to changes in
 FAO recommendations on intake, and our GCRF research on grassland restoration on the
 Qinghai-Tibetan plateau (Bardgett), which aligns to SDG 15 on reversing of land degradation.

 Our air pollution research has made a substantial contribution to the sustainability of the discipline.
 This is exemplified by our leadership and participation in 5 Air Pollution and Human Health
 projects, which address issues of direct importance to national and international policy on air
 quality and consequent health outcomes in China, India and SE Asia (Allan, Coe, McFiggans).
 We lead the UKRI Clean Air Strategic Priority Funded OSCA project (Coe), which seeks to predict
 changes in the atmospheric processes responsible for air pollution, informing government policy
 through partner Defra.

 4 f) Contributions to research base:

 Our wider contribution to the research base is evidenced by a number of indicators. Staff have
 served on NERC’s peer review college (17) and funding panels (30), BBSRC funding panels (24),
 and as Chair of funding panels (3), including NERC peer review committees (Choularton) and
 BBSRC’s Committee E, responsible for the award and mentoring of fellowships (Bardgett). Our
 staff have wider influence by serving on >50 international/national funding committees/panels (e.g.
 the Royal Society’s Newton International Fellowships Committee, International Exchanges
 Committee, and Biological Sciences Grants Panel, Leverhulme Trusts Research Leadership
 Awards Panel), and via prominent roles on councils and committees of learned societies and
 Trusts: Garwood serves on council of the Palaeontological Association (2020-present); Bardgett
 served as President of the British Ecological Society (2017-2019); Lloyd is current President of
 the Mineralogical Society; Shultz was Chair of Publications Committee, Royal Meteorological
 Society (2012-2015); and Boult was appointed a trustee of the Mersey Rivers Trust (2021-
 present).

 Staff contribute to and are recognised by the research base through engagement with leading
 academic journals: Schultz is Chief Editor of Monthly Weather Review, Kane is Chief Editor of
 Sedimentology; Gilmour is Editor-in-Chief of Earth, Moon and Planets; and Bardgett is Executive
 Editor of Journal of Ecology; 25 staff serve on editorial boards of leading journals. Staff have
 contributed to the research base through presenting keynote lectures at international conferences
 and symposia (160), including the Goldschmidt 25th Anniversary Lecture (Morris) and
 Presidential Address at the 2019 British Ecological Society Annual Meeting (Bardgett), and invited
 seminars at UK (165) overseas (221) Universities/research organisations. Unit staff have also
 played prominent roles in organising and/or chairing international conferences (62), including
 hosting international conferences, including the 7th European Lunar Symposium 2019 (Tartèse,
 Joy), the International Commission on Illumination Quadrennial Symposium 2015 (Webb), the
 Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution annual conference 2019 (Knight, Schultz, Walton),
 and Carbonate Forum 2020, an international, online conference dedicated to PGR and ECR
 research in carbonate geoscience, which attracted >400 academic and industrial attendees from
 over 40 countries (Hollis).

 Prizes in recognition of staff research excellence include the Schlumberger Medal (Lloyd 2019)
 and Max Hey Medal (Coker 2019) of the Mineralogical Society, the Royal Astronomical Society
 Winton Capital Geophysics Prize (Joy 2019), the European Meteorological Society Tromp
 Foundation award (Schultz 2020), and an honorary doctorate, Hasselt University, Belgium
 (Bardgett 2015) and Royal Society Wolfson Merit Award (Lloyd 2018). Lloyd was recognised by
 the Science Council as one of the UK’s top 100 Practicing UK Scientists in 2014, Joy was listed
 on the Royal Astronomical Society’s list of ‘21 leading women in UK astronomy and geophysics’
 in 2016, Morris was recognised by the Nuclear Institute as Women in Nuclear, Mission Possible

                                                                                                Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (2018), and Allan (2018), Coe (2018) and Bardgett (2014-2020) have all been recognised as
 Highly Cited Researchers. The contributions of staff to the discipline is recognised through
 fellowships from the American Meteorological Society (Schultz 2019), Geological Society
 (Manning 2020, Hodgetts 2017, Schultz 2019), Royal Geographical Society (Manning 2020),
 Royal Meteorological Society (Choularton 2017, Coe 2017, Webb 2019), Mineralogical Society
 (Wogelius 2019) and Academia Europaea (Bardgett 2015, Burton 2017).




                                                                                      Page 24
