Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: University of Cumbria
 1. Context and mission
 The University of Cumbria (UoC) was established in 2007 to catalyse individual and regional
 prosperity and pride within its region, building upon 150 years of higher education (HE) in Cumbria
 and Lancashire (Charlotte Mason College, Ambleside; Cumbria Institute of the Arts, Carlisle; St
 Martin’s College, Lancaster; and the Cumbrian campus of UCLan). Since 2014, UoC has
 consolidated its place as a HE provider with an increasing emphasis on research and innovation.

 Our academic community comprises of 7,944 students
 (5,978 UG, 1,966 PG); 1,797 partner students at overseas
 institutions (130 UG, 1,667 PG); 95 PGRs (31% full-time,
 69% part-time); 391 academic staff (326.4FTE) of whom
 67 (55.70FTE) are eligible for return to REF2021; and 555
 (459.2 FTE) professional services staff. 30 staff members
 are currently studying for PhD at UoC and 13 are registered
 at other institutions.

 UoC’s regional focus is a key component of its strategy.
 We are distinctive in providing a ‘distributed’ model of HE
 to an area which is rural and sparsely-populated, yet
 contains several major industries (particularly in nuclear
 and manufacturing), as well as the UNESCO-inscribed
 Lake District National Park. In this context, UoC works
 across four main campuses (Lancaster, Ambleside, two
                                                                   Figure 1: Locations of the main
 Carlisle sites), and satellite campuses in Workington,
                                                                   and satellite campuses of the
 Barrow-in-Furness (West Cumbria) and Tower Hamlets
                                                                   University of Cumbria.
 (London), all additionally supporting HE in low-engagement
 communities (Figure 1). UoC recognises the importance of
 place and is the only university operating a major campus
 within a National Park. Strategy 2030 (see 2.5) aims to
 develop the specialisms and character of each campus.

 UoC is structured around teaching into five Academic Institutes. In recognition that research
 activity crosses these boundaries, research leadership is located within four Research Centres
 and two emerging Research Networks (Figure 2, overleaf). These Centres and Networks are the
 engine of research activity, sustaining an inclusive, collaborative research culture, and enabling
 significant growth in research capacity, impact and outcomes.

 Since REF2014, research capacity has expanded through 116% growth in REF-eligible Category
 A staff (Table 1; see 3.1), 80% growth in research income and 145% increase in PGR completions
 (Table 3; see 4.1), and production of 1112 REF-eligible outputs (growth of >400%). This has been
 supported by completion and continuation of ~£31.7M investment across our campuses (see 4.3),
 much of which has improved research infrastructure and facilities (REF5b). 11 Professors of
 Practice (working in industry, practice, and professions) have been appointed to support
 institutional strategies for teaching and research within each Research Centre (REF5b).

 Research Centres facilitate access to resources, expertise, collaborators and external networks
 across the Academic Institutes. Each research centre has a Centre Director (0.1 – 1.0 FTE,
 dependent upon the stage of centre development) who leads strategic and operational planning
 (REF5b). In areas where research teams are still emerging, activities are organised through
 Research Networks (Figure 2). Research governance is provided through the Research &
 Knowledge Exchange Committee, chaired by a Deputy Vice Chancellor (DVC) and comprising
 Centre Directors, Institute Directors, representatives from each Research Centre and Network,
 the Research & Knowledge Exchange and Graduate School offices (Figure 2; see 3.2; 4.1). This
 enables effective co-ordination of research activity; facilitating cross and interdisciplinary research,
 sustaining research expertise in the Academic Institutes, and offering a platform for future
 development.
                                                                                                  Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)




 Figure 2: Research & Knowledge Exchange Committee leads research strategy and coordinates
 research activity through links between Research Centres/Networks and Academic Institutes.
 Arrows identify directions of research reporting and management (solid lines represent primary
 research connections, dotted are secondary) between Centres and Institutes. Dashed lines show
 connections between Research Support and Centres/Institutes.

 The UoAs returned to REF2021 reflect a combination of prior track record (REF2014) and new
 areas considered of strategic importance, either reflecting global challenges or the priorities of our
 stakeholders and research users (Table 1, Figure 3). For example, the Centre for National Parks
 & Protected Areas (CNPPA) was established through partnership with the Lake District National
 Park Authority and to support the UNESCO World Heritage Site Inscription, comprising
 researchers returned in UoA14, UoA23 and UoA32. For REF2021, UoC is submitting a new unit
 (UoA20, 11.1FTE) building upon expertise in health-related social science, particularly enhancing
 interpretation in practice, identified in UoA03 for REF2014. Consolidation of researchers from
 UoA26 in REF2014 into UoA03 and UoA23 for REF2021 has enhanced research capacity
 supporting a critical mass of researchers within the CNPPA, LED and CRiHS.
            Table 1: Units of Assessment and FTEs returned in REF2014 and REF2021
          UoAs (2014)             n FTE                 UoAs (2021)              n              FTE
  UoA03:      Allied     Health 3 3.00 UoA03: Allied Health Professions,        12              11.1
  Professions                               Dentistry, Nursing & Pharmacy
                                            UoA20: Social Work & Social Policy  12              11.1
  UoA17: Geography, Envt.         6 6.00 UoA14: Geography & Envt. Studies       11             10.60
  Studies & Archaeology
  UoA19: Business &               3 2.80 UoA17: Business & Management           11              7.95
  Management Studies                        Studies
  UoA25: Education                5 4.72 UoA23: Education                       12              9.8
  UoA26: Sport & Exercise         6 6.00 Redistributed to UoA3 & UoA23
  Studies, Leisure & Tourism
  UoA34: Art & Design:            6 4.28 UoA32: Art & Design: History,           9              7.3
  History, Practice & Theory                Practice & Theory
             Total               29 26.8                     Total              67             57.85




                                                                                                Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 UoC’s strong collaborative and interdisciplinary ethos generates researchers within Centres and
 Networks contributing to multiple UoAs (Figure 3). Research governance and structures (Figure
 2) enable researchers to collaborate successfully within a vibrant, growing research culture.




 Figure 3: UoAs submitted to REF2021 associated with UoC Research Centres and Networks.
 Note that most Research Centres contribute to 3 UoAs, and the Research Networks to 1-2,
 reflecting a transdisciplinary research culture.

 In 2014-2021, UoC has evolved from a teaching-focused institution with pockets of research
 activity towards a mature, comprehensive university where research is fully integrated into our
 academic portfolio, generating work that is relevant to academic communities, to the wider
 interests of businesses, public and third sectors.


 2. Strategy

 The UoC Research Strategy 2014 outlined seven themes, with ambitions to develop and empower
 academic staff as researchers within every academic institute and to move towards a research-
 informed academic portfolio. These were consolidated within the Research, Innovation and
 Enterprise Strategy 2018-2021 into three core strategic goals across the REF2021 assessment
 period:

 1. Investing in researcher development and expanding capability to deliver a significant increase
    in active researchers;
 2. Improving research infrastructure to demonstrate and evidence enhanced vitality and
    sustainability of the environment;
 3. Utilising external partners and collaborators to grow capacity, and to support income
    generation.

 The delivery of these core strategic goals has occurred across four themes:




                                                                                           Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2.1 Theme 1: Environment of Research, Innovation & Enterprise

 Since REF2014, there has been considerable success in consolidating pockets of expertise
 previously located within separate UoC academic institutes into coherent, sustainable and vibrant
 research communities (Figure 4). The Research Centres and Networks (Figures 2-4) have
 transformed the research environment, offering research-active staff ‘homes’ within sustainable
 research groups operating with sufficient critical-mass, with access to a culture supporting
 research and knowledge exchange (KE) that is disciplinary (within a theme in a research
 centre/network), interdisciplinary (between themes in a research centre/network) and
 transdisciplinary (between research centres).




 Figure 4: Timeline of developing UoC Research Centres. Dashed boxes represent research
 centres established at precursor institutions prior to UoC establishment.


 Research Centres draw together pre-existing, often informal research groups that have evolved
 since 2014, offering efficiencies in strategic and operational management and consistency in
 research governance (Figure 4). This coordination insulates individual research areas against
 future changes in staffing and priorities, providing continuity and future sustainability. The two
 Research Networks (IFLAS, ARI) are now being considered as part of the forward strategy (see
 2.5; REF5b UoA17, UoA32).

 Investment of ~£1.5m of QR funding (Table 2) has focused on supporting researcher
 development. Funding is awarded according to specific criteria, monitored by the Research and
 KE Office (see 3.1).




                                                                                            Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


                              Table 2: Investment of QR funding 2014-2020
           Activity                             Details and examples                  Allocation
  Internal Research Fund         366 awards supporting researcher development         £252,000
  PhD studentships               Full studentships and fee-waivers                    £1,018,066
  Early Career Researcher 12 awards                                                   £51,300
  (ECR) Fund
  Global      Challenges 1 project: wildlife conservation in Gambia (Convery £30,000
  Research Fund          UoA14, Fenton UoA23)
  Strategic Priorities Fund      14 awards                                            £52,325
  Corporate memberships          GuildHE Research, MillionPlus, Research and £85,000
                                 Enterprise Network for Universities, Vitae, Equality
                                 Challenge Unit, UK Council for Graduate Education.

 Increasing the number, inclusivity and involvement of Visiting Scholars (184% growth since 2014:
 13 Emeritus Professors; 47 Visiting Research Fellows/Professors; 11 Professors of Practice) has
 enhanced research environment through offering skills/training, PGR supervision and peer review,
 but also providing wider sectoral and KE experience supporting research impact.


 2.2 Theme 2: Excellence in Postgraduate & Doctoral Portfolio

 UoC was granted Research Degree Awarding Powers in 2019, signalling a key progression in the
 expansion of our research capacity and capability. Since REF2014, the research environment has
 been enhanced by a 34% increase in the number of current PGRs registered with the Graduate
 School to 95. Of these, 31% are full-time, with 69% part-time students and 30 UoC staff working
 towards PhDs. This breakdown reflects UoC’s commitment to staff development (see 2.3; 3.1) and
 connections with professions where mid-career postgraduate study is normal. In recognition of
 this pathway, in 2020 we validated a new portfolio of qualifications: MRes, DProf, EdD and DBA.
 PGRs often represent partner organisations and other stakeholders, enriching the research
 environment (e.g. UN, international NGOs and industry in UoA17).


 2.3 Theme 3: Research/KE Capacity and Capability of Staff

 Much of the growth in research capacity since REF2014 has come through staff development
 initiatives (see 3.1). 52% of full-time academic staff and 80% of doctoral supervisors contributed
 to subject associations, learned societies or relevant professional bodies within the past three
 years. 40% of our full-time academic staff and 72% of our doctoral supervisors have prior
 experience of research within other HE or specialist research institutions. These two elements
 have fuelled UoC’s 116% growth in the number and diversity of researchers for REF2021.

 Since 2014, despite turnover due to departures and retirements, the UoC professoriate has
 increased by ~24% (to 21), through appointment of 7 academic staff to Associate Professor, and
 7 to Professor, mainly through meeting promotion criteria based on research and KE (see 3.1).
 This has increased the proportion of women within the professoriate (38% female, 62% male)
 offering research leadership (see 3.3). 67% of our academic staff are recognized as Fellow, Senior
 or Principal Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (sectoral average = 43%), reflecting an
 academic community that embeds research into teaching.




                                                                                            Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2.4 Theme 4: Collaborative Partnerships and External Engagement

 We have consistently built on strong partnerships in teaching and KE to nurture new research
 activity. Research throughout every UoA exemplifies our focus on collaborative working with
 research users, stakeholders at local to international scales (REF5b). The UoC Strategic Plan
 (2017-20) focuses on UoC’s role as a catalyst for regional development. This includes strategic
 partnership with the Cumbria and Lancashire LEPs, and the Borderlands Initiative. Industry
 partnerships includes Sellafield and BAE (facilitating growth in related research areas), and
 research engagement with international bodies such as the IUCN, (Convery, UoA14), UN
 (Bendell, Murphy, UoA17) and OECD (Williams, UoA32). UoC’s ERDF-funded £4.1m Cumbria
 Innovations Platform and £2.3m Eco-Innovation Cumbria programmes have enabled SME’s to
 utilise research and knowledge expertise across UoC and partner universities and facilitated a
 number of research partnerships generating impact.


 2.5 Strategic Objectives from 2021

 Future research, impact and KE will be shaped by the University of Cumbria: Towards 2030
 Strategy, due for publication in Summer 2021. This marks a significant shift towards a longer-term
 vision for UoC compared to previous 3-year rolling operational plans. The future will continue to
 be driven by our strategic position within Cumbria and key stakeholder relationships and their
 priorities, but adopting an increasingly national and international focus, reflecting the growth in
 capacity and confidence of our researchers.

 Our longer term strategic aims focus on the continued growth and excellence of our research,
 leading to high quality outputs and impact, with partnership and policy relevance locally, nationally
 and internationally. Our four main campuses have a growing identity which will be further
 enhanced over the period and will build on the growth we have seen in research activity in the
 past seven years. As part of a planned strategic approach, we will, within the next strategy period,
 grow our international academic reputation and relevance in research, expand capacity across
 research strengths, and increase PGR numbers.

 We will continue our successful approach of developing existing staff towards REF-eligibility, to
 improve infrastructure and facilities, build partnerships to enable excellent research to flourish and
 to maximise its impact. We will place social and economic impact at the centre of our research
 impact strategy, building from our platform of partnerships across many sectors of the Cumbrian
 economy, and through leadership of schemes like the £2m Back on Our Map (BOOM) project with
 the Morecambe Bay Partnership (REF5b, UoA14), and engagement with Eden Project North to
 transform the lives of people within our region.

 3. People

 3.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 The Research & KE and Graduate School offices (13FTE) coordinate and support research-
 related activity across the University, focusing upon academic staff and PGRs respectively (Figure
 2). The offices manage the Research Skills Development Programme, research governance,
 policy and reporting, and support the preparation of research funding approvals and internal
 support. Whilst Research Strategy and Research Objectives are led by the Research Centres and
 Networks, contractual responsibility for Staffing Strategy and Staff Development rests within the
 UoC Academic Institutes.
 Our REF2021 Code of Practice provides flexible frameworks for undertaking research activity on
 pathways for ‘emerging’ and ’significant’ responsibilities for research (sections 2.10-13 of the UoC
 REF2021 Code of Practice). These pathways are evaluated via annual Personal Performance &
 Development Reviews (PPDRs), mentoring, and research planning. The PPDR includes specific
 discussion of research and KE objectives, agreement on support required and personal targets.

                                                                                                Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


 Research mentoring supports staff seeking to develop along research pathways. Our research
 mentoring guidance was updated after an evaluation survey in 2018, improving allocation and
 monitoring of mentoring, and to provide guidance to plan sessions. We have seen 13% growth in
 formal mentoring between 2018 and 2020. Academic staff can book up to 25 days pro-rata
 (Professoriate 35 days) of protected Research and Scholarly Annual Leave (RASA), linked to
 outcomes discussed within the PPDR process. Utilising these mechanisms, UoC has increased
 the proportion of eligible academic staff from 8.2% in REF2014 to 18.1% for REF2021. Tuition fee
 waivers are offered to UoC academic staff wishing to pursue a PhD within the University to begin
 establishing a research career; a key strand in our future growth strategy for research (see 2.5).

 The research pathways framework supports progression for all academic staff towards conferral
 of Associate Professor and Professor, valuing excellent achievement and contributions to
 research culture and reputation. The annual Future Leaders Development Programme for
 academic and professional services staff provides coaching, facilitated training sessions and
 internal networking opportunities.

 The Graduate School and Research & KE offices administer internal funding and offer
 infrastructural support for researcher development such as ethics, integrity and titles (Table 2).
 ECRs are supported through an annual ECR grant scheme for pilot or proof of concept work and/or
 collaborative research activity to help establish research independence. The annual Internal
 Research Fund focuses on developing individual research capabilities and enabling impact
 through targeted investment. The Sabbatical Leave Scheme allows staff beyond 3 years
 employment to request an extended period of research leave to undertake research or KE. In
 2019, a new Strategic Priorities Fund was established to specifically support research impact
 generation and external engagement. Regular Writing Retreats are offered for staff and PGRs to
 provide a focused opportunity for participants to advance research writing within a supportive,
 social environment. This innovative format has proven popular and has been successful in
 increasing outputs including those noted in REF2.

 Award of the HR Excellence in Research (2016; retained in 2018 and 2020) recognises UoC’s
 commitment to the Vitae Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. Our
 Research Ethics Policy, Code of Practice for Research, and guides on Collaborative Working and
 Lone Worker Procedures evidence our commitment to the Universities UK Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity. UoC signed the Declaration on Research Assessment in July 2020,
 recognising the need to improve the evaluation of outputs of scholarly research.

 3.2 Approach to PGRs & Mechanisms for Support

 The Graduate School supports all aspects of the PGR journey. The Postgraduate Research Code
 of Practice and our annually updated Handbook is provided to all PGRs. Each PGR is supported
 by a team of 2-3 experienced research supervisors, who must have received supervisor training
 and are research active. Development needs are identified and agreed jointly between the PGR
 and supervisors, and reviewed annually. PGRs are required to have completed development
 activities as a condition of transfer and are encouraged to attend the annual Summer School, the
 Research and Innovation Conference and to present at the Student Research Conference. The
 Researcher Skills Development Programme provides opportunities for PGRs to engage across
 disciplinary boundaries and, since October 2013, seminars have been aligned to the Vitae
 Researcher Development Framework. All students are encouraged to use the Vitae Planner.

 UoC’s Teaching Opportunities for Doctoral Students scheme, implemented in 2016, provides a
 systematic framework to offer PGRs the opportunity to develop skills and experience as a higher
 education teacher. After their first year (18 months if part-time), PGRs can request teaching
 experience and induction, mentoring and training. Across 2018-2020, PGR study rooms were
 renovated across all main campuses, providing high quality, dedicated study spaces (see 4.3).



                                                                                            Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 3.3 Strategies, Activities and Collaborations to Support Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 (EDI)

 UoC has an EDI Policy and EDI Steering Group that works to ensure that the institutional culture
 is inclusive, prioritises staff and student wellbeing, and invests in people, as documented in the
 UoC REF2021 Code of Practice (section 1.3). UoC plans to submit to the Athena Swan Charter
 in 2021 for an Institutional Bronze level award on the basis of significant progress made in gender
 equality and EDI particularly since 2019. EDI themes are also embedded within research practice
 (REF5b), exemplified by Elton-Chalcraft, Hallet (UoA23), Stuart (UoA20), and others,
 demonstrating a commitment to EDI extending beyond metrics.

 EDI policies are followed in all appointments and promotions, and staff are supported by
 centralised policies regarding research and scholarly leave, requests to work flexibly, reduce
 working hours, or adjust hours to suit changing personal circumstances (see 3.2). All staff are
 required to complete mandatory training modules including: unconscious bias; diversity in the
 workplace; inclusive, cohesive, and safe universities; recruitment and selection; and safeguarding.
 These support fair and equitable decision-making processes. A Flexible Ways of Working Policy
 recognises that flexibility attracts and retains skilled researchers, and supports health, wellbeing,
 and work-life balance. Procedural guidelines exist for numerous flexible arrangements including
 job share, working hours and phased retirement, and are open to all staff.

 UoC has a Health, Safety & Wellbeing Strategy 2017–2020, Risk Register and Action Plan and in
 2017 appointed two Mental Health Case Workers to support this strategy. As part of the
 Compassionate Campus campaign, training has been offered to all staff on suicide prevention and
 awareness. Our work on mental health at UoC was identified as best practice in the House of
 Commons Library briefing paper: Mental Health Services for post-16 Students in England (2017).

 Annual publically available EDI reports (cumbria.ac.uk/about/equality-diversity-and-
 inclusion/equality-data-and-reports/) demonstrate that within a low-diversity region, UoC performs
 well against sector norms for staff and PGRs identifying with protected characteristics. Staff
 LGBTQ+, disability and BAME networks promote and support inclusion, and include collaboration
 with Cumbria Pride and Lancaster University. In our Workplace Equality Index feedback from
 Stonewall (2020), UoC scored highly for our monitoring of equality; in line with organisations
 placing in Stonewall’s Top 100 employers’. This validates our reported data and REF Equality
 Impact Assessments, which utilise this diversity data. EDI Unit data for staff and PGRs (REF5b)
 has been analysed to identify specific actions, provided to Institute Directors, and discussed with
 the DVC (Health, Environment and Innovation) and Head of HR to inform forward strategy.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 4.1 Strategy for Generating Research Income

 UoC’s research income generating strategy is focussed on opportunities that build our reputation,
 capacity and capability at scale and pace. We seek, where possible, to partner with HEI’s and
 organisations to optimise expertise, impact and networks. This strategy has been successful,
 enabling >80% growth and diversification of research income compared to REF2014. Reflecting
 our sectoral priorities and geography, UoC has extensively focused on income generation through
 enterprise or regeneration activities, which typically align with the KE elements of our research
 (Table 3, REF5b). Research Centre Directors and Theme Leads actively seek opportunities that
 are circulated, appraised, where possible drawing in ECR’s to bidding teams. They are supported
 through the Research & KE and Graduate School offices who provide a central resource to support
 research applications and facilitate collaboration. Expertise is shared and mentoring support
 provided through the Research Centres. For example, CRiHS (UoA20, UoA3) run ‘bidding
 workshops’ led by experienced academic and business development staff.




                                                                                               Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


                      Table 3: Overall summary of external income
   Activity   2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2019-20                       Total
  PGR
  Completions    7       7         7        4          13        4 12                        54

  Research
  income          £363k     £332k      £270k     £350k      £528k     £375k      £234k    £2,452k
  (all sources)
  Enterprise
  income          £1,346k £1,538k      £947k    £1,200k £1,001k £1,077k £1,191k           £8,300k
  (all sources)

 4.2 Supporting Activities for Generating Research Income

 Since REF2014, UoC has progressively integrated research and KE support into a Research &
 KE Office, reflecting the focus of UoC on the application of research expertise to addressing real-
 world issues. Its key responsibilities are:
       Accessing research funding, KE programmes, commercial opportunities and
        commissioned research;
       Facilitating internal and external collaboration and partnering through the Research
        Centres/Networks;
       Proposal costings, approvals processes, financial and contractual management,
        compliance, and audit;
       Internal and external reporting on activity, post-award management and compliance.

 The Research & KE (10.8FTE, plus 6FTE KE project managers and officers) and the Graduate
 School (2.2FTE) offices provide core infrastructural support for research activities, and since the
 establishment of the Research Centres/Networks, occupy a central role in facilitating and enabling
 research activity.


 4.3 Infrastructure and Facilities Supporting Research and Enabling Impact

 The University has invested heavily to support growth in research capacity and infrastructure, with
 ~£31.7M investment in capital and infrastructure projects since REF2014 (see REF5b in each UoA
 for details). We have prioritised investment offering dual functions underpinning teaching and
 research, acknowledging our transition towards research-informed teaching. Highlights include
 the STEM laboratory suite in Carlisle (REF5b, UoA14), medical imaging facilities and an
 ultrasound simulator laboratory, one of the largest installations of its kind in the world (REF5b,
 UoA3). The latter facility has enabled foetal research in UoA3 – one of Discover Magazine’s ‘Most
 Important Discoveries’ (2017). All PGR facilities have been upgraded across all campuses since
 REF2014.

 With distributed campuses, UoC has invested heavily in remote access and video communication
 tools to facilitate research collaboration and impact activities. UoC works closely with Lancaster
 University to align research standards and practice regarding Intellectual Property and other
 academic standards. An Open Access Policy for Research and Scholarly Outputs was approved
 in 2015. Academic staff deposit their work in the institutional repository, Insight, as UoC has
 agreed on a green open access approach. Since 2017 there has been a 67% increase in deposits,
 a 70% increase of open access items with no embargoes and a 158% increase in the number of
 downloads. There has been a 211% increase in the number of researchers with an ORCID-ID
 between October 2018 and 2020. UoC aligns its work with UKRI’s emerging Open Access policy.
 UoC’s Head of Library Services engages with the Open Access Working Group of the GuildHE
 Research Network.


                                                                                             Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 SUMMARY: Since REF2014, UoC has demonstrated and evidenced a strong upward trajectory
 of transformation to research organisation, governance, outputs and impact. This marks a step-
 change in research culture, reflecting a transition to a research-informed, mature university. Our
 future vision is of continued growth and development, and UoC looks towards REF2028 with
 confidence.




                                                                                           Page 10
