Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Queen Margaret University, Edinburgh

 1. Context and mission

 QMU, is a small, modern (post-92) University with a total of 247 (198.27 FTE) academic staff of
 whom 88 (76.8FTE) have Significant Responsibility for Research (SRR) and Research
 Independence (RI). The University gained research degree awarding powers in 1998 and secured
 university status in 2007. Our vision is to achieve an international research profile that ranks
 QMU as one of the leading post-92 universities in Scotland, supported by a culture where
 researchers pursue bold ideas, are creative and work to the highest standards, and in doing so,
 undertake research that acts as an impetus for innovation, delivers impact and enables economic
 growth.

 We have a distinct academic portfolio including the specialist areas of healthcare; drama and the
 creative industries; media, communication and sociology; and business, management and
 enterprise, and these disciplines are reflected in the composition of our academic divisions and
 Research Centres (RCs). Our research and teaching nexus allows creativity and innovation to
 flow into the delivery of our programmes.

 We have a diverse body of 7,600 students, including nearly 2,500 studying with partners overseas.
 We also offer doctoral level studies through our Graduate School (GS). The University’s strategy
 is to maintain and enhance its pockets of research excellence while promoting the highest
 standards of integrity, and maximising impact in a research environment that is vibrant, inclusive
 and sustainable. Our research is focused on improving quality of life and building the evidence
 base for policy and practice through world-leading interdisciplinary, translational research and
 external collaboration.

 Central to our mission are our regional roots and international influence. Located in the Edinburgh
 City area, we are the only University in East Lothian and are therefore uniquely embedded in the
 regional community, serving a civic and economic function as an institution with national and
 international influence. Through the Edinburgh and South East Scotland City Region Deal
 (ESESCRD) we are seeking to elevate our position as a collaborator that provides connectivity
 and coherence in innovation and is strategically integrated into the regional growth agenda, with
 £30 million secured to offer opportunities for industrial collaboration with the University research
 base.

 Our research vision is global in focus, supporting our wider strategic objective of increased
 international reach. Our reputation in international health exemplifies this ambition well. Alongside
 doctoral study programmes attracting students from across Asia, the Middle East, sub-Saharan
 Africa, Europe and North America, we have increasingly leveraged major prestigious competitive
 international funding.

 We work at the intersection of conventional disciplinary groupings to create innovative approaches
 to contemporary societal challenges and public discourse; and make a significant contribution to
 the creation and sharing of knowledge that reaches and influences a broad range of regional and
 international stakeholders. Consequently, research is delivered through our School of Health
 Sciences and School of Arts, Social Sciences and Management and supported through a structure
 of the following six interdisciplinary RCs:

 •      Centre for Health and Rehabilitation Research
 •      Centre for Applied Social Sciences
 •      Centre for Person-centred Practice Research
 •      Clinical Audiology, Speech and Language Research Centre
 •      Centre for Communication, Cultural and Media Studies
 •      Institute for Global Health and Development



                                                                                               Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2. Strategy

 Following REF 2014 our research strategy was reviewed through a Post REF away day and a
 series of Working Groups to ensure that it would enable our strategic ambitions, our evolving
 capabilities and the changing nature of the external research environment. We reviewed the
 validity and direction of our historic research groupings and in 2015 launched the six
 interdisciplinary RCs detailed above.

 The strategic aims underpinning our institutional strategy for research, innovation and impact
 reflect an evolving culture focused on research excellence, collaboration, and developing critical
 mass and sustainability. Over the census period our focus has been on the delivery of the
 following four strategic objectives with key achievements summarised below:

 Strategy Objective 2015-2020 and Key Achievements

 Objective 1: People
  In the first cohort of 5 UK HEIs to submit for the 10 Year HR Excellence Award for the
    Concordat for Researcher Development and one of the first 15 UK HEIs to publically commit
    to the new 2019 Concordat.
  1 of only 22 UK HEIs to participate in the pilot UK Culture, Employment and
    Development in Academic Research Survey 2020 (CEDARS). With a response rate of
    31%, CEDARS has been a useful measure of researcher experience and the success of our
    research environment strategy and policy interventions.
  CEDARS feedback has been used to further enhance our Concordat for Researcher
    Development Action Plan 2020-22
  Development and launch of a New Workload Allocation Model and Performance
    Enhancement Review (PER).
  Inspiring Female Researcher Exhibition and EntreprenHER event on the
    commercialisation of research with our chancellor Prue Leith.
  Principles of Athena SWAN embedded within an institutional action plan.
  Investment in new inter-institutional collaborative mentoring programmes and
    implementation of research development plans, including local peer to peer buddying
    for female researchers. Development of new inter-institutional research mentoring schemes
    due for launch in 2021 including COVID-19 rapid response mentoring for Contract Research
    Staff (CRS).
  Legacy Researcher Policy introduced to support continuity of employment for CRS.
  Sabbaticals Policy reviewed and refreshed.

 Objective 2: Excellence
  Creation, launch and sustained investment in six interdisciplinary strategic RCs, subject
    to formal annual review against agreed institutional KPIs.
  Increased overall submission from 5 Unit of Assessments in 2014 to 7 in 2021 with emerging
    strengths in Drama and Education.
  Awarded substantial research funding from prestigious international sources.
  Collegial support for research writing activity, with time allocated for Early Career
    Researchers (ECRs) to write papers and bids.
  Enhanced QMU’s role in the British Council’s EURAXESS programme to support researcher
    mobility.
  QMU Research Studentship Bursary programme.

 Objective 3: Impact
  Launch in 2016 of a new Research Impact Strategy.
  New collaboration manifesto marking 10 years of academic partnership as part of the
    Edinburgh Beltane Network for Public Engagement with Research.
  Dedicated training initiatives targeting specific groups i.e. female, CRS and ECRs.


                                                                                            Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    Launch of QMU’s bi-annual Enterprise Skills month in recognition of the pivotal role
     entrepreneurship plays in enhancing researcher skills.
    Host of the only Scottish University on-campus Business Gateway service in partnership
     with East Lothian Council to support spin out and SME translational skills.
    Investment in and launch of new QMU Innovation Fellowships.
    £30 million secured for research and innovation as part of the ESESCRD.
    Development and implementation of a new Easy IP Policy.
    One of the first Scottish HEIs to sign up to the Knowledge Exchange (KE) Concordat.

 Objective 4: Environment
  Wellcome Research Café Culture events to reflect and propose solutions for developing a
    better research culture and reflect on CEDARS findings. Activities that will contribute to
    improving the research culture, include: implementation of an equality, diversity and
    inclusion plan; supporting researchers in career development; and delivery of a range of
    researcher wellbeing and mental health workshops in collaboration with other Scottish
    HEIs.
  Membership of the Scottish GS for Arts and Humanities (SGSAH) and Graduate School
    for Social Sciences (GSSS).
  An enhanced and restructured Research Grants and Contracts Unit with a streamlined
    service for pre and post award support.
  Institutionally the total amount of external research income secured between 1 August 2013
    and 31 July 2020 was £ 14,011,897.00.
  A total of 665 external research grant applications were submitted over the census period.
    Our application success rate was 24.5%.
  Institutional membership of the UK Research Integrity Office (UKRIO) since 2018.

 QMU is committed to the Concordat for Engaging the Public with Research and was delighted
 to become an early signatory to the National Co-ordinating Centre for Public
 Engagement (NCCPE) Manifesto for Public Engagement. Becoming a signatory provided an
 opportunity to elevate our commitment to PE, exploring how these principles could become
 embedded within our research culture, incorporating the perspectives of stakeholders, user
 communities and members of the public.

 After 10 years of collaboration with the other Edinburgh Universities, the Beltane Public
 Engagement Partnership continues to thrive following the signing by the four partners of a new
 Manifesto in 2018. We have delivered numerous successful collaborative researcher events
 including Explorathon, Bright Club, Cabaret of Dangerous Ideas and the hugely successful
 Beltane Gathering in June of each academic year. The Gathering brings researchers from the
 partner institutions into multidisciplinary groups, focusing on collaboration in public engagement
 around the Grand Challenges. Future priority will be given to raising the profile of the collaboration,
 building on the increasing policy priority of regional cohesion through our ESESCRD. We are an
 active member of the new Scottish Parliament Academic Network (SPAN). The network builds on
 an existing collaboration set up in 2014 between the Scottish Parliament Information Centre
 (SPICE), Scotland’s Futures Forum, Beltane and the Scottish Universities Insight Unit to
 encourage collaboration and knowledge exchange between the Scottish Parliament and the
 academic community. The Beltane allows partner universities to share good practice, build on
 reciprocal researcher training arrangements and supports interdisciplinary pathways to impact.

 Institutional support for the Concordat for Open Research via a Research Data Management
 Group and policy continues to exploit the full potential of the open innovation paradigm by
 exploring ways to make the outcomes of our activities and our campus more open and accessible
 to external partners. Following a successful collaboration with the University of St Andrews in
 commercialisation support, QMU has rolled out a new Intellectual Property (IP) Policy based on
 the principle of "Easy IP". This aligns much more closely with our institutional commitment to
 impact and translational research and has provided a new IP exploitation framework to maximise
 user engagement with our research. As Open Research Data and Open Access (OA) become

                                                                                                 Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 integrated into the research environment we have invested in our institutional repository to
 underpin new policies for OA.

 Our Institutional Statement on the Use of Metrics in Research Assessment outlines the key
 role of peer review, support for an inclusive and transparent process for research assessment that
 is respectful of researchers and the plurality of research. This also reflects our commitment to:

 • The San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA), underpinning our support for
   the responsible use of research metrics.
 • Adopting the principles of the Leiden Manifesto.
 • Implementing the recommendations of the Forum for Responsible Research Metrics and the
   principles of the Metric Tide Report.

 We are members of the UK Office for Research Integrity (UKRIO) and the Scottish Universities
 Research Integrity Network (SRIN) and Collaborative Group for Responsible Innovation.
 The Concordat for Research Integrity is being proactively implemented, using online resources
 purchased under license from Dundee University and through a programme of UKRIO training.
 Combined with new research whistleblowing procedures, we are responding to the new
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity, providing annual progress reports to University
 Court.

 Our Future 5 Year Strategy for excellence continues to be defined by specialism, focus and
 interdisciplinarity. We want to ensure that the narrative behind our impact is more
 compelling, recognising that we are a small but agile institution. We acknowledge that we
 cannot afford to disperse our research endeavour across individualistic threads when the future
 funding context commands a collaborative approach and interdisciplinary focus. The emphasis of
 our strategy will increasingly depart from lone scholar models. We will facilitate increased internal
 research collaboration, specifically between the arts and health as we look for sharper definition
 in the articulation of our distinctive identity. In 2020 we were one of the first Scottish Universities
 to sign up to the KE Concordat, which provides a framework for effective KE and reflects our
 commitment to the UKRI R&D Roadmap.

 We continue to invest in areas that enhance interdisciplinarity and offer insights and solutions to
 major issues affecting society while supporting emerging areas that challenge convention and
 progress research at the interfaces between disciplines that exploit synergies to address grand
 challenges.

 We have built on consolidating and developing pockets of research excellence, and
 increasing the quality of research outputs and impact rather than the volume. To that end, we have
 developed our academic workload allocation methodology to ensure research time is properly
 identified and adequately protected for those staff with SRR in order that we deliver the following
 future 5 Year Priorities:

    Excellence – Continue to embrace specialisation and focus, while encouraging collaboration
     to maximise interdisciplinary strength, so that we develop a critical mass of staff and activity
     with a clear goal of delivering international research excellence while nurturing nascent
     capability and opportunities.
    Research Culture – Use our Concordat for Researcher Development 2020-22 Action Plan
     and feedback from CEDARS to progress: employment conditions, research environment, and
     professional development opportunities available to researchers with increased attention to
     integrity, mentoring, equality, ECRS, career development, wellbeing and mental health.
    Sustainable Funding - Shift the balance of income generation capacity from small-scale
     project grants to larger grants in strategically identified areas.
    Collaboration - Be exemplary in our approach to collaboration and the partner of choice. Make
     more informed and efficient decisions about how we deploy our resources for maximum return.
    International Influence - Strengthen international research collaboration in response to Brexit
     and remain committed to being an open, inclusive and internationally-focused university.

                                                                                                 Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    Place - Maximise the opportunities arising from ESESCRD with increased alignment with the
     new UKRI R&D Roadmap.

 3. People

 Institutional Staffing Strategy
 Attracting, developing and nurturing the careers of excellent researchers at all career stages is a
 key priority. We currently have 16 Professors, 21 CRS and 10 Externally Funded Research
 Fellowships. ECRs in post-doctoral or early academic roles are supported in the development of
 research independence and we pro-actively support mid-career and high performing researchers
 to come to the forefront of their discipline or area of professional practice. Ongoing investment in
 Vitae and the Vitae RDF and the allocation of budgets to RCs for research and impact supports
 these activities. ECRs. are key to vitality and vibrancy to our research environment. REF 2021
 regulations required a specific and unique definition of ECR status, based on self
 disclosure. While our REF 2021 submission is inclusive and supportive of the excellent work of
 ECRs, they are not identified as ECRs as per the REF 2021 definition.

 As part of our PER process and to underpin criteria for SRR and RI we have embedded research
 performance review as part of annual workload planning and accountability to ensure that
 research expectations are explicit. Generic role profiles for all research roles have been
 developed as part of a research job family. HR provide monthly updates to Line Managers and
 monitor contracts, offering additional support to researchers within the final months of contracts.
 CRS have bi-annual strategic meetings with the Deputy Principal to identify concerns that might
 require senior management intervention in professional services and other areas.

 All researchers align with an RC as a full/associate/affiliate member and have the opportunity to
 have a regularly scheduled PER to focus on researcher career development. A research welcome
 pack introduces new staff to our research culture and our induction process provides an overview
 of key HR policies and initiatives. RCs support the development of researchers in interdisciplinary
 areas with regular programmes of talks, seminars and conferences; and are represented on
 external bodies and have strong national and international collaborations. The operating
 framework within which each Centre works provides opportunities for career development,
 innovation, mentoring, public engagement, networking and collaboration. Researchers are
 supported to develop networking and collaborative projects with international partners, through
 attending conferences and hosting visits from international research partners.

 Our commitment to researcher development promotes parity of esteem in research and
 knowledge exchange to achieve maximum impact. Innovation and impact are now recognised in
 our PER process and we will build on this by celebrating impactful research through institutional
 strategic impact events. We want to empower our researchers to act as agents of change and
 encourage and enable them to share insights and maximise impact pathways. We continue to
 play an integral role in public discourse and evidence based decision making, injecting knowledge,
 informed and measured views, shaping debates and seeding new ideas. Membership of the
 Scottish Policy and Research Exchange (SPRE) supports our researchers in working with
 policymakers.

 As a small HEI, we continue to use our agility to be at the forefront of sector developments. In
 2020 we will be in the first cohort of only 5 UK HEIs (and first post-92 institution) to submit to the
 10 Year HR Excellence Award for the Concordat for Researcher Development and were proud to
 be one of the first 15 UK HEIs to publically sign up to the new 2019 Concordat with our new
 Concordat Action Plan developed in 2020.          This reaffirms QMU’s commitment to working
 collectively in delivering the UK’s ambitious economic and industrial strategies, and the role of the
 Concordat as a tool to necessitate the supply of well-rounded and multi-skilled researchers who
 can traverse the interface of academia and industry.

 Wellbeing and mental health is supported by policies, procedures and risk assessments together
 with assistance provided via our Employee Assistance Programme as well as a range of staff

                                                                                                Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 development opportunities including a wellbeing mindfulness programme. We are enhancing our
 profile as a Wellbeing University, using the UK Healthy Universities Network online Self-Review
 Tool to review and reflect on progress in embedding a whole system approach to health and
 wellbeing. Career development workshops, facilitated by the careers team, run twice yearly.
 Monthly writing retreats offer ring-fenced writing time, and six month writing programmes have
 offered structured support for paper writing. Opportunities for international collaboration are
 maximised by building on existing researcher mobility networks such as the British Council’s
 EURAXESS.

 Support for Equality and Diversity in Research Careers
 We continue to champion equality and diversity in research beyond the traditional domains of
 Athena Swan to include the LGBT Charter and developing a leading position for QMU in Female
 Entrepreneurship with over 70% of our REF 2021 eligible staff being female. We promote an
 inclusive culture and have mainstreamed and embedded many of the new processes defined in
 our REF 2021 Code of Practice. We were awarded an institutional Athena SWAN Bronze Award
 in April 2013 and successfully renewed the Bronze Award in 2017. Since then, our Athena SWAN
 team has continued to progress gender equality across the institution by addressing actions set
 out in our Action Plan. There is a clear commitment to embedding Athena SWAN principles across
 our workforce.

 Management information has been enhanced with a focus on protected characteristics and
 monitoring of the equality and diversity profile of our researchers. Equality Impact Assessments
 underpin all research policies and procedures. Online Equality Training for Research is supported
 by a bespoke training programme.

 Strategy for Training Research Students
 Support and training is a collaborative endeavour between the GS and RCs. Candidates are
 hosted by a RC which creates a sense of belonging and access to the wider research environment.
 Training opportunities are offered by RCs, including, research seminars, tutorials, group
 supervision and communities of practice. We offer a 60 credit Doctoral Certificate in Researcher
 Enhancement and Development (READ) as part of all Doctoral programmes. READ is based
 around the Vitae RDF. The programme enables the integration and synthesis of theory with
 practice, to enable the development of transferable research skills, to ensure the rigour of
 academic thinking and to promote the achievement of personal and professional goals.

 A Doctoral Candidates Association organises an annual conference and twice monthly research
 cafes. The GS offers opportunities for all candidates to apply for training and development funds
 to support specific non-core training or skills development. It provides an annual two day training
 and development programme for supervisors. This is supplemented by update sessions on a wide
 range of topics and facilitated ‘communicative spaces’ where supervisors can share concerns and
 issues and engage in constructive dialogue with other supervisors. We are working to implement
 the UKCGE Good Supervisory Framework.

 QMU belongs to the two Scottish Graduate Schools (Social Sciences and Arts and Humanities),
 which provide external training and learning opportunities for candidates and supervisors.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Since REF 2014 we have been reflecting systematically on our performance and have seen
 continued research successes including major new publications and research impact, the
 strengthening of our global collaborations, and the securing of national and international research
 funding. However, the overall volume and financial value of our research income has decreased
 over the period, confirming that we must continue to invest in the development of the research
 capacity and collaborative research activity of our research community.

 We progress in developing a research funding strategy that supports short-term horizons, but with
 a new priority focus towards long term and more sustainable funding frameworks. Internal and

                                                                                             Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 external collaboration is key for income generation and we will support this with new inter-
 institutional mentoring schemes planned for 2021. Future approaches will shift our emphasis
 towards strategic priorities focused on activity where researchers are already working together on
 coherent and successful collaboration. We have harmonised reporting and structural boundaries
 for research and improved transparency and understanding of financial and budgetary
 methodologies. We have embedded processes to link recruitment, workload allocation modelling
 and academic promotion, and progressed the implementation of teaching and scholarship
 contracts and the systematic and strategic review of staff research objectives and targets.

 In some areas we have had success in securing funding from UKRI (MRC, ESRC, ARHC, ISCF),
 Wellcome Trust, National Institute for Health Research, Department for International
 Development, Home Office, Overseas Development Agency and the National Institute for Health.
 Strategies for the generation of increased research income will continue to be enhanced to allow
 us to contribute meaningfully to grand challenges and interdisciplinary initiatives. Researchers
 have income generation targets and these feed into RC Plans and are monitored via the annual
 strategic planning process.

 We have invested in an annual QMU Innovation Fellowship Scheme to develop research capacity
 with significant health, cultural and economic impact. Annual investment will continue to help us
 maximise engagement with the UK Industrial Strategy and ISCF.

 An ongoing investment programme in our research laboratories and equipment - including:
 a complete campus wide IT refresh; interview/focus group research rooms; state of the art IT and
 public health materials; interview/observation suites; and enhanced connectivity of our global
 researcher development community via online platforms for learning practices, communications
 and exchanges of research ideas.

 Structures to support research:
  Research Grants and Contracts Unit (RGCU) pre and post award support.
  Research and Knowledge Exchange Development Unit (RKEDU) institutional research
    policy and strategy; public engagement; researcher development; research governance and
    integrity; major strategic research projects and external collaborations; and innovation
    including entrepreneurship.
  Research Support Librarian OA publishing, research metrics and RDM. An institutional RDM
    Working Group acts as an advisory body for RDM. We continue to monitor OA publishing and
    citation and altmetric data for all our researchers including an OA policy and staff-self deposit
    facility.
  Research Laboratories/Technical Services operation and maintenance of laboratories/
    specialist accommodation.
  Marketing and Communication support for research including PR/ media training.
  Research Ethics and Governance training days in partnership with NHS Lothian, and the
    Edinburgh Wellcome Trust Clinical Research Facility.              Well-established regulations,
    procedures/guidelines for research ethics overseen by the Research Ethics Panel.
  Campus-hosted external SMEs promoting intersectoral mobility to facilitate movement of
    researchers between QMU/industry. Open innovation/shared SME space key to Estates
    Strategy.
  Ongoing external investment in the only Scottish University on-campus Business
    Gateway service to support researcher SME translational skills and planned careers
    support on “Becoming an Independent Research Consultant”. Collaboration with East
    Lothian Council to secure a financial enticement package for research start-ups to locate in
    the region. Partnership with Edinburgh Merchant Company with funding for Further
    Education/researcher collaboration.
  Success in prestigious sector wide research commercialisation competitions.
  Collaborative and industry focused programmes - THRIVE - focused on Food and Drink
    with Scottish Rural Universities and Colleges and Abertay University and SHIFT - focused on



                                                                                              Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
     Creative Industries with Royal Conservatoire Scotland and Glasgow School of Art bringing
     researchers together to address innovation in priority economic sectors.
    Through the ESESCRD we are enhancing place based cohesion with regional Universities,
     including with the School of Informatics, University of Edinburgh and Edinburgh Napier
     University to understand the potential of Artificial Intelligence and big data.
    QMU hosts the on-campus East Lothian Business Improvement District (BID) The BID
     represents 42 SMEs and offers a great network for business engagement for our researchers.




                                                                                         Page 8
