Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: University of Hull
 1. Context and mission

1.1. Roots and mission

Founded in 1927, the University of Hull is England’s 14th oldest university. The importance of
research with impact is enshrined in its Royal Charter, which describes its purpose and mission to:

            ‘advance education, scholarship, knowledge and understanding by teaching
                  and research for the benefit of individuals and society at large’.

Our aim is to ensure all our research activities make a distinctive impact. We conduct discovery and
challenge-led research which tackles global challenges and addresses regional needs. We have
prioritised research themes focused on key societal issues including health inequalities, living with
water, accelerating a net zero future, promoting social justice and fairness, and preserving our
heritage and advancing our creative industries. This targeted research underpins an active culture
of scholarship, teaching and learning across our University community. We are committed to being
an inclusive organisation with whom world-leading researchers want to work, partners want to
engage and research students want to study.

1.2 Size and structure




Figure 1. University Faculties, Institutes and Key Challenges

                                                                                             Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
In 2016 the University reorganised into four faculties, 23 schools and departments and university-
level research institutes to drive research excellence through a culture of cross-faculty
interdisciplinary collaboration (Figure 1). At the same time, we invested significantly in research
support structures, including an expanded and re-energized Research and Innovation Team, a new
Doctoral College and a bespoke research infrastructure. The research conducted in the faculties and
institutes is described in Section 2.

This strategic drive for research excellence in focussed areas of greatest potential was implemented
despite increased pressures on student recruitment. It succeeded in increasing our annual research
income by 13% over the REF period and significantly improved our income per researcher to £33.7k
(18% increase). In the same period, we have increased our independent researchers (R only) by 31
and increased our membership of CDTs (or equivalent) from one to four, whilst leading the Aura
EPSRC/NERC CDT. The size of the University is described in Table 1.

Table 1 University size data
 Students           2019-20        Staff               2019-20       Income              2019-20
                                                                     Research
 UG and PGT           12615        T&R REF               324                            £12.00m
                                                                     Income
                                   Independent                       Income per
 PGR                   526                                32                              £33.8k
                                   Researchers                       Researcher


1.3 Place, partnerships and international reach

We are an actively engaged civic university, collaborating extensively to connect our research with
businesses, the NHS, communities, the third sector and government. Our region has historically
suffered from industrial decline and has a low ranking for private and public R&D spending in the UK
(The Missing 4 Billion, NESTA). It includes some of the most deprived wards in the UK (Index of
Multiple Deprivations report 2019) and, as an estuarial region, has significant challenges relating to
climate change being home to the most flood-vulnerable communities in the UK. However, through
the new opportunities of low-carbon energy and the new challenges of world trade, the region is
positioned for an industrial renaissance through the expansion of offshore wind energy and some of
the country’s busiest port facilities. This has motivated us to work extensively with key partners to
help drive innovation and develop skills to take advantage of these emerging opportunities.

The Humber, as the UK’s Energy Estuary, is central to the Government’s quest for Net Zero Carbon
by 2050. It is home to the world’s largest offshore wind farms and delivers 25% of the UK’s energy
needs. Yet it is also the nation’s biggest emitter of CO2, with a high density of energy-intensive
industries. The huge transition required provides a compelling opportunity for collaborative research
and innovation; one that has seen the University’s Energy & Environment Institute expand rapidly to
more than 90 researchers since its creation in 2017. This distinctive opportunity also prompted the
University to create Aura, a vehicle for multi-disciplinary research opportunities and for collaboration
with manufacturers, developers, operators, skills providers, universities, government and others to
drive innovation in low carbon sectors. Aura has been recognised in the Offshore Wind Sector Deal
as an exemplar place-based collaborative innovation cluster driving distinctive regional
development. It also led to the creation of the Aura CDT and building the off-campus £12m Aura
Innovation Centre.

To support the eradication of health inequalities in the region, the University deepened its long-held
relationship with local NHS trusts, inspiring their renaming to Hull University Teaching Hospitals NHS

                                                                                                Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Trust. This partnership fosters collaborative research and established world-class facilities including
the state-of-the-art Allam Medical Building on campus. Our research collaborations with global
businesses Smith & Nephew and RB have created one of the world’s largest wound care research
clusters and tackle a suite of healthcare challenges.

To support the translation of our research and innovation into impact, economic growth, place-based
environmental resilience and increased skill levels in the region, the University secured over
£40million of regional development funding to enhance research and innovation driven growth of
SMEs across low carbon and clean growth, flood resilience and the bio-economy (Figure 2).




Figure 2. Research and Innovation ecosystem supported by the University

The University was a principal partner of the Hull 2017 UK City of Culture, with our research activities
supporting the delivery of a year-long programme and the evaluation of the outcomes. In 2018 the
University hosted the British Science Festival (BSF) to showcase the University’s research alongside
other examples of UK excellence in a national celebration of science. During Hull 2017, the university
had more than 88,000 visitors. The BSF attracted more than 15,000 visitors and 430,000 website
views during the week of events in 2018.

In 2019 the University secured an exclusive partnership with Team GB, based on our joint belief that
there is a spark of ‘extraordinary’ in everyone, whether it’s a gold medal winning performance viewed
by millions or the first to talk in a room full of strangers. This partnership is inspiring staff and students

                                                                                                      Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
through interactions with elite athletes and performance coaches to help build our research culture,
strive for higher performance and deliver personal bests. For example, a Team GB cluster of PGR
students starts in 2021 to follow the Olympic cycle between Tokyo and Paris, mirroring the athlete
performance cycle whilst completing their research.

Through our international partnerships, we ensure that our research has a global impact. Our work
on modern slavery has led to the development of the Global Slavery Index which is used by
governments, researchers, NGOs and charities around the world to support the liberation of slaves
and their reintegration into society. Partnerships with researchers in Kenya have led to the
development of a lab-on-a-chip device to rapidly detect maternal infections which are dominant
cause of stillbirths, neonatal sepsis and mortality in Kenya. This work has recently been awarded a
Newton Prize.




                                                                                            Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2. Strategy

2.1 Vision and Strategic Aims

Motivated by society’s challenges and inspired by the power of our global community, our University
vision is to shape a fairer, brighter and carbon neutral future. With a research-led mission, we strive
for excellence in all our research activities and ensure that our research makes a distinctive impact.
The University research community uphold the principles of integrity, diversity, and inclusivity in all
of our activities. We empower our researchers to be at the forefront of current and future blue skies
and challenge-led research, whilst encouraging collaborative working, an interdisciplinary approach,
and developing talent.

Our strategic aims outlined in the University Strategic Plan (2016-2020), confirmed in the University
Research Strategy (2019-2024), are:

   •   Sharpening our focus
   •   Delivering high quality and impactful research
   •   Nurturing excellent researchers
   •   Engaging externally and building partnerships
   •   Enhancing research infrastructure

Implementation of the strategy is led by the PVC for Research & Enterprise and is delivered through
the central, faculty and institute delivery plans. Delivery is monitored through the University Research
Committee which provides assurance to Senate regarding oversight and governance. Membership
includes elected faculty representatives, early career researchers, a research student and research
leaders and managers. The Doctoral College ensures oversight of PGR programmes (section 3.1).

2.2 Strategic Delivery

To support the research delivery plans the QR income (~£8million, 2019) is allocated to the faculties
and institutes based on REF 2014 performance and HEIF funding is allocated through annual
competitions to support the translation of research into impact, proof of concept and collaborations
and partnerships, complemented by an Impact Acceleration Fund. Further support is provided
through an annual investment (£3million) in PhD studentships to create thematic clusters, and
encourage researchers from all disciplines to collaborate on the thematic research priorities.

This focussed investment has enabled significant progress in our priority areas. Advancements in
health inequities include the work of the Wolfson Palliative Care Research Centre, which has
established novel treatment and care protocols for cancer sufferers as part of palliative care;
development of the Hull Molecular Imaging Research Centre; the creation of the Institute for Clinical
and Applied Health Research, which brings together clinical researchers from across the Faculties
and has led to novel research outputs notably in the areas of alcohol withdrawal, sleep anxiety,
depression and cervical screening.

Decarbonisation, environmental and flood resilience research have been connected and advanced
through the creation of Aura and the Energy and Environment Institute which have achieved an ERC
Award, two UKRI Fellowships, two Leverhulme Fellowships, and a COP26 fellow in the past three
years along with platform funding from BEIS, and is leading a NERC Large Grant and an EPSRC-
NERC CDT. The University is also a principal partner with the universities of Durham and Sheffield,


                                                                                                Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy and Ørsted in an EPSRC funded Prosperity Partnerships
programme, “A New Partnership in Offshore Wind,” and Hull is leading research to establish
advanced modelling, design and manufacturing techniques for the development and evaluation of
novel blade and foundation structures and embedded sensing systems.

At the core of the University’s mission is our determination to promote social justice. Our Wilberforce
Institute, which focusses its research on Slavery and Emancipation, helped to shape the introduction
of the Modern Slavery Act 2015. It has secured £1,455,776 since 2014, including £582,955 (AHRC)
for an Antislavery Knowledge Network in sub-Saharan Africa, and over £350,000 (EU Horizon 2020)
for research into the legacies of European colonialism. In 2015 the Institute set up a slavery risk
assessment service for business supply chains including Aldi and Waitrose. In 2019 this record of
achievement led to the Wilberforce Institute being included in the £10million UK Modern Slavery
Policy and Evidence Centre (UKRI/AHRC). In 2015, the Wilberforce Institute was awarded the
prestigious Queen’s Anniversary Prize for its outstanding contribution to uncovering the real extent
of slavery around the globe, and highlighting how learning lessons from the past can improve our
future.

Our researchers played a pivotal role in Hull securing UK City of Culture in 2017 by informing the
winning bid, creating and producing events. The Culture, Place and Policy Institute evaluated the
socio-economic impact on the city of the year-long cultural programme, and informed and influenced
associated local heritage projects such as Hull’s successful ‘Maritime City’ bid (National Lottery).
This work contributed to the emergence of the creative industries theme as a research priority.

The strategy has also enabled new areas of research and a dynamic group of research centres,
including the GW Gray Centre for Advanced Materials, the Hoggart Centre for Comparative Cultural
Studies, the Centre for Human Factors and the EA Milne Centre for Astrophysics. These centres
have been successful in focusing research priorities with the latter securing £700k STFC funding.

Overall, the new university-level institutes have secured £11.2million in externally funded income
and our investment in PhD clusters has funded over 170 scholarships in 50 clusters, supporting
strategic priorities in diverse research areas. We have additionally match-funded 53 scholarships to
externally funded projects successfully building new partnerships and collaborations as a result.

2.3 Research and Innovation Support

The creation of a central research and innovation team (R&I) to foster, grow and support research
and innovation development, governance and impact has been pivotal in delivering the research
strategy. The R&I team supports researchers throughout the research lifecycle, supporting proposal
development, project costing and advice on planning and delivery of impact. Impact and
commercialisation of our research are further supported through the Knowledge Exchange team and
faculty specific resources. This transformation enabled a focus on longer, larger grants with
multidisciplinary collaboration, wide engagement and impact. This is exemplified by The Plastics
Collaboratory, a £1.2million EPSRC Plastics Research Innovation Fund project based on a
collaboration of 45 academics from 14 departments/schools to collectively address the issue of
plastic waste and pollution.

The University embraces the principles of the Concordat for Supporting Research Integrity through
robust systems of research governance and our framework of regulations, principles and standards
of good practice. This ensures all research is of high quality and is undertaken with integrity. The
University’s ethics review system is managed through Faculty Ethics Committees with University

                                                                                               Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Ethics Committee oversight. Ethics and integrity training are mandatory for all staff and postgraduate
students undertaking research.

Our Open Access Policy commits the University to provide systems and support for ‘green’ open
access and outputs are made available through our institutional repository. Support for ‘gold’ open
access is provided through the UKRI Block Grant and Library Collections budget to allow
participation in national read-and-publish deals, publisher-specific prepayment accounts and
publication of individual outputs. The principles of the University statement on responsible metrics
are being embedded in our activities and policies.

The University Library supports internal systems and contracts with external suppliers to meet
research data storage and preservation needs through the Research Data Management and Sharing
Policy. This includes providing research data storage facilities and expert advice on data
management plans. Researchers utilise the University’s digital repositories for data preservation and
are guided towards discipline-specific external services.

Researchers are supported by the Marketing and Communications team across multiple platforms,
including online, social media, PR and media, printed collateral and event support. Our research
successes are celebrated and showcased through news updates, events, newsletters, social media,
internal communications and case studies. Effective marketing support is provided for funding
applications, post-award promotion and dissemination of research outcomes.

2.4 Future Strategy

Over the REF period the University has made rapid progress in enhancing its research status and
reputation in a number of distinctive areas (Figure 1). Our aim is to build on these successes, whilst
enabling all our researchers to carry out excellent research that competes at an international level
and delivers significant impact. We are well placed to address the challenges and opportunities of a
rapidly changing world. A glocal approach coupled with a focus on our thematic research areas and
a need to build and maintain robust partnerships and collaborations will continue to be a central part
of our onward strategy. We are committed to nurturing our researchers through a focus on
development of early career academics, career enhancement, and by continuing to improve the
diversity of our research community. We will continue to target investments in capability, capacity
and infrastructure to support managed sustainable growth with a focus on high quality
interdisciplinary thematic research.




                                                                                              Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 3. People

3.1 Supporting Researchers

The University’s research strategy prioritises the nurturing of excellent researchers. It commits to
attracting, developing and empowering a diverse community of talented researchers and research
students; enabling them to deliver world-leading research and innovation and to fostering a research
environment that is inspiring, intellectually challenging, inclusive, collegiate and collaborative.

The Academic Careers Framework (ACF) was introduced in 2018 to support the alignment of
personal and professional development with the University’s strategic objectives. The framework is
designed to support a vibrant community of academics delivering excellence in their primary domain,
whether research, education or knowledge exchange. The application of the framework enables
academic staff to be recognised, developed, valued and rewarded for their work with parity in
support, promotion opportunities and personal and professional development - whichever domain
they are in. The ACF provides for staff transitioning between domains or to return after time in
University leadership roles with supported development plans.

The University is a member of Vitae and actively supports the Concordat to Support the Career
Development of Researchers, as recognised through holding the HR Excellence in Research Award
since 2012 and alignment with the principles of the European Charter for Researchers and Code of
Conduct for Recruitment.

As a result of survey feedback (e.g. CROS and PiRLS), we have improved Appraisal and
Development reviews to accurately reflect the career development needs of ECAs, including specific
reference to research integrity training and a prompt for career-focussed conversations. The portfolio
of research-related training opportunities has been enhanced and includes activities relating to
impact, publication, governance and public engagement. Our training support for researchers covers
all elements of the Vitae Researcher Development Framework (RDF). Support for those seeking
promotion has been improved with a tailored online course, briefings and drop-in sessions for
prospective applicants.

The support given to our research community and a more robust promotion process has resulted in
increased diversity in our promotions. Over the REF 2021 period, 133 of our staff have been
promoted to Senior Lecturer, 51 to Reader and 39 to Professor. Our promotions data demonstrate
an increase both in the proportion of applications from female colleagues and a corresponding
increase in promotions.

We have developed the Graduate School into a Doctoral College to integrate postgraduate activity
across the University and to ensure a vibrant research experience for all postgraduate research
students. A cornerstone of this is an accredited Postgraduate Researcher Training Scheme for all
postgraduate researchers, regardless of funding or sponsorship. The scheme is aligned with VITAE’s
RDF and mandates a range of generic research training, including research integrity and ethics. The
Doctoral College provides support through writing retreats, research seminars, public engagement
opportunities, funding for conferences and events and focus groups. Support for the University’s
CDTs and DTPs (section 4) is coordinated through the Doctoral College.




3.2 Ensuring Equality of Opportunity and a Diverse and Inclusive Research Community

                                                                                              Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


Inclusivity is a core value of the University. We are committed to ensuring all staff feel welcome,
supported and respected. Through inclusivity networks, values-based communications and
proactive development events and activities based around key characteristics and calendar dates
(such as Black History Month, LGBTQ+ History Month, Disability History Month), we work to create
cultural change through positive reinforcement of behaviours which uphold our goals of diversity,
respect and inclusion. This work is led by our Inclusion & Campus Community Team. We hold
institutional and departmental Bronze Athena Swan Charter accreditations (Silver in the Hull York
Medical School) and we remain committed to progressing these accreditations through detailed
institutional and individual faculty plans.

As outlined in our Code of Practice, all staff with an Academic Employment Function of Teaching
and Research were submitted to REF 2021.Our submitted population was 15.6% BAME (9.9% in
REF 2014), 2.7% LGBT (1.1% in REF 2014), 32% were female (33.3% in REF 2014) and 7.4% had
a declared disability (7.5% in REF 2014).

The University has taken successful steps towards improving the historical underrepresentation of
female research staff through proactively encouraging staff to participate in initiatives such as the
Minerva Network for Academic Women, the Women in Higher Education Network and Aurora
programme (AdvanceHE). As a consequence, the proportion of promotion applications by female
staff has increased significantly (35% to 43%) – and the success rate of these applications even
more so (51% to 73%). We are embedding policy and support for transgender colleagues with
assistance from Gendered Intelligence for Training and Stonewall, as a member of their Diversity
Champion Programme. We have made significant commitments over the past 12 months in direct
response to the Equality & Human Rights Commission report on Tackling Racial Harassment and
the #blacklivesmatter movement to advance our agenda for racial inclusion.

Over the REF period, the number of female PGR students has increased from 45% to 49% of the
population. 29% of our PGR students in 2019/20 were BAME and 15% had a declared disability. To
ensure that diversity is not a factor in recruitment, our AURA CDT has pioneered innovative
recruitment and selection processes that have equality, diversity and inclusion at their core, including
a double-blind process, monitoring from advertisement to interview and bias training that has been
highlighted by UKRI and EPSRC as best practice in the sector. We are in the process of rolling this
approach out across the University.

We recognise that although we have made progress we still have much to do and we are committed
to further improvement and achieving our goals of diversity, respect and inclusion.




                                                                                                Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

The University has invested in systems, facilities and people to support research and impact
throughout this REF period. The investments have resulted in a substantially increased value of
awards, an enhanced physical environment for the research community and more effective research
processes and procedures.

4.1 Income and awards

The University has secured over £150million external investment in its research and innovation
activities, including £75.6million from research grants and contracts (Figure 3). The University has a
successful history of engaging in the EU’s framework programmes and has been awarded 25
projects valued at €11.8 million from the current Horizon 2020 programme, collaborating with 215
different organisations from 24 countries.




Figure 3. Research income by major source in REF 2021.

The following demonstrates the diversity of our funded research projects:
   • Morphodynamic Stickiness: the influence of physical and biological cohesion in sedimentary
        systems (ERC Consolidator, 2017, €2,581,155);
   • TRANSFORM: Reducing Inequalities in Cancer Outcomes in Yorkshire (Yorkshire Cancer
        Research, 2017, £4,945,546), collaborating with the Hull University Teaching Hospital NHS
        Trust and University of York;
   • ‘Antislavery Usable Past’ aimed to create a series of ground-breaking databases to
        understand cultures of anti-slavery activism (AHRC, 2014, £1.5million);
   • ‘Liverpool-Humber Optimisation of Freight Transport’ aims to establish a freight transport
        corridor between Liverpool and the Humber, reducing UK land freight transport through
        collaborative multi-modal transport planning, lowering congestion and CO2 emissions
        (Innovate UK, 2017, £1,489,613);


                                                                                             Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
   •   Project X aims to deepen academic and policy makers' understanding major government
       project and programme delivery in collaboration with the Cabinet office and universities
       including Sussex, Oxford and Manchester (ESRC, 2018, £1,001,783);
   •   ‘A low carbon heating system for existing public buildings employing the innovative mixed
       indoor/outdoor air source heat pump and multiple-throughout-flowing micro-channel solar
       panels array’ (BEIS, 2018, £1,982,251.20).

In addition to HESA-reportable research grants and contracts the University has also been
successful in securing additional research funding. This includes:
   • Yorkshire Cancer Research endowment funding (£5million)
   • I3 (£400k) from Research England to increase the scale and impact of our research on
       palliative and chronic care through international collaboration with the University Technology
       Sydney.
   • Thyme (£1.25m) a Connecting Capabilities Fund project to boost the bioeconomy across
       Yorkshire, the Humber region and the Tees Valley

The University is part of four CDTs or equivalent, expanding provision for doctoral research students.
These are the EPSRC-NERC Aura CDT, the NERC Panorama DTP, the ESRC White Rose Social
Sciences DTP and the AHRC Heritage Consortium. The University also fully funds 50-60 PhD
Scholarships annually (Section 2).

Our research funding is complemented by approximately £40million innovation funding from ESIF
(Figure 2). This enables our researchers to collaborate with external partners and provides
opportunities to drive impact from our research. These investments include:
    • Aura Innovation Centre (£12million)
    • Flood Innovation Centre (£3.4million)
    • Sparkfund (£ 17.8 million), an innovation support and grants programme

4.2 Infrastructure and Facilities
University of Hull is primarily campus-based but has strategically aligned satellite research sites at
Castle Hill Hospital, The Deep Conservation Aquarium, Hull History Centre, Aura Innovation Centre
and historic city centre locations for the Marine and Maritime Institute (Blaydes House) and the
Wilberforce Institute (Oriel Chambers) to ensure appropriate access and proximity to important
place-based partners.

In 2016 the University’s main performance auditorium (Middleton Hall) and associated recording
studios were refurbished (£9.6million) to the standard of leading-edge facilities with Solid State Logic
consoles, including a 3D Ambisonics studio and concert hall with an innovative automated flexible
acoustic. The hall was central to the City of Culture celebrations including a live broadcast of A
Clockwork Orange on BBC Radio 3 performed by the BBC Philharmonic.

To support health-related research, we have invested in a health campus including ICAHR, the Hull
Health Trials Unit and a new £28million Medical School Building. Linked to the Health Campus is a
£12million investment in The Molecular Imaging Research Centre at Castle Hill Hospital and
investments with pioneering healthcare businesses.

The University’s High-Performance Computer (VIPER), a £2.86 million investment in one of the most
powerful academic HPC resources in the UK, ran its first job in 2016. The cluster has approximately
5,500 Intel Broadwell CPU cores and includes high memory nodes with 1TB RAM, dedicated GPU

                                                                                               Page 11
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
nodes and visualisation nodes. VIPER is supported by a team of HPC system specialists. To date,
more than 3.2 million jobs have run VIPER, consuming 120 million core hours and used by 470 staff
and students. Work undertaken on VIPER has contributed to at least 69 research outputs to date.

A £2.2m investment in a new Energy and Environment Building, provided dedicated collaboration
space to focus on research concerning environmental resilience and sustainability. During the REF
period there have been further investments in flume equipment, ICPMS, specialist and field
equipment and the University has maintained its investment in the state-of-the-art Total Environment
Simulator. The University has partnered with Humberside Fire and Rescue Service to design and
propose a research-led National Centre for Flood Resilience (Ark). Through Aura, academics are
linked to other universities, specialist centres and industry. The £12m Aura Innovation Centre (AIC)
provides space with specialist support and infrastructure to enable collaborative research and
innovation (see section 2) focused on low carbon sectors.

The University’s Brynmor Jones Library houses research collections and is open 24/7. Fully
refurbished in 2015 at a cost of £28million, the Library houses more than a million books (including
more than 4000 rare books), has separate research study areas, a PGR-only facility and
collaborative working zones. Extensive archive collections are available through Hull History Centre,
a purpose-built city-centre location managed in partnership between the University and Hull City
Council.

In addition to specialist facilities the University has invested in research equipment to improve and
replace redundant equipment and to support new areas of research. This includes a technology
innovation hub, new sports centre, the Bloomberg Suite (an industry standard facility giving real-time
access to global financial data) and redevelopment of dedicated PGR workspaces in the faculties.

Research management was enhanced by a new research information system (Worktribe). The
system enables researchers to develop project ideas, apply for funding approvals, track spend
against active projects and record all outputs. This provides automatic updates to staff website
profiles and easy management of Open Access compliance. The University also provides access to
Grantfinder, enabling researchers and research managers to search for relevant funding sources
and identify potential new funders.

Our targeted investments into research support teams, research systems, high performance
computing, equipment, buildings, and vehicles for impact (ESIF programmes) have had a positive
impact on our capabilities and capacity to produce internationally excellence research. We will
continue to make targeted investments in our infrastructure to support managed sustainable growth
and greater research outcomes.




                                                                                             Page 12
