Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Solent University
 Context and mission

    Who we are and our direction of travel

    1. Solent is a relatively young university. We have made rapid progress on our developmental
       journey to becoming research-informed and research-active. This has been driven by our
       recognition that, as we are still maturing, we have an opportunity to build an environment
       in which our researchers are central to what we do and are supported, valued and
       celebrated throughout their careers.

    2. We set ourselves a series of ambitious targets designed to capture and build on this
       developmental moment and its momentum. Our mission for 2015-2020 was to make a
       step-change in our commitment to research.

    3. The result is reflected in our REF 2021 submission, which includes:

        •   Submission to three Units of Assessment (UoA) – 20, 24 and 34 (20 for the first time)
        •   Six impact case studies based on research ranging from Agatha Christie to Chinese
            seafarers’ rights
        •   134 outputs submitted by 57 staff (54.83 FTE)

    4. Our progress is also clear from our current projects and activities, including:

        •   The Assessment of Physical and Economic Coastal Vulnerability of South Asia
            (supported by the Global Challenges Research Fund)
        •   The Implementation of Ship Hybridisation (supported by the European Regional
            Development Fund)
        •   Ports Energy and Carbon Savings (supported by the European Regional Development
            Fund)
        •   The Intelligent Ship Centre (supported by the Department of Transport)

    Our development plan

    5. The table below outlines how we made our step-change.


            Solent Research Development Timeline 2015 - 2020

    2014        •   Senior Research & Enterprise Officer role created
                •   Director of Research, Innovation and Enterprise role created
                •   Strategy for 2015-20 released, embedding research as a key Solent priority
    2015        •   Solent Research & Innovation sub-strategy 2015-20 published
                •   Research and Innovation Office founded
                •   Introduction of Research Hubs
                •   Introduction of School research leads
    2016
                •   Launch of the Researcher Development Programme (RDP)
                •   Investment in the PURE research management information system
                •   Solent awarded Research Degree Awarding Powers
    2017
                •   Investment in Post-Doctoral Researcher and Research Fellow posts
                •   Introduction of the Research Career Pathway and Allocated Workload
    2018
                    Planning



                                                                                           Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
                •   Sabbatical policy introduced
    2019
                •   Introduction of Professional Doctorates
                •   Creation of and appointment to the role of Pro-Vice Chancellor of Research
    2020            & Knowledge Exchange (PVC R&KE)
                •   Strategy for 2020-25 released, including research as a core theme
 Strategy

    6. Our strategic aim for 2015-2020 was to provide our researchers with the tools they needed
       to be successful and competitive and to establish mechanisms through which Solent’s
       expertise and analysis could be brought into the public forum. By 2020, we aimed to be
       recognised and distinguished by our focus on the translation of knowledge into societal
       and economic benefit and our engagement with local communities and businesses.

    7. The result was a framework through which we have established research as a core pillar
       of Solent’s activities. Since REF 2014 we have achieved:

       •    Grant capture of £1,362,000
       •    Publication of 411 articles in peer-reviewed journals
       •    Award of 38 Research Degrees
       •    Employment of 18 postdoctoral researchers and 5 research fellows

    8. We built this framework by ensuring that our Strategy was designed at the highest level
       within the University, with detailed and ongoing input from across our research community,
       from our doctoral students and early career researchers (ECRs) to our Deans. This meant
       we could set and measure ourselves against ambitious and objectives. Our approach to
       Strategy design and its objectives is outlined below.

    Design and implementation

    9. Solent’s research strategy is designed, instigated and overseen at the institutional level.
       Three committees, the Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee (RKEC), the
       Research Degrees Committee (RDC) and the University Research Ethics Committee
       (UREC), report to the Academic Board and maintain oversight of research across the
       University.

    10. The Strategy’s implementation and effectiveness are monitored by the Research and
        Knowledge Exchange Committee (RKEC), which is chaired by the Deputy Vice Chancellor
        and on which the PVC R&KE sits.

    11. The strategy is further developed and implemented at a thematic level. Our themes were
        initially encompassed within four broad Research Hubs: Business and Society; Creative
        and Digital Industries; Maritime, Technology and Environment; and Sport, Health and
        Wellbeing.

    12. The Research Hubs were an important step in establishing an institutional focus on
        fostering existing and emergent areas of research strength. From them, four thematic
        areas emerged, allowing us to disband the Hubs. Our research is now focused in four
        areas broadly aligned the UoAs we have set as our initial targets for REF 2027 (7, 20, 24
        and 34).

    13. From 2020, strategy development also takes places at the Faculty and School level, within
        the Faculties of: Sport, Health, and Social Sciences; Creative Industries, Architecture and
        Engineering; and Business, Law and Digital Technologies; and within the Warsash
        Maritime School. These each reflect and strategically complement our traditional


                                                                                            Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
         disciplinary strengths, as well as encompassing and encouraging multidisciplinary and
         interdisciplinary research.

      Objectives, activities and achievements

      14. The 2015-2020 strategy was built around eight objectives. As detailed below, we have
          made substantial progress against each objective.

    Objective                             Activities and achievements
    Secure research       degree-awarding Achieved: August 2017
  1
    powers
                                          Achieved: Research, Innovation and Enterprise
                                          (RIE) Office established: 2015
                                          RIE team provides: policies, procedures, pre- and
                                          post-award support, project management support,
                                          support for impact development and measurement,
    Improve infrastructure through the IP support, open access, open data, research
  2
    Research and Innovation Office        integrity, ongoing implementation of the Concordats
                                          to Support the Career Development of Researchers
                                          Research Integrity.
                                          RIE team member sat on the writing group for the
                                          2019 revision of the Concordat to Support the
                                          Career Development of Researchers.
                                          Achieved: through the introduction of School
    Establish a strong focus for research research leads, School doctoral student co-
  3
    and innovation in each School         ordinators, dedicated internal RIKE funding as
                                          pump priming for research
    Develop cross-institutional research
                                         Achieved: Research Hubs were established in 2016
    groups based on interdisciplinary
  4
    areas and addressing real world to nurture cross-institutional collaborative research.
    issues                               18 post-doctoral researchers employed since 2016

                                            Achieved: Submission of 54.83 FTE to three UoAs
                                            has been supported by the development of a
    Improve performance in the next REF
                                            website section on REF, provision of REF briefings
  5 and enhance Solent’s position in the
                                            during annual RDP, introduction of the research
    research league table
                                            pathway, intra-School peer review and mentoring
                                            systems, and sabbaticals.
                                            Achieved: for example, the Gender, Empowerment
    Improve Solent’s external reputation    and Multicultural Crews project was shortlisted for
    for research and innovation and         THE Research Project of the Year in Arts,
    maximise external research income
  6                                         Humanities & Social Sciences.
    from the LEP, Research Councils UK,
    charities, Government departments       Implementation of the Concordats for Engaging the
    and the European Union                  Public with Research Open Research Data are both
                                            regularly review
                                            Achieved: for example, through appointment of a
                                            Professor of Research Informed Teaching,
      Require research-informed teaching    participation in the British Conference of
  7
      and student engagement in research    Undergraduate Research (BCUR) and engagement
                                            in the British Association for Sport and Exercise
                                            Sciences (BASES)
    Strengthen the University’s overall
                                        Achieved: through ongoing development of annual
  8 performance   in  research    and
                                        RDP, improvement in HE-BCI indicators,
    innovation


                                                                                          Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
                                            investment in pump priming funding and the PURE
                                            research management information system (RIMS)

    Development and next steps

    15. Throughout the Covid-19 pandemic, we maintained our research environment by
        supporting the innovative ways our researchers and PGR students found to move their
        activities online. Where this was not possible, we provided supports, such as extensions
        to deadlines, and Covid-19-safe working environments. Communication was key to
        achieving this, and we have learned valuable lessons which will feed into our research
        environment as we move forward.

    16. Our 2020-2025 strategy builds on the achievements of the 2015-2020 strategy and
        continues to set ambitions objectives, actions and targets for research and knowledge
        exchange.

    17. Key elements of our strategy for research include:

       •   The appointment of a Pro Vice Chancellor of Research and Knowledge Exchange in
           August 2020
               o The PVC R&KE will provide strategic research leadership.
       •   The establishment of multi- and interdisciplinary teams led by senior academic staff.
               o Each team will focus on a UoA area in which Solent’s strengths are
                  concentrated, providing mentoring and development opportunities for staff and
                  research students at all levels of their studies and careers.
       •   Each UoA who will have a leader responsible for progressing for submission in the next
           REF supported by researchers with unit specific research interests. The launch of the
           Solent Graduate School
               o The School will improve and formalise our training programme for postgraduate
                  research (PGR) students and provide a supportive environment for both
                  students and supervisors.
               o This will include delivery of new taught modules leading to a PG Certificate
                  award for PGR students.
               o The Executive Board has already approved PhD bursaries. Each of the Units
                  will be awarded fully paid bursaries for the period between REF 2021 and the
                  next REF.
       •   Enhanced provision of staff development opportunities and time for research and
           knowledge exchange activities, research mentoring, and improved governance
           arrangements, underpinned by external review.
               o The infrastructural focus on research will provide both the support for research
                  activities, as well as the flexibility to develop individual plans to promote
                  research driven career development, at all levels of University.

    18. We will build on our research mentoring arrangements, underpinned by research time
        allowances and sabbaticals, and closely monitor their impacts on outputs and income. We
        will ensure that the benefits of our research are felt by industry, local communities and
        more widely, through our digital presence and strong networks. We will build a
        comprehensive research database of the individual research and knowledge exchange
        plans of academic staff, make the best use of RIMS, and build a Research Dashboard to
        monitor progress in all research-related activities. The Strategy highlights the need for
        successful negotiation of interdependencies with academic and professional support in the


                                                                                           Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
       University. Together these initiatives will drive and grow Solent's research environment
       and help build our research impact.




 People

    Research staffing

    19. We recognise that the experiences and development of our research staff are central to a
        thriving research environment. Our focus is on four key areas: recruitment, development,
        recognition, and equality and diversity, as detailed below.

       Recruitment

    20. We have taken a strategic approach to recruitment. Requirements for academic
        appointments now include specific research-related experience (appropriate to career
        stage). These are assessed at interview and are central to appointment decisions.

    21. As a result, since 2017, Solent has employed 18 ECRs and 5 research fellows.

       Development

    22. A dedicated Research Office, headed by a newly appointed Director of Research,
        Innovation & Enterprise, was founded in 2015. Three staff were employed, focussing on
        post-graduate research degree administration, bid management and researcher training
        and development.

    23. To meet the increasing demands of the rapidly growing research focus, the Research
        Office now has a further four roles focussed on research integrity, research information
        systems, REF administration and research project management. Following the
        appointment of the PVC R&KE, further developments in research support are planned as
        our research activities continue to grow.

    24. We encourage academic staff to undertake research qualifications as appropriate. Since
        2013, 45 colleagues have commenced or attained a research degree.

    25. Solent is committed to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers,
        underlining its continuing work towards improving employment and support for researchers
        and research careers.

    26. The University is also a member of GuildHE Research, the research consortium for smaller
        and specialist higher education institutions. This is a collegiate peer-to-peer network of 30
        comparable institutions that supports its members to embed a positive research culture,
        develop robust research and innovation strategies, and establish appropriate infrastructure
        through which they can drive their ambitions. It provides researchers of all stages with
        opportunities to network and collaborate with peers across the UK and from a broad range
        of disciplines, facilitating activities, including an annual doctoral summer school, training
        events, and opportunities to forge new projects and communicate their research.

    27. This commitment to our researchers is also reflected in our annual Researcher
        Development Programme. Launched in 2016 and facilitated by the Research Office, the
        RDP is based on the Vitae Researcher Development Framework and provides a range of


                                                                                              Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
        on-line resources and training sessions on research skills development to doctoral
        students and academic staff.

    28. Since 2016, over 2,900 staff and students have attended training sessions and events
        covering areas including: doctoral supervision, research integrity, research methods,
        funding and bidding guidance and maximising impact. The programme is responsive to
        participant feedback and has evolved as demand has increased. It is highly valued by
        participants, with 99% of respondents to a 2018/19 survey indicating that the sessions they
        had attended were useful for their professional development.

        Recognition

    29. The research career pathway was introduced 2018. This ensures that academic staff are
        allocated dedicated time for furthering their research activities through Allocated
        Workload Planning (AWP). All those on the pathway were initially allocated 300 hours.
        From 2021 onwards, allocation of hours will be regularly reviewed to ensure that it is
        appropriate to researchers’ activities and plans.

    30. Applications to the research pathway are encouraged and are considered annually.
        Similarly, those on the pathway are encouraged to apply for promotion within it, with
        applications assessed yearly.

    31. In 2019, this commitment to research active staff was further supported by the introduction
        of a sabbatical policy, which has already supported a staff member starting a PhD by prior
        publication.

        Equality and diversity

    32. A focus on equality and diversity (as evidenced, for example, by our commitment to
        working towards achieving an Athena Swan award) has been at the heart of this consistent
        and ongoing commitment to researcher development and the development of our research
        community.

    33. As a result, we have seen an increase in the number of staff Solent has submitted to REF,
        from 35.55 FTE in 2014 (representing 43 academics) to 53.82 FTE for 2021 (representing
        57 academic staff).

    34. The profile of our staff has also changed. Figure 1 compares our REF 2021 cohort with
        our wider academic staff. Comparatively more of our REF submitted staff are younger
        (57% are 40 or under compared with 31% of all academic staff), BAME (23% and 16%),
        and non-UK nationals (30% and 18%), while similar proportions are female (40% and
        39%), and comparatively slightly fewer have a disability (3% and 5%).

    35. Figure 2 shows the proportion of academic staff1 in each of these groups for the years
        2014 to 2020. With the exception of staff with a disability, which has remained broadly
        steady, the proportions of younger, female, BAME and non-UK staff have all increased
        over this period. This comparative profile reflects our commitments to both ECRs and to
        equality and diversity.




1The Research Pathway was not introduced until 2018, so comparisons over time have not been
carried out for this sub-group of our academic staff.
                                                                                            Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

                       UK
      Non UK/unknown
          White/unknown
                  BAME
  No disability/unknown
               Disability
                   Male
                 Female
              41 or over
             40 or under

                        0.0%    10.0%   20.0%     30.0%    40.0%       50.0%    60.0%       70.0%    80.0%   90.0%   100.0%

                                        REF 2021 returned staff        All academic staff

 Figure 1: Proportion of REF 2021 returned and all academic staff by age, gender, disability,
 ethnicity and nationality, on 31st July 2020

  40.0%

  35.0%

  30.0%

  25.0%

  20.0%

  15.0%

  10.0%

   5.0%

   0.0%
                2014            2015          2016             2017              2018               2019         2020

                       40 or under       Female           Disability           BAME            Non UK/unknown

 Figure 2: Proportion of academic staff by age, gender, disability, ethnicity and nationality
 on 31st July for 2014 to 2020

    36. The University offers a range of working arrangements, including full-time, part-time, term
        time only, compressed hours and job share, and recognises that flexible working
        arrangements, where these can be accommodated by the School or Service, can bring
        mutual benefits to both employees and the University.

    37. Our policies and strategic approach to equality and diversity are developed at the highest
        level within the University. Their implementation is monitored and overseen by the Equality,
        Safeguarding and Wellbeing Committee (set up in 2018 as the Equality and Wellbeing
        Committee), which is chaired by the Deputy Vice Chancellor and reports to the Vice
        Chancellor’s Group.

    38. Additionally, the People and Development Annual Report, which contains data on staff
        protected characteristics, goes to the Board of Governors. This is integral to the targets,
        such as narrowing the gender pay gap, against which the University measures its progress.

                                                                                                                        Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


    39. In support of this focus on people, the Solent Values, introduced in 2015, set out six
        principles (Respect, Inclusivity, Integrity, Ownership, Engagement and Teamwork), which
        reinforce our commitment to equality and diversity across all our activities. These principles
        are actively considered as part of the annual personal development reviews carried out for
        all staff. They have been further supported by the introduction, in 2019, of our Equality and
        Diversity e-Learning course. All staff are required to complete the course on joining Solent
        and every two years thereafter, and over 80% have completed it to date.

    40. This overarching commitment to equality and diversity is reflected in Solent’s research. For
        example, one of the Impact Case studies submitted in REF 2021 is the result of research
        focused on gender empowerment and multicultural crews in merchant shipping; and the
        Kick it Out campaign, to which Solent’s researchers made a significant contribution,
        highlights measures to address racism and homophobia in football. Our researchers are
        continuing to develop further impact case studies for potential inclusion in future REF
        cycles which hold equality and diversity principles at their heart.

    Research students

    41. Solent attained Research Degree Awarding Powers (RDAP) in August 2017. Prior to this,
        Solent awarded doctoral degrees through Nottingham Trent University. The attainment of
        RDAP was a key strategic goal of the University’s 2015-2020 Strategic Plan.

    42. The focus has been on our areas of research excellence and supervisory expertise,
        including practice-related research degrees, particularly sport and maritime engineering
        focused projects. Solent currently has 77 registered Doctoral students. Seventy percent
        are studying part-time, reflecting our support of staff wishing to develop their research
        careers. Since RDAP was attained, 20 postgraduate students have been awarded their
        degrees (16 PhD and 4 MPhil).

    43. Our approach to PGR student recruitment is becoming increasingly strategic. From 2021,
        we will require applicants to indicate how their proposed research aligns to our research
        priority areas.

    44. The Research Degree Committee (RDC) is Chaired by the PVC for Research & Knowledge
        Exchange and oversees the governance of Research Degree provision at Solent.
        Postgraduate student representatives are appointed annually to the Committee by doctoral
        student nominations, ensuring the input of the student body into the governance of
        research degree provision.

    45. All doctoral students are reviewed annually by a School doctoral review panel chaired by
        the School Doctoral Coordinator, which assesses their progress and needs. This process
        is overseen by the Research Office, which encourages students to evaluate their learning
        and training needs and develop their research and communication skills in preparation
        both for furthering their academic qualifications and for employment.

    46. The RDP makes specific provisions for doctoral student training, covering areas such as
        methodology, qualitative and quantitative research, literature review training and
        preparation for milestones, amongst other sessions. Students are encouraged and
        supported to participate in other on-line and in-person training, such as sessions run by
        the University of East Anglia, Angel Productions and the GuildHE summer school, for which
        the Research Office directly funds students expressing an interest in attending. The RDP
        newsletter advertising all upcoming training and news is issued on a fortnightly basis to all
        doctoral students and academic staff, and feedback is actively encouraged.



                                                                                               Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    47. Additionally, doctoral student feedback is received and implemented through other
        mechanisms, such as during annual monitoring, the RDC and the PRES. Changes in
        response to this feedback include enhanced on-line signposting to resources and
        website improvements simplification of forms and the creation of a doctoral student
        handbook to incorporate all guidance within a single document.

    48. Doctoral students have access to an annual allowance of £500 to facilitate conference
        attendance and specialist training and resources.

 Income, infrastructure and facilities

    49. As indicated above, the Strategic Plan for 2015-2020 introduced a step change in the
        University’s infrastructure to support research development. Key to this was the inception,
        in 2015, of the Research Office. The instigation of the new role of PVC R&KE in 2020
        placing representation of the Research Office within the Vice Chancellor’s Group for the
        first time and firmly establishing research at the heart of our strategic priorities, crystallises
        the progress made since 2015. As well as the PVC R&KE joining the VC’s Group the
        Deans have also been added to the Group. This has significantly improved the level of
        Academic Leadership at the University and as a result the weighting given to research
        when decisions are being made at the Institutional level.

    50. As of 2020, Solent has seven emergent research communities, involving 47 researchers,
        working in areas ranging from Culture, Media and Place to Wellbeing and Applied
        Research in Psychology.

    51. In line with the Strategic Plan, growth has been supported by an ambitious Infrastructure
        Plan. This has targeted areas of strength, so building towards the REF 2021, and also
        emerging areas in which the University is seeking to build for REF 2027/8. One of the most
        significant of these investments, complementing Solent’s towing tank and ship handling
        centre, has been the suite of maritime simulators funded by the Gosling Foundation. As
        the UK's largest ship and port simulation centre, the suite offers not only exceptional
        training using the latest facilities, but also unique support and expanded capacity for
        maritime research, particularly around the maritime workplace.

    52. We have also invested in state-of-the-art sports facilities, which include a new sports
        building housing not only a gym, but also conference and testing areas, all fully equipped
        with the latest technological and analytical tools to enable research.

    53. More generally, Solent’s research environment has been supported by the provision of the
        Researcher Launchpad. This is a large space, fully equipped with both in-person and
        virtual meeting facilities, that is entirely dedicated for use by researchers. In addition to
        hosting research groups, seminars, and meetings with internal and external collaborators,
        the Launchpad is used for location-based researcher training and postgraduate research
        student events. It also serves as an informal space, where researchers meet, connect and
        share ideas.

    54. In addition to ongoing refurbishment of Solent’s audio-visual suites and various other
        studios, in 2018 the University invested in laboratory and training suites to support the
        emergence of subjects in Allied Health and Psychology which will be developed for the
        2027 REF. This includes recruitment of staff and a doctoral student involved in
        microbiology research.

    55. The University has invested £4,000 in impact consultancy since 2018.

    56. Between 2015 and 2018, invited keynote and closing keynote speakers to our annual
        research and innovation conference included: Judith Mottram (Professor of Visual Arts &

                                                                                                   Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
        Dean of the School of Material, Royal College of Arts & REF2014 sub-panel 34 member),
        Andrew Chitty (AHRC, Creative Economy Champion), George Mackay (Professor of Media
        Studies, UEA), David Sweeney (Director, Research and Knowledge Exchange, HEFCE)
        and Lauren Bowker (Textile Alchemist, the Unseen).

    57. The University invested in the Pure Central Research Management Information System in
        2016, as part of its commitment to growing its research profile, as well as to open access
        and open data. The system is used as a repository for research outputs and to manage
        and support research bid development, through to award project management.

 Summary
   58. For REF 2021, the University is submitting in three core areas. Two (24 and 34) build on
       our 2014 submission, and investment in facilities and recruitment in both areas
       demonstrates Solent’s ongoing commitment to their growth and development. The third
       (20), to which we are submitting for the first time, represents the culmination of the cross-
       institutional theme of workplace, inequalities and life-course, which was emergent in 2014.
       Support through the development of ECRs, and investments such as the maritime
       simulator suite, have led to a growing research community engaged in a wide range of
       activities.

    59. Since REF 2014, Solent has made the step change to becoming a research-active
        University. We have gained RDAP, introduced a research career pathway, appointed a
        PVC R&KE, added the deans to the VC’s group and employed 23 staff on dedicated
        research contracts. Our 2020-2025 strategy will ensure that this trajectory continues at
        increased pace, building a stronger and more supportive environment for our growing
        research community.




                                                                                            Page 10
