0B   Institution: UNIVERSITY OF ABERDEEN

1B   1. Context and mission

Founded in 1495, the University of Aberdeen is the third oldest in Scotland and the 5th oldest
in the English-speaking world. We are a community of 729 (698.13 FTE) researchers and
around 15,000 students representing more than 130 nationalities. We present for assessment
22 submissions, including all our eligible staff.

Our foundational purpose, reaffirmed in our Aberdeen 2040 strategy is to be open to all and
dedicated to the pursuit of truth in the service of others. Aberdeen 2040 commits us to
be inclusive, interdisciplinary, international and sustainable. Grounded in the service of
others we further committed to work together to address five interdisciplinary challenges of
our time: energy transition; social inclusion and cultural diversity; data and artificial
intelligence; environment and biodiversity; and health, nutrition and well-being. These
urgent and wide-ranging problems require complex solutions, which draw on both theoretical
and applied knowledge. We will engage with them collaboratively, combining ideas and
approaches across our areas of excellence.

This purpose underpins our ethos and guides our actions. Our research generates new
insights in medicine, science and engineering, law, business, social sciences, arts and
humanities. Announced in 2020, the Times Higher Education World University rankings 2021
confirmed our top 200 position and place us 15th in the UK for citations performance. We build
capability and capacity through interdisciplinary collaboration and engagement with
stakeholders across government, industry and community to ensure we build sustainable
partnerships that tackle major societal challenges.

Our research is rigorous and seeks to have a direct impact on the theoretical and practical
challenges faced by our society. Our research also informs our curriculum, shaping what
and how we teach.

Supported by the wider Senior Management Team, the Vice-Principal Research is
responsible for the strategic direction and delivery of our research portfolio. She is supported
by four Deans of Research responsible for specific aspects of research: Interdisciplinary
Research & Research Impact; Industrial Engagement in Research & Knowledge
Transfer; Cultural Strategy & Research Governance; Graduate Research School.
Together with the Director of Research & Innovation, and her extensive team, they work
with our twelve Schools to enable high quality research, further enhance research culture and
ensure that the objectives of our institutional strategy are met.

The high level objectives set out in our strategy are delivered by twelve Schools (each with
dedicated School Directors of Research). They have authority to develop their own
priorities within the framework of the overall institutional plan. This enables Schools to explore
and support areas of developing research excellence and be agile in response to emergent
societal needs. It allows them to respond to specific disciplinary priorities and needs, while
engaging with diverse stakeholders and partners.

The first half of the REF2021 assessment period saw considerable shrinkage of staff
numbers, accompanied by significant organisational change, and refocusing of our
research strategy and capability. This was followed by a renewal of our staff base towards
the middle of the assessment period through strategic recruitment, with strong investment
in areas of existing and potential research excellence and supporting impact and
engagement. This recent investment has also supported the appointment of five Research
Directors to support our core interdisciplinary challenge areas (see section 2) adding
significant expanded senior strategic leadership to our research portfolio.
The current Covid-19 pandemic has provided a strong test of the agility and adaptability of
our researcher community and support structures. Despite lockdown restrictions, we
responded quickly, with flexibility and creativity, delivering high-quality, impactful research
that has already directly informed the international effort to combat the pandemic and
support future recovery. Research we co-led underpinned the re-opening of dental
practices across the UK and was shared as best practice around the world by the World
Health Organisation.

2B   2. Strategy

Following extensive consultation with the academic community, we articulated our vision for
the next 20 years in our new institutional strategy, Aberdeen 2040. As indicated in Section 1,
our strategy is to deliver high quality research that is rigorous, relevant, inclusive and
capable of making a real difference to lives.

We identified five core interdisciplinary challenge priorities as our main areas of focus:
energy transition; social inclusion and cultural diversity; data and artificial
intelligence; environment and biodiversity; and health, nutrition and well-being. These
were purposively chosen as they are areas of sustained research excellence and have
deep and continued societal relevance. For example, our work in health services and
health economics research was awarded the Queens Anniversary Prize for sustained
research excellence and impact in 2017. (The Queens Anniversary Prize is part of the UK
Honours System and is the highest national honour awarded in the UK in further and higher
education.) Through the design and delivery of innovative and impactful research in these
interdisciplinary areas, we contribute to the economic, physical, social and cultural well-being
nationally, and internationally, including working towards achieving the United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs), in partnerships with academic and non-
academic partners. They are underpinned by our core themes; to be inclusive,
interdisciplinary, international and sustainable.

People are at the heart of our research success. The sustainability of the research base
and the pipeline of talented researchers are important tenets of our institutional strategy. We
seek to ensure that individual researchers are supported in reaching their potential and that
the research environment is free of discrimination and harassment.

Enabling interdisciplinarity
Interdisciplinary research (IDR) is core to our institutional strategy, and builds on our strong
history of interconnectedness of disciplines and partnership working generally. It enables us
to seek to address the complex challenges of our time, which require innovative research
solutions involving theoretical and applied knowledge. In support of interdisciplinary research,
we have:
    • created a new research leadership role in 2019 in the Dean for Interdisciplinary
        Research and Research Impact;
    • set up centres around our five interdisciplinary challenges, each with its own Director
        to catalyse research growt;
    • established a programme of networking and engagement delivered through the
        Grants Academy run by the Research & Innovation directorate;
    • established pump priming funds and enhanced our research leave policy to enable
        researchers to develop IDR research concepts and proposals;
    • created dedicated IDR space and online fora for networking and teamworking;
    • commenced plans for the development of a state-of-the-art interdisciplinary hub (to
        be completed in the next five years).
Enabling impact
Our research is designed to be globally excellent, competitive and relevant. International
outlook and collaboration are key. We advance international engagement and partnership
through focus on international priorities including the UN SDGs. According to CWTS Leiden
rankings, 66.5% of our outputs have international co-authors (2015-18).

We are committed to delivering research that produces impact. Support for researchers in
this regard is located primarily within the Research & Innovation Directorate (R&I). The Vice-
Principal for Research provides strategic leadership, supported by the Dean for
Interdisciplinary Research and Research Impact and the Dean for Industrial
Engagement in Research and Knowledge Exchange. They work closely with Schools to
enable delivery of our objectives for impact and knowledge exchange, leading a programme
of development, support and pump priming that is delivered through the Grants Academy
(see section 3).

Our impact strategy is supported through several key mechanisms:
International impact and development – through Global Challenges Research and Newton
initiatives
National and regional partnerships – through Aberdeen City Region Deal (ACRD)
Entrepreneurship, industry engagement and economic development – through Industrial
Strategy Challenge Fund
Health related impact – supported via NHS and national/international healthcare partners
Public policy – through sustained engagement with Scottish and UK governments
Informing public debate, enriching cultural life – through public engagement events, such
as our science and literary festival (MayFest), and our contribution to European Researchers’
Night (Explorathon)

This impact strategy has resulted in many major impacts in this REF period including changes
to law, policy, industrial processes and professional practice, as shown in our impact case
studies.

Our contribution to the GBP 826M Aberdeen City Region Deal (ACRD) exemplifies our
approach of working in partnership to deliver high-level solutions. Together with stakeholders
including local government partners and national and regional enterprise agencies, we
secured investment for innovation-led infrastructure to enable collaboration and leveraged
further inward investment relevant to regionally and nationally important industry sectors.
Regional economic diversification is a key driver for ACRD, delivering infrastructure projects
for energy, life sciences, digital, and food and drink, with the University contributing to each.

Enabling research integrity & open research
We have an unambiguous commitment to ensuring the highest quality of research and
research integrity. As part of our commitment to open research (open access is one of the
explicit commitments of Aberdeen 2040) we were one of the foundational universities to join
the UK Reproducibility Network (UKRN) and have appointed a dedicated Dean of
Research with specific responsibilities for this area. We also have an Open Access Research
Working Group, part of the UK network of such groups, dedicated to making research
accessible and reproducible.

In line with our Open Access Policy the majority (63% 2014-2020) of publications are free to
access through our PURE research portal which also includes an overview of social media,
press and public policy attention for more recent outputs. The University’s open access
compliance rate for journal articles, regardless of funding source, has grown from 37% in
2014 to 75% in 2020. For UKRI/COAF funded publications, subject to an open access
mandate, compliance rates are above 90%.
We enable the publication of research datasets, to allow validation of outputs and
secondary use of data. Our research portal additionally links to datasets stored in our
repository as well as datasets in external repositories. 386 datasets are currently available on
the portal, of which 254 were created in the REF2021 assessment period.

3B   3. People

Attracting and developing talented researchers is central to recruitment and retention. In
2018, the University Court approved a major recruitment campaign to strengthen our
research themes, and to ensure that our research capacity is aligned with government and
international funding priorities. We created 50 additional posts across the University, as well
as filling 68 vacancies. While the additional appointments were at all levels of seniority,
including 14 Chair appointments, we also focused on investing in early career researchers by
creating additional lectureships and offering independent research fellowships. The purpose
of these appointments is to enhance research excellence by adding capacity for
interdisciplinary research and enhanced external partnership working.

Our submission to REF2021 includes: 16.4% early career researchers; 2.1% with a declared
disability; and 16.4% BMEO researchers. The gender split across the institution is 36% F/
64% M. This is a slightly higher degree of diversity compared to REF2014, particularly at
earlier career stages. The submissions do not include any researchers on fixed term or
atypical contracts.

The institutional Grants Academy is the main means of delivery for research support and
researcher development. It is a participative framework that provides supportive intervention
throughout the research life cycle, from idea generation, grant proposal stage, project
management, delivery of outcomes through to follow-on funding and impact support. Prior to
setting up the Grants Academy, for the first three years of the assessment period, institutional
success rates averaged 30% (per year, by value of applications 2013/14 to 2015/16);
following the establishment of the Grants Academy they average 36% (per year, by value of
applications, 2016/17 to 2019/20).

The Grants Academy has a particular remit in supporting IDR both across academic
disciplines and with non-academic partners. The Grants Academy is supported by a
framework of monitoring research quality which adheres to the principles set out in the San
Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA), signed by us in June 2020. We
are working towards full implementation of DORA across research assessment, recruitment,
probation and promotions processes.

We are committed to the health, safety and wellbeing of those who work or study at the
University of Aberdeen and recognise that the research environment can have a significant
impact on the well-being of staff and students.

Our Health, Safety and Well-being Policy was put in place in 2015 and revised in March
2020. It details rights and responsibilities of individuals, supported through the line
management structure and a network of local safety co-ordinators within Schools and
Directorates and a central Health, Safety and Wellbeing Team. It complements our Mental
Health and Well-being Policy and Strategy. We operate flexible working procedures and
normally observe family friendly meeting hours to ensure that those who have caring
commitments can participate fully in committee and working group activities. Since 1989, we
have had a pre-school nursery for the children of staff and students on campus (which moved
to a newly constructed Passivhaus building in 2015).

The University holds a Silver level Healthy Working Lives Award, a Scottish Government
initiative promoting a safer and healthier workforce. Staff are entitled to free off-peak
membership at the Aberdeen Sports Village, and physical well-being and fitness is promoted
through a number of campaigns. We have promoted mental health and well-being through
mental health champions and awareness campaigns. Every member of staff can consult our
Occupational Health Service on work related health issues. We have established a
Workplace Dignity Network to provide support to staff who would like to talk informally
about well-being concerns, and a network of over 100 trained Mental Health First Aiders. The
well-being at work structures were adapted towards the end of the assessment period to
ensure they supported staff and students during the lockdown restrictions. Working with
researchers and support staff we ensured that individual Covid-19 circumstances were
considered and addressed appropriately.

In 2021 we retained the HR Excellence in Research Award following external review (for
the 5th time). The Award is an important mechanism for implementing the principles of the
Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and in improving staff
retention. We have recently signed the new Concordat and are working towards full
implementation. A dedicated Researcher Development Adviser has a specific remit to provide
professional and career development support for academic and research-only staff including
academic leadership programmes.

Our Postdoctoral Research Committee ensures the alignment of professional and career
development with the Concordat and oversees the implementation of the University’s HR
Excellence in Research Award strategy. The Committee promotes research staff to engage in
interdisciplinary networking and community building. It is chaired by the Dean for Industrial
Engagement in Research & Knowledge Transfer and has representation from research staff
in Schools, academic leads, and Professional Services.

Our annual reviews with staff articulate expectations in terms of research and impact,
teaching & learning and administrative outcomes. Since 2014, we have also included
expectations around knowledge exchange and impact in our promotions criteria and
processes which enable us to recognize and reward impact outcomes alongside other
academic achievements. Our updated institutional research leave policy also allows
researchers to apply for ‘mini breaks’ and longer research leave to pursue impact and
knowledge exchange outcomes.

In 2016, following an institutional review of support structures for research and teaching, we
created a central Postgraduate Research School with responsibility for recruitment,
progression and career development of all postgraduate research students across the
University of Aberdeen. The Postgraduate Research School focuses on engagement with
research stakeholders, skills development (both generic and discipline specific) and wellbeing
of students.

The University’s overall PGR population has grown from 827 FTE in 2013/14 to 928.1 FTE
in 2019/20. The PGR/FTE ratio has increased significantly: in 2013/14 it was 1.17, and in
2019/20 1.71 (denominator: academic teaching & research staff).

The Postgraduate Research School plays a key role in securing strategic doctoral awards
and funding to support enhancement of the research environment and student experience
(e.g. AHRC, BBSRC, Leverhulme, NERC, Wellcome Trust, and EU (Marie Curie)). In addition
to the Leverhulme Centre for Doctoral Training in 2017, the University was awarded a
significant NERC doctoral training grant in partnership with Queen’s University Belfast in
2018. The doctoral training programme within the National Decommissioning Centre
welcomed its first cohort of interdisciplinary students in 2018/19. The Postgraduate Research
School is working closely with these programmes to develop and deliver training for these
cohorts.

The Postgraduate Research School has partnered with the UK mental health charity Student
Minds to deliver the ‘Look After Your Mate’ scheme, employing PGR student ambassadors to
provide specific awareness-raising training to recognize peers who may be at risk from
mental health challenges. This activity is embedded within the Postgraduate Research
School’s training and development programme and ambassadors remain in place to support
activities as required. The PGR School team has worked with Student Minds to develop
materials to support PhD supervisors.

A comprehensive four-stage professional development programme for PGR supervisors
was implemented in 2019, adding refreshed mandatory supervisor training for all new
supervisors. There are mandatory supervisor Updates for experienced supervisors which
have to be undertaken every five years, alongside PGR Supervision Masterclasses which
explore specific topics and aspects of doctoral supervision as well as informal elements such
as supervisor breakfasts.

Inclusivity is one of the four Themes of Aberdeen 2040. In order to deliver on the University’s
ambitious Equality Outcomes (described in the University’s Equality Mainstreaming and
Outcomes Report 2019) and to meet the legislative requirements under the Equality Act
2010, we have strengthened the governance structure for equality and diversity by setting up
the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee (EDIC). We approved a new Equality,
Diversity and Inclusion Policy in 2019.

The University successfully renewed its Bronze Athena Swan Award, with all 12 Schools
achieving a Bronze Award by 2018/19, and the School of Psychology gaining the first
departmental Silver award. We are aware that, along with the UK sector, female researchers
are underrepresented at senior grades, and our Equality Impact Assessments around REF
and research performance have pointed to particular pressure on part time, early to mid-
career women in research. Policy making is informed and reviewed in partnership with a
number of networks that represent groups with protected characteristics or with particular
interests/characteristics. There are networks for parents and carers, a new Women’s
Development Network, disability, menopause, staff and postgraduate LGBT+. Networks
report into the Equality Diversity and Inclusion Committee

Our mean pay gap for gender across all employment types at the University of Aberdeen was
25% in 2013 (median 21%), and 20.6% in 2019 (median 22.4%), compared to 19.1% for all
employment jobs in the UK calculated by the Office for National Statistics for 2013 and 17.3%
in 2019.

2018 saw the launch of a support system to tackle gender-based violence: an online tool that
enables staff and students to report concerns and incidents of gender-based violence and
access relevant support. This is a joint project between the University and Aberdeen
University Student Association, and part of the Equally Safe in HE Campaign which aims to
eradicate gender-based violence in higher education.

We established a Race Equality Strategy Group and signed the Race Equality Charter,
the BMA Charter on Racial Harassment and the Advance HE Declaration on Race. A four
phased race equality training programme is being rolled out in 2021. We have developed a
Tackling Racial Harassment Action Plan to address the recommendations of the Equality and
Human Rights Commission report Tackling Racial Harassment: Universities Challenged and
the Universities UK report Tackling Racial Harassment in HE.

Since REF2014, we have introduced Unconscious Bias awareness-raising with uptake and
feedback positive. Key decision-makers (e.g. staff on promotion panels, involved with
recruitment or REF panels) routinely undertake Unconscious Bias training.

Between 2018 and 2019 the University climbed 111 places in the 2019 Stonewall
Workplace Equality Index. We have procured Transgender Awareness training from the
Scottish Trans Alliance which is being piloted in the School of Social Sciences and a
Transgender Equality Policy approved in January 2020.

4B   4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Total institutional research income during the assessment period was GBP 412.8M.
The first half of the assessment period saw a reduction in researcher numbers due to the
organisational change outlined above; they have now increased in the light of the strategic
investment in research excellence. The overall total research income we report is thus
representative of a researcher community significantly smaller for most of the assessment
period than that submitted on census date.

Funding portfolio (2013/14 to 2019/20):

                                  Non-EU
                                   12%
                                                          BEIS Research
                                                         Councils/NIHR/C
                             EU                                 SO
                            10%                                32%




         UK Government,
           industry and                             Charities
         other UK sources                             16%
               30%

We have invested GBP 59M in research related or staff related facilities as part of our 10-
year capital plan. We have launched an overall GBP 100M investment programme to support
our research led teaching, research and staff and student well-being over the period of the
next three years. The following highlights investments we have made to support our research
themes:

We joined a Scottish consortium (GBP 15.7M) enabling us to create a specific Safe Haven
Platform focusing on AI (Artificial Intelligence) in Digital Diagnostics (iCAIRD). This is a
pan-Scotland collaboration of 15 partners from academia, the NHS and industry.

We invested in the Grampian Data Safe Haven (DASH), a joint venture with the NHS.
DASH is a government accredited database which facilitates access to Scottish population
health data while ensuring adherence to the highest standards of data security, governance
and patient confidentiality. The investment ensures that the platform meets current
standards, securing ISO27001 certification and Scottish Government Accreditation (GBP
15.8M). DASH enables researchers to make linkages between vast numbers of datasets and
a large cohort dataset – the Aberdeen Birth Cohorts – which has followed all of the children
born in Aberdeen in 1921, 1936 and during the period of 1950-56. DASH has helped
researchers predict the outcomes of kidney disease, understand the impact of early life and
education on physical and mental health as people age, and better understand patients’
experience of health care in e.g. cancer, stroke and rheumatology services.

Much of our research is underpinned by our High Performance Cluster (HPC). We invested
GBP 750,000 to upgrade the HPC providing computational power equivalent to 1,200 PCs
working in tandem and one petabyte of storage to accommodate big data projects, e.g. those
generated by iCaird and the National Decommissioning Centre (see below). This investment
was accompanied by upgrades to our Data Centre and Data Centre Switches which are
required to connect the general computing workloads, new HPC, new data storage
environment and new series such as iCaird. The HPC is vital for the research within the
Environment and Biodiversity theme. Our HPC capability supports, among others,
genome sequencing and analysis, artificial intelligence, chemical pathway simulation,
climate change impact assessments and many more.

The GBP 40M new building for Rowett Institute for Nutrition for Health on the Foresterhill site
was completed in March 2016. It includes state-of the-art facilities including a clinical
investigation unit, metabolic research facility and a body composition suite, alongside state-
of-the-art laboratories and a specialist human nutrition unit which offers hotel style
surroundings to volunteers while at the same time providing the facilities needed to undertake
trials and studies. It was opened officially in January 2017 by the University Chancellor, HRH
Duchess of Rothesay, and is central to the delivery of our strategic objectives under the
Health, Nutrition and Wellbeing theme. The new facilities complement our longstanding
research facilities at Foresterhill – Microscopy and Histology; qPCR facility; Centre for
Genome-Enabled Biology and Medicine and the Systems Biology Integrative Centre.

The National Decommissioning Centre (NDC) opened in January 2019 and is our flagship
development under the Energy Transition Theme. The GBP 17M partnership with OGTC
(formerly the Oil and Gas Technology Centre) represents a national resource to identify
solutions through world class research on how to decommission and manage late life assets
across different energy sectors. The Centre is housed in its own refurbished buildings in
Newburgh which contain hyperbaric, environmental, vibration and immersion testing facilities
as well as office and innovative collaborative meeting/training space, for academic as well as
industry users. Through its Decommissioning Challenge Fund, the Scottish Government has
invested another GBP 1.6M in facilities contributing to a GBP 1.3M marine simulation suite, a
15kW laser for underwater cutting and the University’s high-power computing cluster. This
infrastructure is complemented by enhancements of research facilities on our main campus
in Engineering, Chemistry and Geosciences, totalling more than GBP 1.3M over the
assessment period.

Our research facilities are available to academic and commercial users through
https://equipment.data.ac.uk/ or https://abdn.pure.elsevier.com/en/equipments/.

Research on Social Inclusion and Cultural Diversity is supported by our rich library,
museums and special collections, and by infrastructure that enables engagement with the
public, business, industry, government and third sector organisations. Museums and
Special Collections cares for over 300,000 unique items with relevance to many disciplines.
Appointing an Academic Engagement and Research Lead and establishing an Academic
Forum has strengthened close research collaboration between academic and curatorial staff,
alongside enabling collections access in the Reading Room and Museum Collections Centre,
to realise the research and impact potential of the collections. We provide free public entry to
the Zoology Museum and Library Gallery exhibitions, many co-curated with research staff
and students and supported by our institutional Public Engagement with Research Unit
(PERU). 2019 saw the opening of a public lending service within the Sir Duncan Rice Library;
the Aberdeen Library is the first academic/public partnership in Scotland, based on our close
relationship with Aberdeen City Council, restoring a public lending library to the community
for the first time in 30 years. Museums and Special Collections activities including family
events, public lectures, online engagement and services to local schools.

We support engagement and partnership working with stakeholders throughout the
research cycle, as well as entrepreneurship arising out of our research activities.
Engagement with industry supports the Scottish government’s knowledge exchange agenda
and is led by the Dean for Industrial Engagement in Research and Knowledge Exchange,
and supported by the Impact and Knowledge Exchange Team. The Dean for Cultural
Strategy and Research Governance leads the institutional cultural engagement strategy for
research, overseeing our contribution to cultural enrichment and creation of cultural capital.
We deliver a comprehensive programme of research-related events through the PERU and
Museums and Special Collections and supported by the institutional events team. The Public
Affairs, Stakeholder Engagement and Events Team (PASE) supports engagement with
government and policy makers, as well as NGOs and other organisations working on public
policy. These units, located within Research & Innovation (Impact & KE Team and PERU)
and External Relations (PASE) work closely together to provide bespoke impact support for
individuals, teams and Schools.

We provide incubation space for pre-revenue spin outs and other early stages ventures
(e.g. Life Science Innovation, nurturing entrepreneurship and collaboration with industry).
ABVenture Zone, a GBP 485K project as part of the Accelerate Aberdeen programme,
opened in 2015 and provides space and facilities for entrepreneurs among students, staff
and alumni. Financial returns from commercialisation are re-invested into strategic priorities
or School incentives.

Engagement with academic and non-academic partners is underpinned by effective
dissemination of outcomes. As noted in section 2, in line with our Open Access Policy the
majority (63% 2014-2020) of publications are free to access through our research portal with
an open access compliance rate for journal articles now at 75%. This is augmented by
access to the 386 datasets also currently available on the portal. Our Research Data
Management Policy was first approved by senior management in 2013 and was updated in
2019.

Training and support on open access publishing is provided by the Scholarly
Communications Service within the Library, working closely with research support
colleagues in Research & Innovation and Digital Research Services to ensure effective
exposure of research outcomes and compliance with funders requirements. We have
recently embedded Aberdeen University Press within the Library and are in the process of
establishing an editorial board to enable it to function as an Open Access press.

The appointment of two new Digital research specialists has strengthened our ability to
support researchers with data management. We are compliant with the Concordat on
Research Data Management and have expanded our data governance team to ensure
compliance with data governance regulations, including the GDPR. We offer enhanced
training and services across all levels of research activity.

Stakeholder engagement, partnership working, public engagement and academic esteem
require demonstrable integrity of our research. We seek to achieve the highest standards
in research governance and integrity. There are five ethics committees, each representing
one or more Schools, interacting and exchanging good practice with one another. We were
compliant with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity 2012 and have been a subscriber
to the UK Research Integrity Office from its inception. We have undertaken a detailed review
of our Research Governance Framework, and updated it to ensure compliance with UKRI’s
2019 revised Concordat to Support Research Integrity.

We considered the 2018 House of Commons Science & Technology Reports on
‘Research Integrity’ and ‘Research Integrity: Clinical Trials Transparency’
recommendations of the House of Commons Science & Technology Select Committee’s
Report. We have revised our reporting and investigating mechanisms for allegations of
research misconduct and have made statistical training available to all postgraduate research
students at School level. We have introduced mandatory Research Integrity Training for
all researchers, including postgraduate research students. This complements the existing
training provision on research ethics which is available to all researchers and mandatory for
postgraduate research students.

As part of our commitment to open research, we are one of the foundational Universities to
join the UK Reproducibility Network (UKRN) and appointed a Dean of Research with
specific responsibilities for this area. We also have an Open Access Research Working
Group, part of the UK network of such groups, dedicated to making research accessible and
reproducible.

We have participated in the UUK roundtable discussions on proposals for development of a
new national research integrity committee (another recommendation arising from the 2018
House of Commons Science & Technology Report) and are members of the recently
inaugurated Scottish Research Integrity Network.

All research support championed and coordinated by our central processes is, of course,
complemented by discipline specific support offered by Schools. Full details of these
discipline-specific support are provided in the detailed environment statements (REF5b) for
each submitted unit of assessment.
