Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Cardiff Metropolitan University

 1. Context and mission

 Cardiff Met is a modern university comprising five Schools: Art & Design; Education and Social
 Policy; Management; Sport and Health Sciences; and Technologies. We deliver high-quality,
 high-impact, practice-focused, professionally-recognised education, research and innovation in
 partnership with our students and industry and 30% of our REF-Eligible staff have a Significant
 Responsibility for Research (SRfR). Our origins date to the foundation of Cardiff School of Art in
 1865, from which many cultural values remain: We value creativity, diversity, freedom and
 innovation, actively embedding them in our Research & Innovation (R&I). We are active
 members of the community, engaged with Universities UK and Universities Wales, and proud of
 our close community connections. Approximately 27% of our students are postgraduate and 416
 are PGRs.

 Our traditional research strengths sit within the three UoAs submitted in 2014: Sport & Tourism,
 Art & Design and Health Sciences. This submission shows our progress: it includes our whole
 academic portfolio, comprises two additional UoAs and is 302% larger. We launched 12 spinouts
 this REF cycle and grew our annual R&I income by >28%. The 2020 UK Postgraduate Research
 Experience Survey (PRES) ranked us #1 for supervision quality and #2 for overall satisfaction.

 2. Strategy

 Key strategic research foci leading to our inclusion in the Times Higher Education World and
 Young University Rankings were simultaneous growth in research volume and quality. We:

    •   developed infrastructures to focus on strategic KPI’s such as ‘Global Academies’;
    •   systematically supported impact development with internal funding;
    •   protected research workload allocations for staff with SRfR;
    •   targeted staff development e.g. through Action Learning Sets (ALS) for Early Career
        Researchers (ECR) and women seeking promotion to Reader and Professor;
    •   implemented institutional strategic leadership and mentoring programmes; and
    •   improved research capacity via staff recruitment and promotion.
 We used competitive internal funding to capture external grants and support potential 4*
 research and impact. Our Research Innovation Awards (RIA) and Research, Enterprise and
 Innovation Fund (REIF) supported interdisciplinarity and nurtured potential proposals. For
 example, they supported novel interdisciplinary research in user centred design, vision science,
 computing, cognitive neuroscience and cardiovascular research that attained funding from, for
 example UKRI, Marie Sklodowska Curie and Wellcome Trust.

 In 2014 we appointed a European Projects Director and Deputy to target European funding. We
 also joined the UKRO and were invited onto the Welsh Higher Education Brussels Board.
 Investment in grant support resulted in nearly £51.8 million in R&I income this REF period and
 annual income increased 28% between 2014 and 2020. UKRI successes included the Arts &
 Humanities Research Council (AHRC) £5.45 million Creative Clusters funding, LAUGH late
 stage dementia project (£424K) and the Strategic Use of Design (£557K). as well as a ~£360K
 Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) Sport and
 Exercise Sciences pathway with Bangor and Swansea Universities. EU funding successes
 included €252K from Marie Sklodowska Curie, a £9.2 million Regional Development Project
 grant, £3.2 million of ESF funding, €1.4 million from Interreg Europe, a €1.5 million Interreg
 Atlantic Area grant, a €3.9 million ERASMUS+ Key Action 2 grant and a H2020 Industrial
 Leadership grant of €6.5 million.

 These successes improved our 3-year HE Business and Community Interaction (HEBCI)
 performance data on which HEFCW Research Wales Innovation Funding is based. An award of


                                                                                             Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 £1.48 million for 2020/2021 was cut by COVID but is expected to revert to ~£1.4 million
 annually in subsequent years.

 Research impact was another explicit component of strategic planning. We internally fund
 research with impact potential, support industry collaboration, IP development and protection,
 invest in spinout companies and support impact projects such as Wales’ AHRC Creative
 Industries Cluster, Clwtswr. As a result we’re able to support a fourfold increase in submitted
 staff FTE with 7 additional impact case studies compared with 2014.

 Our REF2028 strategy involves engaging and supporting ECRs, further embedding
 interdisciplinarity, systematically increasing output quality and building impact. At its core are
 three new ‘Global Academies’ (GA’s) with foundations in long-established areas of research
 excellence that will cohere our R&I and postgraduate education around key interdisciplinary
 research themes, positioned within the global context via UN Sustainable Development Goals.
 Significant resource underpins GA development, including a Director, Heads of GA‘s and a
 dedicated support team. Initiatives are already underway to engage and support staff, including
 targeted support for those with a known interest in R&I but little track record, ALS to drive ECR
 development, grant funding workshops, writing retreats, interdisciplinary research sandpits, and
 a targeted mentorship programme to improve research output quality.

 Enabling Impact
 Our research portfolio ranges from fine art to exercise science, with impacts as diverse as the
 primary school curriculum and the cardiovascular health of great apes. We have supported staff
 to acquire 7 patents with 26 pending, but supporting impact more broadly requires both proactive
 and reactive approaches. We proactively support research designed for impact such as
 McDonnell and Stohr’s blood pressure monitoring research with patients implanted with Left
 Ventricular Assist Devices (LVAD). Investment of £12.8K, comprising an Accelerator Fund
 award and two Santander bursaries enabled a working partnership with Columbia University
 Irving Medical Centre, the number one medical research centre in the world (Nature Index).
 Columbia introduced two industrial partners which provided equipment and facilitated trials to
 enable Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval and market launch. The impact potential
 of Gill and Loudon’s research was unlocked by a £70K RIA enabling Watkins to develop a
 trauma pack for sub-Saharan Africa with Cardiff Medical School. The team has so far won over
 £254K in external funding. The pack is the subject of a commercial licensing agreement and UK
 and US patents. It has similar performance to existing solutions at ~20% of the cost and can be
 used by untrained and illiterate users.

 Reactive approaches include supporting curiosity-driven research with potential applications
 such as Pepperell and Burleigh’s Fovography™, an exploration of human visual perception
 that challenges the 600-year-old theory of linear perspective on which virtually every vision
 capturing device relies. We invested £1.7 million, securing 4 international patents with 23
 pending. A spinout company, Fovotec Ltd™, is partnered with Unity, a globally-leading
 multinational 3D technology provider. Fovotec is independently projected to be worth £40m-
 £100m by 2026.

 R&I centres such as our International Centre for Design and Research (PDR) and the
 ZERO2Five Food Industry Centre (FIC) receive core funding and institutional investment to
 deliver social and economic impact. Since 2013 they have captured £25 million, supported
 around 389 organisations, won 69 accreditations, 31 international awards and 20 retail
 standards.

 Open research
 Openness underpins our institutional Research Governance Framework (2009), Open Access
 policy (2014) and Research Data Management Policy (2017). Staff in R&I Services (RIS) and
 the Library work to enable academics to store, share and disseminate their research and data
 via a range of platforms. Since 2016, a staff development programme has covered Open
 Access principles and specific guidance on our repository systems. We introduced our ‘DSpace’

                                                                                              Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 output repository in 2010, upgrading it in 2016 to store research output metadata. Since 2018 a
 “Drop Off” facility has allowed researchers to deposit accepted outputs for processing by Library
 staff, significantly improving compliance. Around 85% of all published outputs since 2014 have
 met either Gold or Green Open Access publishing standards. We participate in the JISC
 ‘transformative agreements’ programme, reallocating subscription budgets to support open
 access publishing. We already have agreements with Springer and Wiley, with further
 arrangements planned over the next 2-3 years. In 2018, we committed to ~£25K annually for
 FigShare - an online data storage platform. FigShare securely stores data, allowing exclusive
 access by an individual, shared access within specific networks of any size and/or, where
 appropriate, public sharing. Post-REF2021, it will replace DSpace as our universal repository.

 We contribute to regional and national research priorities, including through Universities Wales
 and UUK, key Welsh and UK consultations, membership of important committees such as
 HEFCW’s Research Wales Committee - which advises Welsh Government (WG) on R&I policy -
 and UKRI Peer Review Colleges. Walters is a member of the AHRC’s Strategic College and
 Design Theme Advisory Group, Chew submitted written evidence to the House of Lords Select
 Committee on Artificial Intelligence, Whicher is a member of the Associate Parliamentary Group
 for Design, and Lloyd is Vice Chair of the Food and Drink Wales Industry Board. Lloyd also
 leads a COVID Food Clusters task force to support the recovery of the food sector, while
 Eggbeer and Evans were involved in the design and manufacture of PPE for NHS staff.
 Our knowledge exchange work makes significant contributions to the economy, with 14 KTP’s
 and 50 Knowledge Exchange Skills Scholarships (KESS) secured in the period. Clwstwr, one of
 9 UK AHRC-funded Creative Clusters established as part of the UK’s Industrial Strategy, has
 interacted with ~700 organisations and invested £2.16 million in R&D. The Zero2Five Food
 Industry Centre has delivered £96 million to the economy and created or safeguarded 1,120
 jobs. Our Creative Leadership and Enterprise Centre’s research produced policy options for the
 WG to trigger transformational economic change. Between 2013 and 2020, its 20Twenty
 Leadership programme engaged 606 participants from ~480 organisations. Meanwhile, our staff
 made a major contribution to the biggest overhaul of Welsh education in 30 years: Curriculum for
 Wales will be implemented in all Welsh schools in 2022 and will eventually impact every school
 child in the country.

 We are active participants in the Cardiff Capital Region (CCR) City Deal, a UK and WG
 partnership with 10 local authorities to bring economic growth to South East Wales, and our Vice
 Chancellor (Aitchison) sits on the Economic Growth Partnership Board. We have £218K funding
 to host Stroke Hub Wales (SHW), an all-Wales Network of stroke experts using R&I to prevent
 and reduce the impact of strokes, which will develop the new WG Stroke strategic delivery plan
 for 2021-2026. Meanwhile, Crone works actively with Health Boards, local governments and
 third sector organisations to develop and evaluate innovative approaches to obesity, physical
 inactivity and healthy ageing using a systems-based approach to physical activity promotion and
 evaluation.

 Interdisciplinarity, collaboration and integrity
 Interdisciplinarity has been a key focus during this REF period. Pan-University measures
 include:

    •   merging the Schools of Health Sciences and Sport to encourage interdisciplinarity, as
        exemplified by the new Centre for Health, Activity and Wellbeing Research and the
        ESRC DTP pathway in Sport and Exercise Sciences;
    •   multi-day researcher-led sandpits to develop interdisciplinary partnerships, with ring-
        fenced funding that facilitated every sandpit group to apply for external funding (50%
        were successful);
    •   ECR ALS specifically designed to facilitate interdisciplinary research collaborations and
        underpinned by ring-fenced internal funding;
    •   participation in the all-Wales ‘Welsh Crucible’ - contention rate ~5:1 - with 15 places won
        in the period.

                                                                                             Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Research integrity underpins all our activities. An annual Statement of Research Integrity and
 Governance is available on the institutional website and a Research Misconduct Policy guides
 our response to allegations of misconduct. Ethics is a vital component of integrity, and each
 School has its own research ethics committee to deal with individual applications. The Chairs of
 these committees are members of the University Ethics Committee – a sub-committee of
 Academic Board which deals with wider ethical issues.

 Our researchers engage with the community in varied ways. For example, we have appointed 23
 Visiting and Honorary Professors and Readers in the period as well as 10 Emeritus Professors.
 Walters is a member of the AHRC Strategic College and Design Theme Advisory Group and
 Hanton is a member of the AHRC Clwstwr Steering Board, ESRC Peer Review College and
 REF2021 sub-panel 24. Aitchison is a member of the Academy of Social Sciences Council,
 ESRC Peer Review College and CBI Wales Council. Egan is seconded to WG to develop a
 national strategy for education research in Wales. Bolton and Crone are non-executive
 directors of British Gymnastics and Public Health Wales respectively, Longville is Director of
 Performance for Welsh Netball and Smith was a Director of SportsCoach UK, Chair of the UK
 Coaching Committee and Director of Welsh Gymnastics. Our academics also serve on key WG
 committees, such as the Valleys Task Force, Financial & Professional Services Sector Panel
 and Learning Skills & Innovation Partnerships (Morgan), Cardiff Central Enterprise Zone steering
 board (Clifton), Sport Wales board (Longville, Robinson) and Life Science Hub board (Evans).
 In 2019 we signed a joint commitment to work with communities to support the WG in realising
 the goals of the ‘Wellbeing of Future Generations Act’. Signatories committed to public research
 showcase events to ensure public engagement with the research. A series of public lectures
 from WG Ministers, prominent academics and newly inaugurated Professors regularly attracts
 audiences of 200+.
 3. People

 Supporting staff
 Since 2014 we have actively recruited and promoted staff with strong research profiles,
 appointing 10 new Chairs and promoting 20 Professors and 23 Readers to support and mentor
 other researchers within our research structures.

 Flexitime and Flexiplace policies help our researchers combine work and personal
 responsibilities. Core business, including committees and boards, is scheduled between 10:00 –
 15:00 and Job Share and career breaks are supported to accommodate staff with caring
 responsibilities. A Flexible Working Scheme allows staff to work part-time for a period. We also
 support shared parental leave and maternity/adoption leave, flexible and supportive working
 patterns, and provision for nursing mothers. Staff on parental leave are entitled to up to ten paid
 ‘Keeping in Touch’ (KiT) days, a popular mechanism for maintaining strong links with our
 researchers. Our flexibility was proven in extremis during the pandemic, with our VC recognised
 as a ‘Top 32 Business Hero’ of COVID-19 by ‘Business Leader’ magazine for her swift response
 and early and unequivocal guidance. This included an early instruction to work at home, explicit
 acceptance that caring responsibilities might mean staff are unable to work normal patterns or
 hours and assurance that redundancies were not planned.

 We are presently making career progression processes more inclusive. For example, a PVC-led
 working group has reviewed all promotion criteria from Lecturer to Principal Lecturer, while the
 Professorship and Readership criteria have been revised to account for career breaks (e.g. by
 allowing lower research output volumes as long as quality is maintained).

 We take a proactive approach to illness prevention. Chaired by a PVC, the Wellness Committee
 works to ensure the physical and mental wellbeing of staff. When staff do get ill, our Sickness
 Absence Policy makes a clear distinction between sickness absence, capability and conduct.

 A range of staff development opportunities support the aspirations of our staff and University.
 Examples include:

                                                                                              Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

    •   termly ALS for 43 women interested in developing Readership and Professorship profiles
        - equivalent to 64% of female staff with SRfR;
    •   a ½ day session for 44 staff, led by the PVC R&I on how to use academic writing as a
        strategic career development tool - equivalent to 30% of those with SRfR;
    •   an institutional mentoring scheme run by Organisational Development;
    •   a monthly ECR Forum for 34 staff - equivalent to 23% of those with SRfR - which
        supports researchers with an alternating programme of workshops and ALS;
    •   intensive two-day interdisciplinary researcher workshops designed to enable staff to
        initiate partnerships with staff in other disciplines, internally and externally.
 Plans for 2020-21 include:

    •   off-campus writing retreats for staff and PGR students; and
    •   the first of a series of annual four-day residential workshops focussed on practical grant
        writing development skills for up to 15 research staff (due to occur inside the period but
        delayed by COVID)
 We have long adhered to the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers and signed the revised Concordat in March 2021.

 Supporting PGRs
 Our research degrees support unit operates from a single hub under the leadership of the
 Deputy Director of Research. The team includes an embedded Registry Officer solely supporting
 PGRs. All research degree students, supervisors and examiners have access to ‘PhD Manager’
 – a bespoke system for research degree administration in which we invested approximately
 ~£230K during the period. Doctoral students play a vital role in the development of doctoral
 provision. For example, a full PhD Review event with external panel members in 2018 started
 with a ‘journey mapping’ exercise involving a cross-sectional group of doctoral students
 describing their ‘journey’ from application to graduation. Resulting changes included a re-worked
 induction, revamped skills training, a completely re-designed ‘Doctoral Academy’ portal for PGR
 support, and a re-working of the entire monitoring process. The Doctoral Student Committee is
 supported by a University budget for workshops, seminars, and research poster competitions.
 The committee’s Chair and Deputy Chair sit on our Research Degrees Committee (RDC) and
 have regular meetings with the RDC Chair. As a result, our Postgraduate Research Experience
 Survey (PRES) results were consistently at or above the sector average throughout the period.
 The 2020 UK PRES ranked us #1 for supervision quality and #2 for overall satisfaction, with
 90% of our doctoral students satisfied overall.

 Two types of competitively won internal scholarship funding have supported our strategic goals.
 Type 1 RIA’s are doctoral study bursaries covering fees and a living expenses grant based on
 RCUK stipend rates. Type 2 RIA’s are specifically designed to allow us to retain talent with fixed-
 term RA contracts for promising research students. RIA’s have supported 12 projects with a total
 value of £778K since 2014. In addition to 8 PhD completions and 18 research outputs they have
 contributed to an international patent, a commercial license, 4 impact case studies and a
 student start-up company. 51 ESF-funded MRes and PhD scholarships (combined value £3.7
 million) have been distributed through the Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships 2 (KESS 2)
 project that funds collaborative research between industry and Welsh HEIs. Cardiff Met has also
 won 5 Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol postgraduate research scholarships in the period and a
 further 5 ESRC DTP PhD studentships were won through our collaborative Sport and Exercise
 Sciences Pathway (with Bangor and Swansea Universities), one of only two such UK pathways
 across the DTP network. The combined value of these scholarships is ~£534K.

 Equality & Diversity (E&D)
 As a values-led university it is important to us that we select our researchers on merit. All
 interview panel staff undertake unconscious bias training and all Job Descriptions and Person
 Specifications are quantifiable. Applications and CVs are anonymised and protected

                                                                                              Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 characteristic information is redacted. Our E&D commitment is further reflected in a series of
 E&D Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), all owned by PVCs, who have overseen systematic
 reviews of BAME staffing levels and the seniority, pay, career progression and promotion
 opportunities for women.

 Over a three-year period our mean gender pay gap decreased from 14.85% to 9.88%, and the
 median gender pay gap fell from 16.17% to 11.09%. We are committed to reducing both further
 in the next cycle. Other progress includes:

                                                     2014    2020
  Level 1, 2 and 3 roles held by women               22%     52%
  Women Profs, Readers and Research Leaders          27%     39%
  BAME staff                                          5%      9%

 Progress was recognised by Institutional Athena-SWAN Bronze Awards in 2016 and 2020,
 while the Schools of Sport and Health Sciences achieved Bronze awards in 2017 followed by Art
 & Design in 2018. Sport also achieved a Departmental Silver just outside the REF period. The
 Schools of Education and Management have applications in development. Our commitment to
 LGBT equality was recognised through inclusion in Stonewall’s Top 100 Employers list in
 2019. Recognising our low BAME %, we have signed up to the principles of the Race Equality
 Charter with the stated aim of achieving the Race Equality Charter Mark by 2024.

 REF output selection is based on quality regardless of gender, ethnicity, or sexual orientation. All
 staff were invited to declare individual circumstances to ensure parity and we clearly state that
 the number of outputs submitted against a staff member will have neither a positive nor negative
 bearing on future progression.

 Prior to submission, our CoP received input from UCU and the Institutional Athena-SWAN SAT.
 It was formally endorsed by the University E&D Committee and an equality impact assessment
 of the REF selection process was overseen by the University E&D Officer, who is also a member
 of our REF Individual Circumstances committee. An equality impact assessment of the final
 submission showed women comprising 45% of those submitted. This represents an 8.6% under-
 representation compared with the REF eligible pool but a 13.5% improvement on REF2014.
 BAME staff comprised 13.4% of submitted staff, which is 2.7% higher than the REF eligible
 percentage and an improvement on 2014 when no BAME staff were returned. There were no
 significant findings related to other protected characteristics.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 R&I income
 Our 28%+ growth in annual R&I income was achieved via a series of targeted workstreams.
 These included direct initiatives to improve grant writing, such as invited presentations from the
 EPSRC, Tenovus, UKRO, AHRC, IPO, KTP, Royal Society and SMART Expertise, as well as a
 grant writing workshop series and a one-week residential grant writing masterclass. Less direct
 routes included aforementioned initiatives to build interdisciplinarity, which included ringfenced
 financial and mentor support for external funding bids. Our progressive Institutional Rewards and
 Incentives Scheme returns 20% of income to emerging researchers; 15% to active
 researchers; and 10% to Professors. This revenue is ring-fenced for those generating it to
 spend supporting further R&I activity. Our IP Panel funds applications for patents and other IP
 protection, licensing and commercialisation activities. These have included 12 spinout
 companies and 8 social enterprises in the period.

 Our internal R&I funding schemes employ an ‘escalator’ approach, with researchers competing
 for increasing levels of funding as they develop. ‘Get Started’ targets emerging researchers and
 new research projects. It has seed corn funded 87 projects since 2013. The Research &
 Enterprise Innovation Fund (REIF) is targeted at more developed researchers. Between 2014
 and 2017 we distributed £531,646 to 11 projects through REIF. This included capital investment

                                                                                              Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 for FabLab Cardiff, a digital fabrication facility which employed 2 new staff, took on major
 contract work from Safran Aerospace and was a key partner in a £63.4K Life Sciences Bridging
 Fund grant and a £151K MRC project. REIF funding for the Perceptual Experience Laboratory
 led to a KTP, 5 years of WG funding for work related to the Food Industry and a PGR student
 start-up company. REIF also supported field work to understand youth physical development,
 one of our impact case studies for this submission. 43% of staff who won internal funding in the
 period went on to capture major UKRI or European funding. For example, Treadaway used ‘Get
 Started’ funds to establish a network and RIA and REIF awards to build her research team. The
 result was substantial external funding which included more than £½ million from UKRI, £185K
 from WG, £61.7K from Alzheimer’s UK and the launch of a spinout company.

 Infrastructure
 RIS is headed by the PVC R&I, with Directors of Research, Innovation and Global Academies as
 direct reports. An Associate Dean, Research in each School works with RIS to implement the
 institutional R&I strategy. RIS is also supported operationally by Finance, Organisational
 Development, People Services and other university professional services as appropriate.

 Cardiff Met has a number of specialist labs and research centres, including the National Indoor
 Athletics Centre, home to research facilities that include Physiology & Health and Sports
 Biomechanics labs. The International Centre for Design and Research (PDR), a dedicated R&I
 centre with its own facilities specialising in User Centred Design, Service Design and Surgical &
 Prosthetic Design, was recognised with the Queen’s Anniversary Prize in 2015. Cardiff School of
 Management is home to the Creative Leadership and Enterprise Centre, while Health Science
 research facilities include vascular physiology and the Zero2Five Food Industry Centre which
 includes a state of the art facility to explore the formulation, development, manufacture and
 testing of food products. Cardiff School of Art and Design hosts FabLab Cardiff, home to the
 FabCre8 research group, FovoLab, which explores human sight and perception and the
 Perceptual Experience Laboratory, a goggle-free VR facility for user centred design research in
 simulated environments. The Cardiff School of Technologies’ Eureka Robotics Lab explores
 artificial intelligence, data visualisation and analytics techniques applicable to humanoid robotics.
 Lastly, Cardiff School of Education’s Centre for Outdoor Learning is a research base for
 exploring pedagogic theories relating to children and outdoor activity.

 We also hold a number of archives, including:

    •   The Artists’ Books Collection: 500 books covering the depth and breadth of the genre,
        with works dating back to the 1960s. The archive includes ‘one-offs’, limited editions, and
        works of international significance.

    •   The Ceramics Collection: a unique archive of leading research publications, exhibition
        catalogues and interviews with ceramicists. It includes ‘The Rackham Collection’ – more
        than 70 books written or edited by Bernard Rackham, Keeper of the Department of
        Ceramics at the V&A from 1914-1938.

    •   The Welsh Collection: works related to Wales in general, including Welsh Language
        books and materials related to teaching in Wales.

    •   The Lionel Fanthorpe Collection – a collection of Farnthorpe’s paperback books and a
        diary/ledger containing his ideas.

 Equality in support
 Women comprise 54% of our academic staff, but historically the numbers of women involved in
 research have been lower. They comprised 32% of the REF2014 submission and at that time
 only 11.5% of the Professoriate and 22% of senior managers were female. Initiatives to
 proactively engage women, increase the percentage of women Professors and Readers and
 provide better workplace flexibility mean women now comprise 45% of the REF submitted pool,
 while women were authors on 40% of research outputs in the period, comprised 26.3% of our

                                                                                               Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    Professoriate (HESA average 25.9%), 50% of our Readers and 52.2% of our senior managers.
    The percentage of Women in Professorship, Readership and Senior Research Leadership roles
    has risen from 27% in 2014 to 39.2%. Plans to continue this trend include the ‘Women to
    Professor’ scheme. Launched in 2018, this termly series of women-only ALS led by the Director
    of Research evolves to meet participant needs. Members commit to a specific, measurable
    action at each ALS, and report their progress at the start of the next. Feedback and attendance
    have been excellent. At the time of writing 43 women are ALS members, directly resulting in 6
    applications for Readership or Professorship, with 4 appointed and 2 having passed the prima
    facia case stage.

    Internal funding mechanisms are deployed to help staff access external funding and are
    awarded without bias. We received 53 applications for Research & Innovation Awards during the
    period (M 64%, F 36%) and awarded 50% to women. The high percentage of male applicants
    reflects the researcher pool – an area we are addressing (see above). 14 (48%) men and 15
    (52%) women 1 applied for the University’s Research & Enterprise Innovation awards in the
    period with 5 (45%) men and 6 (55%) women being awarded funding. In terms of external grant
    funding, of 51 ESF funded Knowledge Exchange Skills Scholarships, 24 (46%) were awarded to
    women and 44% of all European grants in the period were won by women.

    Further detail and context of much of the material provided here is covered in our Unit of
    Assessment level Environment Statements




1
    Two unsuccessful mixed gender team applications excluded
                                                                                                 Page 8
