Institutional environment template (REF5a)

 Institution: Cardiff University
 1. Context and mission
 1.1 Mission
 Cardiff is a research-intensive institution driving societal and economic change benefiting Wales,
 the UK and the world. Since REF2014, our strategic objectives for research, innovation and impact
 (hereafter R&I) were:
     •   growth in early career academics and researchers (ECRs) (Section 3, hereafter S3)
     •   developing an inclusive research community and culture (S2-3)
     •   facilitating interdisciplinarity (e.g., via University Research Institutes, S2)
     •   delivering positive societal impact (S1.3)
     •   establishing cutting-edge R&I infrastructure (e.g., Innovation Campus, S4.4).
 Successful delivery ensured Cardiff achieved £150m research awards in 2019-2020 (its highest
 ever).
 1.2 Structure
 Cardiff is the 8th largest Russell Group University by student numbers (20,995 undergraduate;
 5,395 postgraduate taught; 1,880 postgraduate research (PGR)), with 2,235 academic and
 research staff (1,225 Teaching and Research (T&R); 1,010 Research-only (R-only)).
 Three Colleges (established 2012) facilitate collaboration within and between disciplines:
      • Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (12 UOAs; 10 Schools [Business; English,
        Communication & Philosophy; Geography & Planning; History, Archaeology & Religion;
        Journalism, Media & Culture; Law & Politics; Modern Languages; Music; Social
        Sciences; Welsh])
      • Biomedical and Life Sciences (4 UOAs; 7 Schools [Biosciences; Dentistry; Healthcare
        Sciences; Medicine; Optometry & Vision Sciences; Pharmacy & Pharmaceutical
        Sciences; Psychology])
      • Physical Sciences and Engineering (7 UOAs; 7 Schools [Architecture; Chemistry;
        Computer Science & Informatics; Earth & Environmental Sciences; Engineering;
        Mathematics; Physics & Astronomy]).
 With a focus on inclusion, at 1,406.3 FTE, Cardiff’s REF submission is almost double REF2014
 (737.7 FTE). It comprises all Cardiff’s T&R staff, and R-only employees identified as researching
 independently. Twenty-three UOAs, including three across Schools (UOA3; UOA4; UOA26),
 further showcase scale and disciplinary breadth, alongside significant growth in interdisciplinarity.
 REF2021 delivery is covered in S3.6.
 1.3 Positive societal impact
 Building on Cardiff’s REF2014 2nd placing for impact, staff are actively supported to deliver impact
 with national and international reach, facilitated by close working with beneficiaries (e.g., NHS
 Wales), strategic partners (e.g., Office for National Statistics, linked to Cardiff’s Data Innovation
 Research Institute) and governments. Cardiff researchers delivered major policy impacts on
 legislative reform (UOA19); hate crime (UOA21); fertility (UOA4); low-carbon housing (UOA13).
 Research with museums safeguarded historic artefacts (UOA15) and changed commemoration
 of war (UOA26). With the NHS we changed approaches to organ donation (UOA28); child oral
 health (UOA3); and developed new treatments for prostate cancer, postpartum bleeding and
 kidney disease (UOA1). Partnership with multinationals generated new technologies:
 cybersecurity malware prediction systems for Airbus (UOA11) and a waste recovery strategy
 saving Tata Steel £44m (UOA12). A successful commercialisation strategy benefited from major
 European-funded Data and Medtech Innovation Accelerators (UOA1; UOA11), complemented by
 Innovation Incubators (Medicentre; Innovation Centre, S4.4). Evidencing this significant impact, a
 London Economics report (2018) concluded that Cardiff contributes £3.2bn to the UK economy
 and £2.4bn to the Welsh economy each year, supporting almost 1 in 130 jobs in Wales.


                                                                                                Page 1
Institutional environment template (REF5a)

 2. Strategy
 2.1 University strategy
 The Way Forward (TWF) 2013-2023 strategy has three R&I KPIs: (a) delivering an inclusive
 REF2021; (b) growing research income; and (c) nurturing innovation. Consultation, open research,
 early-stage funding, interdisciplinarity and outstanding professional services (S4) underpins
 successful KPI delivery.
 2.1.1 Consultation
 Cardiff’s R&I strategy is overseen by the Pro-Vice Chancellor Research, Innovation and Enterprise
 (PVCR), jointly led with College Deans for Research and Innovation; International; Postgraduate
 Studies. University Deans (Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI, 2018); Research Environment
 and Culture (2019)) augment this gender-balanced leadership team. Alongside Welsh
 Language and Environmental Sustainability Deans, these senior leaders work consultatively with
 Directors of Research and Impact (DoR) from Cardiff’s 24 Schools, aligning School-College-
 University R&I ambitions, and supporting transparent decision-making.
 Inclusive consultation is a vital part of our strategy. Our DoRs Network (chair PVCR) is a
 collaborative space for Deans, DoRs, University Research Institute (URI) Directors and
 professional leads to share best practice, develop consistent approaches, support disciplinary
 needs and interdisciplinary opportunities, and deliver REF2021. Committees (e.g., Open
 Research, Integrity and Ethics; Equality and Diversity) and Task and Finish groups (e.g., REF2021
 policies; grant peer-review; EDI; innovation strategy) include T&R, R-only, professional services
 and technical staff, as well as PGRs. ECRs (n=49) are members of University R&I bodies and
 School Research Committees. College Postgraduate Forums, and Researchers Pathway, DORA
 and EDI Groups (led by Deans), further ensure inclusive research culture is embedded across
 R&I delivery.
 2.1.2. Open research, with integrity and transparency
 Cardiff is committed to open and reproducible, fair and inclusive, research. We are signatories to
 the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA); Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers; Concordat to Support Research Integrity; and the
 Technician Commitment. Science Council Employer Champion Status was awarded (2019) for
 supporting scientific staff professional registration.
 Our R&I strategy includes action plans for: (a) EDI; (b) DORA; (c) open research; (d) research
 integrity. Research integrity training is mandatory for researchers; staff are also required to have
 ORCID iDs. The PVC Biomedical and Life Sciences is the Establishment Licence Holder for
 Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 and Chair, Human Tissue Standards Committee. School
 leads ensure consistency and compliance, monitored by the Open Research, Integrity and Ethics
 Committee (chair PVCR).
 Cardiff is part of the UK Reproducibility Network, with School Open Research Champions
 supporting staff and leading our open research plan. The Library Open Research Team (S4.3.2)
 supported REF2021 preparations, including management of Cardiff’s Open Access (OA)
 repository, with 30,000 full-text outputs, and >3 million downloads per annum (p.a.). Since 2013,
 researchers deposited articles 3 months post-acceptance, with OA compliance recorded since
 2014. Block funding and an Institutional OA Fund (£1.4m) facilitated 1,233 Gold OA outputs.
 Cardiff University Press (established 2015) supports OA journal articles and monographs
 (publishing 102 articles, with 14,000 downloads, from 111 countries in 2020).
 2.1.3 Early-stage funding
 Investment in early-stage R&I aims to catalyse larger-scale success; since REF2014, £18.5m
 external funding (UKRI, HEFCW and other funders), complemented by additional University
 investment, supported staff with: (a) proof-of-concept research; (b) transition to independence
 applications; (c) impact and commercial outcomes; (d) new international collaborations; (e) civic
 mission and public engagement; and (f) to purchase equipment (S4.3; S4.2.2). Two examples of
 many are provided below (see also UOAs’ REF5b):


                                                                                               Page 2
Institutional environment template (REF5a)

 Cardiff’s £7m (£3.5m institutional match) Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund
 (ISSF) supported: (a) 39 fellowships and ECR first grants; (b) 56 interdisciplinary projects; (c) 23
 early-stage translational kickstarts; and (d) 28 public engagement initiatives. Translational
 kickstarts to Stanton and Sewell enabled £750k MRC funding with industry, and a £2.3m
 investment from Ervaxx, respectively. Fasano’s ISSF fellowship facilitated £1.5m MRC funding,
 and an independent academic position. JAMMIND’s video games featured positive portrayals of
 mental health; Superbugs, a pop-up science shop, engaged 6,500 shoppers on antimicrobial
 resistance (“Excellent to see my children become new champions in the fight against antimicrobial
 resistance. We learnt using antibiotics only when needed, and completing the full treatment
 course, even if you feel better can help protect you”). ISSF developed new EDI approaches,
 applicant mentorship and constructive feedback, informing revisions to Cardiff internal funding
 schemes (S3.1). Inclusion of ECR grant panel observers (n=107) improved funding assessment
 knowledge (e.g., “Being an observer on the ISSF panel was hugely useful and probably one of the
 most useful training exercises I have completed at Cardiff University”).
 HEFCW GCRF funding (£3.8m) and £600k for our International Collaboration Seedcorn
 Scheme supported 161 international projects, including with Cardiff’s International Strategic
 Partners (KU Leuven; Xiamen University; Bremen University; Beijing Normal University; Brazil’s
 Universidade Estadual de Campinas (UNICAMPS); University of Namibia). For example, Cardiff’s
 Water URI leads our £860k interdisciplinary GCRF catalyst on water and food resilience with
 UNICAMPS and Namibia. Funding supported Healy’s £1m UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship on
 global water shortages in Sub-Saharan Africa, Bagshaw’s novel wireless sensors for sub-ice
 measurements with University of Copenhagen (EPSRC, £230k), Scofield’s BBSRC GCRF
 research on essential oil feedstocks in Uganda (£816k) and Brown’s ESRC GCRF award on
 protracted displacement in an urban world (£532k).
 2.1.4 Interdisciplinary research
 Cardiff invested £30.1m in flagship University Research Institutes, focused on interdisciplinary
 societal challenges (e.g., mental health; water; catalysis; cancer; crime and security). These
 generated over £210m in external funding since REF2014.
 Cardiff’s Crime and Security URI was awarded £8.5m in external awards, with research used by
 the UK Government, the European Union and police Counter-Terrorism Command to mitigate
 harm from disinformation campaigns (UOA21 impact case). Our Energy Systems URI leads
 FLEXIS (£24m, with Tata Steel, Swansea and South Wales Universities), focused on new flexible
 energy systems, including mine water heat recovery, real-time energy modelling and management
 of electrical grids (UOA12 impact case). Energy Systems URI researchers also support the £35m
 (Cardiff, £821k) EPSRC Active Building Centre (developing energy efficient smart buildings).
 Interdisciplinary collaboration between geneticists, immunologists, clinicians, biologists,
 bioinformaticians, psychologists and social scientists, via our Systems Immunity and
 Neuroscience and Mental Health URIs, led to three new Centres (spanning UOA1/UOA4/UOA5):
 £1m Hodge Centre for Neuropsychiatric Immunology; £10m Wolfson Centre for Adolescent Mental
 Health; £23m MRC UK Dementia Research Institute Centre (further examples, S4.1).
 URIs additionally grew our interdisciplinary ECR training such as the 19 Doctoral Training
 Entities (DTEs) Cardiff leads/co-leads, many with Universities in the GW4 Alliance (Bath, Bristol,
 Cardiff, Exeter). For example, the Systems Immunity URI, with Bristol and Exeter, delivers the
 £5.2m GW4 Wellcome Trust Clinical Academic Training Programme for medical, dental and
 veterinary ECRs; Water URI leads the £3.8m GW4 NERC Freshwater Biosciences and
 Sustainability DTE; Energy Systems is part of a £5m (Cardiff, £1.5m) EPSRC DTE on
 decarbonised resilient fuel energy systems, with Nottingham and Sheffield Universities. The Water
 URI also drives the GW4 Water Security Alliance (involving 200+ interdisciplinary scientists); this
 facilitated a €6.6m (Cardiff, £1.1m) Horizon 2020 award on climate change resilience in the Horn
 of Africa.
 Smaller-scale (£90k) interdisciplinary University Research Networks (URNs) complement URIs
 (e.g., on antimicrobial resistance; material sciences; brain imaging). Our Transport Futures
 Network focuses on electric and autonomous vehicles and builds on Cardiff’s EPSRC (£1m)
 decarbonising transport through electrification network and £3.9m Electric Vehicle Centre of

                                                                                               Page 3
Institutional environment template (REF5a)

 Excellence. The network also leads a Cardiff Interdisciplinary Training Hub on Sustainable
 Transport (funded by our EPSRC Doctoral Training Award). Other Interdisciplinary Training Hubs,
 aligned to R&I strategic training objectives, include: Sustainable Plastics (Catalysis URI);
 Cybersecurity Analytics; Physics of Life; Biosensors and Diagnostics.
 Building on these interdisciplinary successes, from 2022, Cardiff will invest £5m p.a. in 5 new
 University Innovation Institutes (UIIs) and up to 10 disciplinary-focused URIs. A refreshed portfolio
 of interdisciplinary URNs will augment this major investment, alongside continued strategic use of
 PGR training awards.
 2.1.5 Research leave
 Complementing UOA research leave schemes, the £3.4m University Research Leave
 Fellowship Scheme funded 234 awards (2014-2019), providing time to write monographs,
 develop grants, learn techniques and establish collaborations (for outcomes, see UOAs’ REF5b).
 Our new Disglair Lectureship Scheme (launched 2019, £2.7m) supported a further 59 staff to
 take research leave, including those new to the University. Redmond used his Disglair leave to
 submit a £1.8m MRC DPFS award (subsequently awarded post census date). A unique feature of
 Disglair is its complementary focus on supporting ECR transition into a first T&R position, with
 reduced teaching, research funding and bespoke cohort training. This scheme recruited 20%
 more female lecturers compared to Cardiff’s normal T&R recruitment. Klemencic, now
 permanent lecturer in Physics, noted: “The Disglair scheme has been absolutely transformational.
 The bespoke training plan, spanning academic practice through to funding applications, helped
 me develop my teaching, receiving the best module evaluations in my school, while exploring my
 own research interests, for which I have been awarded a prestigious EPSRC New Horizons grant.”
 2.2 Impact strategy and investment
 S1.3 evidenced Cardiff’s commitment to positive societal impact. Since REF2014, we invested in
 a professional services impact team, increased workload allocations and impact accelerator
 funding, and developed an integrated Innovation for All strategy, linked to our reinstated £6.7m
 HEFCW Research Wales Innovation Fund (RWIF, S4.2.2). The impact team deliver training,
 funding and partnership support, complemented by our Commercial Development team,
 supporting IP, start-ups and commercialisation (S4.4.1). A new impact module for ECRs focuses
 on pathways to impact (n=237). Impact secondments are strongly encouraged, e.g., UOA11
 facilitated secondments to Airbus and Thales aligned to a new Welsh Cyber Innovation Hub;
 UOA27 supported secondment to Welsh Government, facilitating Welsh language development
 (impact case). The current Welsh Government Children’s Commissioner for Wales was seconded
 from UOA21.
 £7.7m of UKRI Impact Accelerator Account investment supported 299 impact projects, many
 leading to REF2021 impact cases (see UOAs’ REF5b). A new Wellcome Trust Translational
 Partnership (£600k) supported biomedical translational research, complemented by MRC
 commercialisation accelerators (S4.4.1). This co-ordinated and strategic investment diversified
 external partnerships (e.g., UK Fire and Rescue Service; Crimtan; David Brown Santasalo;
 Costain; Living Wage Foundation; United Nations Economic Commission for Africa; Historic Royal
 Palaces).
 2.3 Civic mission and public engagement
 The University supports Transforming Communities projects, complemented by early-stage
 civic mission and public engagement. Major projects included: revitalising local journalism (UOA34
 impact case); development of Cardiff’s impoverished Grangetown area, including a new Grange
 Pavilion community space; our School Governor Initiative (56 staff governors on 47 school bodies
 donating 746 days, supporting the education of 22,750 children). Our award-winning CAER
 Heritage project involved co-production with community organisations, with public and school
 engagement based on an Iron Age hillfort in a socially deprived Cardiff area (UOA28 impact case).
 Research-led public engagement is accessed by 247,000 people p.a., exemplified by Gomez’s
 MBE for outstanding public engagement in Physics (UOA9 impact case). Sponsorship of events
 (National Eisteddfod (2018); Tafwyl Festival (2019); Hay Festival (since 2016)) helped 304
 researchers undertake public engagement on topics ranging from multilingualism and literary

                                                                                                Page 4
Institutional environment template (REF5a)

 geography to asteroid research. Our civic mission also promotes Wales’ bilingual culture, with
 UOAs 26/27, and the Welsh Language Dean, delivering initiatives supporting the Welsh
 Government’s Cymraeg 2050 ambition for 1m Welsh speakers by 2050.
 2.4 Future R&I strategy
 Cardiff is committed to growing and diversifying R&I, ensuring we contribute to the UK’s successful
 recovery from the economic and social impacts of Covid-19.
 Short-term, we will:
     1. Re-establish our research fully on campus, physically re-uniting our research community,
        accelerating delivery of their research ambitions and careers.
     2. Address research inequalities caused by the pandemic (e.g., continue to provide funding
        support, research leave and initiatives for most-affected PGRs and staff; revise promotion
        and hiring practices to focus on achievement relative to opportunity).
 Long-term, we will:
     3. Work jointly with UOA R&I leaders to ensure co-ordinated realisation of future disciplinary
        and interdisciplinary aims within REF5b statements, facilitated by strategic use of HEFCW
        and funder investments, in a transparent and equitable manner.
     4. Deliver an ambitious research culture plan, focused on ECRs, assessment, integrity, open
        research, teams and EDI, led by the Dean of Research Environment and Culture.
     5. Ensure the success of our new University Innovation Institutes and interdisciplinary
        Centres of Excellence, facilitated by nurturing key academic-business partnerships, at the
        heart of our £300m Innovation Campus.
 3. People
 3.1 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 Each University Executive Board member champions a protected characteristic, including socio-
 economic status. Cardiff is the highest ranked Stonewall Workplace Equality Index HEI
 employer (10th), and the first UK university named a Living Wage Champion (2015). Cardiff’s
 Strategic Equality Plan (SEP) is led by the Dean of EDI/Deputy Vice-Chancellor, advised by an
 external EDI committee. The PVCR sits on the Equality and Diversity Committee, ensuring
 alignment between SEP and R&I strategy. SEP2016-2020 focused on unconscious bias, LGBT+
 support, and race inequalities. R&I objectives in SEP2020-2024 include: “improving diversity of
 our recruitment and supporting staff to progress” and “an inclusive University culture”.
 A further R&I EDI group is working on: (a) diversifying research leadership; (b) EDI in translation
 and commercialisation; (c) Covid-19 EDI impacts (Annex). Informed by ISSF (S2.1.3), EDI
 information is collected for all internal funding schemes. Staff undertake mandatory online EDI
 and unconscious bias training, with supplementary training for managers and recruitment panels.
 Cardiff’s Athena Swan Bronze Award was re-accredited in 2019; 13 Schools have Athena Swan
 awards. Our Race Equality Steering Group is developing an action plan towards the Race Equality
 Charter Mark. Development Sessions for female and BAME+ Academics additionally provide
 support for promotions and career development. Staff networks for BAME+; Carers and Families;
 Enfys (LGBT+); Disability; Welsh Language; and International ensure diversity is embraced, and
 actively supported.
 EDI metrics (professors/senior staff): 27.4% identify as female, 72.6% as male. 87.3% are UK
 nationals; 10.4% EU; 6% international. 87.3% of staff are white; 7.3% BAME; 5.7% not disclosed
 (ND). 88.7% staff note same gender at birth. Age distribution: 35-44 (12.2%); 45-54 (37.6%); 55-
 64 (40.6%); 65-99 (9.6%). 63.4% identify as heterosexual; 33.7% ND; 3% identify as gay, bisexual,
 lesbian or in another way. 22.2% staff are Christian; 19.1% have no religion; 48% ND; 0.3%
 Buddhist; 1% Hindu; 0.4% Jewish; 0.9% Muslim; 8% other religion/belief. Recruitment focused on
 early career: 16-24 (10.6%); 25-34 (46.8%); 35-44 (25.9%); 45-54 (11.7%); 55-64 (4.5%); 65+
 (0.5%).
 Mean gender pay-gap (T&R; T&S; R-only staff): 15.5% (median 16.5%).

                                                                                              Page 5
Institutional environment template (REF5a)

 3.2 Staff support and development
 3.2.1 Consultation
 Staff views are captured through formal and informal feedback (e.g., biennial Staff Survey,
 covering environment; decision making; career development; work-life balance). Results are
 analysed by School, career pathway and themes (research/education), with integrated School-
 College-University two-year action plans. R&I policy consultation is regularly undertaken, informed
 by T&R and R-only staff, as well as PGRs (S2.1). Staff recruitment is strategic, aligned to
 SEP2020-2024, R&I objectives, and disciplinary and interdisciplinary needs.
 3.2.2 Flexible working
 Flexible working policies support working hours or place of work changes. Employees can apply
 for career breaks (6-36 months), with the right to return on the same salary/grade. A Returners
 Support Scheme minimises the impact of extended leave by helping refresh skills, knowledge
 and confidence, including re-establishing research. During Covid-19, flexible working, wellbeing
 days and additional leave (for dependants; over Christmas) were provided, with salary and
 research support (£7.8m, £1m Cardiff) for PGRs and staff (including R-only, project managers and
 technical staff) whose research was disrupted.
 3.2.3 Workload and reward
 Cardiff’s transparent workload model ensures equitable allocations balancing teaching,
 research, impact and administration; it includes research leave, external panels (e.g., REF2021),
 research grants, PGR supervision, impact, translational research, business secondments. T&R
 and T&S progression pathways are provided, including promotion for innovation and engagement.
 The Cardiff Academic and Cardiff Professional provide guidance for promotion, alongside support
 for accelerated careers. From 2019, Cardiff supported R-only staff promotion via a
 Senior/Principal/Professorial Research Fellow route (10 promotions, 2019). A biennial professorial
 reward strategy aims to ensure gender salary equity.
 Celebrating Excellence Awards include Rising Stars and Excellence in Research,
 complementing Innovation and Impact Awards which celebrate staff working with non-academic
 partners, including ECR Future Innovators. The PVCR writes individually to staff winning research
 awards each month. Staff regularly win external prizes: BBSRC Innovator of the Year 2018
 (Honey); ESRC Outstanding Impact in Society Award (Renold); Queen’s Anniversary Prizes,
 Owen (2015), Woodhouse (2018). Since REF2014, 79 staff became Learned Society of Wales
 Fellows, with Thomas Society President from 2020.
 3.2.4 Staff development
 Induction (relaunched 2019) provides tailored programmes for new staff on different pathways;
 research components are supported by R&I Deans. Performance Development Reviews
 (undertaken annually, via one-to-one line manager meetings) were enhanced (2017) to support
 greater reflection on R&I, aligned to School-College-University priorities.
 Professorial Leadership Programme (lead: Deputy Vice-Chancellor) and Cardiff Futures (lead:
 Vice-Chancellor) are key leadership development programmes. Cardiff Futures involves ECR
 academics and professional staff working with University Executive Board members (91 staff since
 REF2014). The PVCR leads a dedicated R&I day, supporting attendees deliver pilot projects (e.g.,
 ECR social networking). The University leads Welsh Crucible (an award-winning programme for
 research leaders: 50 Cardiff staff, 2014-2020). We partner GW4 Crucible, focused on
 interdisciplinary challenges (e.g., climate change: 45 Cardiff staff, 2014-2020). Cardiff is also the
 Wales and South West hub for the £3m UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship Development Network
 (Gorrara).
 3.2.5 Wellbeing
 Cardiff achieved Gold Corporate Health Standard (2015) for its health and wellbeing workplace
 initiatives. SEP2020-2024 emphasises wellbeing by embedding this in leadership and line
 manager programmes, alongside our Staff Wellbeing and Mentally Healthy University Strategy
 (2020). The Staff Wellbeing Group promotes our Employee Assistance Programme, a Wellbeing

                                                                                                Page 6
Institutional environment template (REF5a)

 programme and a Staff Wellbeing Team, who provide bespoke events. Our Dignity at Work and
 Study Policy (2019) notes zero-tolerance of harassment, bullying and victimisation, with Dignity
 and Wellbeing Contacts in every School.
 3.3. ECR academics and R-only
 To accelerate research ambitions, ECR academics are given reduced workloads, intensive grant
 funding mentoring, dedicated access to specific University R&I funding schemes (S2) and access
 to research leave (e.g., Disglair Lectureship Scheme, S2.1.5).
 Cardiff received the HR Excellence in Research Award in recognition of our implementation of the
 revised Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. Linked to Vitae’s
 Researcher Development Framework, the Cardiff Researcher Programme supports R-only staff
 via workshops, online modules and one-to-one coaching (e.g., on grant writing, networking,
 research leadership; 1,735 staff since REF2014). In 2016, University-wide recommendations for
 ECR academics and R-only staff were agreed (aligned to R&I objectives, S1.1). The action plan
 is delivered by a Researcher Pathways Group (2019, lead: Dean for Research Environment and
 Culture), with ECR staff representation. The Cardiff University Research Staff Association
 (supporting R-only staff) runs an annual symposium and actively contributes to R&I decision-
 making (S2.1.1). New College Fellowship Development Programmes support transition to
 independence of R-only staff; 231 fellowships in REF2021 (versus 113 REF2014).
 3.4 Postgraduate researchers
 Postgraduate Deans and School PGR Directors provide academic and pastoral support for
 Cardiff’s PGRs, with input from College Postgraduate Forums and the Students’ Union Vice-
 President Postgraduate. Cardiff’s Doctoral Academy provides 200 workshops and training courses
 p.a., with the Careers and Employability team supporting skills and placements. Career
 destinations include education (44%), health, scientific and technical (25%), manufacturing (6%)
 and public (5%) sectors; mostly in Wales and England (65%). In the Postgraduate Research
 Experience Survey, Cardiff’s supervision aligns to sector average, with professional development
 and research skills above average.
 Our £1.3m Vice-Chancellor’s International Scholarships for Research Excellence (2017-
 2019) supported 21 PGRs across 15 countries (e.g., Vietnam, Sudan, Myanmar). 14 Schools
 hosted China Scholarship Council PGRs, with £3.5m of University support since 2018. Our
 Schools funded just over 1,200 PhD studentships between 2014-2020 (stipend value £20.6m).
 The University contributes to 19 DTEs (e.g., £6.6m EPSRC CDT in Compound Semiconductor
 Manufacturing, with Manchester, Sheffield and UCL, see other examples S2.1.4). Wellbeing is
 supported by PGR wellbeing champions; an ‘Talk Campus’ app; the Health and Wellbeing Service;
 supervisor training; and pastoral supervisors. A confidential disclosure service and Student Advice
 team provide further support, alongside Dignity and Wellbeing contacts.
 3.5 Undergraduate R&I experience
 The Cardiff Undergraduate Research Opportunities Programme offers 6-8 weeks’ paid
 research experience for undergraduates. Since REF2014, 1,140 projects were supported, across
 every UOA. Our new Cardiff Innovation Development Scheme will support undergraduates to
 undertake paid knowledge exchange activities. This complements our excellent Student
 Enterprise team, who facilitated 215 new student businesses since REF2014 (e.g., Yoello, a
 rising star mobile payment company; Phytophonics, hydroponic systems reducing carbon
 emissions).
 3.6 REF2021 Delivery
 Cardiff’s REF2021 Code of Practice focused on: inclusivity; excellence; consistency; transparency
 and accountability. Staff delivering REF2021 had EDI and unconscious bias training, including
 Centre for Inclusive Leadership training for REF2021 decision-makers. REF EDI Group-led
 Equality Impact Assessments informed REF Committee decision-making. Data modelling included
 EDI considerations, aligned to inclusive UOA allocations. Minimum expectations for REF2021
 peer review and representative reviewing teams (consistency) were implemented, with reviewer
 names published on the staff intranet (transparency and accountability). REF2021 updates were

                                                                                              Page 7
Institutional environment template (REF5a)

 communicated regularly (via email, intranet, newsletters, and Senate). Staff undertaking REF2021
 work were consistently supported (REF impact team; research leave; workload allocations).
 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 4.1 Research awards and income
 Multiple mechanisms and enablers (S2-4) support generation of research income, aligned to
 Cardiff’s R&I strategy (S2). These are complemented by highly experienced and motivated
 professional teams (e.g., Research and Innovation Services; Strategic Planning and Governance),
 working in a co-ordinated and strategic way with the University Executive Board, Colleges and
 Schools.
 Research awards (5,057) and income (£751m) increased considerably since REF2014 (2,772
 awards; £460m income); this was seen across all Colleges (income: AHSS: +74%; BLS: +66%;
 PSE: +53%).
 An increased focus on interdisciplinarity doubled Cardiff’s Centres of Excellence: 50 in REF2021
 versus 26 in REF2014. Examples, complementing those in S2.1.4, include:
    •   £2m MRC Centre for Neuropsychiatric Genetics and Genomics (UOA4)
    •   £4.6m Centre for Artificial Intelligence, Robotics and Human-Machine Systems (UOA12)
    •   £5m ESRC Centre for Climate Change and Social Transformations (UOA4)
    •   £8m AHRC Creative Industries Cluster, Clwstwr Creadigol (UOA34)
    •   £15m ESRC Wales Institute of Social Economic Research and Data, with Aberystwyth,
        Bangor, South Wales and Swansea (UOA21/UOA23)
    •   £27m Cardiff University Brain Research Imaging Centre (UOA4)
    •   £42m Strength in Places CS Connected award, with IQE plc (UOA9/UOA12).
 4.2 HEFCW investment
 4.2.1 QR funding
 As the leading research-intensive Welsh University, Cardiff receives approximately £40m annual
 HEFCW QR funding. This funding provides Schools with the financial flexibility to deliver R&I
 objectives (e.g., via School PhD studentships; match-funding for equipment and grants; proof-of-
 concept research schemes; academic, R-only and PGR research funding; professional services
 support).
 In this REF period, School QR funding was also used to match-fund fellowships and Chair
 positions from the prestigious Welsh Government European Commission Sêr Cymru Scheme.
 £15.5m of external investment (£8.9m Cardiff match) supported 68 awards, in turn delivering £18m
 in additional grants (e.g., Gruber, who moved from UC Davis, obtained a £960k Wellcome Trust
 Henry Dale Fellowship). Sêr Cymru Chair funding supported our new Medicines Discovery
 Institute (£14m), generating a further £13m of external funding, including major Wellcome Trust
 and MRC DPFS awards. Since 2018, QR funding also supported a University Strategic
 Research Investment Fund (lead: PVCR), designed to drive Cardiff’s R&I objectives: this
 currently funds salary for Cardiff’s UKRI Future Leader Fellows and Disglair Lecturers.
 4.2.2 HEFCW RWIF
 The Welsh equivalent of Higher Education Innovation Funding was reinstated in 2020-2021,
 having been stopped in 2013-2014. Cardiff received £2.7m for 2020-2021, with £2.7m p.a.
 anticipated between 2021-2023. A new Innovation Strategy (S4.4), aligned to the Knowledge
 Exchange Framework Concordat, supported investment in professional services support for
 impact; strategic partnerships; commercialisation; student enterprise; public engagement; civic
 mission, providing enhanced cross-University training and support for translational, commercial
 and civic mission activities. Funding was also allocated for new translational proof-of-concept
 schemes, expanding our successful ISSF approach (S2.1.3), and for academic-business
 collaborations linked to our future interdisciplinary University Innovation Institutes (e.g., compound
 semiconductors; crime and security; mental health, S2.1.4).

                                                                                                Page 8
Institutional environment template (REF5a)

 4.3 Infrastructure
 4.3.1 Equipment and IT infrastructure
 Since REF2014, £25m of HEFCW Higher Education Research Capital funding enabled new
 capital investments. Our Research Infrastructure Fund (£8.4m, 39 awards) supported new and
 refurbished equipment (e.g., mass spectrometers, microscopes, visualisation facilities and
 imaging platforms, see UOAs’ REF5b). Investment into our £300m Innovation Campus (see
 S4.4.2) included a Translational Research Hub electron microscope suite (Catalysis URI) and
 behavioural laboratories for the Social Sciences Research Park (SPARK). A further £3.5m of
 HEFCW world-class laboratories funding was invested in innovation priorities (e.g., cybersecurity
 testbed, with Airbus/Thales, UOA11), a neuro-cellular screening platform (supporting our £4m
 award with Japanese pharmaceutical company Takeda, UOA4), and a state-of-the-art
 supercomputing facility (for our Data Innovation Research Institute).
 Cardiff’s online equipment database includes 350 entries, accessible to all researchers, which
 feeds into both GW4, and the EPSRC’s “equipment.data.ac.uk”. Cardiff researchers are further
 supported by Technology Hubs (UOA5) and Cardiff’s Central Biotechnology Services, the
 latter hosting shared cell analysis, genomics, and diagnostics equipment. GW4 provides additional
 specialised equipment (e.g., electron cryo-microscopy) and archives (GW4 Treasures), as well as
 funding cross-University networks to support new research collaborations (many led by Cardiff
 academics).
 Cardiff’s IT department (~£20m p.a.) provides institution-wide R&I, learning and teaching support.
 A dedicated research datastore supports large data projects, with robust information handling and
 protection procedures. A Cardiff open-data repository enables data sharing, with a new upgraded
 service (based on Jisc’s Research Repository) launching mid-2021. Advanced Research
 Computing@Cardiff (ARCCA) provides leadership and support for complex computational
 research projects, and, through GW4, co-delivers the ESPRC-funded Isambard, providing access
 to accelerator technology and early release infrastructure in collaboration with blue chip
 companies. Cardiff leads Supercomputing Wales, a £16m pan-Wales collaboration (with
 Aberystwyth; Bangor; Swansea), with an enterprise supercomputer, data analytics platform and
 scalable storage infrastructure. These investments saw a six-fold increase in Cardiff’s
 computational capability since REF2014, complemented by investment in software engineers
 to help researchers exploit these unique facilities.
 4.3.2 University Libraries
 Our libraries have 1.1m physical items, 100k journals and nearly 1m e-books (across 11 libraries
 and online). £3.9m is spent on journal subscriptions, with 8.5m digital downloads in 2019-2020.
 Special Collections and Archives (100k print items, 2km of archives, 500 artworks, worth
 £10m) cover unique 15th Century rare books to born-digital collections and support
 interdisciplinary research on Welsh and global culture, language, humanities and history. Key
 partners include: Research Libraries UK; JSTOR’s Open Community Collections; Archives Wales;
 Association of Research Libraries; GW4. Partnership with the National Library of Wales
 provides onsite access to 16m Non-Print Legal Deposit e-books, journal articles and websites.
 Grants (£50k) in the REF period included: The National Archives; National Manuscripts
 Conservation Trust; The Learned Society of Wales, Literature of Wales; and Archives and Records
 Council Wales. Cardiff is in the top 20 of 351 UK institutions sharing content on Archives
 Hub.
 4.4 Innovation and impact
 4.4.1 Commercialisation
 Cardiff’s Commercial Development Team provides commercial and entrepreneurship training and
 funding, and supports IP protection, patents and new companies. The team also leads our
 Innovation Incubators (S4.4.3) and works closely with Student Enterprise (S3.5). Cardiff ranks
 1st in Wales for IP income, accounting for 81% of IP in Welsh Universities since REF2014,
 with income totalling £22.7m (e.g., Finlay’s Dermatology Quality of Life Index; Cooper’s Human
 Gene Mutation Database, UOA1 impact cases). Cardiff further attracts investment from public and


                                                                                             Page 9
Institutional environment template (REF5a)

 private sector (£147m since REF2014), including via ASPECT, which supports commercial
 opportunities in the social sciences.
 MRC Confidence in Concept and Proximity to Discovery funding (total £2.7m) supported 80
 projects (e.g., Jones’ £45k project on DNA therapies in Huntington’s disease, which subsequently
 obtained £1.5m of external funding, including from spin-out company LoQus23 Therapeutics).
 Translational income (e.g., from MRC DPFS) increased almost four-fold (£2.7m in 2013-2014 to
 £9.9m in 2019-2020). Cardiff holds 3rd place (for the 2nd consecutive year) on the Octopus
 Ventures Spinning out Success: Entrepreneurial Impact Ranking 2020; this measures generation
 of sustainable businesses, based on research income and the exit value of spin-out companies.
 4.4.2 Building up innovation
 Cardiff’s £300m Innovation Campus is the physical heart of our innovation activities, supporting
 delivery of our Innovation for All strategy. The campus facilitates economic growth, advances
 academic-business partnerships, knowledge exchange and commercialisation, and delivers
 innovation-led career opportunities for Cardiff’s skilled graduates. Flagship buildings since
 REF2014 include:
    •    Hadyn Ellis Building (£30m): home to the Neuroscience and Mental Health Research
         URI; European Cancer Stem Cell Research URI; UK Dementia Research Institute Centre;
         and hub for our £4m drug discovery collaboration with Japanese company Takeda.
    •    CUBRIC (£44m): one of Europe’s leading interdisciplinary brain imaging centres, delivered
         in partnership with Siemens, funded via £27m of Wellcome Trust, UKRI and European
         investment.
    •    SPARK (£56.5m, opening Autumn 2021): the world’s first social science research park
         focused on children and young people, wellbeing, sustainability, artificial intelligence,
         public service delivery and foundational economy. Including Office for National Statistics
         and civil society organisations, SPARK will co-locate with our Innovation Centre,
         supporting spin-outs, licensing, knowledge exchange and impact.
     •   Translational Research Hub (£131m, opening May 2022): academic-business space for
         Catalysis URI and Cardiff’s Institute for Compound Semiconductors, focused on growing
         industrial collaboration with companies (e.g., IQE plc; Newport Wafer Fab; BP).
 These were complemented by investment in:
    •    £10.3m state-of-the art building for our School of Journalism, Media and Culture (No 2.
         Central Square), located adjacent to BBC Cymru; this is closely interconnected with
         Clwstwr Creadigol’s Cardiff City Hall base, with both supporting acceleration of Cardiff’s
         screen sector innovation.
    •    £39m Abacws building (opening Autumn 2021), for the Schools of Mathematics and
         Computer Science and Informatics, including laboratories to advance cybersecurity
         research and expand Cardiff’s £3.5m Data Innovation Accelerator (supporting SMEs
         (e.g., Sustainable Energy Ltd.; W2 Global Data Ltd.) to utilise data to drive business
         objectives).
 4.4.3 External partnerships
 Our Cardiff University Innovation Network includes 1,800 members (e.g., Welsh anchor
 companies; local SMEs; Welsh Government; local councils) and supports private and public sector
 collaboration. A new joint Clinical Research Office with NHS Wales, an integrated Clinical
 Trials Research Unit, and Medicentre, a Cardiff-NHS innovation incubator for new Biotech and
 medtech start-ups, helped advance biomedical and clinical collaborations across Wales, as well
 as across the UK. For example, Cellesce Ltd, a UOA5 spin-out company, is based in Medicentre
 (impact case). ACCELERATE, led by the Life Sciences Hub Wales, involves Cardiff, Swansea
 and University of Wales Trinity Saint David: this £24m initiative supports entrepreneurs developing
 new NHS health products, diagnostics and services.



                                                                                            Page 10
Institutional environment template (REF5a)

 Strategic Partnerships support Cardiff’s R&I strategic objectives, ensuring our research delivers
 aligned to the business and public sector needs of Wales and the UK. Our successful partnership
 with the Office for National Statistics’ Data Science Campus facilitates R&I in our Data Innovation
 Research Institute and supports our Data Science and Software Academies (which, via applied
 degrees with business, address the shortage of Welsh data scientists, programmers and software
 engineers). A new £10m Challenge Fund (launched in 2021) involving Cardiff Capital Region and
 Y Lab further supports local authorities and other public sector organisations to use data for
 effective policy and practice interventions, aligned to SPARK’s future R&I ambitions. These
 examples exemplify how academic-business-public sector collaborations, aligned to the
 interdisciplinary R&I entities on our £300m Innovation Campus, provide the exciting foundation for
 Cardiff to continue to be a vital enabler of positive societal change in Wales, the UK and the world.




                                                                                              Page 11
