Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution:

 Heriot-Watt University
 1. Context and mission

 Mission
 To create and exchange knowledge that benefits society.

 Context
 Our mission is influenced by our heritage as the world’s first Mechanics Institute, established in
 1821 to provide the knowledge and skills necessary for emerging industries in a growing economy.
 We remain true to this heritage but have transitioned into a multinational organisation (62% of our
 turnover is transacted in the UK, 23% in the United Arab Emirates and 15% in Malaysia), well
 placed to drive economic growth and address social challenges through educating the future
 workforce, advancing research, building global collaborative partnerships and commercialising
 technology. Our international positioning imbibes a diverse research culture in our research and
 impact network across the University.
 Research activities returned in REF21 are undertaken at our campuses in the UK (Edinburgh,
 Galashiels and Stromness). We are returning to 422.42FTE staff across 11 Units of Assessment
 with a focus on engineering, science and business-related research, see Figure 1.




 Figure 1: Mapping of Schools to REF21 Units of Assessment




                                                                                             Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 We are strongly committed to the contributions we make to the society and economy of the UK.
 An independent analysis of our economic impact demonstrates that we directly enhance the
 economy by generating £278.2 million Gross Value Added each year and supporting 6,254 jobs.

 University Strategy
 During the REF21 period our strategy has focused on growing our core research strengths by
 creating Global Research Institutes (GRIs) to lead out frontier research, recruiting new research
 leaders to increase capacity, investing in our research development and enterprise teams to
 support income growth and impact, and funding PhD scholarships in new exciting research areas.
 Synergy between research and teaching is critical to the supportive environment we seek to create
 and we have established a Research Futures Academy (RFA) and Learning and Teaching
 Academy (LTA) to support our staff in achieving their full potential in both these areas.
 This has led to significant growth in performance metrics when comparing annual averages for the
 REF14 and REF21 periods: outputs up from 1140 to 1536 (35% growth), research income up
 from £22.6M to £30.2M (33% growth) and PhD graduations up from 107 to 158 (47% growth).
 We have doubled our strategic partnerships with industry and grown spin-out creation and
 investment; having created 9 spinouts since REF14 who we have supported to raise around £3.8m
 via equity and grant funding. Our global structure has aided in developing international networks;
 we have 34 active partnerships funded by the Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF).

 Structure
 The academic line management structure of the University is our Schools; managed by a Head of
 School and supported by a School Management Group, which includes a Director of Research
 (DoR) with responsibility for the development and delivery of School research objectives. To
 facilitate interdisciplinary research this is supplemented by GRIs. GRIs cut across School
 boundaries and possess the capacity to develop significant international collaborations and work
 across a range of Technology Readiness Levels.


 2. Strategy

 Strategy 2025: Shaping Tomorrow Together
 Strategy 2025: Shaping Tomorrow Together, reinforces our vision to be at the forefront of
 academic endeavour that makes an outstanding impact on society. It is values led and was
 developed with the active participation of our staff, students, alumni and partners and is co-
 delivered by this global community through four interconnected themes - Building Flourishing
 Communities, Pioneering in Education, Excelling in Research and Enterprise, and Globally
 Connected. The implementation of the Excelling in Research and Enterprise theme is jointly led
 by the Deputy Principal (Research and Innovation) and Deputy Principal (Business and
 Enterprise), DP(R&I) and DP (B&E). The theme aims to achieve:
    Excellence and growth in research.
    Thought leadership that shapes the global research agenda.
    A globally connected enterprise eco-system connecting students, staff and society.



                                                                                            Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
     A global reputation for transformative economic and societal impact that addresses Grand
      Challenges and contributes towards Sustainable Development Goals.
 These aims are supported by a commitment to provide a supportive environment for staff and
 students to achieve their full potential. Central to this has been the creation of the Research
 Futures Academy, supporting all research staff and students to achieve excellence.

 Achievements
 The research culture our strategy has created has promoted excellence and enabled many of our
 research staff to advance their careers during the REF21 period with 62 promotions to Professor
 and 160 promotions to Associate Professor. Our Fellowship College has been a source of
 proactive support for Early Career Researchers (ECRs) seeking externally funded research
 fellowships with 30 awarded during the REF21 period.
 Our unit level environment statements and impact case studies provide details of the research
 outcomes and impact we have achieve in REF21. These extend across a wide range of topics.
 For example, we have:
     Enabled 70,000,000 deaf signers to access society, by shaping policy teaching of British
      Sign Language in schools and informed changes to the jury system allowing signers to serve
      as jurors.
     Influenced the Homelessness Reduction Act 2017 to radically expanded single homeless
      people’s entitlements in England (backed by £72.2M of government funding).
     Protected critically important biogenic habitats and ecosystem services by shaping policy
      objectives in international maritime spatial planning through the designation of Marine
      Protected Areas in Panama, Colombia, Galápagos and Europe.
     Invented and developed a critical asset Environment and Health Monitoring System (EHMS)
      that optimises asset operations, installed, as a world-first, onto critical aircraft handling
      equipment on HMS Ocean, the UK’s helicopter carrier and Fleet Flagship of the Royal Navy.
     Developed pressure garments used globally to treat hypertrophic burn scars, improving
      medical outcomes and patient quality of life.
 To strengthen our ‘policy voice’ we appointed a Chief Scientist and believe we are the first UK
 university to do so. With public support from 17 Nobel Laureates we have renovated Panmure
 House, former home of Scottish Enlightenment economist Adam Smith, as a venue for public
 debate on topics of global importance. The debates cut across all research activities, i.e. the Adam
 Smith Lecture Series brings together the world’s best economic thinkers and Nobel Laureates to
 deliver keynote lectures of global relevance, and the Hutton Series on Climate Change recognises
 the increasing need for reasoned debate between industry, NGOs, government and the public on
 energy provision, climate change and resource utilisation.




                                                                                              Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)




    Figure 2: Panmure House – former home of Adam Smith – shaping policy
 In 2016 we opened the Lyell Centre for Earth and Marine Science and Technology to host our
 partnership with the British Geological Survey. The Centre utilises our combined expertise to
 create an interdisciplinary centre addressing global challenges in earthquake prediction, mass
 extinction of marine organisms, world-wide traceability of seafood products and sustainability in
 seafood supply.
 With the University of Edinburgh, we are partners in leading the UK and Scottish Government’s
 investment (£751M) in the innovation strand of the Edinburgh Region City Region Deal; an
 ambitious plan to establish the City Region as the ‘Data Capital of Europe’. Through this initiative
 we are constructing the National Robotarium on our Edinburgh Science Park.




    Figure 3: Architects Design for the National Robotarium - driving research translation

                                                                                              Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 The National Robotarium will support pioneering research, develop wide ranging academic and
 industrial partnerships, train new generations of researchers, engineers and innovators, and
 create a unique ecosystem fuelling the rapid transition of ideas into new products and innovation.
 We have created two GRIs based on Lyell Centre and the National Robotarium capability and
 will launch others in Net Zero Carbon, Medical Technology and Social Inclusion in 2021.
 We lead and partner in major UKRI funded projects that will deliver future impact. The Robotics
 Hub for Offshore Robotics for Certification of Assets (ORCA) (EP/R026173/1, £14M) brings
 together our robotics expertise with over 30 industry partners; the EPSRC Centre for Sustainable
 Road Freight (EP/R035202/1, £1.8M; EP/S032061/1, £0.9M) is working to achieve deep
 reductions in CO2 emissions from the road freight sector. The Innovate UK-funded collaborations
 in Quantum Technology (EPSRC, EP/T001011/1, £24M and EPSRC, EP/T00097X/1, £22M) is
 enabling partnerships with over 30 industry partners to commercialise quantum technology
 research, and the ReFLEX (Responsive Flexibility) project in Orkney supported by £28.5M
 investment from Innovate UK will demonstrate a first-of-its-kind Virtual Energy System (VES)
 interlinking local electricity, transport, and heat networks into one controllable, overarching system.
 Postgraduate research students add greatly to our research culture and we have invested around
 £10.5M throughout the census period into James Watt Scholarships to recruit 40 talented research
 students per annum. This investment sits alongside the £11.4M we have received from EPSRC
 DTP awards (EP/T57999/1, EP/V520044/1, EP/R513040/1, EPN509474/1, EP/M507866/1,
 EP/M506333/1, EP/L504774/1) and our success in securing EPSRC and NERC Centre for
 Doctoral Training Centre awards (8 awards with a total value of £41M).
 Enterprise activities delivered through our Global Research Innovation and Discovery (GRID)
 programmes are designed to maximise the uptake of our intellectual property, support our start-
 ups and spinouts and strengthen and develop new partnerships with industry. This activity is
 closely linked with our coordination of the Converge Challenge on behalf of the Scottish Funding
 Council. The Converge Challenge is open to university staff and students from across Scotland
 and provides a springboard for new business creation through training and prizes. An economic
 evaluation undertaken by Biggar Economics in 2020 concluded that it generated £21.5 million
 GVA and supported 524 jobs in 2019 in Scotland.




  Figure 4: Global Research Innovation and Discovery Building - supporting enterprise
 In 2015, the excellence of our geoscience research was recognised with the award of a Queen’s
 Anniversary Prize for the translation of computer modelling methodologies from geoscience to life

                                                                                                 Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 science. Our transformative policy interventions at the crucial interface between government,
 frontline services and those in hardship resulted in the award of a second Queen’s Anniversary
 Prize in 2019.

 Partnerships
 We are committed to working with other peer universities in local, national and international
 partnerships. For example, the Edinburgh Research Partnership in Engineering and Mathematics
 (Heriot-Watt and University of Edinburgh) underpins our joint submissions in Mathematical
 Sciences (Maxwell Institute), Engineering (Edinburgh Research Partnership in Engineering)
 and Architecture Built Environment and Planning. Our funded research projects support
 collaborations with 2,491 partners (1,213 industry, 772 universities, 251 charities, 156 professional
 societies, 86 government establishments and 13 NHS trusts). We are a strong supporter of the
 Scottish Funding Council’s research pooling initiative, with active membership of 8 pools. These
 pools facilitate collaboration and facilities sharing across the Scottish research community.
 Over the REF21 period we have grown our strategic partnerships with business which include,
 AWE, DAR, Schneider Electric, Cisco, ASML, Chromacity, Renishaw, Shell and Energi
 Simulation. These are built on long-term joint planning, shared facilities, staff exchanges, and joint
 projects spanning different technology readiness levels.

 Public Engagement
 Public engagement is an important element of our research culture and we have used our
 Strategic Support for Embedding Public Engagement with Research grant from UKRI (£89k)
 to revitalize our public engagement strategy (launched in 2020). Highlights from our Public
 Engagement calendar include: Engaging Research Day - an annual showcase of public
 engagement activities; Explorathon - Scotland’s event for EU Researchers’ Night, a public
 celebration of research taking place in more than 300 cities across Europe; our ‘Year of ….’
 campaigns, to date we have held Years of Light, Robots, the Sea and Health, showcasing and
 celebrating our contributions to research in these topics.

 Research Governance
 The Research and Enterprise Strategy Implementation Group is responsible for driving strategic
 change across the organisation. Co-chaired by the DP(B&E) and DP(R&I), membership consists
 of research leaders and DoRs from all schools and campuses. Initiatives implemented by the
 group include the identification and development of GRIs, the creation of the Research Futures
 Academy (RFA), definition of its development programme, and the launch of our revitalised public
 engagement strategy. Actions arising from Group decisions are cascaded through the
 organisation via DoRs and School Management Teams.
 The formal aspects of research governance are provided through the University Committee for
 Research and Innovation (UCRI). UCRI is a committee of the University Senate with a reporting
 line to the Executive on staffing and resourcing issues. It is chaired by the DP(R&I) and its
 membership includes DoRs (5), elected members of the Senate (3), a Dean (1), a member of the
 research student body, an elected officer of the Student Union and the Chairs of the University’s
 Research Ethics Committee (UREC) and Research Degrees Committee (RDC). The RDC
 oversees all matters relating to research students. UREC oversees research ethics and its terms
 of reference follow UKRIO best practice guidelines, thereby ensuring appropriate ethical standards
                                                                                                Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 are adhered to for all our research projects. The DP(R&I) is an Ex-officio member of both UREC
 and RDC.

 Strategic Targets
 We have set ourselves ambitious Strategic Performance Indicators for research and enterprise
 within Strategy 2025:
    Growth in annual research income to £65M; with a focus on societal and economic
     challenge-led activities in GRIs, and
    Attainment of a top 250 position in a World University Ranking; especially though improving
     output quality and international collaborations.
 Progress in the first is being achieved through our strategic commitment to research excellence,
 the development of our GRIs aligned with national priorities, e.g. UK Research and Development
 Road Map (July 2020), the UK Industrial Strategy and place-based initiatives to support economic
 growth.
 We are currently ranked 301st in the QS World University Rankings and in the top 250 in 6 of our
 subject groupings (Chemical Engineering, Civil Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical
 Engineering, Mathematics and Accountancy & Finance) and have plans in place to enhance these
 and improve the positioning of other subject groups.


 3. People

 People Strategy
 Recruiting, retaining and supporting high calibre research leaders and developing them through
 our values led approach is the foundation of our research culture. Our values are:
    Collaborate - working in partnership to shape the future.
    Inspire - curiosity to learn and find solutions that transform lives.
    Celebrate - excellence and take pride in the achievements of our students, staff and alumni.
    Belong to a diverse, inclusive international community working together across boundaries
     and cultures.
 Recruitment
 Our Bicentennial Research Leaders progamme is the cornerstone of Strategy 2025 and we have
 recruited 246 research leaders on teaching and research contracts across our UoAs during the
 REF21 period. Recruitment is and led at an institutional level to align with research priorities
 (almost always interdisciplinary), where new academic appointments complement our existing
 staff enabling us to tackle new and important research challenges.
 Retention, Promotion and Remuneration
 The positive working culture created by our values is critical to retaining high performing staff.
 Supporting this is our approach to career development, promotion and remuneration.
 We pride ourselves in offering competitive remuneration packages for all staff. For the academic
 community these are reviewed annually based on an objective assessment of individual


                                                                                            Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 achievement and performance via academic scorecards where the criteria are aligned to the
 institutional strategic targets and benchmarked against UK discipline norms.
 To support career development, we hold annual workshops to explain the key requirements for
 progression and the processes that support this. Academics are encouraged to use their annual
 Performance and Development Review (PDR) as an opportunity for career planning and to
 engage with the RFA to develop their skills. Attendance on external personal development courses
 is supported where appropriate, for example 121 female leaders have attended the Aurora
 Leadership programme in the REF21 period.
 Recognising that staff may have personal circumstances that impact their research, we have
 adapted the learning from REF14 to ensure staff for whom flexible working is appropriate and
 where confidential special circumstances exist are not disadvantaged in their career progression.

 Support
 We recognise that excellent research requires time, and support this through a published
 methodology for workload allocation. This ensures staff are treated equitably and recognises
 individual circumstances and aspirations. Data on research productivity held on university systems
 such as PURE together with time “bought out” by external sponsors are key metrics in determining
 the time allocation for research. Staff workload allocations are reviewed annually and published
 on school intranet sites.
 To ensure the necessary standard of excellence is understood and enacted, annual meetings are
 convened by the DP(R&I) with all research institutes and centres to set clear research and impact
 performance standards. School DoRs ensure these discussions flow to an individual’s objective
 setting within PDR. Individuals requiring support to achieve suitable objectives are encouraged to
 undertake personal development through the RFA.
 Staff and Post-Graduate Development
 The RFA plays a major role in creating a supportive environment within which staff and students
 can achieve their full potential. Its creation has transformed uptake in personal development
 activities (40% increase since its launch).
 The current development programme includes:
    Supporting our Researchers, a structured personal development programme across all
     career stages. ECR - Getting Grant Funding and Publishing Your Work, Mid-Career –
     Managing a Research Group, Developing Industrial Partnerships, Professorial – Growing
     Your Influence.
    Inaugural Lecture Series (monthly) and Festival of Research and Enterprise (annually) are
     University-wide events to showcase and celebrate our research and researchers.
    Bicentennial Research Leaders Network, Crucible and Research Connect events stimulate
     academic networking and interdisciplinary research collaborations.
    Ethics Inductions for academic staff provide essential information on ethical responsibilities
     and specific University policies on research ethics, data protection and GDPR issues.
    Research Culture Grants Scheme enables peer-led collaborative projects to enhance the
     research culture experience of Postdoctoral researchers and PhD students.
 Quantitative and qualitative feedback is used in a continuous cycle of improvement and course
 and event engagement statistics are reported annually to UCRI.

                                                                                            Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 We evaluate and benchmark our career development provision at all stages through participation
 in national and institutional surveys, notably the Culture, Employment and Development in
 Academic Research Survey (CEDARS) and in the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey
 (PRES).

 Early Career Researchers
 In 2020, the University successfully retained its HR Excellence in Research award. The action
 plan for 2020-2022 is based on the revised Concordat for Researcher Development. This work is
 supported by our Research Staff Forum which provides feedback on employment and career
 development. The forum is chaired by the Global HR Director and ensures that national agendas
 are embedded within our organisation. Initiatives implemented include improvements in the
 management of fixed-term contracts, new promotional procedures for researchers, enhanced
 career support, leadership development, support for enterprise activities and public engagement
 activities.
 Research Students
 Our research students form a vital part of our research activities, each is co-supervised by two
 members of academic staff and for many a third industry-based supervisor is also appointed. Our
 PhD supervisors undertake supervisor training (including mandatory refresher training after 3
 years). PhD students are required to meet monthly with their supervisors using ‘PGR Portfolio’ to
 record agreed action points for future reference. Academic progress is formally assessed via
 annual Progress Review Panels involving the relevant School Director of Postgraduate Study and
 experienced supervisors as panel members.
 Research students create and maintain a ‘Personal Development Plan’ (PDP) to help plan their
 annual training and development. The PDP programme is mapped to Vitae’s Researcher
 Development Framework and includes:
 Year 1: Getting started - e.g. citing and referencing, managing research data, critical thinking.
 Year 2: Progressing your research - project management, time management, communicating
 research, personal effectiveness, and research writing.
 Year 3: Completing your degree - thesis writing, publishing, viva preparation and career planning.

 Equality and Diversity
 We are committed to equality and diversity in all its forms. Our Equality and Diversity Advisory
 Group coordinates initiatives to support all protected characteristics and equality and diversity
 training is mandatory for all new staff and embedded in manager training for academics
 undertaking a leadership role. This is underpinned by a range of activities and policies under the
 umbrella of Equality Outcomes, designed to support our staff in protected characteristic groups.
 HR report annually to the University Court and Executive on these outcomes.
 We are a member of the Athena SWAN Charter. In 2020, we successfully renewed our Bronze
 Award; this has been conferred to 2026 reinforcing our commitment to EDI. All our STEM schools
 (employing 80% of our researchers) also hold Athena SWAN Bronze awards. The Athena Swan
 Steering Committee oversees the monitoring and progress of an action plan that includes
 workstreams to ensure consideration is given to EDI in research, for example, timing of meetings,



                                                                                               Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 providing RFA training for ‘on demand’ engagement, actions to support academics returning after
 a career break (funds to restart research, reduced teaching responsibilities etc.).
 We also hold an EPSRC Inclusion Matters grant Disability Inclusive Science Careers
 (EP/S012117/1, £500k) which aims to overcome the barriers experienced by disabled researchers
 in pursuing scientific careers.


 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income and Growth
 The trajectory of our underlying income metrics over the REF21 period has been one of growth,
 average research income per year has grown from £22.6M in the REF14 period to £30.2M in
 the REF21 period (33%). This rate of growth is set to increase by virtue of a significant increase
 in new grants awarded, from £32M to £51M between 18/19 and 19/20. This is mainly attributable
 to our success in aligning our research with UK Government priorities.
 Support for Research and Impact
 Our dedicated Research Engagement Directorate (reporting to the DP(R&I)) supports our
 academic community to achieve our research targets. A total of 45.4FTE staff are employed in the
 Directorate, with teams aligned to key research and engagement support activities: grant
 development, post-award, business development, GCRF, policy, strategy, impact, public
 engagement, communications, legal and the RFA. In 2019, we invested £1.5M in the creation of
 the Research Engagement Hub to provide a single point of support for research.




          Figure 5: Flexible collaborative and working spaces in the Research
          Hub (images courtesy ADP and Paul Karalius).



                                                                                           Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 The Hub is described as “A new high-water mark for collaborative work spaces” by ADP
 Architecture (adp-architecture.com). Aligned with this our Enterprise Directorate (reporting to the
 DP(B&E)) employs 8FTE staff supporting commercialisation, intellectual property, and science
 park development. Research Engagement and Enterprise activities are designed as flexible
 services accessible to all.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 Reorganisation of research activities since REF14 has enabled us to refocus our activities in A4
 Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience, B7 Earth Systems and Environmental Science and
 C17 Business and Management Studies; each has been supported by significant infrastructure
 investments.
     In A4, £500k investment in a Kinematic Suite along with associated Body and Emotion
      Laboratory facilities has provided new easily accessible, state of the art facilities.
     In B7, our strategic partnership with the British Geological Survey has been supported by
      £23M investment from NERC, the Scottish Funding Council and the University to create the
      Lyell Centre for Earth and Marine Science. In addition, to the new building the investment
      has created state-of-the-art research facilities to support biogeochemical, microbiological
      and geoenergy research. Additional investment from the Wolfson Foundation of £250k
      supported the creation of the ‘Wolfson Aquarium for Climate Change Research’.
     In C17, £2M has been invested in restructuring academic space within the Edinburgh
      Business School to create new open plan research facilities aligned with the multi-
      disciplinary research vision for this unit. This refurbishment included the creation of 30
      incubator units for start-up businesses linked to the unit’s research activities. Aligned with
      our strategic objective of thought leadership to shape the global research agenda, C17 has
      also benefitted from £5.6M investment to renovate Panmure House, see section 2.3.
 Significant infrastructure investments are aligned with our joint submissions.
     Recognising that research excellence in the mathematical sciences requires international
      conversations and intellectual competition, work in B10 (The Maxwell Institute) has been
      supported through £8.8M investment by EPSRC in the International Centre Mathematical
      Sciences (EP/P000487/1, £0.7M; EP/R015007/1, £3.1M; EP/V521905/1, £5M).
     In B12, we have refurbished over 350m2 of laboratory space at a cost of £1.5M to support
      our teams working on carbon capture utilisation and storage. Aspects of our research
      contributing to the EPSRC Quantum Hubs (B9) is aligned with our engineering research in
      signal and image processing where we have invested £0.5M in enhanced computational
      facilities. Recognising the research opportunities afforded from the construction of HS2 we
      invested £150k in the construction of the Geo-pavement and Railways Accelerated Fatigue
      Testing facility (GRAFT2) a unique research facility to test high speed track dynamics. We
      have also co-invested £3.7M with the Advancing Manufacturing Challenge Fund to create
      the Medical Device Manufacturing Centre.
     Our work in Robotics and AI spans both B12 and B11. An initial investment of £6.1M from
      EPSRC (EP/J015040/1) to create enhanced robotics laboratories including our ‘Living
      Laboratory’ was instrumental in our success in securing the Edinburgh and Southeast
      Scotland City Region Deal to establish the £22.6M National Robotarium.
 Details of significant investment in infrastructure to support other UoAs is provided below.


                                                                                                Page 11
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
     B8 benefits from £3.4M investment in shared facilities and infrastructure, aligned to support
      the Unit’s strategy of interdisciplinary research though close collaboration with industry.
      FlexBio (funded with £1.1M from the Industrial Bioprocessing Innovation Centre, IBioIC and
      £1M from Heriot-Watt University) provides open-access pilot scale bioprocessing, filling the
      UK-wide gap in facilities. We lead (with the University of Edinburgh) the Edinburgh MRC
      Super-Resolution Imaging Consortium (ESRIC, £1.9M from UKRI and £800K from
      Wellcome). ESRIC provides open access state-of-the-art imaging technology to address
      fundamental questions in human biology and disease.
     B9 has benefitted from our commitment to the Quantum Hubs through an expansion of our
      large nanofabrication centre at a cost of £1.5M together with £0.6M investment from EPSRC
      in a two-dimensional photonics fabrication facility. A further investment of £800k in 2016
      created a quantum technology laboratory suite to support our experimental physicists.
 Shared Facilities
 Equipment sharing is facilitated by Schools listing suitable facilities on our intranet. These facilities
 range from the new two-dimensional photonics fabrication facility and geochemistry laboratory in
 the Lyell Centre to our established wave tank and anechoic chamber facilities. Technical support
 is provided for each as required. All are available for use across the university and in some cases
 for use externally at commercial rates.
 Our membership of the Scottish Funding Council research pools, particularly the Edinburgh
 Research Partnership in Engineering and the Scottish Universities Physics Alliance, provide
 opportunities for national sharing of equipment/facilities to support research within Scotland.

 Cross-cutting issues
 Each of our UoAs has an important role to play in the successful delivery of Strategy 2025. Monthly
 meetings take place between our DP(R&I) and (B&E) with DoRs ensure that this is understood
 and that interfaces between Schools and UoAs are managed appropriately. All UoAs have
 benefitted from access to our strategic investment funds for academic staff recruitment and PhD
 studentships, with decisions to invest based on strategic fit.
 We are a signatory to the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) and are
 committed to improving the ways in which researchers and the outputs of scholarly research are
 evaluated.
 We utilise PURE as the platform for our research outputs and publicly available data. Where
 appropriate we deploy our UKRI block grant to enable Gold Open Access for research outputs.
 This process is managed by our Library Team who provide training to support understanding of
 open research. In 2020, we have gone beyond the minimum requirement by implementing a
 comprehensive system to enable our researchers to manage their research data.




                                                                                                  Page 12
