Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    Institution: The Royal Central School of Speech and Drama, University of London

    1. Context and mission

    1.1.1. The Royal Central School of Speech and Drama (Central) is a single-faculty specialist HEI
    (SSI) within the University of London (UoL) with an institutional mission to develop
    practitioners and researchers able to shape the future of drama, theatre, and performance
    (DTP). Central’s vision is a hybrid conservatoire where the creative industries and the academy
    engage with civic stakeholders, maximising the benefits the institution can generate for wider
    society. This hybridity ensures the sustainability and outward-facing relevance of the three
    interlocking areas of the School: its research, its impact and knowledge exchange (KE) strategy,
    and its teaching and training provision. Rooted in the broader context of a civic university, core
    values — sharing, listening, and enquiring — shape what we do and how we do it: nurturing
    creative citizens embedded in intersecting local, national, international, and disciplinary
    communities. In 2016, Central became the only DTP conservatoire designated ‘world-leading’ by
    the 2016 HEFCE review of Institution Specific Targeted Allocation (ISTA).
    As a single unit, our institutional-level and UoA-level strategies and activity are mapped across
    REF5a and REF5b, cross-referencing where appropriate.

    1.1.2. Central’s overall size and structure comprises the largest contracted academic faculty of
    DTP specialists in Europe (67.35 FTE). Of those staff, 31.6 FTE are on a Teaching and
    Research 1 (T&R) pathway and 35.75 FTE on a Teaching and Scholarship (T&S) pathway (see
    1.1.3). Central has dedicated professional services (1.6 FTE) for staff engaged in KE activities
    and 3 FTE research support, a specialist Technical and Production Support Department (13.4
    FTE), and an Outreach and Enterprise team (6.5 FTE).
    Central has a student body (2019/20) of 691 undergraduates (62.8%); its cohort of 389 MA/MFA
    students and 21 PGR students (37.2%) is the largest postgraduate population in the European
    DTP sector. 32.4% of students are international (20.3% non-EU international, 12.1% EU).
    In 2019/20, Central’s total income was £19.8m, with 6% derived from research activities,
    including: Research England grant 4% and awards 2%. Undergraduate and MA student fees
    accounted for 58%; short course fees 4%; the OfS recurrent and ISTA grant 24%; donations,
    trusts, and foundations 1%; government capital grants 2%; investments and endowments 1%;
    and other income 4%. Central invested 61% of its total income in staffing (plus 4% on visiting
    professionals).

    1.1.3. Serving as a hub where diverse methodologies are developed, tested, and disseminated,
    Central mobilises its research and maximises its impact through ongoing KE with industry
    partners, SMEs, and public-sector stakeholders. This hybrid approach encapsulates the balance
    between research, teaching, and enterprise activities and is key to Central’s impact strategy,
    where research informs and is reciprocally informed by Central’s vocational teaching contexts.
    For example, the ‘Wonder VR: Interactive Storytelling through VR360 video with NHS Patients
    Living with Dementia’ project, developed out of BA/MA teaching activities, led to a KE Student
    Engagement grant from OfS/Research England (£566.26k) and the Guardian’s 2020 Teaching
    Excellence Award. Academic staff engage with, or are embedded professionally within, applied,
    creative arts, or heritage sector contexts, informing our research, impact, and KE strategy, while
    promoting productive dialogue with industry and increasing our capacity to benefit stakeholders.



1
    This includes research assistants/associates.

                                                                                                 Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 This is reflected in the T&R and T&S pathways (introduced 1 August 2017), whose border can
 be fluid — with four staff subsequently transferring to T&R. Dedicated time is given to each
 category of staff within the work allocation model for research and/or KE activity, with sabbatical
 and project support funded from QR and ISTA funds respectively. A HERA and peer-review-
 based promotion scheme leads to professorial title and grades for each pathway (see 3.1).

 1.1.4. Central’s local economic and demographic context places it as one of 11 HEIs based
 in London’s Borough of Camden, with a local profile as a performing arts venue. A founding
 member of the Cultural Camden network (alongside The Roundhouse, British Museum,
 Hampstead Theatre, and JW3), its campus forms part of Swiss Cottage’s Theatre Square
 development that serves local communities with eight performance venues (six at Central —
 ranging from a 250-seat proscenium arch theatre to a variety of flexible studios — contributing
 over 30 annual public productions). Central offers public-facing research events, evening
 classes, children’s classes, festivals, film screenings, exhibitions, public lectures and seminars,
 and conferences, with 12,100 visitors in 2019/20. Socially engaged projects (see 2.3.2), realised
 with local stakeholders, intersect with the priorities of Central’s Engagement and Enterprise team
 in delivering an Access and Participation Plan through a national programme of school and
 community outreach, 34% in areas of significant economic deprivation.
 Central’s position within London’s wider theatre ecology provides the platform upon which it
 builds relationships with industry and wider society, underpinning its impact and KE Strategy.
 Currently, Central has established partnerships with 10 local and 525 organisations within the
 wider London and South-East region, 215 bodies operating within Britain, and 500+
 internationally.

 1.1.5. Through engagement with our wider network of peer groupings and affiliates (see 2.1,
 2.3.2; REF5b.4.2–7), industry connections orient both our research and teaching, while ensuring
 Central remains responsive to shifting social needs. As a member of OfS TRAC peer group F,
 Central sits alongside other high-cost specialist arts institutions with stakeholders represented
 on its governing body, including Goldsmiths’ former Pro-Warden (Research and Enterprise),
 Netflix’s Vice President (Original Series), two presidents of BAFTA, and a former president of the
 Association of British Theatre Technicians. In addition to disciplinary research associations and
 industry collaborators (see REF5b.4.2, 4.10), Central’s active involvement in specialist
 affiliations includes the Society of British Theatre Designers, Association of British Theatre
 Technicians, and Stage Sight (working for EDI in off-stage careers), as well as sector-wide
 bodies (see 2.1; REF5b.4.6).

 1.2.1. Central’s institutional research focus is concerned with contemporary practices of
 theatre- and performance-making and their cultural histories and lineages — including: sonic
 and scenographic landscapes; applied, political, and social theatres; acting and directing; and
 performance dramaturgies. Our research promotes theatre’s public relevance and the positive
 impact of the arts on communities (see 2.1, 2.2).

 1.2.2. Founded in 1906, Central’s history lies in training actors, drama teachers, stage
 managers, and therapists. Its provision underwent significant growth with HEI status in 1992,
 expanding its specialist performance technology, craft, and design courses. Gaining TDAPS in
 2004, Central received a Royal title during the Diamond Jubilee in 2012 and TEF Gold status in
 2017.
 Central has submitted to all research excellence exercises since 1996, demonstrating steady
 growth: RAE2008 (submitting 11.2 FTE), REF2014 (21.25 FTE), REF2021 (30.5 FTE) (see


                                                                                              Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 REF5b.1.2.1). This expansion has diversified intellectual engagement, methodological
 approaches, and expertise, with research across an extensive range of projects from
 transnational stages to environmental performance practices. Central today not only promises
 but delivers what a 21st-century conservatoire-research institution can contribute to the wider
 discipline and society (see REF5b.4).


 2. Strategy

 2.1. In 2015, Central formulated a key strategic research aim: to integrate research in all
 academic activities as realised through the following goals:
     ● A sustainable staffing strategy to build capacity (see 3.1);
     ● Institutional-level investment in research infrastructure, support services, and facilities
         (see 4; REF5b.3.1, 3.4, 3.6–7);
     ● Consolidating and expanding existing partnerships with international HEIs and cultural
         bodies (see REF5b.4.1, 4.10, 4.13);
     ● Developing and consolidating stakeholder partnerships that extend research beyond HEI
         contexts to deliver wider industry, civic, societal, and cultural benefits (see 2.3.2, 2.4.3;
         REF5b.4.11).
 Impact is at the core of our research strategy, used as a measurement of how effectively we
 engage with non-academic partners and as a commitment to pursuing socially relevant
 research, from capturing the voices of Filipina migrant workers to encouraging public discourse
 on bereavement (see REF2 outputs).
 Central’s future goals include sustaining our expanding research culture, deepening our
 engagement with challenge-led research, addressing historical and present underrepresentation
 in the field, and consolidating our increasingly visible position in the sector by providing a civic
 model of research leadership (see REF5b.1.2.4–6, 1.2.1). We understand advocacy as
 fundamental to this, articulating the importance of the SSI as a crucial part of an inclusive UK HE
 sector. We are actively involved with GuildHE Research, Conservatoires UK (CUK) Research,
 London Higher (Research), and the Practice Research Advisory Group (PRAG-UK), highlighting
 the challenges facing SSIs (e.g., London Higher Delegation to the European Research Council,
 2016) and in roles serving disciplinary organisations, professional associations, funding and
 expert bodies, charities, and industry governance (see REF5b.4.2, 4.6, 4.14).

 2.2. Central’s approach to industry and community engagement ensures our research is relevant
 to different stakeholders and is vital to enabling and facilitating impact: from theatre-making to
 training, facilitation, and advisory work, academic staff engage with over 1,250 external bodies,
 including NHS Trusts, arts venues, advocacy groups, charities, and schools. Developing the
 intersections between research, KE, and scholarship, institutional investment (see 4) has led to
 impactful projects, including two OfS/RE awards in 2020 — Wonder VR (see 1.1.3) and
 entrepreneurship development in the creative industries with the Royal Northern College of
 Music and the University of the Arts London. Targeted funding schemes, facilitating impact,
 demonstrate the ways in which we respond to national priorities (see 2.3.2; REF5b.1.3, 2a.5).
 Central’s participation in the 2019 KE Pilot enhanced institutional understanding of areas where
 we have excellent pathways to impact given our size — KE partnerships, collaborative research,
 graduate entrepreneurship development, and public and community engagement. It also
 enabled us to identify areas for improvement, such as ‘local growth and regeneration’ and ‘IP
 and commercialisation’.




                                                                                                Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2.3.1. Central is committed to open research, through downloadable articles and project reports
 on our Institutional Repository, more expansively through dissemination in and through practice
 research, and contribution to national fora (see REF5b.1.5). Central authored its first Open
 Research Policy in 2016 and signed DORA in 2019, with a Repository Advisory Committee
 (2018–19) and a Plan S Working Group (2019–20) responding to sector developments.
 To increase public access to our research, in 2018/19 we revised and expanded the subject
 headings in our open-access Institutional Repository and invested £6.9k in updating the front-
 end theme to create a more inclusive user interface for the Repository, better supporting practice
 research. Our multimedia template is now used by the UoL’s Co-Sector team for other
 institutional repositories. In 2014, only 9% of Repository materials were indexed appropriately for
 penetration by aggregators such as Google Scholar; now, almost 70% of the Repository is
 findable.

 2.3.2. At national level, we engage in framing research policy priorities (open research, digital
 infrastructure, research integrity, sustainable change and social cohesion, ‘levelling up’, and
 widening access) in relation to arts-based research and the SSI perspective. Engagement with
 UK-wide (GuildHE, CUK) and regional (London Higher, AHRC LAHP consortium) HE bodies
 provides the means for influencing sector-wide policies, as does invited staff membership of
 policy fora (see REF5b.1.5, 4.6).
 Central’s links to industry partners, public bodies, and third-sector stakeholders inform its
 engagement with a number of national research imperatives realised with regional partners. Our
 research mission is fundamentally driven by our belief in the importance of culture in promoting
 social cohesion and integration. Our research in the applied field evidences a longstanding and
 extensive involvement in Arts Council England designated areas of low cultural engagement,
 including Salford, Slough, and Tower Hamlets (e.g., a 2019–20 playwriting residency with Little
 Fish Theatre in South London schools explored racism, identity, and Englishness, with
 participants subsequently awarded a Bronze Arts Award).
 Our applied research also supports stakeholders in the NHS, care sector, and criminal justice
 system (see REF5b.4.11, 4.15). Engagement includes: training for medics and social workers;
 collaborations on children’s care with four London boroughs and the GLA Peer outreach team,
 leading to presentations at the DfE for the Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Children
 and Families, and the Participation and Engagement team at OfS (2015–19); rehabilitative and
 crime prevention arts practices in prisons (HMPs Doncaster and Belmarsh with partners Second
 Shot and Unlock Drama, 2014–16); and with at-risk London youth around gang affiliation and
 knife crime with Pan Intercultural Arts (2016–19).

 2.4.1. Staffing appointments have extended our interdisciplinary reach (see REF5b.1.4).
 Support mechanisms to strengthen interdisciplinary collaborations include pump-priming funds
 for project development and support around organising interdisciplinary conferences (see
 REF5b.2a.2, 3.7).

 2.4.2. Research integrity is part of Central’s Ethical Policy Framework, which sets out the values,
 policies, procedures, and standards that guide how we work. A Research Ethics and Integrity
 Subcommittee (REISC), established in 2016, provides institutional leadership of research integrity
 and incorporates sector-wide initiatives relating to good research governance. Our membership
 of CUK’s Research Ethics Committee since 2018 (which the Chair of REISC now chairs) allows
 further benchmarking of our research activity against the 2019 Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity while providing a sector-wide space for the discussion of principles and practices relating
 to ethics and integrity. The Chair of REISC presents updates on UUK’s Concordat to Support

                                                                                               Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Research Integrity and UKRIO’s Code of Practice for Research annually in institution-wide staff
 meetings, ensuring cross-institutional engagement with ethical conduct in research. Research
 Ethics and Integrity is now a standing agenda item on key committees (including Sabbatical and
 Awards, Research Degrees, and KE and Partnerships), further embedding a culture of research
 integrity among staff and PGRs. Central has published an annual statement on Research Integrity
 since 2017/18.

 2.4.3. Research collaborations, networks, and partnerships are developed through a range
 of mechanisms (see REF5b.2a.5). Institutional investment in subscriptions to disciplinary bodies
 and research organisations support individual researchers in network-building activities (see
 1.1.5). Practice research in the creative industries is sustained through QR investment in
 collaborations with regional, national, and international bodies (from London’s National Theatre
 to Opera North and Centre National de la Danse Paris). These investments ensure the delivery
 of projects realised with partners from performing arts venues, the charity sector, and local
 authorities (see 2.3.2; REF5b.1.3, 2a.5, 4.9, 4.11). 63% of the outputs submitted to REF involve
 collaborations with artists, companies, venues, or HEI researchers (staff and PGRs). External
 networks increase the resonance of our research with communities beyond HE, involving all
 those who seek to engage with us through the expanded field of performance practice.


 3. People

 3.1. Institutional hybridity shapes Central’s staffing strategy: in addition to the expansion of
 research, the distinct value of scholarship is recognised (see 1.1.1). Consultation with staff on
 contract pathways (T&S/T&R) in 2016 led to the development of an inclusive new system
 designed to ensure parity (see 1.1.2–3). EDI is a core value of this strategic approach (as
 articulated in our REF Code of Practice, pp. 2–8) and of our civic mission. EDI recruitment
 initiatives have seen a 11.5% increase in Black and Global Majority representation on the
 academic staff body since August 2013.
 Staff development strategy incorporates training, investment in externally delivered skills
 development, and sabbaticals overseen by a Sabbatical and Awards Committee established in
 2015 (see REF5b.2a.2). Fixed-term staff have the same development funding and training
 opportunities as permanent staff. The Conferment of Academic Titles Committee introduced a
 revised template for all promotion applications in 2017 in line with recommendations made in
 Wilsdon’s HEFCE Metric Tide report (2015), ensuring a fair, transparent, and consistent process
 for all career pathways. Of the 22 promotions made since 2014, 23% were staff on part-time
 contracts, 18% had one or more periods of maternity leave, and 23% identified as
 neurodivergent.

 3.2. Staff wellbeing is supported through mentoring and management, HR services, and staff
 training. The Health and Safety Management Committee takes responsibility for monitoring staff
 wellbeing, recommends training provision, and reviews institutional stress-risk assessment
 procedures in liaison with HSE guidance and through institutional participation in national
 awareness-raising campaigns. In the 2016/17 academic year, Central introduced the Employee
 Assistance Programme (EAP), a 24-hours-a-day, 7-days-a-week, 365-days-a-year service to
 support staff with personal, health, and wellbeing issues. REF5b.2a.4 delineates the support for
 staff diagnosed with learning differences, returning from periods of ill health or parental
 leave, or managing long-term illness. LGBTQIA+ staff are supported through a research
 advisor system sensitive to their needs. Staff wellbeing training is delivered through termly
 faculty days in areas from mental health to trans awareness. Unconscious bias training,


                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 delivered to all staff and governors (AdvanceHE’s Equality Challenge Unit, 2018), was followed
 up by anti-racism training (Dr. Muna Abdi, 2020), constructing a more inclusive and self-aware
 institutional culture. Black and Global Majority staff members are supported by Central’s staff-led
 Global Majority Staff Network.

 3.3. The implementation of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers governs Central’s research culture, and employment and career development
 practices. The Research department works closely with our six postdoctoral researchers on
 implementing aspects of the Concordat directly relevant to them — negotiating manageable
 workloads, contributing to policy through participation in committees and working groups,
 mentoring and monitoring progress and wellbeing to promote good mental health (see
 REF5b.2a.3), industry placements, and collaborations (see REF5b.1.3) — cultivating well-
 rounded and multi-skilled researchers working at the interface of academia, social advocacy,
 and the creative industries.

 3.4. Central’s strategy for developing ECRs involves a package of support to help individuals
 sustain ethical and civically responsible research trajectories and encourages their proactive
 engagement in their career development (see REF5b.2a.3). In addition to financial support
 offered to all researchers (see REF5b.2a.2), the assignment of mentors ensures ECRs on both
 permanent and fixed-term contracts benefit from the advice of established researchers who read
 work-in-progress, assist with the development of one-year and five-year plans, and provide
 support and guidance in grant writing (see REF5b.2a.3). ECRs are represented on all School
 committees including the REF2021 Strategy and Delivery Group.

 3.5. In 2014, the PGR programme was brought within Research Services in order to oversee
 training provision and liaise with institutional services more robustly on PGR support
 mechanisms (see REF5b.2b). Our pursuit of a research-focused recruitment strategy has
 widened and deepened the quality of Central’s supervisory expertise (27 academics have seen
 projects to completion compared with six in the previous census period).

 3.6. Since 2014, Central has significantly developed its support systems for staff through a
 series of initiatives targeting EDI, with £74.14k invested in EDI training and programmes since
 2018. A strategic institution-wide Single Equality Scheme (2015) brings together all policies
 regarding equality of opportunity and inclusion. All School committees have standing EDI
 agenda items to promote best practice and make recommendations for staff development and
 training. Central’s Gender Pay Gap statements (2.5%, 2018; 1.1%, 2019; 4.95%, 2020) are
 significantly lower than the English sector average over these years: 14.1%, 14.75, and 17.3%
 — noting that our small staff base means changes in one or two staff members at senior level
 has a disproportionate impact, as reflected in the change from 2019 to 2020.
 In 2018, Central’s Board of Governors commissioned a report on race equality (the Halpin
 Partnership Report) which acknowledged ‘positive activities taking place across disability, gender,
 race, and LGBTQIA+ equality’, and ‘that many of these had improved and/or expanded in recent
 years’. Good practices were identified in unconscious bias training, EDI engagement in staff
 appraisal, a range of race and ethnicity PGR initiatives, and research to identify obstacles to
 Black and Global Majority PGR study.
 The Halpin Report’s recommendations, including the appointment of an EDI specialist (in
 January 2020), have been supplemented by work related to repairing the curriculum, instituting a
 process for far-ranging pedagogical change and attending to School-wide structures, including
 academic recruitment processes. A new committee structure was established in summer 2020,


                                                                                              Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 comprising management (Inclusion Committee), governance (Governing Body Diversity and
 Inclusion Committee), and external consultation with industry and other HEIs (Independent
 Equity Committee). An anti-racist action plan published in June 2020 (reworked in 2020/21 as
 part of an EDI Policy Network) demonstrates Central’s commitment to working with staff,
 students, and alumni to achieve its overall goal of an inclusive environment.

 3.7. Central recognises the different working patterns and levels of productivity present in our
 research environment. There has been no expectation that all staff contribute equal numbers of
 outputs to the submission pool, thus ensuring inclusivity in the selection of outputs.
 Balancing quality as a key criterion with inclusive practices that recognise fractional positions,
 ECR status, disclosed disabilities, periods of parental leave, and other applicable circumstances
 has shaped the construction of this single UoA REF submission.


 4. Income, infrastructure, and facilities

 4.1. As a single UoA, Central delegates institutional responsibility for generating research
 income entirely to Research. Following REF2014, and a 79% increase in QR allocation (£377k
 2014/15 to £673k 2015/16), the School made a strategic decision to commit 100% of all QR
 funds to Research with the aim of increasing research activity through increased external
 research income (REF5b.3.5) and creating a sustainable departmental infrastructure for
 Research leadership (see REF5b.3.1). Research Committee takes responsibility for the
 institutional Global Challenges Research Fund strategy and allocation of funding (£96.98k,
 2017–20) and makes recommendations on spend of capital funds. Central does not receive
 HEIF.

 4.2. Since 2014, Central has made significant investment in facilities and infrastructure. The
 refitting of offices (£35.9k) has supported new and existing appointments, including a specialist
 hub for a full-time Director of Research (appointed in 2015) and an administrative centre for
 Research Support Services in 2019 (see REF5b.3.1). £9.5k has been invested in enhancing
 disabled access to our spaces. The involvement of the Head of Research Services and the
 Chair of REISC on the Working Group of the new £16.7m North Block building demonstrates
 how the requirements of Research informed its design and the equipping of its facilities. The
 new fully DDA compliant building includes specialist studio and performance spaces (with Infra-
 Red systems for the hearing impaired), equipment to support Practice Research (see
 REF5b.3.6), and office space for 26 academic staff. The decision to strengthen Central’s
 infrastructure for Research post-2015 has also seen investment in support for visually impaired
 and neurodivergent researchers (see REF5b.2a.4), impact and KE operations (see also
 REF5b.1.3, 3.4), and the Institutional Repository (see 2.3.1).
 Strengthened capacity in our Dyslexia and Disability Service (17% increase since 2013/14)
 screens researchers for neurodivergent conditions to facilitate reasonable adjustment. Access to
 Work has also provided five assessments (2015–20) to assist in acquiring specialist equipment
 and software (£2.5k) to complement the EDI support packages delineated in REF5b.2a.2, 2a.4.
 To facilitate impact and KE activity, Central recruited an Impact Manager in 2017, responsible
 for collating impact resources covering research and scholarship, KE, public engagement, policy
 impact and impact evaluation, and for gathering impact data from all academics through our
 Annual Achievements survey, feeding directly into the Higher Education Business and
 Community Interaction survey and informing future strategy. Since 2018, KE and Partnerships
 Group (KEPG) ensures a strategic approach to the School’s development of partnerships.
 Strengthening reporting and oversight, KEPG acts as a steering mechanism to increase

                                                                                             Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 connectivity between staff networks, including pooling resources, sharing expertise, and
 ensuring that information on KE — including the KE Strategy developed in 2017 — and impact
 developments flow to Central’s community. Impact resource packs, published internally in 2018,
 attracted 980 visits in the first two months and c.40 visits per month subsequently.
 This KE Strategy has enabled Central to unlock the benefits of institutional collaboration by
 championing, demonstrating, and delivering the impact of our research both to and with a variety
 of industries, audiences, and communities. It articulates our commitment to building,
 maintaining, and delivering strong relationships through which pathways to impact are created
 and maximised, as evidenced in our Impact Case Studies and REF5b.1.3, 4.9. Institution-wide
 activities introduced to cultivate networks include one-to-one surgeries (accessible for
 neurodivergent staff) to support pathways to impact and 16 ‘brown bag’ lunches on Impact and
 KE (since May 2019), the latter including external speakers: Research England’s Head of KE
 Data and Evidence, and the Executive Director of the Independent Theatre Council.
 Central’s federal membership of the UoL extends our infrastructure to Senate House’s world-
 class Library (two million books, 50 special collections, 1,800 archive collections, 365 electronic
 databases), significantly enhancing resources for PGRs and researchers. In addition to Central's
 annual contribution of c.£40k for use of Senate House, investment in our own bespoke Library
 (with 61 study spaces and 29 workstations for PGR use) represents a 136% rise in institutional
 funding since 2012/13. This investment has enhanced our Repository (see 2.3.1) and holdings
 (currently 47,655 books, 449 DTP journals, key performance databases including Drama-Online
 and Digital Theatre+, and five specialist archival collections).




                                                                                              Page 8
