Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: University of Winchester

 Section 1: Context and mission

 1.1.     Context and mission
 The University of Winchester is committed to a sustainability and social justice agenda. As a
 values-driven institution, the vision is to shape a better world for people and planet, underpinned
 by three core values: compassion; individuals matter; and spirituality. The University is an active
 member of the Cathedrals Group, GuildHE mission groups and Universities UK.
 The University is a relatively small higher education institution which enrolled 8002 students in
 2019-20 (HESA 2021). It has an Anglican foundation, with origins as a teacher training college,
 established in 1840, and has strategically developed and expanded its curriculum and research
 offer to reflect its ambitious vision and mission (see 1.2).
 Throughout this REF period, research was framed in the context of the University Strategic Plan
 2015-20, which stated that the mission is to educate, advance knowledge and serve the
 common good. Research, alongside knowledge exchange, was a fundamental driver of this
 vision and mission, as further articulated in the outgoing Research and Knowledge Exchange
 (RKE) Strategy 2015-20.


 1.2.      Portfolio and research foci
 The current portfolio is focused on arts, humanities and social sciences as well as the long-
 standing specialism in education and teacher training, demonstrated by our current Ofsted
 ‘Outstanding’ status for teacher training. In 2019-20, the University opened its fifth Faculty,
 Health and Wellbeing, reflecting recent curriculum developments which include new courses in
 physiotherapy and nursing. In addition, we invested £50 million in the state-of-the-art West
 Downs Centre, home to our computer, digital-related and business and management
 programmes as well as an additional library.
 Given the portfolio, the University attracts a high proportion of staff from practitioner
 backgrounds, particularly in education, arts, social work and physiotherapy. Hence the University
 offers colleagues different career pathways. Academic colleagues are assigned to a role profile
 for either teaching and scholarship, teaching and research or teaching with enhanced
 responsibility for research. There are opportunities to change profile as appropriate through
 established processes.
 Time allocation for research is linked to the role profiles. For example, those on teaching and
 research role profiles receive 400 hours per year and those with teaching and enhanced
 responsibility for research receive 500 hours per year, pro rata out of a total of 1575 hours. Staff
 who are registered as doctoral students have 100 hours allocated to support their studies.
 Academics can apply for additional research time through internal funding, detailed in section
 4.1.


 Section 2: Strategy


 2.1.   Research strategy and enabling and actualising impact




                                                                                               Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 The University committed to strategically advance on our REF 2014 entry. The RKE Strategy
 2015-20 (pp. 1-3) approached this expansion through developing three key priorities in research,
 broadly categorised as:
 1. Quality – enhanced through various mentoring activities and external peer review (see section
 3.4)
 2. Impact – enhanced through investment in workshops and software (see section 4.1)
 3. Environment – enhanced through development of our PGR community (see section 3.3),
 facilities (see section 4.2) and income generation (see section 4.3)
 Success in these areas, and in developing our REF 2021 entry, are evidenced by an increased
 number of UoAs being submitted over the past two assessment exercises. In RAE 2008 six were
 entered. REF 2014 saw a modest increase to eight (33%), with good progress being made since
 then, with 13 UoAs being entered to REF 2021 (an increase of 63% since 2014 and 117% since
 2008). The growth of the research environment is also demonstrated by a substantial increase in
 the number of staff being entered, with a headcount of 81 in REF 2014 rising to 179 in REF 2021
 and FTE of 72.58 in REF 2014 to 163.81 in REF 2021 – increases of 121% and 126%
 respectively.
 The institutional RKE Strategy is underpinned by Faculty RKE Strategies with aligned time
 frames and aims. Each Unit of Assessment also developed their bespoke UoA Strategy for the
 REF period.
 Moving forward, the new institutional Strategic Vision 2020-2030, published in Autumn 2019,
 retains its three core values of individuals matter, compassion and spirituality. It situates the
 University as a Beacon for Educational Excellence, Sustainability and Social Justice. It embeds
 impact as a central component, in our vision to help shape a better world through everything we
 do, driven by the ambition, wisdom and impact of our students and staff. The ten-year vision,
 therefore, focuses on delivering transformative research and innovation that empowers and
 transforms our staff, students and communities close to home and around the world, affecting
 positive global change (p. 24).
 In Summer 2020, the new ten-year RKE Strategy 2020-2030, Re-imagining the World; Creating
 the Future was approved by the Board of Governors. In line with the Strategic Vision, it places
 transformative research and knowledge exchange at the centre of our plans to build on our
 successes. It is founded on new ways of thinking, encouraging staff and student researchers to
 view the world through different lenses, developing creative and courageous researchers who
 can respectfully push boundaries in a values-driven research culture (see section 4).
 Impactful research and knowledge exchange will be developed in a variety of ways. The
 University has long fostered the creation and development of Research Centres and supported
 them financially and by providing convenors with hours in their workload model. In 2018-19, the
 University revised the policy for Centres. This included revision of the criteria for establishing
 new centres, reporting procedures and included provision for Centres which are predominantly
 KE-focussed. The University continues to support Centres, as well as colleagues who sit outside
 of them, to undertake impactful activities. In addition, Faculties may also convene research
 groups which are more informal but may in due course apply for Centre status.
 In the last two years, the University created a more formal infrastructure for KE, comprising a
 bespoke KE team in the RKE Centre and a new role of Faculty KE Lead. These colleagues work
 closely with a range of internal and external partners to develop effective KE. Aligned to our
 heritage and portfolio, external partners include schools and other education providers, the NHS,
 small and medium sized businesses, the Enterprise M3 LEP, Hampshire Constabulary, the legal

                                                                                             Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 and heritage sectors, creative industries and a range of charities and trusts. In 2018, we
 formalised a partnership with Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, agreeing to
 collaboratively increase research and education opportunities for hospital staff and University
 academic departments. One example of this work is the HELP Hampshire Stroke Clinic, which
 enhances the physical and social quality of the lives of people living with stroke through low-
 cost, flexible, community-based education and exercise clinics.
 2.2. Open Access
 A key driver of our Open Access (OA) policy is the Winchester University Press. In 2013-14 the
 Press entered into OA publishing with the development of what became the Royal Studies
 Journal. This strategic move was part of a commitment to making high-quality research freely
 available worldwide, and led to the development of a further three OA journals: Journal of
 Information Rights, Policy & Practice; Journal of Perpetrator Research (in partnership with the
 University of Utrecht); and Communication Cultures in Africa (in partnership with academics in
 Nigeria).

 Significantly, in 2019, the Press published its first OA eBook, a biography of Bishop Morley of
 Winchester. Developing OA books is a key feature of the Press’ future plans, which include
 adding research-informed textbooks to its portfolio.

 In order to develop OA more widely, the University recently invested in a new Current Research
 Information System, Pure, which also serves as the new repository. Colleagues are encouraged
 to record all research outputs in Pure, irrespective of whether they are REF-eligible, thereby
 making them available to the international research community and other stakeholders.
 The Open Access Officer hosts training sessions for staff in relation to REF including Open
 Access days and gives briefings on general OA developments, for example on Plan S and the
 future of OA for books. The Officer briefs all new academic colleagues at induction and
 participates in external networks and projects. A key example is a pilot project funded by Jisc on
 Research Data Shared Services, which evaluated web services that host open access research
 data sets.
 The University acknowledges that Gold Open Access is not an essential criterion for REF entry.
 However, it recognises that in certain cases, Gold Open Access is a preferred and favourable
 option, for example when specialist journals require Author Processing Charges. For the first
 part of the REF cycle, a fund was created and held centrally, to which individuals could apply.
 The University revised this approach in 2018 to devolve funds to UoAs to empower them in
 developing longer term OA strategy relevant to their unit.


 2.3.   Interdisciplinary research
 The University supports interdisciplinary work through various means, challenging the existence
 of academic silos and valuing collaborative working to solve problems through research. In
 2017-18 the University offered PhD studentships based on interdisciplinary projects, to create
 new supervisory teams across departments and faculties.
 The Research Funding Managers encourage colleagues who are writing external bids, where
 appropriate, to develop collaborations with others to create interdisciplinary teams for bidding. In
 addition, the revised policy for Centres clarified an expectation of interdisciplinarity wherever
 appropriate; The Centre for Animal Welfare is one such example. Set up in 2015, its work
 crosses science and social science boundaries. Moving forwards, interdisciplinary research will


                                                                                               Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 be particularly encouraged as we work towards the University Vision 2030 of contributing to the
 relevant UN Sustainable Development Goals.


 2.4. Research ethics and integrity
 The University Research Ethics Committee leads on the University’s policy on ethics and
 integrity, thereby supporting compliance with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity.
 During this REF period, the constitution was expanded to include a more diverse range of staff
 from different disciplines in addition to a member of professional services staff.
 The Research Ethics policy is subject to regular review and updating. Substantial revisions were
 made following two major reviews in this REF cycle (2014-2015 and 2018-19). The most recent
 policy was introduced in 2019-20 with accompanying new initiatives to enhance training and
 education in this area. These include new, regular virtual open meetings for all staff and students
 to explore any issues in this area and increased training for postgraduate research students
 throughout their period of registration.

 Section 3: People

 3.1. Institutional staffing strategy
 The University’s commitment to equality and diversity is recognised in engagement with the
 following external schemes:

        • Stonewall Champion
        • Athena Swan Bronze Award
        • Disability Confident Employer

 All staff are required to undertake online training in Equality and Diversity. The University offers
 a Flexible Working Policy which seeks to accommodate the various needs of colleagues as and
 when they arise.

 In line with the University’s core value of ‘individuals matter’, the HR team offer a range of
 services. These include a confidential employee helpline and website, counselling and benefits
 and discounts. A wide-ranging series of wellbeing workshops run throughout the year. Sessions
 include health checks, financial wellbeing, Tai-Chi, meditation, mindfulness, yoga and football. A
 Staff Survey regularly gathers views from staff, including gauging levels of wellbeing, and action
 plans are created arising from the results.

 For researchers in particular, Faculty RKE Committees raise issues for consideration at Senate
 RKE Committee which in turn reports to Senate.


 3.2. Equality and diversity for REF
 The institutional polices underpinning the entry to REF 2021, alongside the Code of Practice for
 REF 2021 are:
        • Staff Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Strategy 2016-2020
        • Equality and Diversity Policy
        • Gender Identity and Reassignment Policy
        • Dignity at Work Policy


                                                                                                Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 As part of the wider culture of the institution, the groups listed below are also active.
 Representatives from those groups will be involved in consultations on the Equality Impact
 Assessments (EIAs) for REF:

        • Carers and Parents
        • Spectrum LGBTQ+
        • Race and Ethnic Diversity
        • Disability Equality

 The EIA produced for REF 2014 showed a gender discrepancy in favour of males being
 submitted. The EIA for REF 2021 demonstrates good progress towards equity by gender:

                             Submitted staff           Submitted staff REF
                             REF 2014                  2021 (headcount)
                             (headcount)
          Male                        48 (59.3%)                    92 (51.4%)
          Female                      33 (40.7%)                    87 (48.6%)
          Total                       81 (100%)                    179 (100%)

 Given the small size of our university and its submission, reporting on EIAs requires caution,
 given that staff with protected characteristics can be identified. However, the EIAs have
 indicated areas in which the University will be focusing on in the future, details of which will be
 published in the final EIA.


 3.3.   Development for Post Graduate Research (PGR) Students
 The University upholds the principles of the Concordat for Career Development of Researchers,
 irrespective of their level of experience. Success is evidenced by our HR Excellence in Research
 Award in 2016 and its subsequent successful reviews in 2018 and 2020. PGR students are a
 central feature of our Concordat activities and targets for developing the environment for PGR
 students are included in the plan, which is monitored by Senate RKE Committee.
 The University achieved Research Degree Awarding Powers in 2008. Against this background of
 a relatively young PGR environment, the University has made strong progress in this area. In
 REF 2014 we returned 59 completions. In this current cycle we are returning 121 – an increase
 of 105%.
 The RKE Strategy in place during the first part of the REF cycle set a target to increase the
 number of PGR students from 160 to 225 by 2020. This was exceeded a year earlier, with 267
 registered across the PhD programme and a suite of professional doctorates which reflect our
 portfolio and heritage.
 We provide a strong research environment to ensure a high-quality student experience
 throughout the doctoral journey and in preparation for careers in academia and beyond. The
 latter is embedded in the Postgraduate Certificate in Research Skills which MPhil/PhD students
 undertake.
 It consists of three modules:
    1. Introduction to Research
    2. Research and Knowledge Exchange


                                                                                                Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    3. Research for Professional &/or Personal Development
 The RKE Centre provides training programmes for both PGR students and supervisors. The
 student programme covers a wide range of topics and is reviewed each year. For example, in
 2019-20 these included skills in different research methods, writing retreats, writing for
 publication, presentation skills, use of social media and preparation for upgrade and viva. In
 addition, students can study for the Post Graduate Certificate in Learning and Teaching in HE.
 To further enhance provision, the University subscribes to the University of East Anglia’s PGR
 online training programme which students can access. They can also apply for up to £500 per
 annum (pro rata for part-time students) to use for development purposes, agreed in discussion
 with their supervisors. The University also supports a small number of students in attending the
 annual GuildHE summer school, where they can network with students from other HEIs and
 engage in workshops focused on career development.
 Research Centres are expected to involve students in their membership and the institution also
 supports Faculty-wide initiatives, e.g. the ‘Doctoral Round Tables’. Implemented in 2015, these
 enable learning from others’ experiences in a supportive environment. In addition, during this
 REF cycle, we also upgraded the PGR student facilities, providing a new bespoke study space
 in the main library. Students have representation on the Research Degrees Quality Committee
 and organise University-wide PGR symposia.
 The University also supports PGR students post-graduation. They can apply for a two-year
 position as a Visiting Fellow (ECR) to commence from completion of their doctorate. They are
 supported by an academic member of staff to undertake a range of mutually agreed research-
 focused activities which will benefit the ECR’s career progression. They retain full access to the
 University’s library facilities throughout the term.
 Moving forward, the RKE Strategy 2020-2030 situates PGR as one of five key focus areas,
 aiming to have a growing and thriving community, increasing numbers by 50% by 2030. Key to
 achieving this is an institution-wide review of PGR policy and process, including reflection on
 how Covid has and will continue to reshape doctoral activity. Foci will include: identifying
 sustainable models for PGR recruitment and PGR models of delivery; enhancing student
 wellbeing; developing transferable skills; and widening participation in doctoral admissions.


 3.4.   Development for all researchers
 Development of all researchers is key, commencing with early-career and mid-career
 researchers, detailed in 3.5. Development is situated in the context of career progression which
 is available through a clearly defined framework with three different routes through:
    •   Reader (research) or the equivalent Senior Fellow (knowledge exchange or teaching and
        learning), to
    •   Professor (research or knowledge exchange or teaching and learning).
 The application process is opened each year and its details are published in the Professors,
 Readers and Senior Fellows Policy which is updated annually, ratified by Senate. Colleagues
 considering making an application are required to meet with their line manager and the relevant
 Director (of either RKE or Teaching and Learning) prior to application. The meeting with the
 Director serves as a mentoring session, discussing the candidate’s CV against the criteria and
 offering formative advice.




                                                                                              Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Staff who apply but are unsuccessful are offered a one-to-one meeting with the Chair of the
 panel, the Vice Chancellor, for summative and further formative advice.
 Mentoring around research career development – underpinning the promotion routes – is widely
 available for staff and takes different forms. For example, all Readers and Professors who are in
 the workload model have 50 or 75 hours respectively per year, pro rata, allocated to them for
 mentoring. There is flexibility in how these hours are used. For example, Research Centres are
 expected to offer mentoring to its members; some colleagues mentor through informal advice;
 others include less experienced colleagues as collaborators on outputs. In addition, some
 faculties offer localised mentoring schemes, such as that provided by the Psychology
 department.
 In the first part of the REF cycle, the University launched an institutional 1:1 mentoring scheme
 which was well received but demand outstripped supply. Senate RKE Committee has approved
 a new scheme, due to launch in 2021-2022, which mitigates the potential lack of mentors, in the
 first instance by providing small group mentoring shaped by shared areas of interest. It will also,
 for the first time, be available to staff on research-only contracts and staff on professional
 services contracts who are interested in developing research skills.
 To further provide career development, academics complete research planning forms each year.
 Progress against plans is reviewed at the end of the academic year with their line manager
 through a formal process (initially termed the Staff Development Review, now termed the
 Individual Review and Development Scheme). When appointed, academics also discuss
 research plans during scheduled meetings as part of the probationary scheme.
 Money available through internal funding streams (section 4.1) further enables staff to request
 bespoke staff development opportunities or mentoring from external sources, and buy-out from
 teaching to achieve specific research aims.
 Additionally, further changes were made during this REF cycle to strengthen the research
 infrastructure for staff. These included separating the roles of Head of Department and UoA
 Lead, which enabled more focused development for the latter’s research career development
 through the opportunity to specialise in research leadership. This move was accompanied by a
 doubling of workloaded hours for the role.
 The University also recognises the value of external collaborations and makes provisions for
 Visiting Professors, Researchers and Fellows to be appointed, who can provide informal
 mentoring, as adopted by UoA24 Sport and UoA19 Politics.


 3.5.   Development for Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
 In line with the Concordat to Support the Development of Researchers, ECRs have the full
 support of the University. Importantly, the University is inclusive in its definition of ECRs,
 recognising different categories beyond the traditional young person who has recently earned a
 doctorate. We also include practitioners commencing their first academic post, some staff on
 research-only contracts, and those on professional services contracts.
 In addition to routine internal funding (as detailed in 4.1), we provide an annual round of awards
 specifically for ECRs. In the first part of this REF cycle, we offered one competitive award of
 £10,000 per annum for an ECR to complete a substantial research project with impactful
 outcomes. The scheme was revised in 2019 to create additional opportunities. Moving forward,
 we will offer up to four awards of £5000 each per annum through an open call.



                                                                                              Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 With regards to developing the career prospects of staff on research-only contracts, the
 University, in consultation with the Trade Unions, formalised a clearer route for career
 progression in the form of new grade descriptors. Three descriptors (pay grades 6, 7 and 8)
 were implemented in 2020, providing staff with detailed, transparent indicators of expectations
 for each pay grade.

 Since 2017-2018, the University has also made significant progress in developing inclusivity for
 staff on research-only contracts as well as staff on professional services contracts who are
 active, or seeking to be active, in research. The University introduced access to internal funding
 and support through various means including:

    1. Staff on research-only contracts meeting the criteria for independent researcher status
       are now able to access UoA funding
    2. Staff on research-only contracts are now eligible to apply for the aforementioned ECR
       Awards
    3. An existing Winchester Research Apprenticeship Scheme (WRAP), through which
       undergraduate students are employed as a Research Assistant, was extended to
       professional services staff
    4. Staff on research-only and professional services contracts will be eligible to join the new
       RKE Mentoring Scheme commencing in 2021-2022

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 4.1. Institutional-level infrastructure
 The RKE Centre lies at the heart of the infrastructure, with its Director reporting to the Deputy
 Vice-Chancellor. It is home to the central PGR, external funding and knowledge exchange teams
 and also oversees Open Access, Research Ethics and Integrity and all strategy and
 administration for internal and external research policy.
 The Director works closely with each Faculty’s Head of RKE who in turn liaise closely with their
 UoA Leads and Deans to meet the University’s and Faculties’ strategic aims for research. Each
 Faculty also has a PGR Student Lead who works with the central Director of PGR, in addition to
 the aforementioned Faculty KE Lead who in turns works closely with the central KE Manager.
 The Director of RKE chairs both the REF Management Group and the REF Working Group. The
 latter, comprising UoA Leads and Faculty Heads of RKE, feeds into discussions about research
 strategy more broadly in addition to its specialisation in REF.
 Internal funding is a key means of supporting research. Colleagues who were entered into
 REF2014 were allocated £3000 per annum until the end of academic year 2019-20 to spend on
 research-related activities to help achieve their personal goals in line with University strategy.
 We also enabled UoAs to pool these £3000 allocations to facilitate increased autonomy where
 UoAs deemed this a more strategic use of funds.
 Part way through this current REF cycle, University policy on devolved internal funding was
 changed to enhance achievement of the three research-related aims of the RKE Strategy 2015-
 20, to increase the quality of research (including outputs), impact and environment (pp. 1-3).
 There are two routes, described in table 1. Changes to route 2 were designed to enable UoA
 Working Groups to strategise more effectively with a given sum of money, and to ensure greater
 equity for individuals in securing funds.




                                                                                              Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Table 1. Routes to internal funding for research
  Pre-2018                                       2018-19 onwards

  Route 1: Fast-Track fund: a devolved           Route 1: Fast-Track fund: retained, but
  amount of money, shared equally                money devolved proportionately by the
  between faculties. Available for research      number of staff on eligible research role
  activities to a maximum of £750, signed        profiles
  off by the Faculty Head of RKE
  Route 2: Applications to Internal              Route 2: Applications to Internal
  Grants Committee: individuals could            Grants Committee: Funds are now
  apply to the committee for larger              allocated to each UoA according to their
  amounts to cover a wide range of               size. UoA Working Groups propose how
  research activities including, but not         best to allocate the funds in collaboration
  limited to: research leave, research           with the Faculty Head of RKE and
  assistance, generating or supporting           Faculty RKE Committee.
  impact, workshops, overseas conference
                                                 Applications need to align with outputs,
  attendance, use of consultants and
                                                 impact or environment and are submitted
  Research Centre activities such as
                                                 to Internal Grants Committee for
  seminar series
                                                 consideration


 In addition, the University supports and enables impact through targeting spending on
 understanding, planning, recording and developing impact. Examples include:
        •   University provision for further consultancy support to guide colleagues in developing
            impact
        •   University-wide subscription to Vertigo Ventures Impact Tracker software, since 2016,
            for which staff can request a licence and use the software to track their own impact and
            record underpinning evidence
        •   University-wide subscription to Altmetrics from 2020 to enable all staff to identify how
            their research is being used online, monitor and track engagement and demonstrate
            influence
 The RKE Centre and the University also commit a proportion of funds each year to PhD
 Studentships and fee waivers. Furthermore, there are open calls to rounds of competitive
 internal funding for various initiatives. These include distribution of Strategic Priorities Funding,
 for projects to develop policy-related impacts. QR GCRF is administered internally to groups
 working with countries in receipt of Official Development Assistance.


 4.2.       Institutional-level facilities
 The University invests in facilities to ensure that staff and students have the highest quality
 spaces for teaching and research. Examples include:
        •   Increased Archaeology laboratory space for teaching and research with high
            specification equipment such as microscopes and analytical apparatus
        •   The refurbishment of Psychology laboratories, including an EEG and neurostimulation
            laboratory; an infant and child observation suite; and a virtual reality laboratory
        •   The aforementioned £50 million West Downs Centre, offering facilities for learning and
            teaching, a new library and providing space for related research opportunities

                                                                                                   Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
     •   The aforementioned upgraded PGR study space in the main library


 4.3. Supporting the generation of income
 Complementing the University’s RKE strategy to develop our research portfolio, the institution
 supports colleagues in developing expertise in securing external research grants in a number of
 ways. During this REF period, the University increased its central support by employing an
 additional part-time Research Funding Manager to work alongside the permanent manager for a
 fixed period. In 2016, as a result of two successful Leverhulme awards, the University employed
 a Post Awards Officer to work more closely with Faculties.
 The University also funds developmental activities such as:
    •    Internal Grants Academy workshops, with internal and external speakers, on a range of
         subjects
    •    Participation in the Cathedrals Group annual Research Sandpits
    •    External Funding Incentive Fund – a scheme operating in the first part of the REF period
         to incentivise external applications, since replaced by providing additional external
         reviewers/mentoring for large bids
    •    Supporting applications through the Internal Grants Committee for bespoke bid writing
         sessions
    •    Making provision through Internal Grants Committee for staff to request teaching buy-out
         to write a bid
 Across this REF period, we more than doubled our research income from £1.7million in the
 previous period, to £3.6million. Over the next five years, as embodied in the new RKE Strategy
 2020-2030, we aim to increase income further through additional initiatives, such as the new
 group mentoring scheme and increased workshops and training.




                                                                                          Page 10
