Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Ravensbourne University London

 1. Context and mission
1.1 Context
Ravensbourne received TDAP and University status May 2018. Its predecessor, the Bromley
School of Art, was founded in 1878 and became Bromley College of Art after World War II.
Following a merger in 1959 with the Department of Furniture Design of Beckenham School of Art,
Ravensbourne moved from Bromley to Chislehurst. The campus moved to a new Riba Award
winning (2011) building on the Greenwich Peninsula in 2010 and will shortly open a newly
designed Institute of Creativity and Technology, in early 2021.

This submission will be the first undertaken by Ravensbourne, and we have ensured that the last
seven years has laid the essential foundations to build a sustainable research community aligned
to our strong partnership with the creative industries. We currently have 140 academics of whom
22 (FTE 18.2) are classed as Category A SRR (approx. 15% of total academic staff). We are also
developing a partnership programme for establishment of our new doctoral provision, and
investment in a new capital building to house research within an Institute for Creativity and
Technology.

Ravensbourne also hosts more than 60 creative technology SMEs within its Incubation+ unit. The
unit utilises leading edge technologies and media resources and collaborates with the student body
and industry partners. Industry incubation, postgraduate provision and the Research Office will be
key occupants of the new Institute. It will provide innovative space and state of the art facilities to
encourage interconnections, engagement and entrepreneurship driven by a strong practice-led and
applied research strategy.

1.2 Mission

The University set out its Mission in its Institutional Strategy 2018-25 as follows:
Be creative
We provide a provocative, dynamic learning environment where students are challenged to
become visionary professionals of the future. Working collaboratively and purposefully, we
approach our endeavours with a mind-set that is open and receptive to challenge. We empower
our staff and students not just to imagine, but also to create, the future.

Be integrated with industry
We value a rich and sustained engagement with our industry partners. This drives our practice-
based approach to learning and teaching, research and knowledge exchange. We support creative
leadership and innovation through partnerships, conversations and connections with industry, and
the diversity of our governing body. These reflect the professional and collaborative nature of our
staff and the employability of our students.

Be inclusive
We take pride in a culture that anticipates, supports and celebrates equality of opportunity.
Reflecting the diversity of our local community, we are proactive and holistic in our approach to
promoting social mobility, internationalisation, and inclusion, enabling change beyond
Ravensbourne, to the socio-economic and ethnic profile of practitioners in the creative industries.

Within this strategy, under the aim of Academic Excellence, the approach to research was outlined:
Academic excellence in the learning, teaching, research and knowledge exchange of design,
media, communication and technology through the development of new educational models for HE
and industry (Academic Strategy, p. 18).


                                                                                               Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
In taking this approach we focus on two core objectives:

1. To grow our applied research offer from its current small scale, aligning it closely to our core
teaching strengths, delivering increased return on investment, a greater influence of research on
our teaching, and purposeful collaborations with industry-leaders and other institutions with
complementary skills and industry footprints.

2. To create a facility to catalyse innovation in creativity and technology and add value to our core
education provision, applied research activity and industry interactions.


  2. Strategy
Ravensbourne began developing its research strategy, infrastructure and Research Office from
2014 in anticipation of TDAP. During this period, the University has invested in and developed a
set of research roles (See People section) to lead and support research staff, collaborative projects
and promote good practice. They oversee and manage major funding bids undertaken by the
institution, and provide essential support for researcher development and training.

2.1 Research Strategy 2018-2025
A major outcome of establishing our new research infrastructure was the institution’s first Research
Strategy. This laid out our thematic priorities and close alignment to industry practice and applied
research ambitions. It also laid out our current and future themes on:

      Smart cities
      Immersive film and narrative
      Virtual and augmented reality
      Wearables
      Digital pedagogy

These themes are underpinned by five principles that will ensure the continued development and
growth of research at Ravensbourne:

      Fostering a new research culture at Ravensbourne amongst staff and students
      Embedding Ravensbourne in sector-wide research and development networks
      Encouraging applied and practice-based research
      Enhancing Ravensbourne’s reputation as an originator of new research
      Innovating with technology in society

2.2 Key elements of research support
As our Research Office (RO) is relatively small they work in close partnership with HR and key
academic RO members to develop and mentor early career researchers with a view to building
their profile and outputs. This includes dedicated provision for research time, travel and
conferences, along with PhD funding and time allowances. All staff utilise the Vitae Researcher
Development Framework, which we will be formally adopting this year.

All staff are encouraged to present at peer-reviewed conferences; write significant publications;
work in partnership with other collaborators; develop funding proposals; and expand their research
portfolios and profile.

Internal funding schemes have produced significant strategic projects in the last 6 years, also
encouraging academics to build the competencies and skills required for locating, writing and
delivering on external funding for research. Formal training sits alongside a strong peer to peer

                                                                                               Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
network of support, mentoring and review, ensuring that ECRs and senior academics are co-
supporting career development and progression through regular appraisal.

2.3 Delivering the 2018 Research Strategy
Ravensbourne has broadened the range of academics involved at all levels in research, through
the support mechanisms outlined above. Although this is our first submission, we have made a
significant step change in establishing a meaningful relationship between applied research and
practice. Our strategy has enabled us to build strong foundations that deliver excellence in
research, as well as closely informing the shape of our unique curriculum offer with industry.

In this period we were in receipt of over £300K from the EU; staff have participated in high-profile
exhibitions, conferences and symposia; and our range of research outputs spans practice-based
portfolios, journal papers, books and chapters. We have successfully collaborated with industrial
partners and applied the results of research in our teaching, ensuring student engagement in
research as a key skillset.

2.5 Goals for the post-2021 period
Our key goal is that Ravensbourne’s Corporate Strategy guide our research towards informing and
innovating advanced technical and creative education and pedagogy with the specific remit to
transform the future creative industry economy.

This will be reflected in research themes that draw on existing expertise in immersive environments
and augmented reality, with an expanded focus on educational methodologies, industry
advancements and innovations in creative practice.. More broadly, we seek to bring pedagogical
research to the fore, building on successful initiatives that emerged from previous EU-funded
projects, including WEKIT and AR-FOR-EU. Our current submission is reflective of the foundations
needed to build our future research programmes. We intend to align our career framework,
recruitment and reward and recognition schemes to reflect this ambition.

A new Research Strategy will be drafted that seeks to build upon our social, commercial and
cultural links within place, namely the Greenwich, Woolwich and Thamesmead areas; whilst
deepening our collaborations with selected partners in London, UK regions and internationally.
This will also respond to the need for knowledge exchange with industry, and commercialisation of
projects emerging from within Ravensbourne. Our cultural profile and engagement with creative
sector institutions, especially in the University’s established areas of excellence such as film and
media, will also be prioritised for major research bids, collaborations and horizon scanning.

Specific aims for the Research Office are as follows:

      To raise the overall quantity and quality profile of outputs likely to reach 3* and above in the
       next REF;
      To build lasting international collaborations on the basis of our strong successes in EU and
       structural funding
      To ensure the Repository (established in 2019) is further invested and developed, and that
       open access is central to raising the visibility and accessibility of our research
      To ensure that research data is held securely and in full accordance with GDPR, as
       mandated by our Privacy Officer and research data policies [link TBC]
      To ensure Research Integrity by further developing our guidelines on good practice,
       research ethics and misconduct, under the guidance of the Research Committee
      To ensure that impact is prioritised and supported by the Research Office, including
       collation of evidence
      To dedicate more staff time to the production of impactful research
      To raise the profile of Ravensbourne research both within and outside the University
                                                                                               Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
      To connect our students more closely with research outcomes and programmes

2.6 Building our research collaborations
The University has appointed Visiting Professors, including Alison Shreeve and Stephen Scrivener, and
advisors who have enhanced our research through exchange of best practice, expertise and knowledge
across institutions. This will be continued in a more targeted fashion from 2021 onwards by investing in,
and appointing, Visiting Professors aligned to thematic priorities also reinforcing new industry
partnerships. These visiting roles will span both academia and industry professionals, in order to unite
applied research and professional practice.

  3. People
3.1 Recruitment
The University has benefitted from attracting research-active staff since 2018, and recognition of
practice-based and applied research during the recruitment of new academics has been essential.
We aim to grow the proportion of research-active academics to 20% overall by 2025, with the
majority continuing to bring practice-based research firmly into teaching practices, pedagogy and
industry engagement. This will also be reinforced across recruitment, retention and promotion
strategies, where recognition of research in teaching contracts will be promoted and made explicit
in recruitment opportunities for academic posts.

3.2 Pathways and progression
From 2019 onwards, the University has supported teaching and research contracts for staff who
can demonstrate significant research engagement as per our Code of Practice. We support three
pathways: teaching only, research and teaching, and research only. There is progression from
Associate to Senior Lecturer to Course Leader and the career pathway for research also extends
to recognition of professorial progression across all pathways. At present, the research only roles
are either tied to funded projects or established by direct appointment, but recognised as essential
to building the research environment going forward.

3.3 Health, Wellbeing and general Staff Development
The University operates a Flexible Working Policy to maintain a healthy work-life balance and
several schemes for training and personal development managed in conjunction with line
managers and our HR department. There are also several areas of support for CPD, including
undertaking additional professional qualifications in house and externally; mentoring and coaching;
and a range of health and wellbeing initiatives, including mental health resources and in-house
fitness, mindfullness and short courses.

3.4 Staff Development for researchers
From its inception in 2014, the Research Office has delivered research skills workshops for
emerging and established researchers based on the Vitae Researcher Development Framework
(RDP), covering topics such as presentation, publication, developing and managing funded
projects, impact and engagement. These have been bolstered by external guests, the annual Staff
Conference, and opportunities for staff to engage with peers through events organised by bodies
such as GuildHE Research. A proportion of the staff supported are ECRs, and also emerging
researchers who may not yet have full SRR or status as independent researchers (such as staff
who are currently doctoral candidates).

3.5 Research Students
At present, Ravensbourne’s only PGRs are members of academic staff studying for doctorates at
other institutions. The University funds 50% of their fees and grants time in lieu to pursue their
studies; such staff are also encouraged to engage with others in the research community to share
knowledge about the PhD process. We are receiving a portion of a £100K annual investment from



                                                                                                 Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Brandmovers International towards the first PhDs (in terms of funded fees and some additional
support), and are looking to start with up to 5 PhDs in the first year.

We are at an advanced stage with a new validation for a joint PhD programme with the University
of East London, based on their successful collaboration with Rose Bruford College. UEL also
supports practice-based PhDs that align well with the creative and digital sector, and has proved
supportive of our aims for a small initial intake in the late 2021/early 2022 timeframe.
Ravensbourne has at least 10 current or potential PhD supervisors amongst its staff, and
alongside this, UEL will provide established doctoral supervision training tailored to the needs of
our practice-based research community. It is our aim that by 2026 we will have an established
track record that lays the foundations for joint partnership as an independent doctoral provider.

As part of this collaboration, Ravensbourne is adopting recognised policies and
procedures, and will be running our students through their ethics modules; and taking best
practice in research governance from this more established institution.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

From 2014 onwards, the University invested in building a dedicated research team prior to the
award of TDAP, and in preparation for the REF. Initially the Research Office consisted of 1 full-time
and 2 part-time staff (2 FTE) and 1 full-time Director of the Learning Technology Research Centre
(LTRC). As a result of expansion and successful funding bids, there are now 2.8 FTE staff in the
RO, and 2.8 FTE in LTRC, with a further 1 FTE on an ESF project. This expansion has also
resulted in more administrative support from HR and Finance. The RO coordinates the
development of research-active staff; bid development and management; development of
partnerships and collaborations; engagement with peers at sector organisations, other HEIs and
businesses; and with governmental organisations and international bodies.

In late 2019, Ravensbourne appointed Professor Lawrence Zeegen Pro Vice-Chancellor for
Research, Innovation and Enterprise, who leads on the Research Office activities and has been
actively developing the new Institute for Creativity and Technology. This purpose-built structure in
the Design District of North Greenwich combines research, incubation, the postgraduate school,
the Creative Lab for student/industry partnerships and our print workshops, with enhanced facilities
for digital and physical collaboration, and a dedicated Immersive and Augmented Reality lab for
LTRC. At least £1.9m plus £1m support in kind has been invested in the new Institute which is
scheduled to open in May 2021, with a forecast of £2m income and support in kind in the first 3
years of operation.

Research income 2015-2020 averaged £100k per annum, mainly from European grants (FP7,
Horizon 2020, ERASMUS+, Interreg NW and ESF). Smaller bids from sources including the Arts
Council and NESTA were won by individual academics. Our 2018 Research Strategy aimed to
continue our success with European grants whilst also diversifying towards other sources,
including industrial and charity funding. This research would result in both academic outputs and
impacts in the public sphere.

Research income 2015 – 2020
2015:        £19000
2016/17:     £112000
2017/18:     £118000
2018/19:     £45000
2019/20:     £131000

This totals £425K, roughly equivalent to £23,350 per FTE of our research academics.

                                                                                             Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

The RO’s support for researchers includes training in bid writing and we will ensure that at least
one bid per FTE is submitted within a two year cycle. The Director of Research and the Director of
LTRC have brought in a significant share of the funding, but other colleagues have also been
successful.

The University also invested in the research repository; in research publications database such as
JSTOR; in memberships of sector research organisations and professional memberships for RO
staff; and funding of staff projects by means of annual competitive research funds from 2015
onwards. These small and medium grants up to £30k were intended to kickstart projects and
generate larger funding bids. The University’s support for its incubation unit has also resulted in
important cross-collaborations between research and SMEs housed internally, and with companies
in the wider Greenwich area.

Some of our most significant projects included:
2017 AR4EU (Code Reality) c.£300K (Ravensbourne €60,000)
Educational offers in Europe (and globally) for Augmented Reality (AR) are falling behind and
failing to produce the graduates required today by one of fastest growing industries in the world.
AR-4-EU will help to prepare professionals for the creative and digital industries of tomorrow and
contribute to making European economies more research-intensive, knowledge-based, and
competitive within the global digital market. Duration: 3 years starting Sept/Oct 2017
Project website: http://codereality.net/

2018 MoneyLab UK Government - Money Advice Service Grant: £94,723
The MoneyLab was a one-year project designed by Ravensbourne and funded by the Money
Advice Service. Its aim was to explore the impact a co-creation project can have on the attitudes
and behaviours of young adults in Higher Education. The intervention was a series of active
engagement activities and workshop modules directly exploring the student experience around
financial capabilities. This was based on the principle of students as ‘co-creators’ in order to better
understand students’ financial awareness, capabilities and managing financial challenges on a
day-to-day basis.

2018 Interreg NW EYES: Total Funds €4,277,312 (Ravensbourne €288,725)
EYES develops, tests and implements a new methodology for NWE cities to promote youth
entrepreneurship/employment for NEETs aged 15- 34 years. The method will use digital tools and
personal coaches to make NEETs develop their entrepreneurial skills such that they feel
encouraged to make use of regular business and employment support schemes offered in the
participating cities (which they would not consider using otherwise). By doing this, EYES turns
entrepreneurial education into a feasible and scalable instrument of regional policy to bring NEETs
back to the NWE labour market. Duration 36 months – extended into 2022 due to COVID

Institutional collaborations include partnerships with Amazon Web Services; with Brandmovers
International; the University of Greenwich for the EYES Interreg NW project and funding bids;
London South Bank University for the DAGILE project and structural bids; the BBC for our new
Motion Graphics Archive; the Royal Shakespeare Company for digital television and online
platforms; the GLA as funders; The Culture Capital Exchange for funding bids and peer
connections; with the Royal Borough of Greenwich and Visit Greenwich for knowledge exchange;
with the City of Hamburg and Ministry of Culture Hamburg; with University of Colorado at Boulder
and Ontario College of Art & Design University for KE and staff exchanges; with Social Enterprise
Mark for funding projects; and with GuildHE Research, CHEAD, ImmerseUK and London Higher
for professional networks. Cambridge Wireless on communications technologies; and the Digital
Catapult.


                                                                                                Page 6
