Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Liverpool Hope University

 1. Context and mission

 In 2019, Liverpool Hope University (henceforth ‘Hope’, or ‘the University’) marked the 175th
 anniversary since the first of its three founding colleges was established. The University pursues
 a path of excellence in research, scholarship and collegial life without reservation. Hope is
 Europe’s only ecumenical university foundation, and, in keeping with its long-established mission
 as a socially-focused institution, remains committed to the public good and to the professions. The
 University’s distinctive philosophy is to ‘educate in the round’ – mind, body, and spirit – in the quest
 for Truth, Beauty and Goodness.

 From the outset of its achievement of University title (2005) and Research Degree Awarding
 Powers (RDAP; 2009), Hope made a strategic commitment to ‘research-informed teaching’. All
 members of the Hope academic team are expected to be actively engaged in research and
 scholarship (R&S) and also (except in a few targeted vocational-training areas) to be in possession
 of a Doctoral level qualification. The University judiciously appoints scholars who can consistently
 enhance its academic profile and research culture. Hope fully concurs with the view that
 recruitment, development, and motivation of researchers are critical drivers of research excellence
 and has pursued consistently this path for the past twenty years.

 Recent esteem indicators reflect the University’s stated mission to be a research-informed
 university of distinction. Hope was rated the top university in Liverpool and top 3 in North-West
 England in the Guardian University league tables 2020. The 2016/17 Destination of Leavers from
 Higher Education (DLHE) survey indicated that the University had one of the best graduate
 employment rates in the UK (placed 2nd in the UK and 1st in England), with 98.1% of Hope
 graduates in employment or postgraduate education six months after graduation. In January 2020,
 the University was named ‘International University of the Year’ by the respected Academic
 Insights magazine      (https://www.hope.ac.uk/news/allnews/liverpool-hope-named-international-
 university-of-the-year-.html).

 As a TEF Gold University, Hope’s pursuit of an excellent research culture complements its well-
 established reputation for excellence in learning and teaching. Research is central to the Hope
 collegium and to curriculum design; it is a key part of the University’s established track-record of
 ‘knowledge-engagement’. Researchers engage with education organisations, businesses and
 industrial partners (both in the local community and internationally) in the University’s programme-
 development processes, which draw on principles of co-design, co-create, and engage local
 community stakeholders.




                                                                                                  Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 The University comprises the following Schools: Education, Social Science, Business, Creative
 and Performing Arts, Humanities, Health Sciences, and Mathematics, Computer Science &
 Engineering. Two Departments (Psychology, and Geography and Environmental Science) will
 become Schools in due course. All Schools/Departments have a Research Committee which
 reports to the University’s Central Research Committee (a sub-committee of the University’s
 Senate).

 The University has six vibrant inter/multidisciplinary Research Centres which reflect disciplinary
 spread and diversity:

 •   Archbishop Desmond Tutu Centre for War and Peace Studies [See UoA 4,19,20,23,31]
 •   Centre for Christian Education and Pastoral Theology [See UoA 31]
 •   Centre for Culture and Disability Studies (CCDS) [See UoA 23]
 •   Centre for Education and Policy Analysis (CEPA) [See UoA 23]
 •   Socio-Economic Research Centre (SEARCH) [See UoA 20, 23]
 •   Andrew F. Walls Centre for the Study of African and Asian Christianity [See UoA 31].

 These Centres reflect specific areas of strength and promote interdisciplinary activity across all
 Schools. Each Centre reports to the Central Research Committee on a quarterly basis and is
 reviewed annually to ensure that the University’s investment remains appropriate. This matrix
 approach to research benefits the productivity of research-active academics at the University,
 especially through the pooling of resources for equipment, as well as through grant management
 support, generation of critical mass, enhancement of stature, and mentoring.

 Hope had a successful REF2014, resulting in a quadrupling of research quality and hence QR
 Funding compared to the 2008 exercise – a success that has provided a platform for the
 University’s strategy of increasing research activity across all Schools/Departments. To facilitate
 the growth in research activity, Hope after REF2014 sought to make a significant investment in
 the University’s research environment.

 To this end, the University, through its planned strategy, re-invested QR funding, and added to it
 significantly, entirely from its own resources, to increase research capacity, strengthen
 infrastructure and appoint researching scholars. The annual OR funding allocation was used to
 support research projects and activity across the University, and to pay for a number of Vice-
 Chancellor PhD Scholarships. To facilitate the focus on high-quality research activity, Hope has
 significantly invested £37.7 million in new buildings/refurbishments and £4.9 million in equipment,
 including £17.3 million in Science facilities (£1 million in equipment), and a major development at
 the Creative Campus amounting to £5.95 million plus £640k of equipment.




                                                                                             Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 As a result of these investments in both infrastructure and human capital, Hope’s capacity for
 research activity has increased. This increase has been measurable in terms of growth in the
 University’s PGR numbers for this current exercise, and in Hope’s ability to return research active
 staff for the first time under UoAs A6: Agriculture, Food and Veterinary Science; and D32: Art and
 Design. Hope is thus achieving its current strategic aims as well as laying a foundation for the
 University’s future goals.

 2. Strategy

 Hope’s research strategy is contained within its Research and Scholarship Development Plan,
 (R&SDP) originally written and approved by the Senate in 2006 and subsequently revised and
 updated for the Senate’s approval in 2009. Following REF2014, a new 2014–2020 revision of the
 Plan (henceforth the R&SDP) was finalised via a process of open consultation at the University.
 This foundational document, which predates Lord Stern’s review of REF, has guided the University
 during the current REF cycle. Its stated aims are to foster a culture of research active staff,
 increase PGR numbers, monitor the impact of research activities, and strengthen Knowledge
 Exchange (KE) activities. Management of the University’s research strategy is the responsibility
 of the Central Research Committee, chaired by the PVC (Research), which reports directly to the
 Senate.

 Hope is submitting 100% of ‘Category A’ eligible staff with Significant Responsibility for Research
 (SRR) in this REF. The 7.48% of Category A staff who have not met the SRR criteria are being
 actively supported to achieve SRR status as part of the University’s development plans post-
 REF2021.

 The R&SDP was independently audited (Baker Tilly 2014), with feedback stating: “Comparing the
 University’s plan to 2020, we consider the plan to include more detail than other university
 research strategies that we have reviewed. We have seen other Research Strategies just
 containing strategic goals in ensuring research at the university increases. Where strategic goals
 are within Liverpool Hope’s research plan, the plan is also a detailed policy document
 which outlines aspects of research at the University to encourage staff members to uphold
 a culture of research excellence.”

 Reflecting this detail, Hope has since 2014 endeavored to foster an inclusive, stimulating and
 sustainable research culture and environment, characterised by externality and internationalism,
 in which both research itself and research staff are nurtured, facilitated, and rewarded. Hope fully
 supports the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and
 uses the Vitae Research Development Framework (VRDF) to structure support for researchers at
 all career stages. Accordingly, the University has targeted support to Early Career staff to maintain



                                                                                               Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 continuity in levels of achievement, while developing workshops for staff at a range of career-
 stages.

 Hope has also aimed to ensure that research activity correlates with the strategies of the Liverpool
 City Region’s Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP). An example is the investment by the University
 on its Creative Campus to forge links with the LEP’s Culture and Creative Strategy. Similarly, Hope
 has engaged with the LEP’s Industrial Strategy by devoting part of the new Science Building to
 the City Region’s Healthy Ageing Challenge. Hope has also targeted its HEIF funding to ensure
 that the Societal and Economic impact of research activity is aligned with the University’s ethos.
 As noted, this has enabled the University to return activities in two additional UoA’s for the first
 time.

 Research Committees at School level are charged with formulating a Research Strategy
 document based on the operational plan within the R&SDP. This is updated regularly to reflect
 staff changes and new research specialisms arising with new appointments to the University.
 Schools’ strategies are reviewed and approved by a Central Research Committee. Another review
 and update of the R&SDP will occur following the results and feedback from REF2021, ensuring
 that any revisions are reasonable and achievable. This review, as with all Hope’s strategy
 planning, will be a consultative process with all stakeholders. Indeed, this process has already
 commenced during the formation of the University’s code of practice for the REF2021 exercise.

 Hope is committed to the Concordat on Research Integrity. The University is a subscriber to UK
 Research Integrity Office (UKRIO), and staff involved in research are expected to adhere to the
 principles drawn from its Code of Practice. These are outlined in the University’s Research
 Integrity Statement of Principles embedded in the R&SDP. In addition, Hope’s Research Ethics
 Policy explains the roles and responsibilities for staff in this area. Research integrity features within
 training sessions for academic staff and PGR students.

 As an indication of the University’s active involvement in KE and Impact development, Hope took
 part in the first iteration of the KEF (2019/20). Hope has adopted a clear strategy for KE and
 Impact, in order to build on its existing track record and continue to ‘punch above its weight’.

 KE has brought Hope into contact with a growing number of partner organisations. For example,
 two of the University’s Research Centres, CEPA and SEARCH, have collaborated in the
 Educational Advantage Programme through the ‘Hope Challenge’. The Hope Challenge focuses
 on areas of the North West which are poorer (where Pupil Premium is at least 25%). It supports
 the work of Local Authorities and HMIs by partnering with challenged schools that have been
 judged as ‘requiring improvement’ (including primary, secondary, and specialist schools) in order
 to find ways of enhancing the life chances of children.



                                                                                                   Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Hope has endeavoured also to build Knowledge Exchange (KE) into the University’s research
 strategies. KE has occurred across all Schools/Departments at Hope. The University has been
 successful in obtaining a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) within the Department of
 Psychology, enhancing Hope’s CPD offering by working closely with business partners locally,
 nationally, and internationally.

 Hope has created over 30 Vice-Chancellor Doctoral Scholarships during the current REF cycle.
 The University has targeted this initiative across disciplines where there is a need to strengthen
 research environment, and provide opportunities for research staff to become excellent
 supervisors for targeted doctoral research themes. The strategic intention behind this investment
 is to provide a platform for Hope academics to be able to collaborate with other universities in
 proposals for Doctoral Training Centres (DTC). In 2020, Hope was invited to be part of the
 University of Manchester’s extension to their AHRC DTC. Hope has also actively sought funding
 from other funding bodies to support PhDs and PGT Studentships to ensure the sustainability of
 the University’s improved PGR success rates.

 To foster an open access environment at the University, Hope has invested in developing IOar
 (Institutional Open Access Research), an in-house platform designed for all staff to share
 research, data and encourage collaborations, support open research and open data initiatives.
 This repository is based on the ‘GO FAIR’ initiative that aims to implement the FAIR principles of
 making data Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Reusable.

 3. People

 Hope’s Corporate Strategy commits the University to pursuing a path of academic excellence in
 which all Schools/Departments/UoAs produce research recognised internationally as excellent.
 The results of REF2014 confirmed Hope’s trajectory in this respect. All staff, whether or not
 enterable in the REF, are expected to engage in appropriate levels of Research and Scholarship
 (R&S) to underpin their academic and professional responsibilities, and REF has been listed as a
 standing item on the University’s annual staff induction programme. The University’s preparations
 and stated goals for REF2021 clearly affirm this research-oriented direction of travel. This
 commitment has translated into practical areas such as the staff development programme, the
 performance review and wider performance-management arrangements, funding opportunities
 and the appointment of experienced high-level researchers to guide and assist less experienced
 colleagues in research development. R&S activity is accounted for in staffing allocation models,
 in annual performance review and forms part of Hope’s wider performance-management
 framework.

 The University has refrained from appointing ‘research-only’ staff (except where part of a funded
 research project). Instead, appointments reflect how R&S at Hope is inextricably linked to the

                                                                                            Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 curriculum and to teaching. This policy is a core principle of the Learning, Teaching and
 Assessment Strategy (approved by Senate in June 2013, revised and approved March 2015), and
 is designed to ensure that the curriculum is informed and influenced by current research and
 taught by research-active staff. Doctoral-level supervision is undertaken only by those who are
 active researchers with SRR in the specific area of their published research expertise.

 Within Hope’s Corporate Strategy, the University developed the ‘Our People 2020’ Personnel
 Support and Development Plan to help build on the significant advancements made since
 REF2014. The ‘Our People 2020’ Plan has a number of key facets. These include:

 •   A focus on creating effective compliance and performance frameworks and structures, creating
     staff development programmes and defining academic standards linked to recruitment and
     promotion activities. In essence, Our People 2020 reflects the current strength and maturity of
     the University and is fully aligned to the Corporate Strategy.
 •   A recognition that all staff have an important role to play in achieving the objectives of the
     University’s Corporate Strategy and are valued members of its community. Staff are not just a
     ‘resource’ to achieve institutional ends but, rather, are encouraged to create a real community
     in which they are fully engaged.
 •   An outline of the critical staffing priorities for the University in forthcoming years. Fully-engaged
     staff, with appropriate skills, attitude, behaviours and professionalism required in the
     increasingly competitive higher education world, are key to ensure the excellence required.
 •   A policy of distributed leadership throughout the University with commensurate devolution of
     authority and resources. Each School/Department is challenged to implement its strategy to
     achieve the Plan’s objectives.
 •   A platform for the University’s REF return and overall Research Strategy including post-
     graduate supervision. It provides a programme of on-going skills training and other
     development opportunities underpinning the University’s commitment to equality and diversity,
     student satisfaction, management and leadership, dealing with change, commercial
     awareness and other key corporate development aims.

 The University has continued to build on the actions from its REF2014 Equality Impact
 Assessment (EIA), with particular regard to communication and training. Principles of equality,
 diversity and inclusion are embedded within Hope’s mission and values. Hope has introduced
 mandatory on-line Equality and Diversity training for all staff as part of the University’s ongoing
 commitment as a collegium to create a community where everyone can reach their potential.

 As part of Hope’s commitment to supporting equality and diversity in REF, the University has
 implemented safe and supportive structures for staff to declare information about any equality-
 related circumstances that may have affected their ability to research productively during the


                                                                                                   Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 assessment period, especially their ability to produce research outputs at the same rate as other
 staff. As stated in Hope’s REF2021 Code of Practice, the terms of reference of all of the
 University’s committees include a responsibility to ‘promote and monitor ethical practice and
 ensure all equality and diversity standards are adequately met’. Equality and Diversity training is
 provided on a regular basis to all staff members and is updated frequently to assist in fulfilling this
 responsibility.

 Following feedback from Hope’s Athena SWAN Bronze institutional application, the University has
 started working towards preparing a re-submission. Hope has also supported 46 women through
 the Aurora Women’s’ Leadership Programme since the programme’s inception in 2013. Eleven
 women are currently attending the programme and, of the 35 who have completed it, 19 have
 since been promoted internally and four externally.

 A revamped ‘Dignity at Work Framework’ includes inter alia specific training on sexual harassment.

 A survey on the experiences of BAME staff was carried out in Spring 2019. Overall, the findings
 of the survey do not indicate any particular areas of concern for staff members. Monitoring in this
 area will continue. The University will undertake further survey in summer 2021 to begin to assess
 whether any patterns or trends have emerged.

 Hope continues to work towards eradicating the gender pay gap by implementing actions outlined
 in the University’s 2017 and 2018 Gender Pay Gap Reports. The Personnel Department has
 undertaken an update exercise to improve the ‘protected characteristics’ data held on all staff.

 The University’s promotions processes have been amended to include consideration of individual
 circumstances for applicants. An improved Maternity Policy was introduced in 2014 which
 significantly enhanced the occupational pay elements of the provision.

 Even while strictly quality-controlling PGR admissions during the current REF cycle, Hope’s
 completion numbers rose to 97 by comparison with the 35 reported for REF2014. The emphasis
 has been quality-led, enhancing strengths in key research areas rather than growing numbers. To
 ensure that the PGRs receive a high-quality experience, the University has developed a Research
 Skills Programme (RSP) using the Vitae (VRDF) Framework. Some of the courses in the RSP are
 specifically designed to help students complete their research successfully, whilst others help to
 develop general skills to aid employability.

 All PGRs have dedicated study space and computer facilities and are located as close to academic
 colleagues as possible. All PGRs have a Director of Studies who is their primary supervisor. In
 addition, and if deemed of benefit, an external advisor is also added to the supervisory team.
 Supervisory teams are also charged with ensuring PGR students make a broader contribution to



                                                                                                 Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 the research environment of the UoA by attending research seminars and supporting the activities
 of research groups and centres more generally. For example, it is an expectation that PGR
 students will train other students in specific technical and analytical skills gained while conducting
 their research. PGR students are expected to present their research at research group meetings
 where they receive informal feedback. They are also expected to present work at international
 conferences, as appropriate, in the later years of their studies. The School and University
 Research Committees support this. Student progress is reviewed annually by a panel chaired by
 the Director of Postgraduate Studies. PGR students are limited in how much they can tutor in line
 with RCUK guidelines.

 As part of the University’s R&SDP, Hope has introduced a Visiting and Professorial Fellowship
 scheme involving some 51 Visiting Professors, Honorary Research Fellows or Professorial
 Fellows across the University. Their role is to enhance the research environment and culture within
 each School. They have provided guidance on writing for publication and research proposals. A
 prime example of this strategy was the appointment of Professor Denise Barrett-Baxendale,
 Executive Chair of Everton in the Community and CEO of Everton Football Club, as Honorary
 Visiting Professorship for the project ‘Sport Serving Humanity.’ This led to a formal five-year
 research project funded by the Everton Football Club. One of the early projects involved Hope
 researchers working with Everton in the Community staff to provide detailed evidence of the social
 impact of the Club’s charity within the city-region. The findings from this research enabled
 improved focusing of resources in areas that achieve the greatest social impact. This research
 was used as evidence for the Everton receiving Football Business Awards and ‘Best Football
 Community Scheme.’

 Since REF2014 the University has developed a mentorship programme specifically for Early
 Career Researchers (ECR’s), involving Visiting Professors liaising with senior researchers within
 the University. This investment is central to Hope’s research strategy; it has fostered growth in
 joint research projects and Seminar Series, increased funding streams to our research centres,
 and enhanced numerous staff development events over the last 5 years.

 During this period, Hope also introduced a Consolidated Research Time (CRT) scheme with the
 intention of making periods of between one and six weeks available, on application, to academic
 colleagues to focus on a particular and specific research project, during which time teaching and
 administrative duties are reduced to a minimum or removed. During the current REF cycle, most
 staff have benefitted from at least one period of CRT for research.

 In addition to the Professorial Fellowships, Mentorship Policy and CRT initiatives, the University
 has appointed to each UoA an external advisor to independently review research activities within




                                                                                                Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 the UoA and to provide guidance and feedback on publications, lead workshops, and advise on
 the strength of its Impact Case Studies.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Following Hope’s success in REF2014, the University supplemented the QR funding in line with
 its planned strategy to build research infrastructure in terms of both buildings and people. In
 2015/16 and 2016/17, using over £14.7m of University cash reserves, Hope invested in a new
 Sciences building housing STEM subject areas and Sports Science laboratories. This building,
 together with two floors of a repurposed tower block, contains enhanced specialist laboratory
 spaces dedicated to AI, robotics, engineering, nutrition, genomics, cell-biology and psychology;
 laboratories and space for sport and exercise science; a sports rehabilitation clinic; and state-of-
 the-art computer science, simulation, and HAPS labs/facilities. This facility has attracted industrial
 funding for clinical trials and has helped develop stronger links with the local NHS-hospitals and
 businesses.

 The University has also invested over £6.5m into the Creative Campus, bringing overall
 investment in Hope’s creative arts facilities to over £65m. The newly expanded Creative Campus
 site now includes state-of-the-art technology and performance spaces, including a new Arts
 Centre with new studio spaces for Fine and Applied Art. The presence of these excellent facilities
 has helped Hope to develop a number of collaborative partnerships with City Region cultural
 organisations including the Liverpool Philharmonic, Tate, National Museums Liverpool, Bluecoat,
 Everyman Theatre and FACT. This level of strategic investment and partnership-development has
 further enabled the University to expand research activity. The Creative Campus also houses as
 tenants and partners the European Opera Centre and Milapfest, Britain’s leading Indian arts
 development trust; both have been involved in the University’s research activity at the Creative
 Campus.

 Hope does not place any restriction on Funding Type. The University’s size, subject spread and
 staff demographic influence strategy on Funding sources. The University’s best chance of
 Research Council funding success is by partnering with other universities, and this strategy has
 enabled Hope to achieve grant income during the current REF period from the AHRC, EPSRC,
 ESRC and NERC. Hope now has an increased range of Funders, and the quality of the
 University’s outputs and impact demonstrates what can be achieved with this level of external
 funding when used appropriately.

 It became apparent after REF2014 that the University could gain an advantage from more directed
 and strategic use of internal research funding with enhanced reporting of the outcomes of the
 investments made. This strategy was incorporated into the R&SDP. The University now has a
 suite of internal funding schemes: Research Centre Grants, Individual Research, Travel,

                                                                                                Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Equipment,     Major    Research    Project   Application   Preparation,   Membership      of   key
 societies/associations, Publication funding, and Impact Activities. (During the current REF cycle,
 several impact-related internal funding opportunities were created, titled ‘Route to Impact’,
 ‘REFlect’, and ‘REFine’, to help with the development of impact case studies at various stages.)
 On successful completion of the internal award, it is expected that the individual staff member or
 collaborative team will apply for external funding to the external funder identified in their
 application.

 At University level, the Research Facilitator (RF) (Colin Cooper) provides specialist research
 support. In this REF period (2017) he received two significant lifetime contribution awards in
 Research Management: the Carter Award from ARMA and the Chermside award from SRAI. He
 offers guided workshops, internal review and developmental activities to enhance the University’s
 funding portfolio and inter/multidisciplinary collaborations. He also provides guidance for academic
 staff in applying for external research funding and in the financial administration of projects. The
 RF tracks funding opportunities in all research areas, actively seeking collaborative links within
 academia and funding bodies, both nationally and internationally.

 Hope has developed an in-house suite of systems (held on its intranet) to provide support to
 academic staff in their research endeavours and to facilitate accurate reporting and tracking of
 research activity. This includes an Academic Profile System (APS) that captures the research
 expertise and activity of all staff, enabling them to connect with colleagues who share similar
 research interests and form inter/multi-disciplinary approaches to research questions. The APS is
 also available to outside bodies so that they can search the research provision of the University.
 As the APS allows staff to store information about impact, including publications, activities, and
 evidence, it helps staff to draft case studies and collaborate with colleagues, as well as to access
 related case studies.

 A team of 6 full-time Subject Librarians support the Schools and Departments by working closely
 with academic colleagues to support and advise on all areas of Library research provision. Liaison
 between Schools and the Library is fostered by the presence of librarians at School meetings and
 by day-to-day liaison via academic Library Representatives. There is a dedicated Postgraduate
 area in Hope’s Sheppard-Worlock Library for taught and research postgraduate students.

 The Subject Librarians, recognising the potential isolation faced by researchers, established the
 successful Summer Research Meetups to supplement year-round support.

 In January 2019, a survey of academic use of social media for research purposes was conducted
 to ascertain the current level of use and current expertise at the University. Survey responses and
 subsequent consultation with existing high-profile users of social media resulted in the creation of



                                                                                             Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 a training programme, initially for Post Graduate researchers but extended to academic staff as
 well. This training is now embedded in the PGR skills programme.

 The Collection Management and the Special Collections Management Policies see academic staff
 work closely with Subject Librarians. The OneSearch discovery tool provides access to a range of
 online research databases including multidisciplinary resources such as Science Direct and
 Academic Search Complete alongside specialist discipline and subject databases. OneSearch
 also encompasses Open Access resources such as Directory of Open Access Journals, full text
 journal resources (e.g., IEEE and ACM Digital libraries), and collections of e-books, newspapers,
 images,    sound     and     video    recordings.    The       University   also   subscribes     to
 https://www.papersinvited.com, a ProQuest tool, to help researchers identify conferences in their
 areas of research and advertise their own conferences and events.

 A Special Collections vault and reading room provides a dedicated space for the storage and
 consultation of medieval manuscripts, early printed books, folios, quartos and octavos of
 significant collections entrusted to Hope. The University has several special collections reflecting
 the subject spread across the campus, including the Gradwell, Radcliffe, Picton, John Henry
 Newman, Loughlin, Cornwell and Educational Research Collections. The University hold archives
 of particular importance such as the Nugent and Archbishop Stuart Blanch archives. Items from
 these collections have enhanced Hope’s research reputation through inclusion in exhibitions
 undertaken with Liverpool Libraries including the Records Office and at events including British
 Science week and British Academy’s Being Human Festival.

 Hope’s Institutional Research Archive (HIRA) holds all staff research outputs. The University is
 currently working to extend coverage to all doctoral theses.




                                                                                             Page 11
