Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: University of Warwick

 1. Context and mission

 1.0     Mission: Our commitment to research at Warwick is that it will be internationally leading,
 impactful and provocative. It will change the world, making lives healthier, safer, more resilient,
 more just and more fulfilled. Our research produces transformative and lasting solutions to
 multidisciplinary global challenges of both today and the future. Our research will maintain its
 foundation in disciplinary and interdisciplinary strengths. It will define the frontiers of knowledge
 and will take place in innovative multidisciplinary spaces.
 (Research Strategy Mission Statement 2019)


 1.1     Context: This REF period spans a notable time of positive change and marked progress
 for the University of Warwick (UoW). In recognition of our international reputation for research,
 we won 62nd place (the 10th in the UK and 16th in Europe) in the research-dominated QS World
 University Rankings 2020. We hold a top 100 position (77th overall, 9th UK university) in the
 Times Higher Education (THE) World Rankings and our diverse academy and student body saw
 us recognized as the THE’s 19th “most international university” (2018). An extremely favourable
 REF out-turn, 7th in the universities’ ranking, saw UoW named as the 2014 Times and Sunday
 Times University of the Year. Celebrations in 2015 marked the 50th anniversary of Warwick’s
 founding with the appointment of a new vice-chancellor (VC) to commence our second half-
 century.


 1.2     As a research-intensive university and a member of the Russell Group, UoW places
 Research at the heart of its endeavour. Fully embracing the Impact agenda and embedding it
 within excellence as a primary driver of research activity, our institutional strategy is Excellence
 with Purpose. Within this, Research and Education are named as the two core missions of the
 university and each has its own detailed strategy (Section 2 for Research). Both the Research
 and Education missions are underpinned and spanned by four pillars: Internationalisation,
 Innovation, Inclusion and Regional Leadership.


 1.3      Structure: The University Executive Board (UEB) is the senior management team of the
 university as formally constituted in the governance structure. This is the weekly forum at which
 matters, including institutional research questions, are discussed e.g., UEB considered the
 institutional response to the Stern Review, the Research Integrity Concordat and the Knowledge
 Exchange Framework (KEF) inter alia. It is led by the VC and comprises an ex officio
 membership of nine, including the three Pro Vice Chancellors for Research (PVCR), Education
 and International. UEB reports directly to Council where the PVCR reports on strategy and
 assurance regarding matters of research.


 1.4    UoW in 2020 has 7655 staff in total of which 3160 are academic. There are 27460
 students including 16200 undergraduates and a post-graduate research student (PGR)
 community numbering 2400. There are 30 Departments, 28 housing Category A eligible staff
 (CatAEStaff) that are organised into three Faculties, each of which is led by a Chair of
 Faculty/Vice Provost with over-arching responsibility for delegated leadership of research,
 education and administrative matters. Nineteen Departments were ranked in the top ten for

                                                                                                Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 research outputs in REF 2014 and four were the top units of assessment in the country for
 outputs.


 1.5     The research environment at Warwick continues to be strategically reshaped.
 A new School of Creative Arts, Performance and Visual Cultures (since 2019) brings together
 Creative Writing, Theatre and Performance Studies, Cultural, Media and Policy Studies and
 History of Art to expand and enhance the research vitality and future of these disciplines. The
 School of Cross-Faculty studies offers a range of courses in Global Sustainable Development
 (GSD) and Liberal Arts, housing a growing coterie of interdisciplinary GSD researchers. Twenty
 Strategic Interdisciplinary Research Centres of Excellence work across the Faculties giving foci
 for impactful research, continuing dynamically to reflect the changing research landscape.


 1.6    The Departments are largely autonomous in developing their own research directions
 and priorities. They are maintained in alignment with the university strategy, through a rolling
 programme of Strategy Renewal, which is led by the Provost. The academy includes:



  Faculty of Arts                  Faculty of Social Science          Faculty of Science,
                                                                      Engineering & Medicine
  Classics & Ancient History       Applied Linguistics                Chemistry
  English and Comparative          Centre for Educational             Computer Science
  Literary Studies                 Development, Appraisal and
                                   Research (CEDAR)
  Film & Television Studies        Centre for Lifelong Learning       Engineering
  History                          Centre for Interdisciplinary       Life Sciences
                                   Methodologies
  School of Creative Arts,         Economics                          Mathematics
  Performance and Visual
                                   Philosophy
  Cultures
     - Centre for Cultural         Sociology                          Physics
         Media and Policy
                                   Institute for Employment
         Studies
                                   Research
     - History of Art
                                   Politics                           Psychology
     - Theatre and
                                   and International Studies
         Performance Studies
     - Warwick Writing             School of Law
         Programme                 Department of Education            Statistics
                                   Studies
  School for Cross-Faculty         Warwick Business School            Warwick Manufacturing
  Studies                          (WBS)                              Group (WMG)
     - Global Sustainable
         Development
     - Liberal Arts
  School of Modern Languages       Foundation Studies                 Warwick Medical School
  and Cultures                                                        (WMS)




                                                                                               Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 1.7     The Professional Services Group (PSG) numbers 4490 staff including Research and
 Impact Services (R&IS), the University’s research-support function, with staff principally located
 centrally (75 FTE) but also integral to large Departments such as WMG, WBS and WMS. Small
 departments e.g., in the Arts Faculty, aggregate to have a strong Faculty-facing team shared
 across their cognate activities. There is considerable flexibility in the model to allow for the most
 productive solutions underpinned by Faculty-facing senior Research Development Strategy
 Managers working to Faculty Chairs, local research committees and to the PVCR.

 2. Strategy

 2.1    The Research strand of the University Strategy, Excellence with Purpose, reflects the
 development of our research over the REF period and looks towards 2030.

 The strategy articulates six priorities, which are:

        Disciplinary and Interdisciplinary Excellence: enhance our existing strengths and develop
         others.
        Transformative Interdisciplinarity: combine approaches to make a step change.
        Excellence with Impact: extend and apply the best research to make real-world
         differences.
        Global Reach and Significance: deliver and promote our research on the world stage.
        Partnership: key collaborations with industry, national and international institutions and
         other higher-education providers.
        Innovation: to be at the heart of everything that we do.


 2.2    Achievement and operationalisation of these priorities is underpinned by seven work-
 strands:

    1. Support, foster and showcase the talent and ambition of all our researchers
    2. Undertake world-leading research at the forefront of knowledge
    3. Spearhead research with relevance for impact and innovation
    4. Cultivate world-class interdisciplinary research communities
    5. Pioneer state-of-the-art accessible research infrastructure
    6. Communicate our research to provide leadership and influence in the global knowledge
       economy
    7. Build an income and partnership platform to sustain and grow our world-leading activity.


 2.3     Our Research Strategy (R-Strategy) sets out an overarching philosophy that our
 research should be internationally recognized with impact and purpose. We expect our research
 to be inspired by fundamental questions and led by our own intellectual curiosity, and we
 continue to build on the tradition of bringing our research excellence through from the “bottom
 up”, through the creativity and scholarship of our academics. This said, we are equally excited to
 see outcomes that are highly applied, inspired by partners and making an impact on or beyond
 the interface with non-academic users. The strategy sets out nine research themes that
 encapsulate many flavours of our current research but are not intended to be exhaustive –
 individual UoA statements naturally dive more deeply into detailed expert descriptions of their
 own research and impact strategies. The broad institutional themes are: Life Sciences and


                                                                                                Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Health; Data, Science and Society; Mathematics and its Real-World Applications; Sustainability
 and Development; Understanding the role and function of organisations and markets; The
 Engineered World: from molecules to machines; Understanding the Human; Histories, Creativity
 and Theory; Ethics, Rights and Social Justice.

                                                         Figure 1. Schematic showing the
                                                         structure for institutional
                                                         management of research. Solid
                                                         borders signify formal governance
                                                         relationships. Dotted borders
                                                         signify working relationships.




 2.4     Figure 1 shows how the research management structure is embedded in the institutional
 governance. The Pro Vice Chancellor for Research (PVCR) is responsible for the R-Strategy on
 behalf of the Research Committee (RC) and works closely on its implementation with the
 Director of R&IS. The PVCR is supported by the Research Executive, which includes three
 senior academic leaders (Deputy PVCRs), each with a seat on RC and responsibility for a
 specific element of the research portfolio: (a) Research Ethics and Infrastructure; (b)
 Interdisciplinarity, Arts and Social Sciences; (c) Knowledge Exchange and Partnerships.


 2.5    There are two formal sub-committees of the RC: (a) Open Research Group (ORG) and
 (b) Global Research Priority Steering Group (GRPSG). Research Governance and Ethics
 Committee works closely with Research Committee but is a sub-committee of Senate and
 Council reflecting the importance of an ethical approach to research across the institution. A
 recent addition is the Research Culture Committee, which will be incorporated in 2021.


 2.6   Our Impact strategy is embedded within the R-Strategy, as our philosophy is that impact
 proceeds from excellent research and that the key to success is early identification and nurture

                                                                                             Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 of impactful opportunities followed by amplification of the outcomes through a focussed effort. To
 this end, we have made a major investment in expertise and resources: a senior Head of Impact
 is centrally positioned in R&IS and supports impact activity through an academy-facing twelve-
 strong Impact team. Impact activity is reported and steered through the PVCR’s Research
 Impact Advisory Group (RIAG), which invites the opinion of senior academic impact directors
 and practitioners. Cultural embedding of Impact in research is achieved by:

        the explicit integration of excellent impact activity into both recruitment and promotion
         criteria;
        support from the Warwick Impact Leave fund (distinct from and complementary to,
         conventional sabbatical leave arrangements);
        resourcing and implementation of a cross-institutional Impact Capture tool;
        recognition of time spent in the Impact Director roles in academic workloads;
        celebration of Impact e.g., in the film “Working on the future”, distributed via social
         media.


 2.7    A significant proportion of our Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) is devoted to the
 Warwick Impact Fund, which is maintained at >£0.4m pa to fund impact projects in the academy.
 The impact team and PVCR coordinate centrally all interactions with UKRI concerning Impact
 Acceleration Accounts (IAA’s), currently > £1.14m pa, responding to the relationship
 management demands through dedication of senior staff time. Notably, in 2019, in recognition of
 the need to support early translation activity in the (bio)medical sciences, UoW was invited by
 the Wellcome Trust to be a Translational Partner. Funded at £0.3m pa initially for two years from
 2020, we are embarking upon innovative initiatives in the medical and life sciences including
 Warwick Translation Fellowships, to be awarded for two years in a competitive process to
 discover and support new approaches to achieving impact.


 2.8     Our Technology Transfer Office, Warwick Innovations, is an essential component of the
 impact landscape. Now part of the Innovation Group, it continues to provide specialist advice
 and services to support technology transfer and innovation and helped to achieve 110 licences
 and 32 spinouts in the period. Warwick spinouts raised £76.2m in investment enabling the
 translation of research outputs into market. Through Innovations, UoW was an early pioneer of
 the ICURe programme, which builds entrepreneurial capacity among post-doctoral researchers
 whilst simultaneously providing an evidence base of market demand and commercialisation
 potential for new technologies.


 2.9     Interdisciplinary research has been a long-term strength at Warwick and is one of the
 core activities by which we define ourselves. Interdisciplinarity is supported and enabled by our
 different Communities (R-Strategy, Workstrand 4), which provide a rich and structured
 landscape, where ideas develop and thrive. Key drivers of this interdisciplinary research
 environment are:


 2.9.1 Global Research Priorities (GRPs) belonging to a £6m programme of institutional
 interdisciplinary research, which have been through a full year of review prior to relaunch in
 2019. The ten GRPs are: Behaviour, Brain and Society; Productivity and the Futures of Work;


                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Health; Innovative Manufacture and Materials; Food; Habitability; Connecting Cultures; Cyber
 Security; Sustainable Cities; and Energy. They function through ambitious and creative
 collaborative working to shape future ideas and they are designed to be inclusive of researchers
 at all career stages. Over the period, approximately 3500 researchers and partners both within
 and beyond Warwick have been engaged with the programme through events such as the
 popular Industry Days and policy roundtables on Food or Cyber-Security. Two new GRPs focus
 on Habitability, which encompasses wide-ranging studies of potential living conditions in the
 Universe including the climate emergency on this planet, and Productivity and the Futures of
 Work, which speaks to a long-standing expertise in research on employment and policy and
 adds-in contemporary foci on supply chains, enterprise and wellbeing. Importantly, it draws on
 the research from our extensive university-based business school (WBS), showcasing their
 expertise at the heart of this new pan-institutional community.


 2.9.2 The Institute of Advanced Study (IAS) Warwick’s IAS is dedicated to advancing new
 research ideas, characterised by: Interdisciplinarity; Innovation; Internationalisation. The strategy
 of IAS calls directly on both the R-Strategy and the International Strategy, which expresses
 Warwick’s determination to be a leading global university by 2030. Warwick’s IAS is distinctive
 among its sister institutions around the world in that it supports the entire postdoctoral
 community as well as early-career academics and prestigious international visitors. IAS has
 become increasingly successful in attracting funding from external bodies for example:
 Fernandes Fellowships funded by philanthropy (2018), two awards from the Marie Skłodowska
 Curie COFUND scheme (2016, 2020) and a UKRI Rutherford Fund Strategic Partner Grant
 (2018).


 2.9.3 The Institute for Global Sustainable Development (IGSD) provides a focal point for
 Warwick’s sustainable development research, contributing towards the UN Sustainable
 Development Goals. It supports both the academy’s research through intensive bespoke
 workshops on topics of key interest (e.g., Theory of Change; Responsible research and
 approaches to equitable partnerships), and the University’s own Sustainability Strategy working
 with the Climate Emergency Task Force. The award of five full-time Fellowships (won through
 open competition by 3 female and 2 male staff from Law, Politics, Life Sciences, WBS and
 WMG), with the appointment of two junior faculty to follow, have cemented IGSD as a pillar of
 our outward-looking interdisciplinary landscape. The 2020 award of a Leverhulme Doctoral
 Training Centre from 2021 for 5 years is a major coup for IGSD and maps out the future for this
 important endeavour at the heart of the R-Strategy.


 2.9.4 Strategic Interdisciplinary Research Centres of Excellence work across Departments
 and Faculties on cutting-edge topics in over 20 fields. Two examples of large-scale Centre-
 driven outcomes are: (i) Warwick Data Science Institute’s pivotal role in our successful bid to be
 a founding partner of the Alan Turing Institute (2014) and in winning £2m funding for a Maths
 Building extension from the Wolfson Foundation and HEFCE (2016); (ii) Warwick Antimicrobial
 Interdisciplinary Centre’s fundamental part in bringing the Medicine Discovery Catapult to
 Warwick with a £1m investment in laboratory capacity (2017-2019).
      More broadly, our research centres play a crucial role in stimulating the intellectual
 environment underpinning major research awards and fellowships. Two examples are (i)
 WCAHRD (now the Centre for Global Health) winning 42 research projects worth over £30m
 since 2014; (ii) the Systems Biology Epidemiology Centre (SBIDER) securing a £4.9m EPSRC

                                                                                               Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) in Mathematics for Real Systems. Notably, SBIDER is home
 to our top epidemiologists involved through SAGE committees with the UK’s response to
 COVID-19.
     The Centre for Interdisciplinary Methodologies (CIM), a cross-faculty research centre created
 in 2012 with University support, builds excellence in interdisciplinary research through methods
 development, with funding from the Wellcome Trust, NERC, AHRC and the ERC.


 2.10 Open Research is embedded in UoW’s research culture and practice, exemplified by
 incorporation of ORG as a subcommittee of RC. Open Access policy is led through the Library
 and focusses on benefits such as visibility, discoverability and access for both academic and
 wider societal audiences. Warwick Research Archive Portal (WRAP) is the institutional
 repository, which is optimised to allow for indexing and visibility in popular search engines.
 Initiatives championed by the ORG include (a) development of the Warwick Principles for the
 Evaluation of Research based on the Leiden Manifesto and creation of an institutional
 implementation plan; (b) inauguration of the University of Warwick Press, an open access press
 supporting experimental approaches to publishing; (c) development of a data-sharing policy for
 Warwick’s Research Technology platforms; (d) a roadmap for the University’s research data
 management services with a focus on how researchers can make their data FAIR (findable,
 accessible, interoperable and reusable); (e) implementation of the requirements of the 2021
 Wellcome Open Access Policy.


 2.11 Research Integrity is formally led through RGEC (Fig. 1) and training through the tool,
 Epigeum is led by its implementation sub-group. Completion of the training is mandatory for
 academics seeking institutional funds for research. Over time, the training will be mandated for
 all research-active personnel forming part of the induction package for all new staff with research
 responsibilities. The wider cultural implications of responsible and ethical research are being
 taken forward in a cross-institutional Research Culture sub-group of RC. Linking closely with
 RGEC and ORG, the Research Culture group will work across the interfaces with all levels of
 research-active personnel to ensure a fair working environment.


 2.12 Institutional partnerships, both internationally and nationally, are highly valued,
 strongly supported and prioritised in importance for enriching and informing the research
 environment.


 2.12.1 Strategic international research relationships are exemplified by the Monash-
 Warwick Alliance, which is now in its 3rd phase (£8.4m investment in total) and has renewed
 research foci on Antimicrobial Resistance and a multidisciplinary approach to Artificial
 Intelligence. A particular institutional highlight that emphasises Warwick’s importance in Europe,
 the €5m EUTOPIA programme, sees funding for research being committed by six universities
 (University of Ljublijana; Vrije University, Brussels; University of Gothenburg; Universite Paris
 Seine; Pompeu Fabra University Barcelona; UoW) to enable co-tutelle PhDs and wide-ranging
 collaborations from Data Science to Arts and Cultural Heritage. A follow-up €2m programme,
 TRAINS, will fund the partners to collaborate on the institutional functions that enable research
 and a Co-FUND collaboration for exchange of PDRAs will progress. A funded collaboration with
 Shanghai Jiao Tong University in the social sciences is in its early stages as part of the wider
 International Strategy.

                                                                                             Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)



 2.12.2 The Alan Turing Institute: a founding partner with Cambridge, Oxford, Edinburgh and
 UCL, Warwick’s academics are instrumental in shaping the strategy and nature of university
 collaboration. Institutional interaction is deliberately broader than the original EPSRC-led
 Mathematical Sciences brief and now CIM, Economics, Engineering, Psychology, PAIS, WBS
 and WMG all accommodate Turing Fellows (50 in total). Warwick’s leading research is
 exemplified by UKRI’s award of three, from only 15 Turing Artificial Intelligence Fellowships in
 2020 worth £4m; and our originating lead for the innovative Data Science for the Social Good
 summer-school. Active discussions around a Turing Phase 2 from 2021 onwards are focussed
 on Warwick’s expertise in Industrial Revolution 4.0 and the UK’s NetZero agenda.



 3. People

 3.1     The make-up of our research-active staff complement is inspiring and demonstrates how
 we champion the vitality and sustainability of academic research across all disciplines. At the
 REF census date, Warwick employed 144 staff on independently funded Fellowships from
 prestigious bodies such as the Royal Society, ERC, RCUK, Wellcome Trust, the Royal Academy
 of Engineering and the British Academy. Warwick has 14 UKRI Future Leader Fellowships
 across 11 Departments making it joint 4th in receipt of these awards. Twelve Leverhulme ECRs
 were awarded in 2018/19, seven in Arts.
         Approximately 25% of our REF submission is in the ECR category: this proportion is
 testament to our institutional willingness to put time, resources and expertise behind burgeoning
 research careers. This commitment to talent is reflected in the first work-strand (2.2) for
 implementation of the R-Strategy, which applies from PhD/Early career, through the middle
 years to senior Professors.


 3.2    The vast majority (89%) of the 1252 CatAEligible FTE in our REF2021 submission are on
 R&T contracts, consistent with our twin ambitions of excellence in both research and education.
 To enable this, we have increased our resource in university teaching, which has seen our
 number of T-focussed staff increase from 418 (2013/14) to 639 (2019/20). This reflects a
 deliberate strategy to maintain and accelerate our research excellence in an increasingly
 competitive funding and publication environment whilst simultaneously enhancing the quality
 and scale of our educational offering.
        Our academic staff (regardless of career pathway) are supported by three types of leave:
 study leave, leave to accept a research award and unpaid leave of absence. Study leave is
 normally granted for every six terms served for a maximum period of one year (three terms).


 3.3     Considerable reform has been made to our promotion framework since 2016. T&R, T-
 focussed and R-focussed contract types – “strands” - have a common points-based promotions
 structure and job-titles from Assistant Professor to full Professor. Individuals can use the
 promotion process to move between strands as their career develops and their own priorities
 change. Committee members for appointments and promotions undertake a suite of mandatory
 ED&I training regarding protected characteristics with additional unconscious-bias and gender-
 specific promotions training, as required.
        Our renewal of the Vitae HR Excellence in Research Award for our 8th year in 2021 in line
 with the revised Concordat on Career Development of Researchers will continue our progress

                                                                                             Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 towards a harmonised experience for all academic and technical staff and will focus particularly
 on improved outcomes for contract researchers as discussed at their regular forums.
       Furthermore, we have also built and implemented a Technicians’ job-family that reaches
 to Professorial level allowing us to recognise and encourage the excellence of our research
 support staff and provide them with an equivalent career path to the academic staff with whom
 they work.


 3.4      Inclusion is a cross-cutting strand of the 2030 university strategy applying equally to all
 staff and students. Ensuring that research staff with protected characteristics can positively
 progress free from bias is a key goal. In some cases, this is crystallised in institutional efforts
 towards charter marks – Warwick regained a silver Athena award in 2018 and ranked 123rd in
 Stonewall in 2020. Signatories to the Race Equality Charter since 2015, we will submit
 institutionally for the charter mark in 2021. At grassroots, we have a comprehensive suite of staff
 support groups including LGBTUA+ and Gender Taskforces, BAME, Disabled staff and Parents
 and Carers networks. Returners’ Fellowships for staff ringfence research time after extended
 periods of maternity, paternity or adoption leave. Staff and student wellbeing is paramount, and
 a dedicated Wellbeing Support Service leads with the £49m Sport and Wellness Hub opened in
 2019 being a central facility.


 3.5     The Code of Practice (CoP) was developed in consultation with representatives of the
 Universities and Colleges Union and fully reflects UoW’s Equality objectives and values. All our
 REF processes were formally conducted under the CoP’s auspices. Determinations of
 Significant Responsibility for Research and Research Independence were made throughout
 several meeting rounds of the University’s REF Submission Steering Group as described in the
 CoP. In an innovative step, UoAs shared their REF practices in written submissions to the
 autumn 2019 Senate meeting, thus providing the academy and UEB with a transparent check on
 consistency of approach across the institution.


 3.6     The number of staff submitted to REF2021 is 1252(FTE), an increase of 34% on the
 REF2014 figure of 931 FTE (at 83.5% intensity). 1195(FTE) staff are ineligible – of these,
 544(FTE) are T-focussed staff, ineligible by contract type. The remaining 651(FTE) consist
 principally of contract research assistants, who are non-independent, and a smaller group of
 permanent staff whose role is to manage the research of senior staff rather than conducting
 independent research. The small number of staff on fellowships of unstipulated status e.g.,
 Marie-Curie, COFUND, were considered under the CoP methodology within a consistent
 approach at UoA level. The resulting distribution of staff resolved to be CatAEligible was
 reviewed in 2019 against the whole staff pool. No bias in respect of protected characteristics
 was detected.


 3.7     Bespoke ED&I training within a REF context was mandatory for 180 decision-makers and
 advisors on REF bodies including the Executive Steering Group (ESG), Submission Steering
 Group (SSG) and all UoA advisory and reading groups. The training employed Case Studies
 and scenarios in an interactive and discursive atmosphere with the REF2021 and ED&I
 guidelines at the core.



                                                                                               Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 3.8      Warwick has an unequivocally strong commitment to doctoral training as demonstrated
 by the 73% increase in our financial investment in PGR studentships from £9.4m (2013/14) to
 £16.3m (2019/20). A typical distribution is 45% on scholarships (including those for overseas
 students), 20% on co-funding for CDTs and 35% through Departmental allocations. Warwick’s
 PGR population in 2020 numbers 2428, which is an increase of 15% over the REF period. Most
 of this (+13%) has been in the SEM Faculty although the number of PGRs in Social Sciences
 has also increased.


 3.9      The majority (~70%) of our PGRs are being trained through Departments and individual
 supervisors. Individual UoA statements describe how excellence and consistency in PGR
 training is achieved in all our Departments and disciplines for this large cohort (>1500 students).
 Institutionally ~30% of our PGRs are in cohort-style training and we have supported all Faculties
 to succeed in funding competitions, some with regional collaboration.


 3.9.1 Within the SEM Faculty, CDTs have been operating throughout the period with five
 funded by EPSRC from 2014 having graduated 107 students to date. The Warwick-led BBSRC
 CDT in the Midlands has won its third-phase funding from 2019, our NERC CDT has been
 renewed (from 2020) and our MRC Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) is invited to extend. The
 Leverhulme Trust “Bridges” inter-disciplinary research centre involving Psychology, Statistics,
 Economics and WBS, has graduated 7 students from its first cohorts in 2015-17 with another 10
 pending by 2022. Two more 5-year EPSRC CDTs began training research students in 2019
 together with four further physical and mathematical sciences CDTs supported by a combination
 of industrial, institutional funding and EPSRC (£1m for Analytical Sciences).


 3.9.2 In 2016 Warwick successfully led and now manages, together with Birmingham,
 Nottingham, Leicester, Aston, and Loughborough, a bid for the ESRC Midlands Graduate School
 DTP, which offers 17 different training pathways and awards 60 studentships annually in
 addition to providing advanced research training courses, and other skills development
 programmes for early career researchers. This builds upon earlier success (from 2011-2016) in
 the ESRC DTC competition, which supported 27 postgraduate studentships per annum on
 disciplinary and interdisciplinary training pathways. In combination, 171 students have been
 graduated.


 3.9.3 The Arts Faculty was instrumental in the successful Midlands Four Cities bid for an
 AHRC DTP between eight institutions: the consortium includes the two leading universities in
 each city (Coventry, Leicester, Birmingham, Nottingham). This built upon the Arts Faculty’s
 Warwick-funded Centre for Advanced Doctoral Research Excellence established in 2014, which
 has graduated 21 students to date and continues to support a further 41 in progress.


 3.10 Warwick’s Graduate School was reorganised in 2018 to establish a Doctoral College for
 all PGR students distinct from a large post-graduate taught provision, a change designed to
 enhance our strong focus on quality and consistency across the institution. The Doctoral College
 reports into the Board of Graduate Studies and has operational and strategic sub-committees
 including a management committee chaired by the PVCR to provide assurance on cohort-style
 training.

                                                                                             Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 4.1    Our research income has increased by over 50% from £83.7m (2012/13) to £131.7m
 (2019/20). This has been achieved through a diversification of our research portfolio and a
 strategy to foster greater collaborations with partners and embrace an interdisciplinary future to
 develop solutions to global problems combining different expertise and methodologies. The
 move towards a diversified portfolio has built in resilience and we have supported researchers to
 become more adaptable and responsive in the context of a fast-moving and challenging funding
 environment. We remain highly competitive in UK Research Council and European Research
 Council funding and are Innovate UK’s second highest HEI funding recipient demonstrating our
 capability in industry-led research.


 4.2     We have an ambitious Campus Masterplan which aims to manage sustainably our
 infrastructure and expand capacity. The capital projects completed are:

       the £150m National Automotive Innovation Centre (NAIC), the largest research centre of
        its kind in Europe, set up in partnership with industry to develop novel technologies to
        reduce CO2 emissions through electrification in the quest for NetZero.
       a new £58m Arts & Humanities building (completion 2021) which will co-locate
        departments in a single space acting as a hub for collaboration, creativity, innovation and
        public engagement.
       our £28m Mathematical Sciences Building hosting world-class researchers to deliver
        outcomes that will have a profound impact on our societies, communities, and cities; it
        hosts much of our interdisciplinary work with the Alan Turing Institute.
       new WMG buildings; £10m Materials Engineering Centre and £14m Advanced Materials
        Manufacturing Centre which allow us to work closely with the local economy and
        businesses on application-driven, materials research.
       the £54m Interdisciplinary Biomedical Research Building (IBRB) bringing together three
        hundred biomedical researchers from Life Sciences and Warwick Medical School, to fight
        human diseases, develop new biotechnologies and enhance healthcare around the
        world.
       A refurbishment programme for the Social Sciences Faculty buildings including WBS,
        Economics and Law to date.

 Going forward we will invest in the next phase of the STEM Grand Challenge capital project
 focusing on the redevelopment of our Physics, Chemistry and Engineering spaces, with a
 mission to transform their physical research environment into one that fosters greater
 interdisciplinarity, creativity and innovation. Elsewhere we have initiated the expansion of WBS
 and renewal of our library building.
       An inaugural Director of Transport and Future Mobility works with internal and external
 partners, developing long-term strategic infrastructure opportunities for road and rail
 improvement in the region. Our own researchers in WMG are participants in developing smart
 shuttle and light-rail transport solutions.


 4.3     Access to state-of-the-art equipment and technical support is vital, much of this is hosted
 at relevant departments and we invest £5m annually on refreshing our provision. Alongside this
 we have developed 9 Research Technology Platforms (RTPs) which provide access to


                                                                                             Page 11
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 integrated world-class facilities and technical expertise, these cover Advanced Bioimaging,
 Bioinformatics, Biomedical Services, Electron Microscopy, Polymer Characterisation,
 Spectroscopy, Proteomics and X-ray Diffraction. Our Scientific Computing RTP manages our
 HPC capability and provides support for software development and training through our
 Research Software Engineering group; this RTP supports the EPSRC funded regional tier 2
 HPC facility. Each RTP is led by an Academic Director and has a dedicated technical team,
 providing world-class expertise and training for users. We also host EPSRC national research
 facilities in solid state NMR, tomography and synchrotron radiation.


 4.3.1 Our equipment and facilities are accessible externally via Warwick Scientific Services
 (WSS) to deliver cutting-edge, technical measurement solutions, innovative translational
 research, knowledge and training services. We work with business from across sectors
 including: energy efficiency; life Sciences (biotechnology and biomedical); materials; high-
 performance computing; or mechanical modelling. We hold industry days that showcase our
 RTPs and WSS to foster creative, collaborative relationships with business partners and
 generate new knowledge and innovation.


 4.3.2 Regionally, Midlands Innovation partners (Aston, Birmingham, Cranfield, Keele,
 Leicester, Loughborough, Nottingham), offer access to a broader equipment base. Separately
 they convene academic networks and research programmes in energy, health, transport and
 social science. Future ambitions include a prospectus for the Energy Research Accelerator
 (ERA) Phase 2, which builds on the 2015 £180m ERA Phase 1 co-investment by Innovate UK,
 JLR and the universities, with Warwick leading in Battery technology as a founding partner in the
 Faraday Battery Challenge. The collaborative ethos of Midlands Innovation allows us to support
 our technical workforce by developing routes to share technical expertise and to up-skill staff
 through technicians’ training (TALENT) and post-doctoral skills training in Sustainability (C-
 DICE) both funded at ~£4m as Research England Development programs.


 4.3.3 Fundamental, to the University’s success is the strength of its Arts and Social Sciences,
 which influence and contribute to the understanding of culture, society, behaviours, economics
 and politics across the globe. The University recognises the value of arts and culture to the local
 community and has significantly invested in its provision with the refurbishment and expansion of
 Warwick Arts Centre – a major cultural hub for the region, which will play a key part in
 Coventry’s UK City of Culture status in 2021. The Arts & Humanities faculty receive dedicated
 Digital Humanities support from our team of Academic Technologists, who also underpin a new
 Centre for Digital Inquiry.


 4.3.4 Our Public Engagement (PE) team collaborates with the academy to ensure that
 widespread PE with research is increasingly professionalised and plays a central role in our
 regional and national profiles. A recent innovation is the Warwick Institute for Engagement,
 expanding upon our success in the British Association of Science Festival 2019, which saw the
 highest ever attendance figures (>16,900). The team will play a key part in the delivery of the
 City of Culture programme, with a focus on engagement with research.




                                                                                            Page 12
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 4.4     In addition to its leadership on Open Research (2.10), the Library is a pillar of our
 research environment both for its physical collections and its extensive electronic provision. It
 holds one million printed works, and c.900,000 electronic books available for anyone with
 Warwick network access and provides unrestricted access to subject-specific databases and
 102,000 electronic journals. It houses the Wolfson Research Exchange, a dedicated community
 space only accessible by research staff and students, which provides a forum for
 interdisciplinary collaboration, and a Postgraduate Hub that encourages interaction between
 taught and research postgraduates. Furthermore, the Modern Records Centre is the largest
 academic archive in the UK.




                                                                                           Page 13
