Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: University of York

 1. Context and mission


 Research culture and focus

    1. Since its foundation in 1963, the University of York has built an international reputation for
       academic excellence. The values which were integral to its creation - excellence, public
       good, equality, community and internationalism - continue to underpin our ethos and
       culture, and shape our approach to the societal challenges we face today.

    2. Our academic departments (paragraphs 7-8) retain a high degree of autonomy, which
       underpins their excellent disciplinary research. Our researchers are afforded the
       intellectual freedom to think creatively, cross disciplinary boundaries and establish
       pioneering research programmes that have quickly established our international profile
       across the Arts and Humanities, Sciences and Social Sciences.

    3. We have maintained our highly collegial approach to research, while growing the number
       of staff and departments. This is facilitated by our emphasis on a shared community, rather
       than hierarchical management structures, and by our place in a small city with an
       international outlook. In addition, there is a University commitment to an egalitarian
       approach to working, with an emphasis on partnership across different career stages and
       creation of strong and supportive relationships between academic and professional staff.

    4. To expand our existing research strengths and develop new opportunities for collaboration
       within and beyond the institution, we established seven cross-cutting Research Themes
       (2015-) to meet the grand scientific, social and environmental challenges of our time:
       Creativity; Culture and Communication; Environmental Sustainability and Resilience;
       Health and Wellbeing; Justice and Equality; Risk, Evidence and Decision Making;
       Technologies for the Future. Each theme is led by a University Research Champion, a
       senior research leader with a significant time allocation. The Champions involve staff at all
       career stages in their activities and support large and strategic bids for funding (paragraph
       11).

 Wider institutional context

    5. The University is a campus-based, research-intensive university with 27 academic
       departments (Table 1) within three Faculties, over 18,000 students and 1,600 academic
       and research staff. We have a strong commitment to the links between research and
       teaching, and seek to build a university that distinguishes itself in i) the world-leading
       quality of its research and impact, ii) its outstanding teaching (TEF Gold), and iii) the quality
       and value of the students’ university experience. Two of our departments are specialist
       research-only centres: the Centre for Health Economics and the Centre for Reviews and
       Dissemination. The Hull York Medical School (HYMS) is a joint venture with the University
       of Hull. At York, HYMS staff undertake their research aligned with one or more departments
       and are returned to the UoAs linked to these departments.

    6. We are at the forefront of many national and international research centres and
       programmes (paragraph 11). Our research is facilitated by our range of external affiliations
       at regional, national and international levels, including:
           ● Regionally: we participate in:
                   ○ The White Rose Universities Consortium (1997-), founded with the
                       Universities of Leeds and Sheffield. This strategic partnership supports
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
                         emerging collaborative projects, PhD training networks (paragraph 34) and
                         our open research platforms (paragraphs 15-17);
                      ○ The N8 Research Partnership, a collaboration of the eight most research-
                         intensive universities in the North of England. York leads the £16m Catalyst
                         Funded N8 AgriFood programme that addresses the global challenges of
                         ensuring sustainable, resilient and healthy food supplies for all.
             ●   Nationally: we are a member of the Russell Group of research-intensive
                 universities.
             ●   Internationally: we i) are a member of the Worldwide Universities Network (WUN),
                 a collaborative alliance of 23 research-led universities of international standing and
                 ii) have formed the York-Maastricht Partnership (2019-) to strengthen bilateral
                 collaborations.

 Disciplinary reach

    7. Since its foundation, the University has had a wide disciplinary mix, most recently
       expanded by establishment of the Department of Theatre, Film, Television and Interactive
       Media (2007-), The York Management School (TYMS, 2007-) and the York Law School
       (2008-).

    8. Since 2015, our academic departments and centres have been structured into three
       faculties which, like our Research Themes, encourage and facilitate working across
       disciplines. Faculty Research Groups enable departments to a) input into research policy;
       b) share good practice; and c) develop cross-departmental and cross-faculty research.

 Table 1 - Academic departments and faculties

  Sciences                          Social Sciences                   Arts and Humanities

     ●   Biology                        ●   Centre for Health             ●   Archaeology
     ●   Chemistry                          Economics                     ●   English and Related
     ●   Computer Science               ●   Centre for Reviews                Literature
     ●   Electronic Engineering             and Dissemination             ●   History
     ●   Environment and                ●   Economics and                 ●   History of Art
         Geography                          Related Studies               ●   Language and
     ●   Health Sciences                ●   Education                         Linguistic Science
     ●   Hull York Medical              ●   Politics                      ●   Music
         School                         ●   Sociology                     ●   Philosophy
     ●   Mathematics                    ●   Social Policy and             ●   Theatre, Film,
     ●   Physics                            Social Work                       Television and
     ●   Psychology                     ●   The York Law School               Interactive Media
                                        ●   The York
                                            Management School
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2. Strategy


 Achievement of institutional research and impact objectives during the assessment period

    9. The University Research Committee (URC), chaired by the Pro-Vice-Chancellor for
       Research, oversees research performance, strategy, policy and integrity. We launched our
       current Research Strategy in 2015 and this has been implemented ahead of schedule,
       delivering a step change in our research endeavours. Our five strategic aims were:
          i.   Recruiting and retaining the best researchers at all career stages, and supporting
               and mentoring existing staff, to provide an attractive environment in which research
               can flourish (section 3);
         ii.   Giving our major interdisciplinary research strengths focus, identity and presence,
               to encourage interdepartmental and international research activity (paragraphs 11-
               13);
        iii.   Recognising the role of departments in supporting their staff in the development of
               their research (section 3);
        iv.    Deploying university resources to support research excellence (paragraph 10 and
               section 4);
         v.    Supporting our postgraduate research students and their supervisors to train a
               vibrant research community of excellent research scholars (section 3).

 Supporting Research Excellence and Interdisciplinarity

    10. We have invested in our core research excellence through a variety of mechanisms
        (section 4). The events organised by our Research Champions, centres and faculties
        facilitate the development of new ideas and collaborations. These have utilised funding
        from our University Research Priming, Research Champions and departmentally-
        managed funds. Our Research Development Fund has provided significant matched
        funding to support major research bids (paragraph 11) whilst our Strategic Investment
        Funds have developed major new initiatives including the Interdisciplinary Global
        Development Centre (2017-). This leads interdisciplinary research and teaching, and
        builds equitable partnerships for global development. Led by the Departments of Politics,
        Environment & Geography, and History, it has members from 20 departments.

    11. Drawing on these mechanisms, our seven Research Themes (paragraph 4) have driven
        significant new developments, including opportunities arising from the Global Challenges
        Research Fund (GCRF) and Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund (ISCF). Our focus on
        supporting large-scale bids has underpinned a range of research centres, hubs and
        programmes which bring together partners from multiple sectors to produce world-leading,
        impactful research. These include:
            a. Digital Creativity Labs (UOAs 4, 11, 12, 15, 21, 23 and 33b). This £18m project
                (funded by UKRI, university partners, and industry) brings together over 100
                partners and 30 researchers from multiple disciplines to deliver impact from
                research in the games and media industries. Recent projects have built on this
                success. XR Stories (£15m) was established to support the region in becoming the
                UK centre of excellence in digital screen storytelling. This AHRC and ISCF project
                is one of nine Creative Industry Cluster investments, and is led by our Research
                Champion for Creativity. WEAVR is a £5.8m ISCF project which is developing
                immersive technologies and data-driven content production for e-sports (UOAs 11
                and 33b); doctoral training is provided through IGGI (paragraph 34).
            b. The EPSRC Quantum Communications Hub (UOAs 9, 10 and 11). York leads this
                partnership of universities, private sector companies and public sector bodies, to
                exploit the fundamental laws of quantum physics for the development of secure
                communications technologies and services. The Hub is funded as part of the UK’s
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
              National Quantum Technologies Programme, with grants of £24m for both phase
              1 (2014-19) and phase 2 (2019-2024);
           c. Assuring Autonomy International Programme (UOAs 11 and 12). This £12m
              partnership (2018-) with the Lloyd’s Register Foundation leads research, training
              and standards in the safety of robotics and autonomous systems. It is directed by
              our first Research Champion for Risk, Evidence and Decision Making. The Institute
              for Safe Autonomy (2019-) addresses global challenges in assuring the safety of
              robotics and other systems that use artificial intelligence, supported by £10.5m from
              the UK Research Partnership Investment Fund and £24.5m from industrial partners
              and private donors;
           d. Leverhulme Centre for Anthropocene Biodiversity (UOAs 2, 5, 7, 11, 15, 19, 21, 27
              and 28). Established in 2019, this £10m international collaboration explores how
              the relationship between humanity and the natural world is changing, and how to
              develop a sustainable Earth. It includes research from humanities, social sciences
              and sciences, with two of our Research Champions as associate directors;
           e. Thanzi la Onse (Health of All) (UOAs 2 and 19). Led by our Centre for Health
              Economics, the £6.6m Thanzi la Onse UKRI GCRF project (2017-21), aims to
              improve population health and reduce health inequities in Malawi, Uganda and
              Southern and East Africa (UOA 2).

 Impact

    12. York’s University Strategy (2015-20) states that our research will be “life-changing in its
        impact”. Our Strategic Framework for Research Impact (2015) details our objectives to
        enable impact in areas including policy, health and wellbeing, environmental sustainability,
        social welfare, economic development and cultural enrichment. To achieve these
        objectives, we have strengthened our support for impact by establishing academic Impact
        Leads at departmental level, appointing University and faculty-based Impact Managers
        and allocating funding for impact (paragraphs 49-50). To further develop our impact
        culture, we host an annual Impact Conference and organise a termly Impact Forum, to
        share best practice. Achievements across a range of our Research Themes include:
            a. Health and wellbeing. Our health economic research has been instrumental in
                resource allocation decisions within the NHS and global health budgets (UOAs 2
                and 16). We have influenced health policy and practice nationally and
                internationally, including the development of NICE guidelines in numerous clinical
                areas (UOAs 2 and 16), in the ethical oversight of Public Health England’s activity
                (UOA30), and through a longstanding partnership with the World Health
                Organization (UOAs 19 & 28).
            b. Environmental sustainability and resilience. Our research on air pollution and air
                quality, ocean and marine protection and conservation, and biodiversity has had a
                lasting and influential international impact (UOAs 5, 7, 8 and 10). The University
                hosts one of the centres of the internationally renowned Stockholm Environment
                Institute (SEI), ranked as the world’s top think tank for environmental policy in 2019
                (UOA7). Interdisciplinary research led by TYMS focuses on the environmental,
                economic and health impacts of global food systems (UOAs 2, 7, 11, 17 and 19).
            c. Justice and Equality. Our world-leading social policy research has had an impact
                on welfare policy nationally and internationally in areas such as social inequality
                and child wellbeing (UOAs 20 & 21). Our research on applied human rights has
                influenced policies and practices supporting human rights defenders across the
                globe (UOAs 18 & 19), whilst our forensic science research has informed regulatory
                policy and legal practice in the UK and beyond (UOA26).
            d. Technologies for the Future. In the physical sciences, our research on magnetic
                disk drives and information storage has made a significant contribution to the
                computing industry (UOA9), and our research on structures of enzymes has led to
                the development of new processes yielding biofuels and enzymes for industry
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
              (UOA8). In biological sciences, our leading work on improving crop yields has
              impacted on the global production of anti-malarial agents (UOA5).
           e. Culture and Communication. In the arts and humanities, our expertise in the
              preservation and conservation of the historic environment has changed the way
              glass conservation is approached and executed at York Minster and beyond
              (UOA32), and explored innovative ways of engaging the public at other cathedrals
              and historic sites such as the Palace of Westminster (UOA28). Research from York
              on silent Shakespeare films, Dickens and South African Jazz has had global impact
              on creative practice, cultural organisations and education (UOAs 27 & 33a).

    13. To engage our wider community with our research, we run a diverse programme to
        educate, entertain and inspire the public. The flagship York Festival of Ideas attracts
        annual audiences totalling over 30,000 to more than 200 events involving speakers,
        exhibitions, theatre, music and films. The University is a signatory to the Civic University
        Agreement and the NCCPE Manifesto for Public Engagement.

 Research Integrity

    14. The University expects the highest standards of research integrity. We revamped our
        framework for research integrity in 2014, including updates to the University’s Code of
        Practice on Research Integrity (revised 2019), Code of Practice and Principles for Good
        Ethical Governance (revised 2017) and Policy for the Investigation of an Allegation of
        Research Misconduct (revised 2017). Through this framework, we ensure compliance with
        the UUK Concordat to support research integrity. Nationally, we have participated in the
        Russell Group’s Research Integrity Forum since 2015, to advance a collaborative
        approach to dealing with research misconduct and to share good practice. We launched
        our own Research Integrity Forum (2015-) to exchange best practice internally and we
        subscribe to the UK Research Integrity Office, enabling researchers to benefit from its
        advice and support.

 Open Research

    15. Overseen by our Open Research Strategy Group, we have published an Open research
        statement which describes our commitment to the values, principles and culture of open
        research. Through a programme of events and online resources, the Group is developing
        a community of open research practice by showcasing and sharing case studies across
        disciplines (UOAs 4, 8, 15 and 23) to create new opportunities for outputs and methods to
        be reused, reproduced and credited.

    16. The University’s Policy on the Publication of Research (launched 2014) goes beyond
        ensuring funder compliance and requires that research outputs be deposited in White Rose
        Research Online wherever possible. The Library supports the White Rose University Press
        (with Leeds and Sheffield), a fully Open Access publisher of peer-reviewed journals and
        monographs (2016-), and manages the York Open Access Fund. White Rose University
        Press journals have a global reach, with access from over 120 countries. The Press’ first
        monograph, Star Carr, has seen over 28,000 downloads since its publication in 2018
        (UOA15). We support the development of national and international open access
        infrastructure through financial contributions to the Directory of Open Access Journals, the
        Open Library of the Humanities, the arXiv preprint repository, and membership of ORCID.

    17. The University’s Policy on Research Data Management (launched 2014) ensures that
        researchers manage their data effectively, and share it wherever possible, typically via a
        national, international or subject repository, or via our own Research Data York service.
        Since 2017, the York Research Database has provided a public portal to access our
        datasets, wherever they are held. Our Department of Chemistry has a long track record in
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
        advancing the open data agenda internationally (UOA8) and we host the Archaeology Data
        Service, a world-leading digital repository for archaeological data (UOA15).

 Future strategy

    18. Our future strategy is built on our commitment to be a University for public good, drawing
        on a rich tradition of thought and action on social justice and combating inequality that is
        distinctive to the University and the City of York. Our research will combine strong
        disciplinary foundations with a distinctive York tradition of creative interaction across
        disciplines. This gives us the capacity to discover and apply knowledge around some of
        the biggest challenges and opportunities our society faces, including environmental
        sustainability, energy, public health, digital technologies, the creative arts, the value of the
        humanities, and global development. The broad strategic aim which will guide us is
        pursuing “research with relevance and reach”. Our research will be:
            a. Driven by curiosity, creativity and innovation, and guided by our principles of rigour,
                 integrity, diversity, inclusion, and public good;
            b. Measured by the impact we have on pressing and emerging economic, social,
                 cultural, and environmental challenges;
            c. Delivered through a progressive research culture by which we develop exceptional
                 leadership in research by supporting strong career paths;
            d. Fostered by our University-wide capabilities in areas of research strength, with
                 collaboration across disciplines and a focus on tackling real world problems;
            e. Built on a diverse set of local and global networks, ensuring our discoveries are
                 made in collaboration with our regional, national and international partners.


 3. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development

    19. Our 2015-2020 Research Strategy aimed to recruit and retain the “best researchers at all
        career stages” by providing an attractive research environment, underpinned by a
        commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion.

 Recruitment and promotion

    20. We have established programmes to recruit international research leaders, including an
        ‘Inspirational Research Leaders’ programme (2017) which appointed senior academics
        across the institution. The York Research Fellowship Scheme (2019-) attracts and
        supports the best early career researchers in winning external fellowships, including two
        UKRI Future Leadership Fellows in 2019 and four Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships
        in 2020. Our recruitment by age profile of academic (research and teaching) staff is shown
        in Figure 1.

 Figure 1. Recruitment by age profile during the assessment period - academic, research and
 teaching staff
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)




    21. As part of York’s 2018-22 Athena Swan action plan, we have actively encouraged the
        promotion of more women to Reader and Professorial roles, and the percentage of
        Category A submitted senior female staff has increased from 28% to 35% during this REF
        period (Figure 2d). There has also been a reduction in the mean gender pay gap for
        academic staff from 16.5% (2014) to 15.3% (2019) (the median is 13.6%). The promotion
        of under-represented groups has been further supported by i) enabling applicants to
        disclose equality related circumstances that have impacted on their ability to evidence
        achievement (including those related to COVID-19), and ii) ensuring BAME representation
        within the academic promotions panel, which has resulted in increasing the diversity of our
        staff (Figure 2c). Alongside research, impact and innovation activities are also now firmly
        established within the progression framework.

 Figure 2. Percentage of Category A submitted professors and senior academic staff by protected
 characteristic, 31/07/2014 and 31/07/2020 by a – age, b – disability, c - ethnicity and d - gender.
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Staff development

     22. Our revised Statement on Research Performance Expectations (2015) sets the framework
         for departments to establish the expected performance norms within their discipline,
         differentiated by staff grade. This provides clarity for staff on what a successful researcher
         is expected to do, and on what support they can expect from their department and the
         University. Mentoring, coaching and leadership programmes (such as the York Research
         Leaders for experienced research-active staff who manage large grants and teams) are
         available to all academic and research staff to develop their research, professional and
         career goals. To support a culture of responsible research evaluation, we established our
         Policy for Research Evaluation using Quantitative Data (2017). This is informed by (and
         aligns with) the Leiden Manifesto and San Francisco Declaration on Research
         Assessment, to which the University has been a signatory since May 2018.

     23. Departments set and implement their policies for research leave, with oversight from URC
         to ensure the quality of the provision. The majority enable staff to have defined time to
         concentrate on research and/or impact (typically, one research term after nine teaching
         terms).

 Inclusivity

     24. Our flexible working policy enables staff to balance their work with other commitments,
         including caring responsibilities (COVID-19 Annex). The concept of ‘core hours’ for
         departmental business enables staff to work flexibly and contribute fully to key decision-
         making bodies. We have introduced a carers’ fund, to cover the additional costs incurred
         attending events (such as conferences) outside of normal hours.

     25. Staff wellbeing is supported by a range of measures including our policy on managing ill-
         health and sickness absence, projects such as Well@York (which share resources on
         wellbeing), and sources of advice and support, such as occupational health and the mental
         health first contact network.

     26. The University is committed to appointing staff on open contracts wherever appropriate.
         Our policy on fixed term contracts (updated July 2020) ensures a review to support the
         transfer to open contracts for staff who have two years’ continuous service. 96% of our
         Category A submitted staff are employed on open contracts. Our Code of Practice for the
         Management of Staff on Fixed-term Contracts ensures parity of esteem, including in
         access to promotion and training.

 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers

     27. York was one of the first ten UK universities to be awarded the European Commission’s
         HR Excellence in Research award in 2010 and retained this in 2018, recognising our
         commitment to the implementation of the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career
         Development of Researchers. York plays an active role in national networks supporting
         the development of the revised Researcher Development Concordat, of which we are a
         signatory (2020).

     28. On-going compliance is assured through a robust institutional framework, overseen by the
         Concordat Implementation Group. Our 11 departmental-level research staff associations
         and network of research staff liaison officers enable us to embed these principles within
         our research culture. This model was commended by the HR Excellence review panel and
         has been adopted by other universities. There is a diverse training and development
         programme available to our researchers (paragraph 32), supplemented by an annual
         Research Staff Conference and comprehensive online resources.
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


 Early Career Researchers

    29. Our probation framework (reviewed 2016) ensures support for new members of academic
        research and teaching staff. This includes mentoring, a reduced teaching load to support
        the development of research and the Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice, which
        includes training in integrity and ethics. Additionally, independent research fellows can
        access a range of mentoring and training (paragraphs 21 and 32).

 Research Students

    30. The York Graduate Research School (YGRS, 2015-) was created as a key aim of the 2015-
        2020 Research Strategy, to provide institutional oversight of postgraduate research.

    31. Our approach is centred on the fundamental value we attribute to the relationship between
        students and their supervisors, who meet for regular supervision meetings. Additionally,
        all students have a biannual meeting of their Thesis Advisory Panel who review and advise
        on academic progress and professional development. Formal reviews of progress by an
        independent panel occur at the end of years 1 and 2 (and 3 for four-year PhDs), assessed
        against institutional criteria. The online SkillsForge system brings together records of these
        meetings and wider training into one place, to support effective supervision and enable
        institutional monitoring against policy requirements.

    32. Beyond departments, the Research Excellence Training Team provides training for
        research students (and staff) in a range of areas including knowledge exchange and
        partnerships; personal and professional development; data management and open
        access; research integrity and ethics. Our research communication events such as PhD
        Spotlight, 3 Minute Thesis and ResearchBites have resulted in successes in national
        competitions. We have also established training to support supervision across the
        University, including 'Becoming an Effective Researcher' and ‘Being an Effective
        Supervisor’, built on the UK Council for Graduate Education’s principles.

    33. Our Policy on Research Degrees sets out our governance framework and includes clear
        policies to support distance learning, integrated and cross-disciplinary PhDs, to enable
        creative programme development. There is institution-level decision-making for all leave
        of absence and extension requests to ensure transparency and consistency which has
        improved on-time submission. 81% of research students who started in 2015/16 have
        completed on time, compared to 72% who started in 2013/14.

    34. The YGRS Dean has oversight of all training grant applications, matched funding requests
        (paragraph 10) and international sponsor relationships. During the assessment period,
        York has been successful in a series of external Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs),
        including the White Rose AHRC and ESRC DTPs, the BBSRC White Rose Doctoral
        Training Partnership in Mechanistic Biology, the NERC DTPs (ACCE and PANORAMA),
        EPSRC CDTs (IGGI and Fusion), and the Wolfson Trust Studentships in the Humanities.
        This funding has supported 18% growth in the number of PhDs awarded between 13/14
        to 18/19.

 Equality and diversity

    35. Our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Strategy (2017-2022) sets out our commitment to
        create an inclusive community where diversity is recognised, valued and celebrated. Our
        Code of Practice sets out how this has informed our REF submission.

    36. To build this inclusive community, we established a network of departmental Equality
        Champions whose role includes: i) raising awareness of campus wide equality activity; ii)
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
         supporting departmental equality initiatives, such as Athena SWAN and; iii) celebrating
         and promoting equality activities and success. Our five staff equality networks involve over
         200 staff in sharing good practice and providing peer support and development: the Athena
         SWAN Forum, INCLUDE (Inclusive Network Connecting and Linking University Disabled
         Employees), LGBTI Matters, Women in Research Forum and the Staff Race Equality
         Forum (SREF). The SREF is working on our institutional response to Black Lives Matter,
         implementing initiatives to improve our support for, and understanding of, the barriers
         faced by our BAME staff.

     37. We have made significant progress with Athena SWAN accreditation, with 19 departments
         holding an award (July 2020) compared to seven at the outset (August 2013). We are the
         only UK HEI to date to hold three Gold awards. Chemistry was the first UK department to
         achieve a Gold award (held since 2007) and Biology was the first UK biology department
         to achieve Gold in 2014. 93% of our academic departments have established a self-
         assessment team. Institutionally, York holds a Bronze award.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 Research income

     38. Our research income has grown, built on an 81% growth in UKRI income between 2013/14
         to 2018/19, which has increased our market share from 1.5% to 2.1%. In order to achieve
         this, we have:
             a. Focussed our research capacity by establishing seven Research Themes
                 (paragraph 4);
             b. Identified strategically important funding opportunities, with a focus on increasing
                 the number of larger research grants (paragraph 11);
             c. Ensured a strong network of support for these bids with our Research Development
                 Managers working alongside Research Champions and Associate Deans
                 (Research) to establish research teams for major collaborative projects;
             d. Committed internal funds (paragraphs 10 & 20) to support emerging projects,
                 provide substantial matched funding for external bids, and attract excellent
                 research fellows;
             e. Increased our disciplinary-specific research support, through departmental and
                 faculty-based staff.

 Infrastructure and facilities

 Facilities

     39. The central Library buildings are open 24 hours a day, 362 days of the year. We subscribe
         to over 21,000 journals and house the Humanities Research Library, Borthwick Institute
         for Archives, King’s Manor Library and York Minster Library. This holds outstanding
         collections including an extensive collection on stained glass (UOA32).

     40. We have a range of high-value science facilities, accessible to external users in
         government, industry and the third sector. Our Atmospheric Chemistry Building
         (established by the Wolfson Foundation, 2014) was expanded in 2018 with £6.7m of
         investment from NERC and the University, creating the largest dedicated space for
         atmospheric chemistry research in any European university. Our Bioscience Technology
         Facility (BTF) provides access to state-of-the-art equipment for an international network of
         academic and commercial users (COVID-19 annex). We are part of the Technician
         Commitment initiative, providing national-level leadership via our project TechYork, which
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
        supports and trains our technical staff to develop the high-level skills which underpin our
        cutting-edge scientific research.

    41. We invested £2.5m to deliver a step change in our High Performance Computing (HPC)
        provision, which uses cluster computing to combine access to local, regional and national
        facilities. Our new Viking cluster (2019) is ~7 times larger than our previous HPC system,
        providing researchers with access to 7,500 cores and 2.5Pb of storage along with GPUs
        for artificial intelligence and machine learning research. This facilitates research in areas
        including climate modelling, archaeological analysis, artificial intelligence and machine
        learning. This upgrade moved York to the top quarter of the Russell Group for HPC
        provision. We also benefit from shared facilities, including the N8 Centre of Excellence in
        Computationally Intensive Research.

 Challenge-led interdisciplinary research centres

    42. Housed within the new £12.5m Environment building, the York Environmental
        Sustainability Institute (2011-) facilitates world-class interdisciplinary research on
        environmental sustainability for the research community, industry and policy-makers
        through its research on sustainable food, resilient ecosystems and urban living. It involves
        academics from 17 departments and over 130 external partners.

    43. The Centre for Future Health (2016-), co-funded by the University and Wellcome Trust,
        was created with the ambition to support cutting-edge, interdisciplinary projects that
        address the world's most important health and wellbeing challenges. It has funded projects
        from 18 departments across all three faculties.

    44. The York Biomedical Research Institute (2017-) has brought together a critical mass of
        biomedical researchers across nine departments to grow innovative fundamental,
        experimental and translational multi-disciplinary research in biomedical and clinical
        sciences.

    45. Drawing on world-leading research and innovation in Biology and Chemistry, BioYork
        (2018-) brings internal and external partners together to drive the development of UK bio-
        based industries to deliver growth, jobs and environmental benefits.

 Faculty-based research centres

    46. The Humanities Research Centre (HRC, 2009-) coordinates research across and beyond
        the Faculty by developing interdisciplinary initiatives and providing extensive support for
        research and impact. The purpose-built £11m Berrick Saul Building offers dedicated space
        for research centres including the Centre for the Study of Christianity and Culture and the
        Centre for Global Health Histories. The centre also provides work space for postgraduate
        research students, postdoctoral staff and visitors.

    47. The Faculty also leads four internationally-renowned interdisciplinary period centres:
        Centre for Medieval Studies, Centre for Eighteenth Century Studies, Centre for
        Renaissance and Early Modern Studies and the Centre for Modern Studies. The latter two
        are based at the HRC.

    48. The Research Centre for Social Sciences (2013-) supports departments in research
        development, impact and research training. The building provides workspace for doctoral
        and postdoctoral researchers, visiting scholars and research groups and centres including
        the Centre for Applied Human Rights.
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Enabling impact

    49. To support researchers pursuing knowledge exchange (KE) and impact, the University and
        Faculty Impact Managers work with the Research and Enterprise directorate to develop
        partnerships with external organisations and to plan, track and evidence the impacts from
        our research. They also i) broker links with government and policy makers, for example,
        with the Cabinet Office Open Innovation Team; ii) facilitate commercial knowledge
        exchange, for example, via our award winning Enterprise Fellowship programme; and iii)
        enable funding, for example, a 100% success rate in AHRC Follow on Funding.

    50. We allocate funding to researchers for impact and KE work, including HEIF (over £20m
        since 2014), Impact Acceleration Accounts from the EPSRC (£1.3m, 2017-2020), BBSRC
        (£300k, 2018-2021), ESRC (£660k, 2014-2018; £1.1m, 2019-2023) and an Arts and
        Humanities Impact Accelerator Fund (£65k/year since 2016-2017). Additional funding is
        available through GCRF Impact Development Awards (£261k for 2018-2020), which
        primed the Thanzi la Onse project (paragraph 11e), and by the Centre for Future Health
        (£811k, KE, Impact and Translation Awards since 2016).
