Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Institute of Zoology

 1. Context and mission

The Institute of Zoology (IoZ) is a world-leading research centre in conservation science. Our
mission is to understand the biology of wildlife in a changing world, improving conservation
outcomes and delivering benefits to people. Our research focuses strategically on five global
conservation challenges. For each, improving our scientific knowledge offers potentially
transformative conservation outcomes:

• Wildlife Health, to identify, understand and mitigate wildlife disease threats to biodiversity
  conservation and to human health and wellbeing.
• Biology and Recovery of Small Populations, to develop a holistic understanding of the
  drivers of extinction risk and the science to support conservation solutions.
• Co-existence Between People and Wildlife, to develop effective tools that foster biodiversity
  and human wellbeing, to achieve sustainable development alongside nature conservation.
• Global Biodiversity Monitoring, to understand the impact of anthropogenic threats on
  ecosystem structure, function, and stability, as well as generate indicators to track biodiversity
  change.
• Mitigating and Adapting to Climate Change, to understand species and ecosystem
  vulnerability to the climate crisis and identify the best nature-based solutions for mitigation.

Our environment is structured to address these five global conservation challenges. IoZ is the
research division of the Zoological Society of London (ZSL), an international conservation NGO
that houses living collections at two major zoos (London, Whipsnade), runs on-the-ground
conservation programmes in >60 countries, and engages with policy makers and practitioners
around the world. Within ZSL, IoZ forms the core of the Science Directorate, which also includes
Science Resources and Meetings (incorporating ZSL’s Publications and Science Communication
team) and Wildlife Health Services (professional staff involved in animal health and welfare). The
unique position of IoZ as a Higher Education Institute within a conservation NGO brings a variety of
benefits to its research and its translation into impact, as well as its education and public
engagement activities.

IoZ employs 68 research staff and hosts a vibrant postgraduate community of 75 PhD students
and c.45 Masters students from three highly successful degree courses taught and led jointly with
University College London, the Royal Veterinary College, and the Natural History Museum.

We take an end-to-end approach to the global environmental challenges our science addresses,
undertaking fundamental science to generate critically important new knowledge while also
working with a wide range of policy and practitioner networks to ensure our science has real-world
impact. This enables IoZ to be a major global player in conservation science, despite our small
size. This approach is supported by our relationship with ZSL, allowing us to integrate our science
with ZSL’s assets, staff and activities, bringing benefits and synergies to our research, education
and impact.

Since 1988, IoZ has been supported by Special Funding arrangements with the Higher Education
Funding Council for England, responsibility for which passed to Research England (RE) in April
2018. This funding is provided in recognition of the unique contribution we offer to the UK research
base. RE conducted a review of IoZ’s funding in 2018 which concluded that the Institute delivers “a
clear public value and benefit [through] the high-quality contribution to science, provision of training
and capacity building, public engagement, international conservation and policy impact”; moreover,
“the overall excellence of the IoZ is unquestioned and the Institute is held in high esteem.”




                                                                                                Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2. Strategy

2.1. Strategy for Research and Impact

Previously, our work was guided by the broad aims of our 2012-2016 Research Plan, that ‘IoZ
research … continues to be driven by cutting edge issues in conservation science, while taking
advantage of significant relevant funding opportunities’. Building on the successful fulfilment of
these aims, we initiated a strategy review in 2016 to ascertain where our research is world-leading
and our impact makes a significant difference. Through a series of participatory workshops
involving all staff and PhD students, we identified the five global conservation challenges set out
above. These have also played a critical role in shaping ZSL’s new strategy, ZSL 200, which
outlines ZSL’s ambitions ahead of its 200th anniversary in 2026. ZSL 200’s three focus areas,
Wildlife Health, Wildlife Back from the Brink, and Wildlife and People, map directly onto IoZ’s first
three global conservation challenges.

The 2018 Research England (RE) review provided a valuable opportunity to agree a rolling
Business Plan with RE to ensure we deliver on our strategic ambitions. Currently covering the 3-
year period beginning 2019/20, the Plan identifies four broad aims: (1) to create knowledge
through research, (2) to build capacity through training and teaching, (3) to accelerate the
translation and use of research to maximise conservation impact, and (4) to inspire new and
diverse audiences to care about and better understand wildlife and its conservation. The Business
Plan includes a set of Key Performance Indicators against which progress will be measured, and
the establishment of an Independent Science Advisory Board (ISAB).

Two key academic partners over the REF2021 period, and for our Business Plan going forward,
are University College London (UCL) and the Royal Veterinary College (RVC). Historically, IoZ
required a university conduit for its Special Funding. UCL adopted that role in 2011, after we
transferred from the University of Cambridge due to the outstanding strategic science opportunities
that UCL offered. Since then we have developed a thriving academic partnership with UCL
encompassing collaborative research and impact (e.g., joint REF2021 impact case studies),
research support (e.g., shared internal peer-review processes for new NERC/BBSRC grant
applications), postgraduate research training (e.g., co-founders of the London DTP), postgraduate
taught courses (e.g., a joint MRes course), and joint academic appointments (e.g., a UCL/ZSL
chair appointed in 2014, and ZSL/UCL Springboard Fellowships launched in 2016). UCL provides
additional support through the appointment of IoZ staff as Honorary Fellows, granting access to the
UCL library (including electronic journals) and UCL’s Research Staff Development Programme.
Although our Special Funding now comes directly from RE, our UCL partnership remains central to
achieving our goals, and we continue to invest in this relationship to foster joint research, impact,
and scholarship. Similarly, our partnership with RVC has been in place for >25 years, delivering
novel postgraduate programmes on wild animal health and biology. To support our future strategy,
both UCL and RVC representatives will sit on the ISAB panel.

UCL and RVC are also partners on ZSL’s proposal for a National Institute for Biodiversity and
Public Health. This £200M initiative has developed out of pioneering research done by IoZ
scientists at the interface between biodiversity conservation, wildlife health and human health, and
represents a very significant strategic ambition. Recognising that the current global public health
crisis is inextricably linked to pressures on biodiversity, it aims to create a globally unique
transdisciplinary research and innovation hub, enabling us to identify and mitigate the eco-
epidemiological and socio-economic drivers of biodiversity loss and associated zoonotic diseases.
It will bring together a unique partnership between wildlife biology, animal and public health across
the three institutions, and provide a national and international focus for integrated science that the
COVID crisis has shown is absolutely essential.

As conservation scientists, the goal of achieving real-world change is central to our work and our
environment is structured to support this. Our staff have extensive experience of translating
science into impact, and are assisted in this activity by ZSL’s Conservation and Policy Directorate,
Press Office, and Public Engagement teams. Our key pathways to impact include collaborations

                                                                                               Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
with practitioners; providing impartial, evidence-based advice on biodiversity conservation policy to
governmental and inter-governmental bodies; conservation action planning at regional, national
and international scales; and working with ZSL and partners in >60 countries on evidence-based
conservation initiatives, including species and habitat management, species translocations,
disease surveillance, and biodiversity monitoring. Our work with UK Government includes a
diverse range of issues, including the emergence and control of wildlife diseases and zoonoses,
human-wildlife conflict, species reintroductions, and global biodiversity trends. In parallel, IoZ
works internationally with global regulatory bodies (e.g., IUCN, United Nations, World Organisation
for Animal Health), and conservation conventions (e.g., Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species, Convention on Biological Diversity). Our success at achieving impact is
reflected by our contribution of five of the 11 Impact Case Studies (two jointly with UCL) in the
UOA5 joint submission between UCL, IoZ and Birkbeck, despite contributing only 10% of the staff.

2.2. Integrity and Open Research

To achieve impact, conservation science must be trustworthy and available to end users. We
therefore take our commitments to research integrity and open research very seriously. Research
integrity is ensured through multiple approaches. As a small institution where staff and students
share common interests, we have a strong philosophy of collegiality and collaboration which
discourages working in isolation. In addition, our criteria for promotion value an individual’s work
across a suite of science competencies rather than simply the quantity of publications or grants. All
new and amended research projects follow the ZSL Policy on the Use of Animals in Research, and
require approval by ZSL’s independent Ethics Committee, ensuring we only conduct work of the
highest ethical standards. As honorary UCL staff members, our scientists can also access UCL’s
Research Integrity Training Framework. With respect to open science, staff and students are
encouraged to consider open access publication, and all IoZ publications are deposited on UCL’s
Discovery open access repository, with the associated datasets published according to journal
policies. We also deposit specific datasets and code to make them accessible to the wider
conservation community (e.g., BirdLife’s Seabird Tracking Database).

2.3. Interdisciplinary Research

By its nature, conservation science is an interdisciplinary endeavour. IoZ therefore has a strong
interdisciplinary tradition. One interdisciplinary interface, between the environmental sciences and
veterinary medicine, is core to our ‘Wildlife Health’ global conservation challenge. This work is
supported by our employment of research staff with veterinary expertise, our veterinary pathology
infrastructure, our research links with RVC, and specific initiatives to promote collaboration
between IoZ scientists with wider ZSL veterinarians and curators, including the ZSL Mission Fund
(a £500K fund to support cross-directorate projects) and a system for ZSL staff to act as CASE
partners on IoZ’s UKRI-funded PhD projects. Links between the natural and social sciences
represent another vital interdisciplinary area that is central to our ‘Co-existence between People
and Wildlife’ global conservation challenge. This work is supported by collaborations with social
scientists in UCL’s Anthropology and Geography departments, and other universities, as well as by
our own Social Science Research Group. We have identified social science capacity as a priority
area for growth through recruitment, collaborations, and Fellowships over the next three years.


 3. People

In 2019/20, IoZ comprised 68 research staff, including 6 Professors, 11 Senior Research Fellows,
9 Research Fellows, 12 PDRAs, 7 PGRAs, 8 Research Associates and 15 technical support staff.
Of these, 56% were female (38/68), including our Acting Director of Science. We also host a
thriving PhD student community, with 75 students in 2019/20, of whom 59% were female (44/75). A
total of 84 IoZ students were awarded doctoral degrees over the REF2021 period, 60% of whom
were women (50/84).



                                                                                              Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
3.1. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

We are committed to creating a fair and inclusive working environment for all staff and PhD
students, and our policies and processes are designed to reflect this. To this end, we became
members of the Athena Swan Charter in 2015 and secured a Bronze Award in 2018. Our
subsequent equality and diversity activities have been shaped by the action plan associated with
this award. Key initiatives have included: a new pay and progression framework with greater
transparency and fairness; the introduction of a ‘Return to Science’ Fellowship that provides up to
two years’ salary for grant-funded staff returning to work after parental leave; mandatory equality
and diversity training; and new procedures to improve recruitment processes, including gender-
diverse interview panels and the monitoring of minority ethnic applications and appointments.
Further initiatives that also encompass PhD students include: the introduction of mentoring and
buddying schemes; a parent/carer network group and social committee; points-of-contact to
combat any instances of bullying and harassment; and enhanced mental health and wellbeing
support. This work is led by the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Committee, which includes
staff across all levels of seniority and PhD students. We also recruited our first EDI Officer in Feb
2020 to support the Committee’s work. The EDI Committee includes a Safeguarding
Subcommittee; a Race, Ethnicity, and National Origin Working Group (focusing on increasing
accessibility to science in marginalised groups); and additionally tackles issues related to disability
and LGBTQ+, among others. One highlight has been ‘Soapbox Science’, an award-winning public
outreach platform showcasing women in science. Founded in 2011 by Nathalie Pettorelli (IoZ) and
Seirian Sumner (then IoZ, now UCL), the initiative has grown annually and now runs events in
public spaces in 14 countries across five continents. Pettorelli and Sumner received a ‘Points of
Light’ award for Soapbox Science from Prime Minister David Cameron in 2015.

IoZ is supported in its EDI work by ZSL’s award-winning Human Resources team, who deliver key
HR services as well as coordinating a range of staff and student training opportunities, in-person
and online, covering hard, soft, and transferable skills. A confidential helpline by external provider
CiC is available for staff and students offering support on a wide range of topics from financial
difficulties to mental health. These services form part of ZSL’s People and Culture Plan, in which
‘Dignity and Respect at Work’ and ‘Equality and Diversity’ are core policies. In addition, ZSL runs
an online staff and student survey every 2-3 years to gauge how we are doing as an organisation
and to identify any areas of concern. The survey is anonymous, and the results are reported back
to everyone as well as guiding responses to any problems identified.

3.2. Staff

We aim to recruit and retain the very best conservation scientists, maintaining a dynamic balance
of junior and senior staff while nurturing careers at all levels, in line with The Concordat to Support
the Career Development of Researchers. New appointments are made strategically to ensure this
balance, with a particular focus on outstanding early career researchers whose work is aligned with
ours but also bring new and complementary skills to IoZ, including from conservation-relevant
disciplines beyond the biological sciences.

Our new pay and progression system, introduced in 2016, is designed to support staff in their
careers by encouraging the development of skills and excellence, and rewarding outstanding
performance. It recognises five science staff grades (from Research Assistant to Professor) and
considers performance across four key science competencies: research excellence, conservation
impact, management and leadership, and teaching. The system allows for accelerated progression
or the award of a contribution point where outstanding performance has been achieved but the full
criteria for promotion are not met. Staff development is supported through annual Performance and
Development Reviews (PDRs) which assess individual performance across the four science
competencies, set SMART objectives linked to the promotion criteria, and review development
needs. Among senior staff, PDRs include a 360-degree feedback process, involving evaluations
from direct reports, peers, and line managers. Grading criteria and salary scales are aligned to
UCL. Applications for promotion are reviewed by a Promotions Panel Committee chaired by the
Director of Science which includes a UCL Head of Department.

                                                                                                Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

Early Career Researchers (ECRs) are a key focus of many of our EDI initiatives, including the
mentoring programme and ‘Return to Science’ Fellowships, but also benefit from targeted
development opportunities including: PhD supervision and teaching opportunities (ECRs are
encouraged to supervise PhD students in collaboration with senior staff, and can offer lectures to
BSc and MSc students); facilitated access to ZSL’s peer-reviewed journals’ editorial boards (e.g.,
Journal of Zoology) as well as professional steering committees (e.g., IUCN Specialist Groups)
through nominations by existing ZSL members; and attendance at in-house career development
workshops co-run with other professional societies (e.g., British Ecological Society). The value we
place on ECRs is highlighted by our ZSL/UCL Springboard Fellowships scheme. These 4-year
fellowships support outstanding ECRs in conservation science to establish their independent
careers under the joint mentorship of a more senior researcher at both institutions, thus also
maximising their opportunity to build their professional networks.

Our success in creating an environment where staff can flourish is demonstrated by three
indicators over the REF2021 period. First, the recruitment/promotion of female staff: 43% (3/7) of
new Research Fellow appointments, and 50% (2/4) of promotions from Senior Research Fellow to
Professor, were women. Second, the prestigious external fellowships we hosted, including a Royal
Society Wolfson Research Merit Award (Cunningham), a Royal Society University Research
Fellowship (Turvey), and a Wellcome Trust/Royal Society Sir Henry Dale Fellowship (Redding).
Third, the destinations of departing staff, including the Head of Life Sciences, Natural History
Museum (Norris), and Research Group Leaders at the Max Planck Institute for Chemical Ecology,
Germany (Rowland), and International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, Austria (Visconti).

3.3. Research Students

As an independent research institution we do not award postgraduate degrees, so our PhD
students are co-registered at a partner university and have a university supervisor in addition to
their two IoZ supervisors. This has significant benefits for the students, who have access to the
expertise, resources, and doctoral training opportunities of both institutions. In addition, since all
UK universities are potential partners, PhD projects are registered at the university that best serves
their needs. Most of our students come through NERC Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs). IoZ
is currently a member of four: (1) the London NERC DTP, led by UCL; (2) the SSCP DTP (Science
and Solutions for a Changing Planet), led by Imperial College London; (3) the SCENARIO DTP
(Science of the Environment: Natural and Anthropogenic Processes, Impacts and Opportunities),
led by the University of Reading; and (4) the ARIES DTP (Advance Research and Innovation in the
Environmental Sciences), led by the University of East Anglia. IoZ studentships are also funded by
the BBSRC, the European Union, multiple international and UK university scholarships, and
conservation charities. We co-supervise more students with UCL than any other university: 27/84
graduating students (34%) were registered at UCL over the REF2021 period. However, we also
co-supervised 18 students (21%) with Imperial College London, and between 1-7 students with a
further 23 universities, including Oxford, Cambridge, Bristol, Liverpool, Leeds, and Edinburgh.

Our students benefit from unrivalled access to the advice and experience of ZSL’s conservation
practitioners, both in the Conservation and Policy Directorate and the world-leading collections of
London Zoo and Whipsnade Zoo. These networks provide the opportunity to undertake research
with real-world impact, and many IoZ PhD projects are conducted in partnership with other ZSL
directorates and/or external partners in the conservation sector. Where these involve RCUK
studentships, such collaborations are usually formalised through CASE funding. Thus, 22/84
graduating PhD students (26%) were CASE-funded over the REF2021 period, with partners
including the Amphibian and Reptile Conservation Trust, Bat Conservation Trust, Birdlife Australia,
Durrell Wildlife Conservation Trust, and Wildlife Conservation Society, as well as ZSL.

Our PhD students are actively involved in the wider IoZ community, including PhD Student
Lunches (networking events with ZSL colleagues), lunchtime Speed Talks (informal presentations
by IoZ staff and students), and Science for Conservation seminars (external speakers). In addition,
up until 2018 we held an annual one-day Student Conference at which PhD students across all

                                                                                              Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
years gave presentations, with awards for the best talks. Since 2019 we have merged this event
with the annual staff Research Conference to create an integrated two-day ZSL Science
Conference, providing the students with a more rewarding conference experience. Pastoral
support for PhD students is provided through two Postgraduate Tutors, two ECR Agony
Aunts/Uncles, four EDI Contact Points, and the ZSL (CiC) helpline.

IOZ PhD students have a completion rate of 90% (84/93 students in the REF2021 period). Among
those graduates for whom information is available, 99% (81/82) went on to graduate-level
employment, including 50% (41/82) taking up university research positions and 32% (26/82)
gaining roles in the conservation sector.


 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

A major achievement by IoZ over the REF2021 period has been a 55% increase in its external
research income, from £1.89M in 2013/14 to £2.92M in 2019/20. This has allowed us to maintain
and grow a broad portfolio of income sources and to add significant value to the Special Funding
we receive from Research England (RE). This Special Funding has remained steady over the
same period, at £2.14M per annum (mean, range £2.02M-£2.24M). Overall, we have been able to
access external (non-RE) funds totaling c.£17.9M across the REF2021 period, which in the context
of our discipline is a considerable achievement. Our Research Income is summarised in Table 1
below (which we are unable to report in REF4b because we do not submit data to HESA).

IoZ is housed in the Nuffield and Wellcome buildings at ZSL’s iconic London Zoo site in Regent’s
Park, a short walk from UCL’s main campus in Bloomsbury. We have a range of in-house facilities
to support our predominantly field-based research. These include basic wet and dry laboratories,
constant-temperature animal housing rooms dedicated to Home Office-licensed animal
experiments on wildlife disease, a pathology suite for determining the causes of wildlife mortality,
and extensive storage capacity for a range of frozen and fixed-tissue archives, such as those of
various wildlife health projects. During the REF2021 period we also invested £696K in specialist
facilities for conservation genomics: a laboratory suite for ancient DNA studies, RNA extraction and
genotyping, and next generation sequencing. Beyond IoZ, we access further specialist facilities as
needed, either through ZSL (e.g., the Prince Philip Zoological Library and Archive, one of the major
zoological libraries of the world) or through our external partners, especially UCL and RVC. PhD
students share all these resources, and also benefit from IoZ’s Student Hub: built in 2017, this
£93K state-of-the-art space comprises a large, open-plan area with desks for 23 students, plus
small and large AV-equipped meeting rooms.

A key IoZ resource is our unique collection of live, long-term, datasets. These are the product of
our ability to take a longer-term view of research than is typically possible, enabling us to address
global environmental challenges that require long-term study. The datasets encompass a range of
threatened wild mammal, bird and amphibian populations; wildlife health projects such as the UK
Cetaceans Strandings Investigation Programme; and our global biodiversity monitoring work,
including the Living Planet Index (LPI) and Red List Databases. A 2018 review found that our long-
term population studies represented >200 years of unbroken data that over the preceding 15 years
had generated 191 publications; supported 9 fellowships, 10 PDRAs, and 36 PhD students; and
leveraged c.£6M in external grants. Similarly, our LPI database consists of trends for >22,000
populations of >4,000 vertebrate species and our National Red Lists Database currently consists of
5,486 assessments. Since 2017, we have employed a dedicated Database Manager to develop
and maintain these resources, not only to support our research but to provide access to a range of
users in the wider conservation community.

Communicating science is a central part of IoZ’s work and its ability to exchange knowledge and
actualise impact. We are able to exploit our unique position within ZSL to engage with >1.4 million
people visiting ZSL’s London Zoo and Whipsnade Zoo annually, including c.150,000 children
participating in ZSL’s schools programme. IoZ staff and PhD students are supported by the ZSL
Science Resources and Meetings team to present their research to a variety of audiences in an

                                                                                             Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
annual programme of ZSL events that includes 10-15 free public science lectures (2000 attendees)
and two international symposia (350 attendees). These events are held in ZSL’s recently
refurbished Huxley Lecture Theatre. Some events may also run online, such as our 2018 dolphin
dissection, viewed c.200,000 times. We have a dedicated Public Engagement Manager who
coordinates external outreach opportunities and provides training and support. As a result, our staff
and students regularly talk to the public about their research at annual outreach events such as
Biology Week, New Scientist Live, the Royal Society Summer Science Exhibition, and Soapbox
Science. The quality of our public engagement is illustrated by a ‘New Researcher Outreach and
Engagement Award’ to one of our PhD students from the Royal Society of Biology in 2019.




                                                                                             Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)



Table 1. Institute of Zoology Research Income (REF4b)

                        Income Sources                           2013-14      2014-15      2015-16      2016-17      2017-18      2018-19      2019-20

 BEIS Research Councils, The Royal Society, British Academy      £215,123     £254,705     £620,465     £535,832     £601,181     £276,938     £305,324
 and The Royal Society of Edinburgh
 UK-based charities (open competitive process)                   £124,817     £268,398     £211,452     £188,408     £210,960     £165,859      £59,967
 UK-based charities (other)                                       £14,413     £137,757     £149,136      £32,613      £24,545     £108,391     £185,844
 UK central government bodies/local authorities, health and      £940,578     £858,180     £927,595     £557,817     £754,372     £787,790     £955,848
 hospital authorities
 Health research funding bodies                                        £0           £0           £0           £0           £0           £0           £0
 UK central government tax credits for research and                    £0           £0           £0           £0           £0           £0           £0
 development expenditure
 UK industry, commerce and public corporations                         £0           £0       £2,480      £60,941      £27,552       £2,450       £2,644
 UK other sources                                                  £2,678       £7,469      £63,579      £21,609      £32,677      £34,778       £7,281
 EU government bodies                                            £147,159      £76,991      £92,722     £132,567     £196,300     £145,336      £16,148
 EU-based charities (open competitive process)                    £50,935       £7,739       £1,428           £0           £0           £0     £141,902
 EU industry, commerce and public corporations                       £991           £0           £0      £34,669      £26,498      £26,364      £25,484
 EU (excluding UK) other                                               £0           £0         £938           £0       £9,284      £14,886           £0
 Non-EU-based charities (open competitive process)               £210,518     £235,962     £569,004     £450,818    £1,041,209    £890,915     £843,591
 Non-EU industry commerce and public corporations                  £4,262      £15,184      £14,038      £22,752      £15,117       £8,098      £15,370
 Non-EU other                                                    £176,386     £168,680     £225,545     £316,793     £102,806     £290,555     £363,516

                                                        TOTAL   £1,887,859   £2,031,064   £2,878,380   £2,354,818   £3,042,500   £2,752,361   £2,922,920




                                                                                                                                                  Page 8
