Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Birkbeck, University of London

 1. Context and mission

 Founded in 1823 to provide educational opportunities for working Londoners, Birkbeck,
 University of London, has a long and proud tradition of opening up knowledge for the benefit of
 society. Our mission has not changed and it rests on a foundation of expanding education and
 professional/knowledge-based opportunities to all.

 We are based in Bloomsbury and have over 12,000 students studying at every level from short
 courses and certificates to Ph.D. Uniquely in the UK, the overwhelming majority of Birkbeck
 students are studying in the evening, and a significant proportion do so part-time (2019/20: 52%
 UG; 77% PGT; and 55% PGR). As a result, many are also in full, or part-time, employment.
 Many Birkbeck students are from the Greater London area, and they reflect the social and
 demographic profile of the city. In 2019/20, 57% of the student population were female, 41%
 from BAME backgrounds with an average age on entry of 30 (UG); 33 (PGT) and 37 (PGR).

 We are a world leading research-intensive university with a long tradition of engaging with
 cultural, environmental, political, scientific, and social issues in new and innovative ways. We
 make the results of our research available through research-led teaching (and through this to
 employers across London), public dissemination, partnerships with other organisations of all
 types, and the promotion of civic and public debate. There is no “one size fits all”, we tailor our
 approach to the specific needs of our audience, routinely working with stakeholders including
 employers, trade unions, local councils, NGOs and others to deliver our mission.

 The College has five Schools (Arts; Business, Economics and Informatics (BEI); Law; Science;
 and Social Science, History and Philosophy (SSHP)) and 19 Departments
 (http://www.bbk.ac.uk/departments/) which make up the 15 Units of Assessment in our REF
 submission. We cover the spectrum of arts, humanities and social and environmental/natural/life
 sciences and some physical sciences but we do not have teaching or research in medicine or
 engineering.

 Birkbeck has a unique student body and an educational offer of the highest standards globally,
 being ranked in the top 35% of higher education institutions in the QS World University
 Rankings 2020 (including in the top 6% for its ability to attract international students from 116
 countries). In the THE World Rankings 2020: Psychology and Arts and Humanities at the
 College were ranked in the top 100 worldwide; Social Sciences in the top 250; and Business and
 Economics in the top 300.

 The department of Biological Sciences dates back to the foundation of the College and Helen
 Gwynne-Vaughan, J.D. Bernal and Rosalind Franklin have all featured amongst its faculty.
 Birkbeck’s department of Computer Science and Information Systems was founded in 1957,
 making it one of the oldest world-wide. Birkbeck has been home to many distinguished scholars,
 including Lillian Penson (the first person to be awarded a PhD in the University of London and
 the first woman Vice-Chancellor of the University), Nikolaus Pevsner, the College’s first
 Professor of Art History, and the former College president, Eric Hobsbawm. In 2020, Professor
 Sarah Hart of our Economics, Mathematics and Statistics department was appointed the first
 ever woman Gresham Professor in Geometry. Other departments reflect the changes of the last
 200 years through the emergence of new intellectual paradigms (Department of Psychosocial
 Studies, established 2000) or the recognition that the College now has critical mass in an area
 such as the Department of Criminology (established 2018).

 2. Strategy

 Birkbeck’s current research strategy (see Our research — Birkbeck, University of London
 (bbk.ac.uk)) is to maintain excellence across our broad range of disciplines, to ensure that all


                                                                                                Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 staff have the freedom to develop their research, and to provide the highest quality training in all
 our subject areas and at every stage of an academic career. Birkbeck’s commitment to
 promoting equality and diversity amongst its researchers is deeply ingrained, as the careers of,
 amongst others, Helen Gwynne-Vaughan (Head of Department 1909/Professor of Botany 1921)
 or Lillian Penson demonstrate. The College seeks to draw maximum advantage from its central
 London location to collaborate with neighbouring HEIs, research institutions and the scientific
 and cultural resources of the capital.

 The five key aims articulated in our current research strategy are:
    •   Empowering individual researchers by providing time, resources, support and guidance;
    •   Ensuring that all researchers are valued, enjoy equal opportunities and can contribute,
        from early career to research leaders;
    •   Promoting collaborative research across disciplinary, institutional and geographic
        boundaries;
    •   Assuring that our research is of the highest ethical standards;
    •   Ensuring that excellent research and teaching are mutually reinforcing and beneficial for
        researchers and staff.

 These aims remain fundamental to our future vision of providing the best possible support and
 infrastructure for research. In addition, over the next census period we shall seek to:
    -   Build on our strong international collaborations and to consolidate and expand existing
        European networks post-Brexit;
    -   Grow research income and develop Knowledge Exchange through links with external
        partners;
    -   Maintain and strengthen our successful collaborations with DTP partners and further
        increase our PGR numbers;
    -   Further reinforce the equalities and diversity agendas in our research cultures;
    -   Ensure the dissemination, public awareness and benefit of our research outside of the
        HE sector.

 Since 2014, Birkbeck has reinforced its research support and governance structures. In 2015,
 the roles of PVC Research (PVC R) and Director of the Graduate School were combined into a
 single full-time academic management role. That was followed by the appointment of the Head
 of Research Strategy Support (HRSS) in 2016, and together they lead on the implementation of
 the College Research Strategy through the College Research Committee and its sub-
 committees and working groups.

 The Research Strategy Group RSG) (established in 2015, chaired by PVC(R)) brings together
 the Assistant Deans Research from the five Schools and acts as an executive for research
 matters, while the Research Support Group (established in 2015, chaired by HRSS) directs the
 research support activities of the central professional service departments. In addition, the REF
 Working Party, Open Research Working Group, KEF Working Group and the Research Student
 Sub-committee all report to the Research Committee for their respective areas of competence.
 Birkbeck launched an autonomous Research Office in 2018 by combining support staff that had
 previously formed part of the Finance Department, Secretariat, Registry or Schools and three
 additional posts were approved in the new Research Office to address under-capacity issues.

 Birkbeck’s current Impact Strategy (see Our research — Birkbeck, University of London
 (bbk.ac.uk)) was approved in 2018.

 The College first employed impact officers in each of the five schools in 2012, and in 2014 it took
 the strategic decision to make these roles permanent in order to maintain an infrastructure that:
    -   monitors and promotes the applicability of the College’s research;
    -   provides academic staff with regular training and updates relating to knowledge
        exchange and the Impact agenda;

                                                                                               Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    -   communicates our research to third parties;
    -   assists individual researchers and research groups to develop their impact strategies,
        identify partners and collect data about emerging impacts.

 During the current REF cycle, the College has invested up to £10,000 per UoA in a targeted way
 to promote impact-focused activities and to support the delivery of the REF2014 impact
 templates in real time. Termly meetings between the impact officers and the PVC(R) were set up
 capture this and feed into the revisions of the College’s impact and Research Strategies.

 Success in embedding the impact agenda has been accompanied by the College’s commitment
 to Public Engagement, which represents an investment of more than £300,000 over the census
 period. Since 2014, the College has secured a Wellcome Institutional Strategic Support Fund
 award, totalling £4.2 Million, including the match funding element, (Birkbeck is the one of very
 few institutions without a Medical School to be in receipt of sufficient Wellcome funding to
 receive this award) part of which was strategically directed towards the employment of a public
 engagement manager and the development of public engagement training, prizes and awards.

 The College also secured funding from the RCUK/UKRI SEE PER (Strategic support to Expedite
 Embedding Public Engagement with Research) call to ensure that training and support for public
 engagement was available more widely across disciplines. (EP/R019649/1, total award value
 £95,674) Specialised training for PhD students was provided as a key part of this project, and
 led to, for example, the launch of the Birkbeck Three-Minute thesis competition, which is now an
 annual event.

 RESEARCH INTEGRITY

 Birkbeck is committed to maintaining the highest possible standards of research integrity which
 is the responsibility of our College Ethics Committee. Chaired by an Executive Dean, it
 comprises a representative from each School, a lay member (not employed by the College) as
 well as representatives from our Professional Services departments and researchers (by
 invitation) with expertise in Research Ethics. Each School also has an ethics committee to
 review and approve ethics applications and to ensure suitable ethics and integrity training is
 provided to departments, while the College Ethics Committee’s primary functions are to develop
 and oversee our policies relating to research integrity, the ethical conduct of our activities and
 research misconduct, and to provide a space for consideration of more substantive ethical
 questions facing researchers such as the use of social media and the effective, confidential
 preservation and reuse of qualitative datasets.
 Our research misconduct procedure is the normal process by which we would expect questions
 relating to lapses of research integrity to be raised, but the College also has a more general
 whistleblowing process. Both of these procedures follow accepted sector norms as closely as
 possible for our particular constituency. Relevant information is on the College’s website, and we
 also provide these details in our annual statement on Research Integrity to the UK Research
 Integrity Office.

 OPEN RESEARCH

 Birkbeck’s mission is an open knowledge mission, and thus the open access agenda is
 something that resonates strongly within the institution. Birkbeck researchers have access to our
 institutional open access repositories BIROn (outputs) and BIRD (data). We have been home to
 the Open Library for the Humanities since 2014 and were one of the earliest UK signatories to
 the DORA declaration on research assessment in 2017.

 Birkbeck established the Open Access Working Group in 2014, reporting to the College
 Research Committee. As the remit of the OAWG has expanded, this has led to a broadening of
 its scope recognised by its renaming as College Open Research Working Group in 2018. The
 group is tasked with considering questions relating to open access, open data and reproducibility
 and has overseen the production of our research data management policy in 2016. The Group is

                                                                                             Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 also tasked with maintaining up-to-date and accurate knowledge of any policies or developments
 pertaining to open research, including but not limited to those relevant to the REF, and
 disseminating these throughout the College.

 NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH PRIORITIES

 Responsibility for ensuring that staff are fully informed about international, UK and research
 council policies and funding opportunities lies with the Research Office. Regular communication
 is provided via tools such as Research Professional, training and one to one coaching and
 invitations to outside funders to speak, including the Leverhulme Trust, the Wellcome Trust and
 UKRI.

 The Research Strategy Group complements and extends the work of the Research Office and
 provides the necessary conduit between the Schools and the Centre.

 National research priorities which have particular relevance to our constituency under the
 industrial strategy sector deals are the Life Science deal and the creative industries deal. Much
 of our research engages either directly or indirectly with the sustainable development goals.

 INTERDISCIPLINARITY

 As a small research-intensive institution with a broad disciplinary range, Birkbeck is committed to
 interdisciplinary collaboration in order to maximise the opportunities and resources at its
 disposal.

 In order to facilitate cooperation, the College has over forty active research Centres and
 supports eight recognised Institutes including the Birkbeck Institute for Data Analytics (BIDA),
 the Birkbeck Institute for the Humanities (BIH); the Birkbeck Institute for the Moving Image
 (BIMI); the Institute for Structural and Molecular Biology (ISMB); and the Birkbeck Institute for
 Social Research (BISR). Since 2014, the College has invested more than £1.5m in supporting
 the work of its Institutes.

 Each of the research Institutes has a distinct mission, but BIDA, BIH, BIMI and BISR are
 specifically tasked with supporting Birkbeck’s internal research environment and are directed by
 steering groups representing all five schools as well as early career academics and doctoral
 students, overseen by the PVC(R). A commitment to interdisciplinary research forms part of their
 respective terms of reference and is reflected in their activities which include annual visiting
 Fellowship schemes, summer schools, conferences, workshops, and public lectures and film
 screenings.

 A similar interdisciplinary ethos permeates Birkbeck’s research centres
 http://www.bbk.ac.uk/research/centres/. These activities are driven by the interests of our
 academics. Unlike some HEIs, Birkbeck has deliberately chosen not to identify specific research
 themes to shape its strategy. Instead, we remain determined to encourage excellence wherever
 it is to be found in line with our research strategy which seeks to create an environment where
 innovation and ‘blue sky’ thinking, can prosper.

 New Centres established during the current REF cycle include the Centre for Museum Cultures,
 the Centre for Political Economy and Institutional Studies and the Building Resilience in Breast
 Cancer Centre. For a new Centre to be approved its sponsors need to convince the College
 Research Committee that it has a cross-institutional remit, a coherent and innovative research
 agenda and the necessary critical mass in terms of active members. It is also expected that to
 be sustainable a Centre will address a number of key issues that might include, but are not
 limited to, plans for seeking research grants, the dissemination of research findings through
 publications and other outputs, academic exchange both nationally and internationally and the
 development of doctoral and early career researchers.


                                                                                              Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 COLLABORATIONS, NETWORKS and PARTNERSHIPS

 Birkbeck takes full advantage of its geographical position in central London to build active
 research collaborations with a range of non-HEI partners, including museums, practitioners,
 activists and other organisations as well as other members of the University of London and the
 Schools of Advanced Study.

 Over an extended period the College has maintained active research partnerships with its close
 neighbour, UCL, in relevant STEM subjects (see section 4. Below). Biological and Earth and
 Planetary Sciences are particularly closely integrated with UCL and have jointly appointed staff
 and shared state-of-the-art, laboratories and equipment (some of which has been renewed in
 this census period). Both have made joint returns to this and previous REF/RAE. There is also
 close collaboration and some equipment sharing between our Psychological Sciences
 Department and UCL but on a smaller scale.

 Birkbeck is also closely integrated with the other University of London Colleges through Doctoral
 Training Partnerships including BBSRC (BBK, UCL, RVC, QMUL, LSHTM, KCL, Royal
 Holloway, Greenwich, Unilever, Kew, Animal and plant health agency); ESRC (BBK, LSHTM,
 SOAS, UCL, UEL); MRC (UCL) and the NERC (Brunel, QM, Royal Holloway, KCL, Institute of
 Zoology, Natural History Museum, and UCL). Birkbeck is not, however, exclusively London
 focused as its decision to join the CHASE AHRC DTP, headed by the University of Sussex and
 including the universities of Essex, Kent, and East Anglia demonstrates.

 International research collaborations are apparent across every UoA in Birkbeck, and the
 College has joint externally funded research projects with international partners such as the
 Open Society University Network (OSUN) of which Birkbeck is an Educational partner,
 https://osun.bard.edu/. OSUN has provided scholarships for students from its partner
 organisations and the global south to attend our annual Critical Theory Summer School hosted
 by the BIH.

 Birkbeck has also developed collaborations at institutional level, including a partnership with
 New York University (NYU) to share facilities and develop research collaborations. As part of
 that initiative Birkbeck and NYU are jointly funding an annual research fund of £50k for three
 years in the first instance, which offers grants to further scholarly activity that will deepen
 research collaborations between the two universities. Recipients of these grants can use their
 awards for travel and other expenses related to annual lectures, conferences, workshops, faculty
 exchanges or meetings for "works in progress" between the two universities.

 3. People

 Birkbeck encourages all academic staff to participate actively in research.

 The College Research strategy is to appoint the best researchers in their field and to offer them
 the facilities and opportunities to develop their work and pursue their ideas and ambitions.
 Success is valued and recognised at every level and review processes are pro-actively used to
 support career ambitions.

 The College recognises that research requires dedicated time away from other academic
 responsibilities and it is committed to providing research leave and to encouraging academics to
 gain research grants that allow them to pursue their work. All academic staff are entitled to one
 term’s Study Leave after the completion of nine terms of service.

 Birkbeck has a formal Flexible Working Policy but as the overwhelming majority of Birkbeck
 classes take place in the evening, between 6-9 pm, longstanding formal and informal
 mechanisms are in place to allow employees to request a change to their working hours and
 how work is to be carried out between home and the office (where appropriate). In addition, a


                                                                                             Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Workplace Wellbeing Steering Group was launched in the 2018/19 academic year to develop
 workplace wellbeing priorities for the College and to identify how these might be delivered.

 CAREER PATHWAYS

 Career pathways for academic staff are articulated through the academic contractual framework,
 to ensure these are clear and transparent (actively rewarding research excellence) and the
 implementation of a departmentally agreed workload allocation models.

 All academic and research staff are required to participate in an annual review
 process (including those on a fixed term contract of at least a year) to support career
 planning over a ca. 3-year timeline and to provide a forum to discuss related support and
 development.

 All research active members of staff have the right to a mentor, who will discuss individual
 research plans, giving guidance and support in developing and managing research projects and
 producing appropriate publications. In the case of early career researchers, the provision of a
 mentor and regular meetings is a requirement placed on departments as a vital aspect of career
 development.

 Early career researchers

 Birkbeck believes that early career researchers sustain and renew its research community.
 Having identified ECRs as a strategic priority, the College has, since 2016, taken a more
 strategic approach to all major calls from the Research Councils and other external funders of
 post-doctoral fellowships, advertising nationally for applicants and running internal selection
 competitions.

 The success of the approach is demonstrated by the example of the Leverhulme Trust Early
 Career Fellowships scheme which requires institutions to provide 50% salary costs which means
 it is important that these fellows are recruited in strategically important areas. The College has
 invested over £325k in the four rounds of the competition since this process was introduced,
 securing success rates well in excess of the national average (33%-60% against ~20%
 nationally), and we have noticed a trend of some applicants that we have selected withdrawing
 partway through the process following job offers from highly prestigious global institutions, which
 is a testament to the calibre of the candidates we attract. The success of this approach has led
 to it being extended to the British Academy Fellowships and UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships
 schemes with a College wide selection and interview process for supported candidates. In the
 first round of the FLF scheme, Birkbeck’s department of History, Classics and Archaeology was
 the only Department in the country to have two successful applications.

 As part of the £4.2M Wellcome ISSF award, £1.5 million has been invested in schemes that
 specifically support early career researchers or those returning from a career break, with an
 additional £1.5 million supporting PhD students for a further 6 months post submission – so 70%
 of this very large award has been spent directly supporting our ECRs and those returning from a
 career break.

 Research students

 Birkbeck has invested in excess of £2 million per annum in PhD Studentships since 2014 across
 all disciplinary areas, including our Diversity 100 Scholarships which were launched across the
 five Schools in 2019 and are ringfenced for BAME candidates.

 Following the outcome of REF 2014, Birkbeck took the decision to commission a major review of
 its PGR provision and the subsequent report provided 75 recommendations for the relaunch of
 the BGRS (http://www.bbk.ac.uk/research/bgrs/). These recommendations have all been fully
 actioned and implemented and the appointment of a new, full-time professional manager has

                                                                                              Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 enabled the BGRS to act as the central focus for generic training and all stages of the PGR
 journey.

 BGRS has an interdisciplinary PGR steering group with representatives from every School and
 department and PhD students are regarded as vital contributors to the research community and
 all Institutes and Centres are expected to have them as members.

 Equality and diversity

 The College holds the HR Excellence in Research Award, which recognises its progress towards
 the implementation of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. We
 also hold an institutional Athena SWAN Bronze award (alongside several School/Departmental
 awards; the College has adopted a formal timetable for all Schools/Departments to
 achieve/maintain their Athena SWAN awards by 2028).
 To advance equality and diversity, Birkbeck is also:
    •   a Mindful Employer,
    •   a Disability Confident Employer,
    •   a Stonewall Diversity Champion
    •   a Race Equality Charter member.
 We also run the annual Aurora and Stellar HE mentoring programmes for women and BAME
 staff respectively and strongly support the work of our Staff Diversity Networks: the Staff
 Disability Network; a LGBT+ staff network (OutatBirkbeck); the BAME staff network (Race,
 Equality and Cultural Heritage (REACH) network); and a Parents Network. A carers network is in
 development in response to the covid pandemic.

 The College Equality and Diversity Committee supports and champions equality and diversity
 across the College – its members are from all Schools and include student and Trade Union
 representatives. An Assistant Dean (Equalities) has been appointed within each academic
 school to lead on equality and diversity issues, supporting the embedding of institutional and
 local equality initiatives such as training in equality & diversity and unconscious bias

 Over this census period, the Equality and Diversity Committee has used an Equality Action Plan
 to monitor the progress of the delivery of its Equality Objectives.

 In addition to the publication of its annual statutory Gender Pay Gap Report since 2017, the
 College undertakes periodic Equal Pay Audits to measure the impact of equality and diversity
 initiatives. It shows that that there are very few significant gaps in pay.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 During the current REF cycle, Birkbeck has made significant progress in growing its external
 income. All Schools and departments have active research grants and the total value of the
 College Research Grant portfolio has risen from £45m in 2013/14 to £53m in 2019/20, an 18%
 increase over the period.

 In order to ensure that each department/UoA has the opportunity to maximise research grant
 income, the Research Strategy Group is responsible for reviewing policies for staff mentoring
 and ensuring that rigorous peer review is compulsory for applicants. Only grants which have
 been signed off by the relevant Executive Dean are eligible for submission. The impact of these
 changes is reflected in College achieving a 36% success rate for applications submitted in 2018-
 19, a more than 10% increase in overall College success rates over the census period up to the
 2018/19 academic year (the last year where full data is available, provisional data for 2019/20
 suggest this has been maintained).



                                                                                            Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 The Wellcome ISSF scheme has been hugely beneficial to the development of research in
 health and the medical humanities and that model was behind another strategic initiative to
 establish a Research Innovation Fund in 2018 which provides seed funding for projects from
 academics working in areas not eligible for Wellcome funding. Two funding streams are
 supported (early career/returning from a career break, and seed funding for new projects) across
 Birkbeck. A total of £92,306 has been awarded by this scheme so far.

 Research Infrastructure and Collaborations with External Partners

 Thanks to its central London location, Birkbeck offers its researchers easy access to some of the
 world’s finest library, archival and material resources including the British museum, British library
 and Senate House library. In addition, the College library has invested over £3.5m in journal
 subscriptions in every year of this REF cycle. The library also received a strategic investment of
 £1.3m to upgrade facilities in 2019.

 The College has demonstrated its commitment to providing the highest quality research
 infrastructure by investing in state-of-the-art instrumentation and facilities with technicians as
 permanent staff, examples include:

 The Birkbeck cryo EM lab, established by Professor Helen Saibil in 1990, is a major structural
 biology facility, with 5 microscopes including 2 high end systems, and an outstanding
 international reputation for research and training. Birkbeck and UCL have approved matching
 funds for an application for a Glacios screening microscope that will speed up screening of
 biological samples and grid conditions. Saibil was also the lead applicant on a Strategic Award
 (£15.6M) to set up the national cryoelectron microscopy facility at the Diamond Light Source for
 structural molecular and cell biology. This model has been widely adopted internationally for
 provision of high-end EM facilities, and continues to expand.

 In addition, ISMB houses:
    •   800 700, 600 and 500 MHz NMR spectrometers all with cryogenic probe, arguably the
        best NMR grouping of facilities in the country and it maintains close links with industry
        and other nearby national NMR facility such as the MRC Biomedical NMR Facility at the
        Francis Crick Institute,
    •   3 custom-built fluorescence microscopy systems capable of smFRET, TIRF, 3D particle
        tracking, super-resolution imaging and live-cell imaging,
    •   X-ray crystallography (Rigaku Micromax generator and detector with dedicated advanced
        Multiprobe II robotics, BBSRC funded),
    •   2 Waters ion mobility Mass Spectometers modified with a high mass quadrupole
        equipped with a nanoAcquity UPLC and the G2Si with a 2D MClass nanoAcuity UPLC,
        WT supported,
    •   1000 CPU computational biology cluster plus resources exceeding 700 CPUs, 300Tb+
        file storage etc.
 Birkbeck’s department of Psychological Science is home to the world-renowned BabyLab, and
 during this census period its companion Toddler Lab has also been built at a cost of £8.5 Million
 to date. This new facility comes onstream in 2021.

 Earth and Planetary Science is home to the NASA Regional Planetary Image Facility, which
 plays two fundamental roles, both unique in the UK:
        - housing hard-copy and digital planetary data from missions spanning four decades of
        space exploration;
        - providing 3D hardware and software necessary for accessing, processing and
        analyzing planetary data for internal and external users.
 In the census period EPS benefitted from the £28 million refurbishment of the UCL Kathleen
 Lonsdale Building, a shared facility.


                                                                                                 Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 The School of Arts houses the The Peltz Gallery, a flexible exhibition space for digital and
 material displays and small-scale performances and the Birkbeck Cinema, which features 16mm
 and twin 35mm projectors in addition to high-quality digital projection and is the only cinema in
 London equipped to regularly show the full historical range of moving image culture (including
 archival prints and even magic lantern shows).




                                                                                            Page 9
