Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: London South Bank University

 1. Context and mission
 London South Bank University (LSBU) is a medium-sized university situated in the Borough of
 Southwark, with over 17,000 students and ca. 2,000 staff, of whom over 1,100 are academics.
 Established in 1892 with the ambition of promoting the industrial skill, general knowledge, health
 and well-being of young men and women, LSBU remains true to these ideals. Its 2015-20
 mission was to be an enterprising civic university that addresses real world challenges, and it
 has expanded its educational remit in South London through the formation of the LSBU Group,
 comprising the university, two school academies, and an FE College.
 LSBU’s research is informed by South London communities and businesses, and LSBU has
 signed Memoranda of Understanding with three local Boroughs. LSBU’s 2016 agreement with
 Lambeth Council to support strategic priorities has helped produce the ELEVATE project, which
 supports Lambeth’s mission to open up the creative sector, breaking down barriers for
 disadvantaged communities.
 The success of our enterprising research mission is further evidenced by our 2016 THE
 Entrepreneurial University of the Year award, and our position in UBI Global’s 2017/18 World
 Rankings as 2nd in the UK, 4th in Europe and 15th globally as a university-managed incubator.
 2. Strategy
 2.1 LSBU’s research and impact objectives 2014-21
 Building on the REF2014 outcomes, LSBU’s Corporate Strategy 2015-2020 proposed to deliver
 a vibrant, sustainable research environment, providing outstanding economic, social and cultural
 benefits from our intellectual capital, by connecting our teaching and research to the real world
 through commercial activities and social enterprise.
 LSBU’s Strategic Plan for Research, Enterprise and Innovation proposed:
    Developing our research environment (e.g. through higher postgraduate research (PGR)
     numbers, a needs-driven PGR hub and training facility, research groupings and forums);
    Maximising research impact through enhancing the volume and quality of our outputs, case
     studies and intellectual property; and
    Increasing the volume and capability of our research-active staff by nurturing and recruiting
     research-experienced staff.
 2.1.1 Enhancing LSBU’s Research Environment
 This strategy was realised as follows:
    Reconfiguring, in 2014, from four Faculties to seven Schools to focus on LSBU’s
     specialisms and align strategic research themes with REF Units of Assessment:
     Engineering (ENG); Arts and Creative Industries (ACI); Law and Social Sciences (LSS);
     Business (BUS); Health and Social Care (HSC); Applied Sciences (APS – encompassing
     Psychology and Sports Science); and Built Environment and Architecture (BEA).
    Establishing, in 2016/17, Research Centres (RCs) and Research Groups (RGs) as a
     framework to consolidate LSBU’s strengths, coordinate researchers around strategic
     themes, and drive research excellence and interdisciplinarity.
    Centres are accountable to the University Research Committee (URC), with progress on
     research outputs, income, impact and researcher development reviewed annually.
    Centres are funded principally from QR income, with allocations informed by annual review
     to incentivise performance.
    LSBU’s research structure continues to evolve, comprising in 2019/20 12 RCs and 26 RGs,
     which encourage growth and new collaborations in emerging areas.


                                                                                             Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    In partnership with The Welding Institute (TWI), we have capitalised on LSBU’s engineering
     research strengths through establishing three industry-oriented Innovation Centres in
     Robotics (LSBIC), Advanced Coatings (ARTIC), and Polymers (POLYMERIC).
    Formation (in 2014) of the Research, Enterprise and Innovation (REI) unit, with £11m of
     investment to develop LSBU’s enterprise and innovation activities. REI supports funding
     applications and research awards with its Research Awards Team, and provides dedicated
     space for knowledge-exchange activity, including LSBU’s SME tenant community.
    Establishing a Research Office to deliver LSBU’s research development goals; it is tasked
     with coordinating RCs and RGs; managing our Research Manager system; driving Research
     Impact; and discharging LSBU’s Research Concordat responsibilities. To deliver these aims,
     LSBU’s permanent research support staff has more than doubled, from 4.3 (2013) to 10.9
     FTE (2020).
    Establishment of the London Doctoral Academy graduate school (LDA) to build a vibrant
     postgraduate culture supporting PGR students and supervisors and providing bespoke
     training, yielding new pathways for PhD and MRes qualifications, and a doubling in doctoral
     completions compared with REF2014.
    Implementing the Research Manager system in 2016/17 to enhance PGR administration
     and progression, supporting an increasing number of new students (81 in 2017-18; 88 in
     2018-19; 92 in 2019-20).
    Founding the Researcher Development Group in 2014 to uphold LSBU’s commitment
     to the Concordat for Researcher Development. This has been recognised by successive HR
     Excellence in Researcher Development awards (2014, 2016, 2018, 2020).
    Delivering a syllabus of researcher training in line with the national Researcher Development
     Framework (RDF), including researcher integrity, PGR supervision, preparing quality
     publications and identifying impact.
    Launching LSBU’s Research Sabbatical Scheme in 2016, with 27 sabbaticals awarded,
     leading to 15 grant applications, 28 conference papers, 37 journal articles and 18 book
     chapters.
    Establishing the Annual University Research Audit (AURA), which records staff research
     activity including outputs and measures of esteem, enhances understanding of research
     excellence criteria, and supports self-reflection, development and appraisal. Since 2018/19,
     ca. 225 researchers have engaged annually.
    Creating the Professoriate in 2018, which focusses on key research development areas,
     mentoring of research staff, and development of interdisciplinarity; inaugural professorial
     lectures were launched in 2019.
 2.1.2 Promoting interdisciplinarity
 Interdisciplinary research is prioritised through themed inter-School Research and Enterprise
 Forums and the associated ‘topical debates series’ and promoting inter-School and inter-Centre
 collaborations.
 LSBU’s four timely, cross-cutting and interdisciplinary research themes underpin the delivery of
 the 2020-25 Corporate Strategy, addressing global challenges and aligning with LSBU’s civic,
 environment and social justice agendas:
 1. Environment and Sustainability: delivered by the London Centre for Energy Engineering;
    Centre for the Integrated Delivery of the Built Environment; and the Centre for Civil and
    Building Services Engineering. Flagship activities include: GreenSCIES and GreenSCIES 2
    (£3,311,822 total value, Innovate UK projects delivering low-carbon heat, power and
    transport to ca. 33,000 London residents/ca. 70 businesses); Balanced Energy Network
    (£2,908,718 Innovate UK project); and SUNRISE (Strategic University Network to
    Revolutionise Indian Solar Energy – a £6,580,123, EPSRC project).
 2. Health and Social Care: delivered by the Centre for Applied Research in Improvement and
    Innovation (CApRII); Centre for Addictive Behaviours Research; the Sports and Exercise
    Research Centre; and the Centre for BioEngineering. A major project resulting from this

                                                                                            Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    collaboration is the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) backed SimDH (LSBU
    value - ~£2,299,030).
 3. Social Justice: the Research Centre for Social Justice and Global Responsibility has
    contributed materially to the Fawcett Society/Local Government Commission’s joint report
    Does Local Government Work for Women? and yielded invitations to advise several
    governments on their diplomatic practice. It has influenced the European Asylum Support
    Office (EASO), informing the Country of Origin Information reports on Eritrea, while the BUS
    RC has improved EASO’s communication/collaboration among its 30 member countries.
 4. Digital: delivered by the Centre for Research in Digital Storymaking, the Centre for the Study
    of the Networked Image and the Cognitive Systems Research Centre. The focus is the
    creative industries, including an ongoing collaboration with The Photographer’s Gallery on its
    digital curation strategy, and the ERDF-funded projects Accelerating the Creative Economy
    with Immersive Technologies (~£1,443,000 total – LSBU value: ~£1,065,000) and R&D-4-
    SMEs (~£6,100,000 total – LSBU value: ~£1,850,000); the latter is supporting post-
    production sector SMEs across the South East.
 2.1.3 Internationalisation
 Internationalisation is a pillar of LSBU’s 2015-20 corporate strategy. LSBU’s increased global
 reach is evidenced by its 701-750 position in the 2020 QS World University rankings, having first
 entered in the rankings at position 801+ in 2016-17. Key international partnerships include the
 British University in Egypt (BUE) and the Applied Science University of Bahrain. For BUE, LSBU
 delivers a PhD programme linked with energy and education Global Development Goals,
 increasing the skills of BUE academics, with 3 completions and 12 students enrolled across
 three Schools. The effectiveness of this collaboration is evidenced by a successful submission
 (one of 45 shortlisted from 800) to Parliament by a co-supervised BUE-LSBU PhD student in the
 2019 SET for Britain competition.
 LSBU is an active partner in the Fulbright scheme, hosting three US Fulbright Specialists
 between 2018-19, across three Schools.
 2.1.4 Key outcomes of LSBU’s Research Environment
 The Research Environment step-change is evidenced by the following outcomes between
 2008-2013 and 2014-2020:
  Increasing the Unit of Assessment REF submissions from seven to eight;
  Almost doubling the REF-returned cohort from 102 FTE (2014) to 187 FTE;
  Achieving a two-fold increase in research doctoral degree completions;
  More than doubling the size of the Research Office to support research;
  A 47% increase in the average volume of Scopus-listed research outputs published
    annually (from 276 to 406);
  LSBU’s 2014-2020 Scopus database-listed outputs cited in ≥150 countries;
  A 25% increase in the proportion of LSBU’s outputs in the top 10% citation percentiles;
  A 67% increase in the number of outputs with international co-authors (from 24% to 40%).
 2.2 LSBU’s 2025 vision and objectives

 LSBU’s 2025 vision comprises:
    Transforming the lives of individuals, communities, businesses and society; and
    Generating £5bn of economic impact through research and enterprise.
 Key goals include:
  Being consistently in the top 50 of UK universities, as measured by research and
    knowledge exchange income;



                                                                                             Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    Generating £50m of research and knowledge exchange income per annum as a means
     of delivering Real World Impact;
    Further enhancing research vitality to achieve (by 2027), research and impact REF GPAs
     of 3.0 and 3.2 respectively and double doctoral completions;
    Enhancing the Research Centres/Groups framework to ensure it is fit-for-the-future, with a
     mechanism in place to reward performance against KPIs including researcher
     development, impact, quality output productivity and grant income;
    Catalysing interdisciplinarity and inter-School collaborations through creating an online
     hub for researchers to network and identify collaborators;
    Using digital tools such as PowerBI, enhance AURA to deepen LSBU’s annual performance
     monitoring and reporting to encompass research achievements, impact, income,
     infrastructure investment, outputs, postgraduate completions, and staff diversity;
    Raising the SRR staff number to ≥250, through increased mentoring and support,
     refinement of the workload model framework, and the appointment of academic staff with
     strong research profiles or potential.
 2.3 Structures underpinning LSBU’s research strategy
 2.3.1 University Research Committee (URC)
 URC oversees the conduct of research, ensuring it adheres to the highest standards. Chaired by
 a Dean, its members are Directors of Research and other senior staff with responsibility for
 research. The URC meets quarterly, and has specific responsibility for research integrity
 and governance, open research, and the promotion of interdisciplinary research.
 2.3.2 Research Board of Study (RBoS)
 Chaired by the Head of the Research Office and comprising the PGR Directors, RBoS meets
 bimonthly and helps maximise the quality of LSBU’s PGR provision. It is responsible for setting
 PGR strategy, capacity building and provision of research degrees, including monitoring,
 progression and ethics.
 2.3.3 Research Integrity and Governance
 Excellence in research conduct is upheld at LSBU via its Research Integrity policy,
 adhering both to the Concordat for Research Integrity (2012, 2019) and the UK Research
 Integrity Office's (UKRIO’s) Code of Practice for Research (2009). LSBU's policy on
 Safeguarding Good Scientific Practice sets out the institution’s adherence to research principles,
 and LSBU is 100% compliant with the UKRIO’s procedures, publishing its nominated contact,
 policies, procedures and annual statements of research integrity on its website. As a result of
 LSBU’s robust policy, no significant cases of misconduct have been recorded since reporting
 began.
 2.3.4 Open Research
 LSBU’s Open Access (OA) policy was introduced in 2015 and was bolstered by the
 establishment of an Open Research repository in 2016, enabling research outputs to be shared
 freely. Since 2018, LSBU has employed a full-time Open Access Officer to drive OA and provide
 training on OA compliance. Since 2017 LSBU has invested £30k/year on Article Processing
 Charges to provide gold open access for publications, and expanded publishing agreements
 with major publishers. The high usage rates of the repository corroborates the efficacy of LSBU’s
 Open Research mission, with an average of 7,995/month and 95,941 total downloads for August
 2019 – July 2020.
 To support its open research commitments, LSBU has issued a statement on the responsible
 use of research metrics. Further, LSBU is a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration on
 Research Assessment (2020), affirming its commitment to an equitable metrics culture.




                                                                                             Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2.4 Impact strategy
 2.4.1 LSBU’s 2015-2020 Impact Strategy
 LSBU’s 2015-2020 Corporate Strategy goal was to deliver outstanding real world ‘economic,
 social and cultural benefits: the attainment of this goal is evidenced by LSBU’s 2019-20 top 200
 ranking (top 27%, 766 institutions) in the THE University Impact rankings.
 LSBU’s 2015-20 Impact strategy had three planks:
 1. Strengthening impact support: In order to deliver on research impact, a Research Impact
    Manager and a REF and Impact Officer were recruited in 2016-2018 as part of the Research
    Office, in order to drive an impact culture, provide impact training and administer a research
    impact database. Since these appointments, there has been a 31% increase in REF impact
    case studies from 16 (2014) to 21 (2021).
 2. Cultivating partnerships: Strong commercial links were facilitated through LSBU’s
    Clarence Centre (CC) for Enterprise and Innovation, with 40 Knowledge Exchange
    professionals. For 2013-2018, CC’s community generated £317m income (£197m charity-
    linked; £120m by trading companies); raised £13.6m through its tenants’ collective enterprise
    activity; and awarded £64m of charitable spending to 3.2 million beneficiaries. This support
    nurtured ≥40 new research collaborations between SMEs and LSBU: collectively our
    collaborations have led to >60 new products being introduced.
 3. LSBU’s incubation programme. In support of maximising its real-world research impact,
    LSBU has targeted commercial Research and Innovation (RI) development activity that
    maps onto its four strategic themes (2.1.2). This strategy has yielded ca. £11m of EU ERDF
    and Interreg RI funding to tackle barriers to innovation, including business/innovation
    support programmes in the: green tech (LSBU value - £3,842,500), food (LSBU value -
    £1,922,386), digital/creative industries (LSBU value - £2,915,292) and health sectors
    (LSBU value - £2,299,030). This activity has produced an extensive network of commercial
    stakeholders to support LSBU’s impact mission.
 2.4.2 LSBU’s 2020–2025 impact strategy
 LSBU’s 2020-2025 Impact Strategy will be delivered through three key components:
    Identification, tracking and recording of impact – implementing a systematic means of
     mapping impact through our annual research review (AURA), production of an annual impact
     report, and use of tools such as Altmetrics Impact Explorer to identify impacts not formally
     reported by researchers.
    Training on impact – refining LSBU’s impact training to improve the understanding of
     impact, and embed it in the culture, in line with LSBU’s commitments to the HR Excellence in
     Research Award (2020).
    Facilitation, incentivisation and realisation of impact – supporting researchers with
     impact through: 1) providing access to opportunities to inform/engage with national
     government, companies and local authorities; 2) membership of the University Policy
     Exchange Network; 3) working with LSBU’s Corporate Affairs Team to engage policy-makers
     and local and national government; and 4) an annual open call for impact funding
     applications, with 1-3 to be awarded each year.

 3. People
 HESA data shows that there were 230 Teaching and Research staff at LSBU (21% of the total
 academic and research cohort) on 1 December 2013: this number had risen to 300 on 1
 December 2019 (25.6%).
 LSBU’s commitment to equality and diversity are evidenced by being a London Living Wage
 Employer, a signatory to the Time to Change Mental Health pledge, a holder of the London
 Healthy Workplace Charter, 104th in the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index, and a member of
 AdvanceHE’s Race Equality Charter.


                                                                                            Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 3.1 LSBU’s staff commitments
 LSBU’s staff mission is underpinned by the principle of fairness. LSBU has an Academic
 Framework that ensures research is one of the three principal strands of work in the
 development of an academic’s career.
 LSBU’s REF Code of Practice stipulates that all Category A Teaching and Research staff who
 are independent and have ≥20% of their time tagged as research have SRR. This ≥1 day/week
 commitment ensures that SRR staff have dedicated research time, and LSBU is now developing
 a pan-university workload framework to ensure greater transparency and provide clearer
 pathways for staff (especially ECRs) to gain SRR.
 Research support and development is a significant component of LSBU’s commitment to its
 staff, and the following processes are in place to ensure that this is achieved.
 3.1.1 Appointment and Academic induction
 Academic induction, launched in 2019, includes an Introduction to Research module which
 provides the foundations of research at LSBU, followed by dedicated REI Researcher Induction
 sessions. Academic induction events are held at least twice a year.
 3.1.2 Recruitment, appraisals and promotions
 Since 2018, LSBU has made research a significant part of the recruitment process for all
 academics. In line with the Academic Framework, the selection process should give equal
 weighting to teaching and research, as articulated in LSBU’s 2018 HR Excellence in Research
 Award action plan.
 Academic appointments are devolved to Schools but all appointments are made via LSBU’s
 central Human Resources Department, who help ensure that no employee receives less
 favourable treatment on the grounds of having a protected characteristic, caring responsibilities,
 HIV status, or on the basis of trade union activity or having a particular political or religious
 belief. All of LSBU’s Schools are expected to recruit staff who can demonstrate LSBU’s values
 of Excellence, Professionalism, Integrity, Inclusivity and Creativity.
 LSBU’s staff development mission is evidenced by its annual staff appraisals, which are
 development focused, with staff being asked to identify their training needs for achieving their
 objectives. Training Needs Analysis (TNA) was conducted for 2018-19 and 2019-20, with 26%
 requesting research skills development, 17% publications and impact training, 11% grant writing,
 7% PGR supervision, and the remainder (ca. 40%) asking for development in personal
 effectiveness. Training was provided through the Research Office to support grant bidding,
 writing research publications and improving impact, with 5-15 individuals in each cohort, whilst
 LSBU’s Organisational Development (OD) team provided courses in the development of
 personal effectiveness skills.
 Every October LSBU runs a promotions round. Between August 2013 and July 2020, 103
 promotions were achieved by the 211 people LSBU returned to REF2021 (inclusive of staff who
 left prior to 31 July 2021 with submitted research outputs), comprising 32, 46 and 25 promotions
 respectively to the positions of Senior Lecturer, Associate Professor and Professor. In the same
 period, 11 contract researchers/research fellows acquired permanent academic positions at
 LSBU, confirming the effectiveness of LSBU’s development activity.
 3.1.3 Researcher Development
 LSBU’s researcher development commitment is publicly stated in line with its commitments to
 the HR Excellence in Research Award. In 2019, LSBU published its handbook Researcher
 Development, which describes researcher support and training. Key to LSBU’s commitments to
 ECR development is its integrated training programme, in line with Vitae’s Researcher
 Development Framework, comprising four strands: Being an Effective Researcher; Bid and
 Grant Development; Publications and Impact; and PGR supervision. 20 research courses are
 available to all staff, with participation rates of 5-15 individuals. The success of the programme is



                                                                                                Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 evidenced by the fact that LSBU was one of just eleven institutions invited to provide a case
 study for Vitae.
 3.1.4 PGR Supervision training
 LSBU’s online training PGR Supervision Programme, developed jointly with Epigeum,
 provides comprehensive instruction for postgraduate supervisors, and provides a means of
 engaging new supervisors and ECRs in the process. Involvement in the programme is
 encouraged by the Directors of Postgraduate Research and monitored through RBoS. LSBU is
 directly engaged in the further development of the Epigeum programme. Since its inception,
 some 46 supervisors have been trained, of which 83% are engaged as supervisors. In addition,
 an in-house Research Supervision training pathway is delivered by experienced supervisors to
 support those starting out in supervision.
 3.1.5 Mentoring
 LSBU’s approach to mentoring of research staff has three layers representing different stages of
 development and addressing specific needs:
    Research Leadership is developed through The Leadership Academy, offering leadership
     and management development sessions, with personalised support to ensure that future
     research leaders obtain coaching. Members of the Professoriate are committed to
     developing future research leaders in their areas of research, and are engaged in guiding
     colleagues at all levels.
    At School level, mentoring is carried out across the university, overseen centrally
     by OD, initiated in 2019/20. Open to all staff, it links potential mentees with the most
     appropriate mentors based on need, with a dedicated OD staff member working with each
     School to match mentor and mentee according to specified needs.
    At Research Centre (RC) level, early career researchers (ECRs) are supported by RC
     Heads, who are tasked with developing and mentoring researchers by identifying the needs
     of the individual, pairing them with senior RC members, and sponsoring research seminars,
     writing retreats and open forums to engage researchers more fully. Mentoring takes the form
     of experienced RC members supporting less experienced members, typically with grant
     preparation, output production, and impact development.
 3.1.6 Sabbaticals
 Academic staff are encouraged to apply to LSBU’s Research Sabbatical Scheme, based
 on the sector-average concept of a single semester sabbatical which provides buy-outs from
 teaching and administration to focus on developing impact, quality outputs, funding bids and
 intellectual property. Since 2017, the number of sabbaticals awarded has more than doubled,
 worth a total of £60,000/year for 2017-19 and £80,000 in 2020, with further growth planned. The
 scheme has been highly successful: the number of awardees has doubled since launch (4 in
 2018, 6 in 2019, 8 in 2020, and 9 in 2021), yielding 15 grant applications (including the Interreg-
 funded ca. £2.9m CEDaCI project), 28 conference papers, 37 journal articles and 18 book
 chapters.
 3.1.7 Wellbeing

    In support of its staff mission, LSBU hosts an annual Staff Wellbeing Day, and is a member
     of the UK Healthy Universities Network, as well as being a Mindful Employer™, an NHS
     initiative supporting people with mental health conditions.
    The Health and Safety of laboratory researchers is ensured via the University's Health and
     Safety Policy and Procedures, recognised in 2017 by a silver award from the Royal Society
     for the Prevention of Accidents.
    LSBU has a shared-parental-leave policy and has a robust policy in place to support staff on
     sick leave, with a policy also on occupational sick leave and sick pay. LSBU also has a
     flexible working policy, thus enabling staff to balance their working life with other priorities
     including parental and other caring responsibilities.

                                                                                               Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    In accordance with its REF Code of Practice, LSBU ran two calls for ‘staff circumstances’
     applications. Of the SRR cohort, 21% had internally-approved research output reductions
     (UoA leads concluded that submissions did not require their use). The findings are informing
     enhanced support for staff, with recommendations being developed by the Inclusive
     Research Working Group (see Section 3.3).
 3.2 PGR support
 Since REF2014 LSBU has instigated a step-change in doctoral student support, more than
 doubling the number of research doctoral degrees awarded, from 95 (REF2014) to 205
 (REF2021).
 Key to this growth was the creation of the London Doctoral Academy (LDA) in 2016/17 to
 enhance the skills and employability of the postgraduate research community. The efficacy of
 LSBU’s PGR student support is evidenced by the 27% reduction in the average length of time
 taken to complete a doctorate from 6.1 years (students starting 2008/2013) to 4.4 years
 (students starting 2013–2018).
 Key attributes of the LDA’s achievements are:
    Introduction of the Key Skills Development programme for the wider development of PGR
     students, as described in the PGR student handbook. All Key Skills courses are mapped to
     the nationally recognised Vitae Researcher Development Framework (RDF) and are
     managed through LSBU’s Research Manager system. Blending face-to-face and online
     delivery for student training ensures LSBU’s students acquire the requisite research and
     transferable skills. In the wake of COVID-19, these courses have all been successfully
     moved online, with average attendances increasing from 25 to 45 in 2020.
    Development of the Summer School – an annual conference that includes key training
     opportunities, poster and oral presentation sessions, and keynote lectures promoting the
     development of an interdisciplinary research culture. The Summer School has attracted
     around 90 doctoral students to participate each year since its launch.
    Introduction of the Research Manager system, allowing enhanced monitoring of student
     progress. Students register on enrolment and the system ensures the six-monthly progress
     reports and review meetings occur in line with LSBU’s Research Code of Practice.
    Enhancement of viva examinations through the use of an Independent Chair to ensure
     impartiality and due process; all chairs and panel reviewers are required to attend the
     appropriate training led by the LDA.
    In 2017/18, as part of its commitment to developing its doctoral research and delivering real-
     world research impact, LSBU initiated its co-funded studentship scheme, in collaboration
     with relevant companies. This initiative ensures that students benefit from assignment to a
     real-world challenge by working with a research stakeholder. Funders include: The
     Photographers’ Gallery, the Serpentine Gallery, the Royal Opera House, London
     Underground, and the British Blind & Shutter Association.
 3.3 Equality and Diversity
 LSBU values diversity across all the dimensions of difference, as its Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion Policy describes. The strength of LSBU’s diversity mission is reflected by its
 attainment, in 2020, of an Athena Swan Bronze award.
 Evidence of LSBU’s commitment includes:
    LSBU prides itself on its diverse staff and student body and is committed to widening
     participation. Recent figures are: 53% of LSBU’s staff are female, with a slight growth in the
     number of females appointed to strategic organisational roles, comprising 33% (3/9) of the
     Executive, 29% (2/7) of Deans, 48% of professors and 50% (4/8) of Professional Service
     Group Directors.




                                                                                                 Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    The Equality Impact Assessment (EIA) of LSBU’s REF2021 submission ascertained that
     there were no significant differences between the SRR sub-group and the wider group,
     especially relating to gender and ethnicity.
    In support of LSBU’s mission to attain a truly equitable research environment, an Inclusive
     Research Working Group is being established. Key objectives include:
         o developing a strategy to monitor and enhance the diversity of LSBU’s SRR cohort;
         o advising on the inclusivity of URC proposals, and highlight unconscious bias risks;
         o advising on barriers to progression for under-represented groups.
    In support of its EDI mission LSBU has four staff networks which provide social activities,
     awareness-raising events, and advocacy:
         o Equinet: equality network for black and minority ethnic (BAME) staff;
         o GenderNet: equality network for staff of all gender identities;
         o SONET: sexual orientation and gender identity network;
         o dNet: disability network.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

    LSBU provides ca. £1m/annum for research by supporting activities and initiatives
     including LSBU’s Research Groups, research sabbaticals, match-funded studentships
     and research data management systems.
    LSBU’s investment (incorporating some use of QR and external Catalyst funding) on
     laboratories and research facilities over the REF2021 period totalled ca. £15.5m.
    Since 2016, LSBU’s £1.8-2.0m/annum QR income has funded its RCs. Each RC has
     performance indicators, evaluated annually. This framework has delivered a rise in annual
     research income: increasing from £2.2–2.4m between 2013/14 and 2015/16 to £3.1m in
     2016/17, £3.7m in 2017/18, £4.3m in 2018/19 and £5.5m in 2019/20.
    These actions have raised total research income from £18.974m for REF2014 to £23.457m
     for REF2021.
    LSBU has a well-supported research infrastructure, with ca. 40 technical staff employed
     within the Technical Support Services team, ensuring researchers benefit from LSBU’s
     facilities.
    To meet its strategic vision for 2020-25, the University is currently investing approximately
     £55m in its campus, due to be completed in September 2021. Through modernising its
     facilities, LSBU will have a South London campus that provides a research environment that
     is fit for the future, focused on the needs of the community and delivers real world impact.




                                                                                             Page 9
