AUB Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Arts University Bournemouth

 1. Context and mission

Wider institutional context
1.   Arts University Bournemouth (AUB) is one of the UK’s leading specialist institutions with an
     international reputation in media, film, design, arts and performance. Awarded Gold in 2017
     TEF, RIBA Accreditation in 2019, and Outstanding by OFSTED, AUB is a member of Guild
     HE and a leading player in the specialist higher education sector. Following the appointment
     in 2019 of Paul Gough as Vice-Chancellor, the university has developed a new five-year
     strategy with an ambitious research and knowledge exchange plan.

2.   There are three academic Schools: Art, Design & Architecture, and Media & Performance
     (offering a suite of undergraduate courses); the Graduate School was established in 2019 to
     bring together taught and research postgraduate students. AUB has around 3,100
     undergraduate students; 150 postgraduate taught students and 13 postgraduate research
     students. A significant amount of learning is delivered through short course, CPD and
     Summer Schools, bringing the total student population to some 4,000 FTE.

3.   Having secured Taught Degree Awarding Powers in 2008, AUB works in partnership with the
     University of the Arts, London for the delivery of research degrees (since 2012). In 2016 we
     celebrated our first doctoral awards and established a pipeline from application through to
     successful completion for PGR students. The partnership was successfully reviewed in 2016
     with approval for a further five years. Our first post-doctoral researcher was recruited in 2020.

4.   AUB is represented at the highest levels in regional economic development and business
     partnerships. In 2018-19 we attracted a £1.2m investment from the ERDF to support
     research and innovation projects with industry and a further £1.4 million from the Dorset
     Growth Deal to develop an Innovation Studio to support start-ups in the region. The building
     was designed by Sir Peter Cook of CRAB Studio, who also designed in 2016 the Drawing
     Studio.

5.   AUB entered one unit of assessment in REF 2014 (art and design). Research excellence
     was identified across all output types with feedback highlighting particular expertise in
     design, art history and photographic practice reflecting our proven record of practice-
     based and theoretical/historical research in these areas. Since then AUB has been on a
     rapid journey to develop its research environment alongside the growth and expansion of its
     discipline base, particularly in performing arts. For REF 2021 it will return research to both
     UOA 32 and UOA 33.

6.   As a specialist HEI, AUB has a sharp research focus that closely matches the discipline
     portfolio. Key to our research identity but not exclusively so, are the discipline areas of
     photography, animation, art and design spanning practice, history and theory. Emerging areas
     include illustration, materials, performance and film.

Our approach to REF 2021
7.   All AUB (HE) academic staff are eligible to be returned to the REF. However, AUB
     departments are constituted from a combination of staff with significant research
     achievement, high levels of industry experience, expertise in teaching and learning, and skills
     and knowledge in technical application. Therefore, AUB has applied an additional filter of
     Significant Responsibility for Research for our REF 2021 return determined primarily by a

                                                                                              Page 1
AUB Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
      choice of career pathway i.e. teaching, research or knowledge exchange, or a combination of
      these.

 2. Strategy

Strategic Research and Impact Goals Achieved
8.    AUB entered its first submissions to the art and design units of assessment in RAE 2008
      (UOA 63) and REF 2014 (UOA 34), when 16 staff (12.1 FTE) were returned.

9.    Reflecting the growth of our research culture two units of assessment, numbering over 50
      staff are returned in 2021 (UOAs 32 and 33) which broadly map against our academic
      schools. Our success in REF 2014 led to a 315% increase in our QR funding. Whilst this
      remains modest at around £130k per annum, it has enabled us to invest in our research
      environment and offer fully funded PhD studentships for the first time.

10.   In our 2014 submission, AUB set out an ambitious but grounded plan designed to focus
      research activities around proven strengths, embedded research skill training, support staff
      undertaking research degrees, invest in identified research areas (photographic practices,
      and animation) and grow a research ecosystem which valued practice, PhD study, and
      professional development to ensure maximum impact. Our 2014-19 Strategy Map explicitly
      identified excellence in research as a core goal to be promoted and invested through an
      ambitious and sustainable Research and Knowledge Transfer Plan with three aims:

       i) to develop strong research and KT areas of national and international standing
       ii) to realise a strategic expansion of staff numbers with research degree supervision
            capability
       iii) to achieve an increase in total income generated through R&KT enterprise projects

11.    We have been successful in delivering these aims:

       • Higher Education Museums and Galleries (HEMG) Fund recognised the role the
         Museum of Design in Plastics (MoDiP) plays in serving the wider research community
         through an annual funding award.

       • Costume Design was awarded a Queen’s Award in 2017, the citation highlighted our
         ‘significant contribution…to the UK’s high reputation in this branch of the creative
         industries and thereby to the UK economy’.

       • Seven-fold increase in the number of doctoral holding staff, two-fold increase in
         supervision to completion, three-fold increase in PhD examination and four completions
         to date.
       • Increase in £250k of research income generated including successful funding
         applications to major funders e.g. AHRC Network bid in 2019; Leverhulme Visiting
         Professorship in 2020; in addition to European and regional funding of £2.6m.

       • Attracting and employing research leaders of global standing to further drive AUB’s
         programme of deepening and enriching our research ecosystem.




                                                                                             Page 2
AUB Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


Looking Forward - Strategic aims for research and impact
12.     The Research Plan is driven the Dean of the Graduate School and Research, supported
        closely by the Vice-Chancellor and his team, with the aim to:

  i)     invest in new appointments to link research to our creative technological expertise so as to
        realise the potential for global impact and attract funded opportunities for PGR students

  ii)    invest in new infrastructure aligned with existing research strengths in creative technologies
         so as to further enhance industry collaboration and knowledge exchange

  iii) continue to build staff research capacity and expertise through strengthening research
       groupings that are already established (photography, animation, film, drawing) and those
       nascent (digital and creative Dorset)

  iv) secure a pipeline from strongly recruiting master’s courses through to PGR, seeking
      competitive and collaborative industrial funding for scholarships

Enabling impact: excellence plus relevance equals Impact
13.     Since 2014 a University Research Impact Plan has been operational. Its aim to ‘demonstrate
        reach geographically in the local area, the UK and globally; and across a wide range of
        beneficiaries in the performance, heritage, cultural and education sectors.’ All applications for
        research support require pathways to impact, undergo development and mentor guidance,
        and are linked to AUB’s network of national and global industry partners. Furthermore,
        research impact benefits from bespoke toolkits devised by the Research Office to capture and
        track impact and monitored closely through staff Performance Review and university-wide
        metrics.

14.     The Research Impact Plan has delivered:

                     •   increased visibility of AUB research: for example, Lambert’s innovative work
                         in plastics has contributed to Radio 4 programmes (Costing the earth, 2018):
                         Hunt’s curatorial work on Lucienne Day that toured to Dublin; Gough’s work
                         on Commonwealth commemoration.

                     •   increased focus on a university-curated approach to facilitate knowledge
                         exchange: for example, new positions in media liaison, business
                         development and knowledge transfer.

                     •   increased audience development and international reach: for example,
                         Keeley’s work with the Natural History Museum’s Dippy on tour project;
                         Vallance’s curatorial projects at Tate.

15.     Furthermore, the Plan has facilitated community participation, locating our research in the
        public arena to inform social opinion beyond academia. John’s research into bullying in the
        UK creative industries led to five key recommendations adopted by the Federation of
        Entertainment Unions. Wenham-Clarke worked with disability charities, part-funded by the
        Genetics Society to realise a comprehensive photographic project, Our Human Condition, on
        the impact of Down’s Syndrome, with significant curated exhibitions in London and at the
        Scottish Parliament, Edinburgh.




                                                                                                 Page 3
AUB Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


Addressing regional and national research priorities

16.     AUB research contributes to regional and national priorities by engaging with ‘real world’
issues:

                   •   Tackling the global plastics problem: through its projects and programmes of
                       engagement MoDiP contributed to public understanding of the many benefits
                       that plastics have brought to modern life and the issues that plastics present.
                       (Lambert: BBC Radio 4, Costing the earth)

                   •   Addressing technology that touches lives: AUB researchers worked with the
                       national offices of RNLI to support initiatives to ‘drown out’ death in water in
                       developing countries, such as Zanzibar (Conrad, 2019)

17.   Through prioritised research projects AUB is committed to creating deep collaborations,
      networks and partnerships and to engaging with diverse communities. Wenham-Clarke
      engaged directly with the mining community in the Portland stone quarries. His programme of
      site-specific anthropological-visual research was shared with partnered communities via
      advertising bill boards and site-related exhibitions. Wenham-Clarke’s photographic work has
      provided societal insight into closed gypsy communities discussed in such diverse media as
      Marie Claire magazine and Radio London. Whitfield’s extensive research enquiries into
      neurodiversity has impacted – with recognisable results - on the teaching of dyslexic acting
      students, with recognition across the UK and in the US.

18.   As part of a broader engagement between arts, health and social concerns, Foster’s
      photographs were exhibited as part of the health and humanity strand at the World Economic
      Forum (2020) having been featured in the Wellcome Photographic Prize the year before.

19.   AUB works jointly with organisations in the UK and globally. A successful joint AHRC funded
      Research Network bid with Nottingham Trent University explores critical understandings of
      participatory textile-making. In 2017 we were successful in a joint RE Catalyst bid with
      Bournemouth University: Supporting mental health and wellbeing for postgraduate research
      students. Amongst other national networks, AUB collaborated with the John Lewis
      Partnership (JLP) to establish a co-funded PGR bursary to research the JLP archives.
      Formal partnerships in the USA, Europe, China and Australasia have led to research
      exchanges, co-investigations, and joint projects, e.g. funding awarded through the Global
      Challenges Fund enabled researchers to set up a test environment to assess the viability of
      manufacturing life-saving devices in communities living in lower Development Assistance
      Countries (DAC) including Tanzania.

Promoting interdisciplinary research
20.   As a specialist arts university with strong links to industry and professional stakeholders we
      encourage and nurture collaboration across disciplines, promoting cross- and inter-
      disciplinary research both within and outwith the university. Our research projects combine
      diverse and innovative collaborations such as costume and geology (Keeley), illustration and
      the built environment (Edwardes), performance and cultural geography (Croose), finance and
      anthropology (Rosamond), drawing and botany (Bowen), arts and radio-active waste
      disposal (Weir). Gough’s recent interdisciplinary work with military and cultural historians was
      supported by a major Australian Research Council Discovery Grant ($310,000) with outputs
      realised since his appointment to AUB.


                                                                                                 Page 4
AUB Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


21.   As part of a commitment to the regional creative industries we have invested in post-doctoral
      initiatives in the econometrics of the regional cultural economy. The fusion of creative
      economies, regional recovery and business development is a plank of the AUB RKE strategy
      led by Hunt and a network of business development managers. Hunt’s success (2018-20) in
      winning ERDF competitive funding will accelerate cross-disciplinary research, practice and
      impact creation.

Open and accessible: AUB’s open research environment
22.   AUB is committed to working towards an open research environment. Our progress has been
      significant:

                  •   Investment in infrastructure by implementing AUBREI online research
                      repository. This project will make our research accessible, open and search-
                      friendly and also allows our practice-based research (which was limited on
                      the previous website) greater functionality

                  •   Committed wholeheartedly to Open Access, by establishing in 2016 a
                      standing group tasked with creating and implemented policy and best
                      practice, to ensure our website is fully compliant, and staging development
                      sessions for all researchers

                  •   Mandated our Research Office to actively monitor and support OA
                      compliance. All internal funding schemes are reviewed to ensure they
                      reference the policy and embed best practice. Invited by JISC (2020) Hunt
                      and Gough contributed to a best practice document in assessing practice-
                      based activities.

Research at AUB is based on a foundation of integrity
23.   AUB is committed to supporting a culture of research integrity. During the assessment period
      we have embedded robust and rigorous research ethics at all levels of the University. This
      has been achieved through:

                  •   An active Research Ethics Committee, which drives our Ethics Policy and
                      requires full compliance with legislation such as Prevent, GDPR and
                      Misconduct in Research. The committee is mindful of the Whistleblowing
                      Policy (which details the protections offered to those identifying malpractice)
                      seeking continuous improvement across all research activity.

                  •   Induction programmes initiated in 2018 targeted at new staff to highlight the
                      importance of research ethics. This has been honed into a refresher training
                      module required by all research-active staff and has been tailored to
                      scenarios that creative practitioners are likely to encounter.

                  •   A library of customisable forms to aid staff when seeking ethical approval.

                  •   A scheme to monitor and review processes which can ensure recency,
                      currency and changes in national ethics guidance. In 2015 the role of School
                      Ethics Advisers was introduced. Serving on Research Ethics Committee
                      (REC) these postholders also offer advice and guidance at a local level, and
                      thus are able to offer knowledge pertinent to the practice-researcher
                      disciplines across the university. REC samples a range of proposals


                                                                                               Page 5
AUB Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


                        approved at school level so as to ensure adherence to the policy and also
                        reviews more challenging projects that require university-level scrutiny.

 3. People

Staffing strategy
24.   In 2017 AUB introduced the Academic Career Framework (ACF) which created self-
      determined pathway opportunities for all academic staff; it also offered promotion
      opportunities to Associate and full Professor, requiring significant achievements against clear
      criteria and opportunities for research leadership across the university. The number of
      professorial appointments has risen from four to 12 over the period. Candidates for
      advancement must meet criteria in a number of categories: quality and volume of research
      outputs, PhD supervision, contribution to the discipline. AUB’s Equalities and Diversities
      Committee played an instrumental role in the developing the criteria for Professors to ensure
      that achievement at this level was attainable for those with protected characteristics.

25.   The ACF introduced the role of Early Career Academic (ECA) providing an entry grade for
      new researchers into higher education. A comprehensive programme of support is offered:
      mentoring by experienced senior staff; funding to achieve research qualifications; academic
      and professional support for academic writing and grant bidding; and collegiate support
      through cognate research and practice groupings.

Staff development and people support
26.   AUB has made significant investment in staff development over the period, including funding
      to pursue doctoral study for staff joining the university from creative industries, funding to
      support time to undertake large research projects (fellowships) and seed-funding for
      research projects (research support). There is also a strategic focus on building research
      supervision capability through staff development. New supervisors must complete two
      credited units in research degree supervision on University of the Arts London’s (UAL) MA in
      Academic Practice. The training is compulsory for all staff appointed to supervisory teams.

27.   Results from these staff development schemes have been impressive, with a seven-fold
      increase in the number staff attaining doctorates, a doubling of our supervision to completion
      rates, and a three-fold increase in PhD examinations. Recent appointments have significantly
      increased AUB’s ability to attract high quality PhD candidates and attract staff with
      distinguished records of research. Gough’s record of leadership in research assessment
      (chair of UK and Hong Kong RAE and AHRC panels; membership of assessment panels in
      Europe, Australia and New Zealand) has brought renewed energy and confidence to the
      cohort of research managers and team leaders across AUB.

28.   Internal seed-funding is available to all staff, irrespective of their FTE, including the
      opportunity for part-time staff to take blocks of research leave or time in addition to their
      existing contracts. These schemes were reviewed over the period to ensure they were
      appropriate to all staff including those with protected characteristics. Our HR Plan for 2014-
      19 made explicit reference to building research capability so as to:

                    •   Embed fairness and transparency within reward and recognition schema

                    •   Improve employee engagement through fair and transparent
                        practices/processes

                                                                                              Page 6
AUB Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
                  •   Implement wellbeing practices to balance duty of care aspects of Health and
                      Safety.

29.   The University has made significant investment to support staff wellbeing with a four-fold
      increase in specialist wellbeing staff from 0.5 FTE to 2 FTE. All staff have free access to an
      employee support programme and online support. Staff wellbeing, family-friendly, flexible and
      Holacratic principles are at the heart of the new Strategy.

Support for PGR students
30.   Our research degrees partnership with UAL benefits our students through training delivered
      by both institutions. All first-year students are required to attend three full block training
      weeks at UAL. This is supplemented by further training delivered in advance of the key
      progression stages: registration, confirmation and examination. AUB supports students’
      attendance by covering costs for travel, subsistence and accommodation to ensure everyone
      can attend. Over the period, AUB has strengthened its own PGR training which now includes
      regular PGR symposia delivered by academics with expertise in essential areas such as
      research ethics or presentation skills. PGR students are encouraged to integrate with
      academic staff by joining research groups and attending the Annual Research Conference,
      graduate school lectures and research development workshops run by the Research Office.
      All PGR student are awarded an annual budget of £500 which must be spent on
      developmental activity agreed with their supervisory teams. This has supported students to
      present their work at conferences, undertake bespoke training activities and engage with
      subject specialist training events such as those given by the National Archives and British
      Library. One PhD student, for example attended Andidox Lab, Copenhagen, 2016, run by
      Creative Europe.

AUB commitment to equality and diversity
31.   Our commitment is enshrined in our ‘Equality at Work’ policy (2016) which applies to all
      recruitment and selection processes, promotion, training, conditions of work, pay and
      benefits and every other aspect of employment. The policy covers all protected
      characteristics. The University has been awarded the right to use the Disability Confident
      Employer Badge highlighting our commitment to good practice in employing people with
      disabilities. AUB builds staff awareness of diversity and inclusion in ‘Diversity in the
      Workplace’ training and ‘Unconscious Bias’ awareness training which is mandatory for all
      established staff and refresher training takes place every three years.


 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Targeted infrastructure support for research
32.   In 2014 AUB made a strategic decision to bring together research and knowledge exchange
      (R&KE) so as to maximise our engagement, dissemination and impact. Two new manager-
      level positions were created to harness the work of staff across the university and to maintain
      our trajectory of applied activity with professional, business and community partners. The
      R&KE office was reinforced and its works connected more fully with the Graduate School
      under the leadership of a Dean of Research. As a central resource, driven through the
      University Leadership Team, the R&KE Office was re-aligned and reinforced to provide a
      comprehensive prospectus of support, development and targeted interventions across the
      university, amongst them:



                                                                                             Page 7
AUB Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
       •     central delivery of development activity to support researchers, including an active
             annual Research Conference and other opportunities for researchers to exchange and
             critique works in progress

       •     central co-ordination of visiting researchers, specialists and others dedicated to
             enriching AUB’s R&KE ecosystem, as well as co-ordination of research record keeping,
             data management, and policy development

       •     central administration, management and enhancement of the university’s PGR
             programme, staff development programmes, external funding applications, and
             integrated support for AUB governance

33.   Chaired by the DVC, and supported by the academic Deans and Professoriate, the R&KE
      Committee has identified existing and future strengths of the university, and linked these to
      the new University Strategy to maximise research power.

34.   Amongst the other initiatives designed to strengthen the infrastructure and to extend the
      exposure of AUB’s research, our Museum of Design in Plastics (MoDiP) invested HEMG
      funds to extend its reach into the public domain by funding a new Engagement Officer to
      support dissemination, relevance and reach of its many research projects locally and
      nationally, with some international reach to other university museums and those engaged in
      adjacent research. The creation of an AUB Material’s Library is further evidence of targeted
      infrastructural facilities support, derived from and designed through our national links with the
      plastics industry, material collections, scientific bodies, as well as museums such as the
      Victoria and Albert Museum. Lambert’s distinctive research outputs, and her extensive work
      in the public domain, reflects the depth and strength of this unique archive and living
      collection, and its focus on the materiality and future conservation of plastics.

Increasing R&KE income
35.   Our 2014 Research plan included the strategic aim of increasing R&KE income, including
      non-UKRI funding such as ACE through three tactics: Training, Seeding and Support:

           • Training: bespoke funding workshops were regularly delivered with external trainers on
             making grant applications; updates were recorded and made available online

           • Seed funding: an active incentive strategy included seed monies to release time to write
             bids and the introduction of a rigorous process for reviewing and enhancing grant bids
             prior to submission

           • Support: significant investment into the development and appointment of a new full-time
             role of Knowledge Exchange (KE) manager with expertise in bid-writing. The KE
             Manager has since worked alongside the Research Manager in an integrated team.

36.    Our plan has had some notable successes:

       •     Our first AHRC Network award (2018) in conjunction with Nottingham Trent University,
             resulting from AUB seed funding.

       •     Our museum MoDiP was formally recognised by Research England under its
             Museums, Galleries and Collections Fund (£76k per annum, 2017). MoDiP was
             recognised as the UK’s leading resource for the study and interpretation of design in
             plastics and a specialist research resource for work beyond the institution. It is one of


                                                                                                 Page 8
AUB Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
           only 33 museums in the country to be so rewarded and the only accredited museum
           with a focus on plastics’ materiality, design and socio-economic impacts.

37.   In December 2020 we opened a £2.8 million Innovation Studio funded by the European
      Research Development Fund, with additional support from Dorset Local Enterprise
      Partnership. A major plank of our R&KE plan this facility will be Dorset’s only operational
      incubator dedicated to supporting start-ups in the prototyping of new products and in
      developing a sustainable business plan. In the first phase of the programme 20 start-ups will
      be supported

Investment in research facilities
38.   As a specialist arts university, AUB houses a hi-tech, well-equipped campus, enhanced by
      significant strategic investment over the period. Practice-based research groups have been
      favourably impacted:

       •    TheGallery was refurbished to commercial standard, allowing showcases for leading
            arts practitioners such as Morag Myerscough and the late Zaha Hadid. Touring
            exhibitions predicated on research programmes have been hosted, e.g. the Trinity Buoy
            Wharf Drawing Prize (2018).

       •    CRAB studio is the first drawing studio to be built at a UK art school for 100 years,
            designed by renowned British Architect Sir Peter Cook it has facilitated research by
            Bowen and others.

       •    Enlarged location for MoDiP with dedicated space for researchers

       •    Refurbished photographic studios and dark rooms.

       •    Media innovation and research facilities in our ‘Black box’ studio theatre and sound
            stage; high-end professional equipment, and new state-of-the-art dance studios. Film
            investment via industry-standard digital screening room, high end film studios and post-
            production facilities.

       •    Creative technologies infrastructure in 3-D printing, CNC cutters, including fashion
            studios equipped with digital resources, LECTRA and CLO pattern cutting software.

39.   Teams of highly skilled technical support are available to researchers and PhD students. The
      university has developed career pathways for technical staff that recognises their advanced
      applied technical prowess.

40.   Significant investment has been committed to library’s digital infrastructure; spend on ebooks
      rose by 63% in the period. Dedicated subject librarians support research staff and PGR
      students. In 2019 the library established an artists’ book collection and a new materials library
      where staff and students can view, handle and analyse samples as diverse as concrete or
      plastic composites. A new archives policy (2019) supported the acquisition of the Thorp
      modelmaking archive and Hooton Pagnell textile archive.




                                                                                                Page 9
