Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Institution:
 University of Liverpool
 1. Context and mission
 As the original ‘Red Brick University’ founded in 1881, the University of Liverpool maintains a
 mission to deliver research and impact “For advancement of learning and ennoblement of life”.
 This founding principle provides the basis for our current vision “To be a connected, global
 University at the forefront of knowledge leadership”. We aim to ensure that “Our researchers
 create solutions aiming to improve health, create wealth and ensure social justice” for citizens
 globally and locally. A successful global research-intensive university, we are an anchor institution
 in Liverpool City Region (LCR), a member of the Russell Group and of the N8 partnership of
 northern research-intensive universities.
 We have embedded international links in our Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool University (XJTLU) in
 Suzhou, China and through significant research partnerships with institutions across China,
 Ethiopia, India, Japan, Malawi and the USA. We make major economic and social contributions
 across our region, the United Kingdom and internationally. Our strategic ambitions – to connect
 globally, innovate, increase social mobility and work in partnership – directly support the City
 Region’s performance and prospects. We have enhanced the international profile of the LCR and
 added over £600m in GVA through partnering with major organisations regionally, nationally and
 globally in ground-breaking projects and by attracting many thousands of staff and students from
 across the world.
 The University has three Faculties:
     • Health and Life Sciences (HLS)
     • Humanities and Social Sciences (HSS)
     • Science and Engineering (S&E)
 These are organised into 12 schools/institutes and 44 departments that are submitting the work
 of 1,251 research staff. This includes departments with over a century of history, including
 Architecture and Archaeology, as well as relatively new ones making only their second submission
 to the REF, such as Communication and Media. We are one of only eight UK HEIs to have an
 integrated Veterinary School as part of Health and Life Sciences – allowing us to take an holistic
 view of health challenges. Interdisciplinary research is supported through seven institutional
 Research Themes that work across the breadth of the University:
     • Advanced Materials
     • Climate Futures
     • Digital
     • Heritage
     • Infectious Diseases
     • Personalised Health
     • Starting Well, Living Well, Ageing Well
 Defined by University-wide consultation, themes embody areas with a breadth and critical mass
 of research excellence. Faculties also support local interdisciplinary themes and centres,
 examples being Slavery and Unfree Labour in HSS, North West Cancer Research Centre in HLS,
 and Autonomy, Simulation and Networks in S&E. Support and resources for research are provided
 for research at school, faculty and central levels.
 Our research strategy is focused on the inclusive development of colleagues at all levels - PGR,
 PDRA, ECR and established academics - from “cradle to chair” (see section 3). This builds on our
 strategic commitment and a long-standing track record of improving the social mobility of our
 students. Through our Access and Participation Plan 2020-25 we have also committed to reducing
 unexplained gaps in student success and degree attainment. For Postgraduate study, we offer
 financial support for widening participation students to progress from undergraduate to
 postgraduate level. As well as hosting initiatives such as the OfS Data Science and AI
 Scholarships to encourage under-represented groups into postgraduate study in high-demand
 sectors.



                                                                                               Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 2. Strategy
 2.1 Approach
 Our Research and Impact Strategy is about our people and focuses on creating the right
 supportive environment for researchers at every career stage. Under our Strategy 2026, we aim
 for the quality of our environment and career development support to make us a location of choice
 for established and aspiring research leaders. While fully supporting our diverse subject mix, we
 focus strategic investment on:
      • Areas of global knowledge leadership.
      • Increasing external representation and influence.
      • Demonstrating our civic role.
      • Addressing societal challenges.
      • Delivering public benefit.
 Four guiding objectives are helping us to achieve this:
      1. Develop our global knowledge leadership by increasing the proportion of highly ranked
         research disciplines and leaders (see 2.2 and 2.3)
      2. Grow our research power through supporting more staff to deliver world-leading research
         (see 2.2, 3.3, and 4)
      3. Expand our impact by creating meaningful external partnerships and increasing the
         proportion of research leading to public benefit (see 4.1)
      4. Develop the reputation of our University and the LCR through our international presence,
         and the profile our leading research areas (see 2.2)
 Our commitment to developing researchers from postgraduates through to established professors
 is underlined by our key investments in Tenure Track Fellowships, our ECR recruitment since
 2014, our development Academy, the Prosper project (see Section 3) and our research support
 infrastructure (see Section 4). Our strategy seeks to weave Impact and Knowledge Exchange into
 all areas of our work. We have central Research, Partnerships and Innovation (RPI) and local
 faculty teams (see Section 4) to support delivery of our strategy.
 2.2 Global and local
 We have developed strong research partnerships with a wide range of collaborators across
 regional, national and global business, public, health and cultural sectors.
 2.2.1 Global research and impact
 We have invested in research designed to achieve global reach and impact. In HLS we host a
 range of NIHR programmes including two Health Protection Research Units specialising in
 Infection and Global Health. Work in HLS has informed WHO global vaccine policy and the
 implementation of infant immunization schedules in 95 countries. Leading edge physics research
 is undertaken across three continents at world-leading particle physics laboratories including the
 Large Hadron Collider at CERN, as well as in-house with facilities unique to Liverpool.
 We have invested in strategic partnerships, covering the development of joint research
 programmes, PGR, PDRA and ECR mobility. Our XJTLU joint venture campus makes us the pre-
 eminent UK academic institution in Jiangsu province, which has China’s second highest GDP. We
 support collaborations with West China Hospital, Xi’an Jiaotong University and East China
 University of Science and Technology. In India we collaborate with the National Institute of Mental
 Health and Neurosciences, the National Institute of Advanced Studies and the Mysore School of
 Architecture. The University of Georgia (Athens) is our key US partner for staff and student
 exchange. Our Centre for the Study of International Slavery (CSIS) partners with UGA in the
 $15.75M US State Department-funded ‘Africa Programming and Research Initiative to End
 Slavery’. in in Sierra Leone, Guinea and Senegal. This builds on CSIS’s ‘Anti-slavery Knowledge
 Network’ a flagship AHRC Global Challenges Research Fund project
 We have supported academic engagement with the development needs of low- and middle-
 income countries through targeted use of QR GCRF funding. Pump-priming of £1,289,450 has
 been invested in 176 projects to pilot concepts and build relationships. From this 231 academics
 are now engaged with 383 partners across 80 countries and ODA is now over 6% of annual grant
 income.

                                                                                             Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 2.2.2 Local research and impact
 We have engaged with over 1300 business and community organisations in the REF period (see
 Section 4). The Vice-Chancellor chairs the Liverpool Knowledge Quarter Board and is a Liverpool
 Science Park Board and LCR Local Enterprise Partnership Board member. We have committed
 to the development of a Civic University Agreement, reaffirming our ethos of putting the local
 economy and quality of life top of our list of priorities. We will work with local anchor institutions,
 businesses, community organisations and local authorities to agree opportunities and problems
 to address. The Heseltine Institute for Public Policy, Practice and Place - a policy research unit
 that links University-wide academic expertise with policymakers and practitioners for the
 development of successful, sustainable cities and city regions – exemplifies our regional strategic
 investment.
 We have committed to addressing the challenges of health inequality and child wellbeing in LCR,
 which has some of the highest rates of child ill health in the UK. The new ‘Children Growing-up in
 Liverpool’ (C-GULL) programme is a £5.2M Wellcome Trust funded collaboration. This world-
 leading research programme will be the first new longitudinal birth cohort (10,000 babies and their
 families) funded in the UK for almost two decades. The information gathered will provide important
 evidence to improve the health and wellbeing of children and their families within LCR. In addition,
 the LCR has provided £5.2M for the Civic Data Cooperative to integrate health data across the
 region.
 2.2.3 Linking the global and the local
 A key feature of our work is research that links the global and local. For example, the Materials
 Innovation Factory (opened 2017) builds on regional strengths and history in materials science
 and global partnerships (Unilever) (see UoA 8 and 4.4). The Centre for the Study of International
 Slavery links Liverpool’s complex trading history to contemporary slavery and its prevention,
 working with local partners (The International Slavery Museum) as well as partners across West
 and Central Africa (see: UoA 19 and UoA 26). The Centre of Excellence in Infectious Diseases
 Research (CEIDR) co-ordinates research activity between our University, Liverpool School of
 Tropical Medicine, NHS Trusts and industry partners. Antimicrobial resistance is a priority area for
 CEIDR and, uniquely amongst UK AMR Centres, Liverpool researchers focus on precision dosing
 of antimicrobials (see UoA 1).
 2.3 Developing interdisciplinary work
 Our seven broad interdisciplinary themes bring together international excellence to address key
 contemporary challenges:
 • Advanced Materials – building on the success of our Materials Innovation Factory, this theme
     links research across multiple sciences with projects combining AI, Robotics, Chemistry and
     Biology. See UoAs 8, 9, 11 and 12.
 • Climate futures – building on long standing expertise this new theme brings together research
     across all three faculties to address the challenge of climate change and net zero carbon,
     focusing on the science, societal response and solutions. See UoAs 6, 7, 8, 12, 13, 14, 15, 27
     and 28.
 • Digital – this theme brings together research across all three faculties to harness the digital
     revolution to help deliver better health, social justice and industrial competitiveness. See UoAs
     1, 2, 4, 11, 18, 20, 22, 26, 27, 30 and 34.
 • Heritage – this theme brings together research from the humanities and social sciences to
     explore how a better understanding of the past helps create a more prosperous, fair and
     healthy world for everyone. See UoAs 13, 15, 19, 26, 28, 33 and 34.
 • Infectious Diseases – this theme builds on a century of work at Liverpool that brings together
     medical and veterinary science with a focus on emerging infectious diseases and zoonoses.
     See UoAs 1, 2, and 6.
 • Personalised Health – this theme brings together the breadth of clinical sciences to deliver a
     personalised approach to medical treatment that maximises efficacy and improves patient
     quality of life. See UoAs 1, 2, 8 and 11.




                                                                                                 Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 •   Starting Well, Living Well, Ageing Well – linking research across all three faculties, this recently
     established theme aims to ensure that fair and equal access to the benefits of world-leading
     research can reach everyone throughout their lives. See UoAs 1, 2, 4, 17, 18, 26, and 27.
 Institutional themes have a central budget and have professional services support from University
 and faculty teams. RPI manages a range of ‘pump-priming’ funds designed to support research
 innovations across our priority areas (see Section 4).
 2.4 Impact strategy
 Developing and capturing research impact is built into all levels of support. To ensure sustainability
 of the impact agenda we have introduced Faculty Impact Officers and Support PDRA roles (HLS:
 5 HSS: 5; S&E: 3). RPI manages and supports the wide range of central Knowledge Exchange
 and Impact funding programmes that underpin delivery of impact across the research portfolio
 (see Section 4). We take a three-fold approach to our Knowledge Exchange (KE) strategy:
 1. To equip all academics with the skills to undertake KE through the flagship Making an Impact
     skills development series (see 3.3) and investing in expertise and systems including specialist
     capability in commercialisation and consultancy (see 4.1.2).
 2. To focus intensive activities on our distinctive research strengths, which attract clusters of
     talent, resources and partners to create greater opportunities for KE. This includes major joint
     investments in infrastructure (see 4.4) plus integrating KE and impact within our research
     themes (see 4.1.2).
 3. To catalyse further KE through student enterprise opportunities, including multiple
     competitions involving more than 250 students in collaboration with Unilever.
 2.5 Open data and open science
 We are committed to open and transparent practices in research conduct and outputs. Our Library
 team has been proactive in developing open science internally and nationally. It is our goal that
 all research outputs are quickly made freely available online with as permissive a re-use licence
 as possible. We provide tools and support to enable researchers to engage with open science and
 highlight the Plan S ‘whitelist’ for open access journals. To make our archived research data easily
 found and cited we utilise the Datacite service to assign DOIs to datasets in our Research Data
 Catalogue. We maintain a range of Open Access subscriptions including SCOAP3 consortium and
 Open Library of Humanities membership and we are members of the Digital Preservation
 Coalition.
 2.6 Research integrity/Reproducibility
 In 2017 we made a commitment to follow the Concordat on Research Integrity recommendations.
 As such, we became one of the first 12 academic members of the United Kingdom Reproducibility
 Network. Research integrity is a formal core training requirement for all research staff and PGRs.
 We are also piloting digital tools, such as electronic notebooks and active data archives, to improve
 and support good research integrity practice.


 3. People
 3.1 Overall strategy
 We support and develop staff at all career stages, detailed in the ‘People’ strand of our Strategy
 2026. This includes our Equality Framework that sets high expectations for equality, diversity and
 inclusivity, and covers staff recruitment, retention and progression; diversity competence and
 representation, employer of choice and family friendly culture. This commitment is led by the PVC
 Research and Impact. In 2020 we have successfully retained the HR Excellence in Research
 Award, reflecting our commitment to a sector leading role in addressing EDI issues and developing
 research staff. We are working to address the full range of development needs for colleagues at
 all levels from “cradle to chair”, recognising that this includes supporting the many researchers
 who develop careers outside of HE.
 3.2 Responses to REF2014 and charter commitments
 Our REF2014 Equality Impact Assessment identified three issues to review: a relatively low
 proportion of staff within minority groups within the eligible population; using the analysis of

                                                                                                  Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 equality data provided to identify any potential concerns over quality assessment decisions; and
 a need to understand lower submission rates for older women academics. We responded with
 numerous activities to support colleagues from all backgrounds.
 We have formalised our commitments through membership of the following charters: Athena
 SWAN Charter; Bambis Breastfeeding Mayoral Charter; Disability Confident; Stonewall Diversity
 Champion, Time to Change and moving to Level 2 Disability Confident. We support a range of
 fora involving research staff in supporting, developing and addressing diversity and equality
 issues. These include the Black & Minority Ethnic Staff Network, the Disabled Staff Network, the
 Female Early Career Researcher Network, Liverpool Women in Science and Engineering Society
 (LivWiSE) and the LGBT Network.
 Our ‘Supporting the Female Early Career Researcher’ network (established 2013) explores the
 unique challenges and opportunities for women. In 2020 we committed to sign up to Advance
 HE’s Race Equality Charter with the explicit goal of eliminating racial disparities for our staff and
 students. Our initial submission will take place in spring 2021.
 We joined the Stonewall Diversity Champions programme in 2009 and are a Diversity Champion
 member. The LGBT Network is a forum for consultation between LGBTQ staff, PGR students and
 the University's governing body. In 2013 and 2014 the LGBT Network won a Stonewall Star
 Performer Network Group Award. We were designated a Disability Confident Employer in 2016 in
 the Government’s Disability Confident Charter - a commitment to supporting disabled people into
 employment, retaining and developing disabled employees.
 Disclosure of individual circumstances to ensure time away from research is considered within
 annual Professional Development and Review. EDI assessment is embedded within University
 research planning and practices especially regarding assessment of research and preparations
 for REF2021. To monitor the impact of our support and planning we annually undertake analyses
 of ongoing research assessment process as set out under our Research Policy Principles. This
 has already informed best practice around REF2021 preparations, decision-making and planning
 (see 3.8). Over the census period we have established EDI committees with research as a key
 focus at department, school and faculty level.
 3.3 New initiatives
 3.3.1   The Academy
 To deliver on our commitment to support colleagues at all career stages, we inaugurated ‘The
 Academy’ – a team focused on excellence in organisational and academic development. The
 Academy works in partnership with research stakeholders including the N8, Russell Group fora
 (Researchers14), UKRSA, Vitae, and the European Educational Research Association. Academy
 programmes cover research management and leadership from first steps to senior strategic
 leadership (see 3.4). 152 ECRs have completed its programme for those developing their first
 research team. The Academy actively engages with the UK and Liverpool Research Staff
 Associations (RSA), which provide a representative voice for all PDRA staff. The RSA local ECR
 networks help to coordinate central and faculty support for researcher development. Membership
 of these networks reflects the diversity of these staff groups.
 The Academy oversees our delivery of the UK Concordat Action Plan. This builds on our own
 Statement of Expectations for Principal Investigators and Research Staff, which defines
 responsibilities focused on embedding development and professional practice. We led on
 developing and became a signatory of the Technician Commitment in October 2017. The
 Academy coordinates action plans for this and our ‘HR Excellence in Research’.
 3.3.2   Developing ECRs
 To support new researchers, we have developed a strong programme of Tenure Track Early
 Career Fellowships, including the Derby Tenure Track Fellowship scheme (HSS), Royal Society
 Fellowships in Chemistry (S&E) and numerous schemes, including a Wellcome Trust Fellowship
 programme supported in HLS. These programmes competitively offer five-year research
 fellowships leading to permanent academic positions. We have seven UKRI Future Leaders
 Fellowships across all three Faculties.
 The Academy’s annual ‘Making an Impact’ programme supports staff, especially ECRs, to develop
 their multi-disciplinary research and impact knowledge, skills and competencies. The framework

                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 consists of impact clusters relating to the REF; knowledge and skills framed around KEF and the
 Industrial Strategy foci. In 2020, 58 development sessions were attended by 650 individual
 research staff including 165 ECRs.
 We have invested in 113 ‘Early Career Researcher and Returners Fund’ awards. Open to ECRs
 and those returning to research this enables career development and re-establishing of career
 trajectories. This has led to significant outputs such as UKRI FLF fellowships and the development
 of REF impact case studies.
 We are leading an innovative new project: ‘Prosper: Unlocking Postdoc career potential’. This
 £4.4M project, funded via the first award from Research England’s RED fund, is designed to boost
 the success of postdoctoral researchers inside and outside of academia. In collaboration with the
 Universities of Lancaster and Manchester, and in coordination with the N8, Prosper is developing
 a programme to provide researchers with the broader capabilities and attributes needed to thrive
 in multiple careers. The unique approach of Prosper includes PI development alongside PDRA
 development, co-creation of development tools with industry and other stakeholders; and placing
 equality, diversity and inclusivity at its heart.
 3.3.3   Post COVID-19 planning
 In response to the COVID-19 pandemic we have sought to address the effects on staff, research
 and impact, and consider its substantive EDI impacts. Concurrently, the external research
 landscape is changing, due to COVID-19 but also Brexit and government R&D policy. We are
 undertaking a two-year institutional ‘big conversation’ project focused on delivering ‘Research in
 an Inclusive and Sustainable Environment (RISE). RISE is fundamental to understanding how we
 might collectively prepare for and co-create our response to these challenges. RISE will listen to
 staff through multiple channels, to inform a range of reports and policy proposals for the future
 research environment and staff support.
 For the current academic year, we have pooled and simplified funding across all HEIF pump
 priming schemes (see Section 4) to target partners on two large scale challenges:
     1. Long-term impacts from the COVID-19 crisis
     2. Accelerating towards a Net Zero Carbon future with a local or global impact
 3.4 Athena SWAN
 We joined the Athena SWAN charter in 2009 and received an Institutional Silver award in 2016.
 The University holds a Gold award (Institute of Integrative Biology, 2017) and six Silver and seven
 Bronze departmental awards. Athena SWAN action plans have driven various activities to address
 the staff gender pay gap, including the introduction of family friendly advisors to provide an initial
 point of contact for staff with questions on parental and adoption, policy and support for carers
 and for those undergoing fertility treatments.
 We have encouraged the broadest range of applications for promotion and converted them to
 successful outcomes for all qualified staff. Actions have included ensuring representative panel
 memberships and unconscious bias training, mentoring and promotions workshops, personal
 feedback for unsuccessful candidates and new online resources. There has been strong
 engagement with Academy’s development activities, with proportionally much higher attendance
 at leadership training by women academics. We have provided access to the women only Aurora
 Leadership Programme (71) and the Springboard Careers Programme (31). In the period 90% of
 women applying for Senior Lecturer, Reader and Professor were successful compared to 85% of
 men. Overall, we have increased our percentage of women professors from 18% to 25%. With the
 proportions in HLS (33%) and HSS (32%) being above the sector benchmark of 25%.
 3.5 Developing PGRs
 We are recognised by HEFCE as having one of England’s highest doctoral completion rates.
 PGRs are supported by a combination of faculty and University teams. Over the REF period our
 annual PGR completions have increased by 64%. The Liverpool Doctoral College (LDC),
 alongside faculties and the Academy provides the core innovative doctoral training relevant to all
 disciplinary areas. The LDC also manages and oversees our international joint and collaborative
 PGR programmes, including those based at XJTLU. We currently have 24 externally funded
 Centres for Doctoral Training and Doctoral Training Programmes running. These are matched
 with University-wide sector leading programmes. The Engage@Liverpool programme is a cross-

                                                                                                Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 faculty research and methods training initiative. We are a partner in the cutting edge ESRC-funded
 National Centre for Research Methods.
 We have developed a substantive cross-faculty PGR Peer Wellbeing Ambassador Network
 building on a Catalyst funded pilot project, with 34 PGR wellbeing ambassadors and 11 staff
 scheme leads. The project advocates a bespoke approach to PGR mental health and wellbeing
 and provides peer-support and non-supervisor contacts for PGRs. All ambassadors receive
 mental health and wellbeing support training. PGR student mental health training is mandatory for
 supervisors.
 3.6 Use of metrics
 Having signed the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA), our protocols on
 assessment explicitly state that we do not permit the use of journal-based indicators when judging
 research quality. This has been integrated into our REF Code of Practice. During 2020 we have
 developed a full strategy to implement responsible metrics based on DORA, ‘The Metric Tide’ and
 the ‘Leiden Manifesto’. This strategy includes comprehensive training and support for key staff
 involved in research assessment.
 3.7 REF submission
 We have included EDI in all aspects of the REF submission process. The full details are laid out
 in the University REF Code of Practice. Three key components are:
 1. EDI training for all staff with REF2021 decision making responsibilities via a mixed portfolio
      of content and delivery, including commissioning specific Advance HE equality training for
      over 100 staff involved in research assessment and leadership. This training has been
      converted to online modules to further support staff and disseminate good practice.
 2. Regular ongoing and final EDI assessments of internal research assessment processes,
      REF processes and selections. This work has led to regular updates and support for
      colleagues involved in REF process, informed the composition of REF selection panels and
      REF decision making groups.
 3. Cross UoA oversight of process and meetings, particularly regarding the impact of EDI
      issues.
 The results of these actions and the outcome of EDI assessments have been regularly reported
 to University Senior Leadership team, Senate and Council.


 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 4.1 University research support
 Overall academic leadership rests with the PVC for Research and Impact supported by three
 Faculty APVCs for Research and Impact and a central APVC for Research Environment and
 Postgraduate research. Our central RPI directorate provides professional services support at
 every stage of the research, impact and knowledge exchange process. RPI works in close
 partnership with faculty research support and other professional services teams.
 4.1.1 Funding applications and award management.
 The RPI team proactively identifies important UK and overseas funding opportunities for the
 University that can support larger, long-term research projects. Recent key priorities have included
 the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund, the Global Challenges Research Fund and the Newton
 Fund. The team actively unites cross-faculty research teams for these strategic bids providing
 project management support to develop compelling proposals.
 The team is key in managing peer-review and process for ‘pump-priming’ of new research and
 impact projects and teams using central funds (HEIF/dedicated QR). It has dedicated support for
 critical internal proposal peer-review for major funding programmes, especially those with demand
 management requirements (UKRI, Leverhulme, Wellcome), including interviews to maximize the
 chance of success for strategic bids. The team manages our institutional Peer Review College
 and coordinates action around key funding such as GCRF. The team has developed various
 measures to assess EDI aspects of central support and central facilities provision, including
 tracking the EDI characteristics of QR allocations. Such assessments form a key part of RISE (see
 3.3.3)

                                                                                              Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 The effectiveness of this support is exemplified by the success of our UKRI Future Leaders
 Fellowship (FLF) scheme applicants. We currently hold 5 FLF grants and select candidates in an
 open and transparent fashion via a ‘demand management panel’. Potential candidates get
 bespoke feedback. This includes feedback and support for ECRs not selected, enabling them to
 improve future applications. Those selected to apply to the UKRI FLF scheme attend sessions
 providing practical information, timelines for proposal development, support from academic
 colleagues who sit on FLF panels and from previous successful applicants. Each candidate is
 assigned a named RPI contact who advises on interpreting the guidance, and reviews the
 application, providing feedback. The contact liaises with UKRI on behalf of applicants. The same
 team supports response to reviewers, interview coaching and hosts a mock interview for each
 candidate. Similar support structures are provided around GCRF and ODA funding leading to
 significant outcomes such as the AHRC ‘The Antislavery Knowledge Network’ (see Section 2).
 4.1.2 Knowledge exchange, impact and collaborations.
 Working closely with Faculties, the RPI team supports all of impact and knowledge exchange
 activities across the University. Support includes:
 • Consultancy (including a dedicated IT support system)
 • Continuing Professional Development
 • Facilities, equipment and testing services for partners and business
 • Extensive support for Intellectual Property Commercialisation
 • Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and Knowledge Transfer Network activities
 • Strategic public engagement and public policy and framework activities
 Since 2014 these support activities have become established across all three faculties. The RPI
 Consultancy Team was named KE Team of the Year at the PraxisAuril KE awards in 2020 and
 supports 250-300 projects per annum with a combined value of £2.5 to £3M.
 The RPI team, working with faculties, supports and manages relationships with regional, national
 and international external partners spanning not-for-profit, public and private spheres. The team
 also handles legal, contractual and logistical aspects of visits, events, exchanges and collaborative
 research projects and supports our key international relationships (described in Section 2) plus
 local partnerships (see Sections 2 and 3). The work of the team was recognised in 2017 with the
 UKRI/Praxis Unico best partnership award for their work with Tate Liverpool. This partnership is
 built around common goals of broadening participation in art and culture and increasing impact
 among diverse audiences. It brings a rich variety of research perspectives to Tate’s exhibitions -
 from our Computer Scientists’ working robots in Tate’s Cécile B. Evans exhibition to our
 Egyptologists inspiring creative responses to the Book of the Dead.
 This work has led to significant KE and impact success across our research themes and faculty
 portfolios. For example, in Advanced Materials the longstanding collaboration with Unilever led to
 the establishment of the Materials Innovation Factory (MIF) in 2018 (see 4.4). Catalysed by an
 unprecedented return to Unilever of £16m (2006-17) and seven major product innovations
 delivered to market based on molecules developed through the collaboration. Commercialisation
 based on this work has led to three advanced materials spinouts in last three years. In Infectious
 Diseases, KE and impact support underpinned the development of CEIDR (see 2.2). The Tandem
 Nano spinout develops novel formulations of drugs for HIV, Malaria, Tuberculosis and Hepatitis C
 and is the commercial partner on a Unitaid grant of $32 million to develop Long Acting Injectables.
 Our Heritage theme has developed multiple engagements to support the Liverpool cultural and
 creative sectors, a visitor economy worth £4.9bn and 57,000 jobs in LCR. This includes
 longstanding collaborations with National Museums Liverpool and Tate as well as supporting
 Aberdeen Asset Management and Gower Street Estates’ future strategy for the Albert Dock, a key
 heritage asset.
 In Digital the RPI team helped to secure a joint study agreement with IBM in 2018. This has
 delivered over £10.3M in collaborative projects, with in addition a £1M ‘in kind’ commitment to
 support an EPSRC ‘Big hypothesis’ research programme. We host an IBM visiting Professor in
 Industrially Applied AI, and IBM will support a co-branded laboratory in the new Digital Innovation
 Facility (see 4.2.1). The Virtual Engineering Centre (VEC) supports SMEs to capitalise on
 opportunities provided by digital technologies and through the £4.4m LCR4.0 programme. This
 has supported over 300 enterprises and 40 new businesses and is set to generate £31m GVA

                                                                                               Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 and 955 jobs over the next three years. Our new ‘Starting Well, Living Well and Ageing Well’ theme
 is working with Liverpool City Council on its Child Friendly City initiative and the C-GULL
 programme (see 2.2.2).
 4.2 Facilities and collaborative infrastructure
 Our commitment to providing researchers the best possible resources is seen in the exceptionally
 high proportion of budget allocated to acquiring library resources. This is a third higher than the
 Russell Group mean, representing the eighth largest level of expenditure on information resources
 in the UK. Arts and Humanities researchers are particularly well supported by a printed book
 collection that is the sixth largest in the country. This collection strength allows us to contribute to
 the research environment worldwide – we are currently the only UK institution contributing to an
 Ivy League members-led inter-library loan coalition. This ensures our researchers have
 significantly quicker access to material held elsewhere than peers at other UK institutions. Our
 Special Collections & Archives have been fundamental in establishing new research centres and
 supporting the efforts of researchers far beyond our own institution, with visits from external
 researchers increasing year-on-year through 2014-2019.
 We are part of the N8 Research Partnership between 8 of the UK’s top 30 universities in the North
 of England, which generates 88% of all Northern HE research income of £1.2 billion per year.
 Major collaborative N8 programmes we support are the £16M N8 AgriFood Resilience
 Programme; the £7.5M N8 Policing Research Partnership working with 11 police forces; the
 £1.25M DecarboN8 programme for low carbon transport solutions; and the £1.6M N8 Industry
 Innovation Forums. Shared resources include the new Centre of Excellence in Computationally
 Intensive Research.
 We support an extensive range of collaborative and shared infrastructure. An exemplar is the
 Malawi-Liverpool-Wellcome Trust Clinical Research Programme. This links local significant
 infrastructure (see 4.2.1) with the CREATOR building in Malawi (£10M) to support Postgraduate
 training of African clinical and non-clinical scientists. A significant example from S&E is the
 Condensed Matter cluster leading the UK Materials Science CRG synchrotron beamline, XMaS,
 at the European Synchrotron Radiation Source (ESRF) in Grenoble. In HSS we share
 collaborative research infrastructure, such as our Elizabeth Slater Archaeological Research
 Laboratories and exhibition facilities, with our NML and Tate partners. Our Victoria Gallery and
 Museum provides shared resources and infrastructure for both local and international scholars
 and practitioners.
 4.2.1 Capital and facilities investments
 Over the period we have invested over £200M in research capital infrastructure, for example:
 • Materials Innovation Factory (MIF) in S&E is an £82M investment in estate, equipment and
     staff. The MIF utilises computer aided materials science and high-throughput automation to
     develop new materials science approaches, re-thinking and updating potential applications.
     The MIF houses the Leverhulme Research Centre for Functional Materials Design, created to
     drive a design revolution for functional materials at the atomic scale.
 • We and LCR Combined Authority have invested in a new Digital Innovation Facility. This £12M
     investment in estate, facilities and staff will establish DIF within our campus as a centre of
     excellence in simulation and virtual reality. It will focus on three priority sectors where LCR has
     competitive advantage: advanced manufacturing and engineering, low carbon energy and
     digital industries.
 • The new £22M Yoko Ono Lennon Centre, opening in 2021, will house the 400-seat Tung
     Auditorium with space for a 70-piece orchestra. The Centre offers a significant enhancement
     of the University’s arts research environment and will support the current interdisciplinary work
     between Music, S&E and the PRiSM Centre at the Royal Northern College of Music. The
     Auditorium will provide a unique environment for our practice-based researchers making it
     possible to stage the work of our own composers and performers.




                                                                                                  Page 9
