Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Institution: University of Southampton

 1. Context and mission

 1.1 Wider context
 A comprehensive, research-intensive University with a strong international focus and a founding
 member of the Russell Group, employing 6,000+ staff and educating 25,000+ students annually.
 Located in one of the world’s most important port cities, it is the second largest employer in the
 area and contributes strongly to the region’s economy and social fabric. The University provides
 research expertise for local businesses, widens access to higher education, especially from
 disadvantaged communities, and is an important arts centre. A report by Biggar Economics
 (2018) estimated that the University generates a Gross Value-Added contribution to the UK of
 £2,500M/year and supports 33,000 jobs.




                     World-wide research collaborations from the last five years

 1.2 Mission and Strategy
 The University updated its strategy in 2016 as a community exercise and a refresh is planned in
 2021 (see COVID annex). We remain committed to our mission to “Change the World for the
 Better” with this vision:
    “Our University community is committed to the highest quality in everything we do. We have
    a global reputation for our passion and ability to work collaboratively in delivering world class
    education, research and innovation that makes a real impact on society’s biggest challenges.
    Our exceptional students share in these journeys of discovery and become confident
    thinkers who can realise their full potential”.
 Core principles are:
    •   Collegiality: one team, working, planning and delivering together, towards our shared
        vision.
    •   Quality: always striving to achieve the highest quality in everything we do.


                                                                                              Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
     •    Internationalisation: delivering across global markets and building strong partnerships
          with other leading universities.

     •    Sustainability: ensuring our actions lead to financial, social and environmental
          sustainability.

 1.3 Structure and Governance
 The University is led by the President & Vice-Chancellor, Professor Mark E. Smith.

         Council
                                President &
                              Vice-Chancellor
         Senate
                                                            University
                                                         Executive Board



    Vice-President
                              Vice-President             Vice-President                                     Chief Operating
     Research &                                                                   Deans of Faculty
                                Education                 International                                         Officer
      Enterprise



   University Strategic Interdisciplinary Research                    Faculties                   Professional Services
                        Institutes
                                                                   Arts & Humanities           Engagement & Advancement
            Institute for Life Sciences (IfLS)
  Southampton Institute for Arts and Humanities (SIAH)      Engineering & Physical Sciences         Estates & Facilities
    Southampton Marine & Maritime Institute (SMMI)           Environmental & Life Sciences     Finance, Planning & Analytics
              Web Science Institute (WSI)                                                           Human Resources
                                                                       Medicine
                   Zepler Institute (ZI)                                                                 iSolutions
                                                                    Social Sciences
                                                                                                    Student Experience
       University Strategic Research Groups
   Autonomous Systems (sensors & communications)
     NEXUS+ (demand for water, energy and food)                                                      Change Portfolio Office
     Global NAMRIP (anti-microbial resistance and                                                      Faculty Operations
                infection prevention)                                                                   General Counsel
                                                                                                      Health, Safety & Risk
           Interdisciplinary Research Units
                                                                                                     Research & Innovation
      Centre for Higher Education Practice (CHEP)
                                                                                                            Services
     Public Engagement with Research unit (PERu)
           Public Policy|Southampton (PP|S)


 Senate, chaired by the President, oversees academic strategy and performance. The Council,
 consisting of twelve lay members, five members of staff elected by Senate, the Students’ Union
 President, the President and one of the Vice-Presidents, provides overall governance, including
 responsibility for financial performance and reporting.
 Academic staff and more than 300 degree programmes are organised into five Faculties,
 reduced from eight following a restructuring in August 2018. Three cross-cutting academic
 portfolios, Research & Enterprise, Education and International, are held by Vice-Presidents.
 Faculties, led by executive Deans, consist of one or more Schools with subsidiary departments.
 Associate Deans lead portfolios mirroring those of the Vice-Presidents. Additional leaderships is
 provided by five Associate Vice-Presidents (AVPs) with focused portfolios.
 The academic mission is supported by Professional Services led by the Chief Operating Officer
 (COO), organised into six executive directorates and five stand-alone services. The President,
 Vice-Presidents, Deans, COO and Executive Directors of Finance and Human Resources
 constitute the University Executive Board (UEB) which provides the executive leadership of the
 University.


                                                                                                                        Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 1.4 Balance between research and teaching activities
 We are one of the most evenly balanced universities in the UK between education, research
 (and enterprise) with, in financial terms, a combined research and enterprise economy of £232M
 (2019/20) amounting to 40% of turnover and £284M (49%) for educational activities. Over the
 REF period, turnover has grown by 30% from £447M to £583M (2019/20).




 1.5 Institutional history and research focus
 Founded as the Hartley Institution in 1862, the University gained its Royal Charter in 1952.
 Consistent with our strategy, we strive for quality throughout our research that is comparable
 with the highest international standards.
 Throughout our history we have sought to innovate in research and education, including world-
 class landmarks that have inspired other institutions across the globe:
    •   First electronics department in the world (1947);
    •   Institute of Sound and Vibration Research (1965);
    •   Pioneering work in Cancer Immunology and Developmental Origins of Health and
        Disease (1970s);

    •   First UK medical programme with students interacting with patients throughout (1972);
    •   Optoelectronics Research Centre (1989);
    •   Centre for Operational Research, Management Sciences and Information Systems
        founded (1997) after more than 30 years of research in this field;
    •   Southampton Statistical Sciences Research Institute (2003).




                                                                                             Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 We were early innovators in Geographical Information Systems and continue to lead in the field
 of Web Science. We combine strengths in computing, marine geophysics, history, environmental
 science, ship science and archaeology to be world-leading in maritime archaeology. Social
 Statistics and Demography includes the ESRC Centre for Population Change - the largest
 demography group in the UK - and the National Centre for Research Methods, a focal point for
 national research and training. Music, leveraged by our sound and vibration research, is an
 internationally-recognised centre of excellence for research. This combination of a proud history
 and ongoing innovation leads to vibrant research activity across all disciplines.
 All disciplines, departments and schools have high levels of research activity. Of our 2606 FTE
 academic staff, 80% have balanced (education and research) or research-led contracts
 (hereafter collectively referred to as “researchers”) with the expectation they will be research-
 active; 15% follow education-led and 5% enterprise-led pathways (see §3.1). As described in our
 Code of Practice (CoP), all balanced and independent research-led staff with significant
 responsibility for research (1313 FTE) are included in our REF 2021 submission.




 A 70-strong team, Research & Innovation Services (RIS), facilitates academic collaborations,
 industrial interactions, knowledge-exchange and the commercialisation of intellectual property
 (IP). RIS also supports the academic community through dedicated teams for research funding
 development, research contracts, research governance & integrity and enabling impact.

 2. Strategy

 2.1 Strategic goals and achievements to 2020
 The 2010 strategy described our future ambitions and priorities with excellence in research at
 the core of our ambition. Our strategic goals for delivering research excellence and
 achievements during this assessment period included:
    •   Developing existing world-class research with all disciplines contributing to our
        ambition to achieve a top-10 performance in the REF. We placed 18th for GPA (Grade
        Point Average), 8th for research intensity and 11th for research power in REF 2014 with
        top-5 power rankings in five UOAs and top-5 GPA rankings in five.


                                                                                            Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

    •   Attracting, developing and retaining high-achieving staff
        Global searches for potential leaders in all areas of activity. University Fellowships attract
        leading international researchers including Nobel Laureate, Professor Brian Schmidt
        from 2014-2017.

    •   Supporting innovative research across disciplines to address global challenges
        Achievements include, amongst others, Professor Emma Tompkins, lead-author of
        Chapter 29, Small Islands, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) (2018);
        and WorldPop providing spatial demographic datasets for researchers and policymakers
        in Latin America, Africa and Asia to support development, disaster-response and health.
    •   Increasing income from research grants
        3,890 research grants awarded during the REF period totalling £890M.

    •   Supporting and increasing our early career researchers and postgraduate
        research students through institution-wide “career-track” fellowship schemes and
        scholarships.

 2.2 Strategy to 2026
 Our 2016 strategy, underpinned by a 10-Year Plan, has a research and enterprise vision to:
    “Consolidate our position as a world-leading research-intensive university, increasing our
    profile for generating knowledge and technologies that have real economic and social
    benefits for the world. We will produce high quality research and, through our distinctive
    interdisciplinary approach, focus on addressing society’s greatest challenges.”
 The strategy ensures our research underpins our education activities and that we win funding
 that maximises the research we can sustainably undertake. It comprises six focus areas:
    •   People: Developing and recruiting world-leading academic staff and doctoral students
        and supporting them through their career journey to secure funding and undertake world-
        changing research.
    •   Sustainability: Recovering a greater portion of direct- and indirect-costs by rebalancing
        our funder-mix, producing accurate full-economic costing and charging for commercial
        research based on market-price, not cost.
    •   Enterprise and Impact: Enhancing the distinctiveness of our strong enterprise
        ecosystem within a strategic framework to deliver impactful research, diversify income
        streams and provide valuable opportunities for staff and students.
    •   Professional Services support: Strengthening interfaces between directorates and
        internal and external stakeholders, including two dedicated units, PERu and PP|S (§2.9)
        to support public engagement and impact.
    •   Interdisciplinary research: Growing our interdisciplinary research, developing our
        institutes and providing an environment that stimulates such activities.
    •   International: Ensuring our research is positioned to enhance our international profile with
        academic, government and corporate partners and to influence opinion-formers and
        policymakers.




                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2.3 Enabling Impact
 We have a strong track-record of generating high levels of impact through translational research
 across almost all disciplines. Consistent with the principles of the Knowledge Exchange
 Concordat, our Enterprise & Impact (E&I) strategy recognises the diversity of activities within the
 University ecosystem, including:
     •   Business acceleration and incubation
     •   Consultancy
     •   Continuing professional development
     •   Corporate partnerships
     •   Enterprise units
     •   IP protection and licensing
     •   Public engagement
     •   Public policy impact
     •   Spinout companies
     •   Student enterprise
 The E&I strategy is overseen by the Southampton Enterprise Board (SEB) chaired by the VP
 Research & Enterprise (VPRE). Each Faculty has an E&I board reporting to SEB and convenes
 IP panels to pursue patenting and licensing. The strategy recognises the distinction between:
    (i) Commercial enterprise activities - expected to return a financial surplus to the University in
    addition to delivering impact;
    (ii) Other activities associated with developing an enterprise ecosystem and delivering
    impact, including business incubation, student enterprise, public policy and public
    engagement.
 Commercial enterprise income (consultancy, facilities, regeneration, CPD and IP) grew by £17M
 (39%) between 2013/14 and 2018/19 to £61M/year, the second highest in the sector, and at
 10.4% of turnover, the highest proportion in the Russell Group (source: HEBCIS).
 Investment in ecosystem development and impact is largely provided through the Higher
 Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) (£4.4M in 2019/20) and Impact Acceleration Accounts
 (EPSRC £3.9M, 2017-2021; ESRC £1M, 2019-2023; STFC £120k, 2019-2020).
 Since 2013/14 the University has ranked first or second in the UK for the financial value of its
 consultancy and engagement with small and medium-sized companies (HEBCIS). Much of our
 E&I activity is regionally-focused:
     •   Founding member of SETsquared (with Bath, Bristol, Exeter and Surrey universities),
         ranked by UBI Global as the World Top Business Incubator managed by a university
         since 2015;

     •   University Science Park hosts ~100 companies, employing over 1500 people;
     •   Student Union-affiliated Enactus Southampton crowned UK national champion five times
         since 2012 and world champion in 2015;



                                                                                               Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
     •   Future Worlds, a unique on-campus startup accelerator, nurtures aspiring entrepreneurs
         to move technologies to commercialisation. It has supported 150+ projects, launching
         50+ student/staff startups. These have raised £7M+ equity investment at a valuation
         £40M+ and employ 100+ people;
     •   Four Royal Society-funded entrepreneurs-in-residence provide guidance and advice on
         commercialisation and business engagement;
     •   ICURe (Innovation to Commercialisation of University Research) provides nationwide
         support for potential university startups. Aims include improving the entrepreneurial skills
         of ECRs and strengthening links between academic and industrial communities. Initiated
         from Southampton in 2014 within SETsquared, £38M has been invested in supporting
         342 teams, leading to the creation of 111 new companies and 500+ jobs in the UK.
 Our interdisciplinary research units also support impact (§2.6).

 2.4 Open Research
 The University is a leader in open research, open access (OA) publishing and archiving. Our
 “EPrints” platform is used by 675+ institutional and subject repositories worldwide. The Open
 Research Group (ORG), comprising the Library’s Associate Director, VPRE, Associate Deans
 Research and academic, post-graduate and professional representatives, oversees institutional
 OA and research data management policies. Institutional policy and guidance on responsible
 research metrics were established ahead of signing DORA in 2019. ORG leads the University’s
 contribution to national and international OA policy and infrastructure, allocates funds for OA
 publishing, monitors compliance with policies and ensures wide engagement with best practice.
 Original research outputs are increasingly published and available via open access, growing
 from 83% (2016/17) to 87% (2019/20).

 2.5 Regional and national priorities
 We are strongly engaged with regional and national research agendas including research
 councils, national academies and government departments (e.g. appointments of Chief Scientific
 Advisors to the Food Standards Agency and for National Security). Regionally we have close
 relationships with the EM3 and Solent Local Enterprise Partnerships, and with SETsquared and
 the Science and Engineering South (SES) Consortium; our two previous Presidents served a
 combined five-year term on the Solent LEP board and VPRE is board member for SETsquared
 and SES.
 We lead, or strongly engage with many major national research priorities, including the Faraday
 Institution, Future Flight (Aerospace Technology Institute), Alan Turing Institute, Rosalind
 Franklin Institute, the UK Collaboratorium for Research into Infrastructure and Cities and have
 close relationships with national capabilities such as the National Oceanography Centre,
 Diamond Light Source and the Francis Crick Institute. Engagement is commonly through our
 interdisciplinary units.

 2.6 Interdisciplinary research and collaboration
 With a longstanding commitment to interdisciplinary research, we maintain low barriers between
 Faculties, Schools and Departments, with much cross-disciplinary activity evolving organically
 and becoming distinctive parts of the University (§1.5). Since 2013 we have considered specific
 needs and opportunities requiring an interdisciplinary approach. Building on existing strengths,



                                                                                               Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 this resulted in the creation of five new University Strategic Interdisciplinary Research Institutes
 (USIRIs):
     •   Institute for Life Sciences (IfLS)
     •   Southampton Institute for Arts and Humanities (SIAH)
     •   Southampton Marine and Maritime Institute (SMMI)
     •   Web Science Institute (WSI)
     •   Zepler Institute (ZI)
 Each USIRI is led by a Director and advised by a strategic advisory board chaired by the VPRE
 and including the Deans. Each institute represents a research community of 200+ members,
 focusing their research and embedding them in a network spanning the University and beyond,
 and playing an important role in generating impact and reputational benefit. We have invested
 ~£2M/year in the USIRIs and received an estimated 200% ROI. Conceived during the REF
 period and launched in November 2020, SIAH will raise the visibility and identity of arts and
 humanities research to our local, national and international audiences.
 We actively encourage self-forming University Strategic Research Groups (USRGs),
 interdisciplinary research communities originating from community-led proposals. Focused on
 particular opportunities, USRGs have lifetimes of 3-5 years, each receiving funding of
 ~£20k/year. Currently, there are three such groups, but beyond the interdisciplinary
 infrastructure shown (§1.3), there are 25+ academic and industrial research centres and
 institutes. The interdisciplinary research strategy and its implementation is led by an AVP.
 Additionally, two overarching interdisciplinary strategies have been adopted by UEB: on Life
 Sciences and Environmental Sustainability. These extend beyond interdisciplinary research and
 guide key decisions such as hiring staff, development of educational programmes and
 investment in facilities.

 2.7 International partnerships
 We have prioritised international research engagement, jointly-led by the VPRE and VP
 International. An AVP leads strategic international projects, including research collaborations.
 These are supported by an International Relations team working with RIS (§1.5). Each Faculty
 has an Associate Dean International.
 The University is a member of several strategic international partnerships, including:
     •   Worldwide Universities Network (WUN), a global network of 22 research-intensive
         universities spanning 13 countries.
     •   RENKEI partnership with 12 leading Japanese universities.
     •   Epigen consortium with Singapore and New Zealand.
     •   Confucius Institute in collaboration with Xiamen University.
     •   The Photonics Institute with Nanyang Technological University.
     •   The India Centre for Inclusive Growth and Sustainable Development with business
         partners and policy makers.
     •   University of Southampton Malaysia, delivering research and education in Iskandar.




                                                                                                Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 International research funding (outside UK and EU) increased from 4.1% to 8.5% of total
 research income during the REF period (£4.5M (2013/14), £10.2M (2019/20)). EU funding
 (£17.7M (2019/20)) averaged 16.0% in the same period.
 The proportion of our papers published with international co-authors has grown from 52% during
 the last REF to 58% between 2014 and 2019, indicating an increasingly internationally-
 connected University (Source: SciVal, August 2020).
                                                       Co-authors (%)
                                 International     National      Institutional       None
   Southampton                       58.0            20.3             13.4            8.4
   Russell Group average             54.1            18.8             13.0            14.2

 2.8 Research Integrity
 The University is a signatory to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and has robust
 policies to ensure we maintain the highest standards in research. VPRE chairs the Research
 Integrity & Governance (RIG) Committee comprising Associate Deans Research, and the
 University Research Ethics Committee comprising the chairs of the Faculty Ethics Committees
 and a lay member. Each Faculty has a research ethics committee (chaired by an experienced
 academic and including at least one lay member) and in some cases one or more sub-
 committees covering specialist areas. The committees are supported by a RIG team of seven
 staff and an on-line ethics approval system, ERGO II which processed 5000+ applications from
 staff and students in 2019/20.

 2.9 Community Engagement
 Two Interdisciplinary Research Units support impact delivery:
 1) Public Engagement with Research unit (PERu) is a founding signatory to the UK’s Manifesto
 for Public Engagement and has played a significant role in the sector via the RCUK/UKRI-
 funded Schools University Partnership Initiative (SUPI) (£200k), Catalyst Seed Fund packages
 (£125k), and Strategic Support to Expedite Embedding PER (£98k) programme. The RCUK
 Funding Assurance report 2017-18 noted the University provides “a comprehensive and holistic
 PER support package” for researchers in all disciplines including a seed-fund that has enabled
 impact from 80+ projects.
 PERu delivers diverse public engagement events including the annual Southampton Science
 and Engineering Festival (founded 2004), attracting 8000+ people to engage with researchers
 and projects (155 exhibiting teams in 2019); and the “Human Worlds Festival”, aligned to the
 AHRC-supported, national Being Human programme, which similarly engages the public in arts,
 humanities and social science research. Other initiatives include:
    •   Partnership with the Winchester Science Centre since 2017 to co-create exhibits for
        190,000+ annual visitors.
    •   Activity Mapper (visualises outreach with schools/other publics) has recorded 800+
        events since 2018, maximising the quality, sustainability and impact of public
        engagement.
    •   Building collaborative capacity to support sustainable interactions between the University
        and deprived communities.
    •   Supporting Southampton’s bid for City of Culture 2025.



                                                                                             Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2) Public Policy|Southampton (PP|S) supports the local, national and international public policy
 impact of our research. Four policy experts (supplemented by secondees) operate three key
 themes: stimulating evidence demand in government; supplying evidence; and increasing policy
 engagement capacity amongst the research community. The team’s activities include:
    •   Collaborating with the UK Parliamentary Office for Science and Technology and UK
        government departments, including Chief Scientific Advisors.
    •   Delivering our affiliation with the Cambridge Centre for Science and Policy (CSaP)
        Fellowship scheme.
    •   Delivering PhD and ECR knowledge-exchange secondments to local and national
        government, including Cabinet Office, BEIS, Department for Education, Southampton
        City and Hampshire County Councils.
    •   Delivering Policy|Training sessions and supporting a Policy|Network.

 3. People

 3.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Consistent with the University strategy, we prioritise recruiting and developing world-leading
 academic staff and building strong Professional Services to support them in winning research
 funding and undertaking world-changing research. A revised staffing strategy, “Reward and
 Recognition”, introduced in 2014 provides a framework with six job families ERE, RESN, TAE,
 MSA, CAO and Clinical as illustrated below.




                                                                                          Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 To ensure equity across the University and between staff in different job families, the cumulative
 expectations for capability and performance at each level (1-7) are defined for individuals
 progressing through the pay scale. The ERE job family has four career pathways: balanced,
 education-led, research-led and enterprise-led. Clear descriptors for promotion, based solely on
 merit, exist for each pathway and level, with all ERE staff supported by mentors through the
 promotion process.
 Movement between job families and career pathways is encouraged, reflecting individuals’
 changing interests and institutional requirements. ERE promotions and movements between
 pathways are initially considered within the Faculty and then the University-level Academic
 Promotions Advisory Group, with final approvals by Senate and Council. Promotions and in-level
 transfers at level 6 (Associate Professor-equivalent) and level 7 (Professor) involve an interview
 panel chaired by a member of UEB. All staff are required to have an annual appraisal with their
 line manager recorded via an on-line system. Appraisal outcomes are moderated by the next-
 level manager with UEB scrutiny to ensure University-wide consistency.

 3.2 Study leave and flexible working
 ERE staff may apply for sabbaticals/study/research leave. Provision for such leave is one
 semester in every four years of service. Special leave-of-absence may be granted to enable staff
 to accept temporary research appointments elsewhere of up to two years. Following discussion
 with line managers, decisions are taken at Department or School levels taking account of the
 objectives and wider staffing requirements in that unit. Such leave is routinely taken and plays
 an important role in maintaining a vibrant research culture.
 Flexible or remote working is routinely enabled where needs are identified. Line managers and
 Heads of School, supported by HR Business Partners, make these decisions and put in place
 the necessary support for staff working in these modes.

 3.3 Staff recruitment and progression
 Each Faculty and School has an overall strategy, including staffing plans, which are discussed
 as part of annual business planning. Overarching University strategies (e.g. life sciences and
 environmental sustainability) encourage hiring in particular areas. Our research community
 increased steadily until 2016/17 in line with the University's growth strategy, and then underwent
 a planned contraction in response to the uncertain economic climate.




                                                                                            Page 11
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Promotions at levels 4-7 (Postdoctoral Research Assistant (level 4); Lecturer/Senior Research
 Fellow (5); Senior Lecturer/Associate Professor/Principal Research Fellow (6);
 Professor/Professorial Fellow (7)) have remained relatively stable as has the percentage of male
 and female researchers promoted during the REF period.




 3.4 Supporting our staff
 We take a whole-organisation approach to the wellbeing of all staff and students, led by the
 Health, Safety & Risk Directorate. The strength of the University’s community is key, as it fosters
 a wide range of interactions and networks that promote wellbeing, including social, cultural and
 recreational events and activities.
 The areas of focus are Mental Health and Stress, Physical Health, Occupational Health and
 Emergency Response with a rich range of resources available, and a diverse programme of
 activities to promote wellbeing and self-awareness of issues that might affect one’s own, or



                                                                                             Page 12
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 colleagues’ and fellow students’ wellbeing. The University is a signatory to the Mindful Employer
 Charter and runs an assistance programme providing confidential advice for colleagues.
 We have a supportive policy for managing ill-health, including guidance for return-to-work and
 contact with the University during prolonged absences. Allowances are made in terms of
 workload and timetabling in discussion with line managers and HR Business Partners, and a
 Parents and Carers network provides peer and professional support.

 3.5 Career pathways for part-time and fixed-term staff
 The University is a signatory to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers and is implementing the seven key principles, including Principle 6 that “diversity
 and equality must be promoted in all aspects of the recruitment and career management of
 researchers”. The Concordat is implemented via the Centre for Higher Education Practice
 (CHEP) which provides opportunities for academic professional development for all staff and
 PGRs. Concordat Champions in each Faculty support local implementation of the principles.
 Training and networking events are provided across the University and overseen by a Concordat
 Steering Group led by the AVP Interdisciplinary Research.
 Staff policies apply equally to both full-time and part-time staff (certain benefits may apply pro-
 rata to their hours). Policies which facilitate part-time working include flexible working, job
 sharing, career breaks and voluntary reduced hours. All staff policies conform to equality and
 diversity legislation and form an integral part of our wider equality and diversity agenda.
 Over the assessment period, the percentage of researchers (FPE) on permanent contracts has
 grown from 58% to 61%, the fourth largest increase in the Russell Group (HESA 2013/14-
 2018/19).

 3.6 Early Career Researcher development
 In addition to the Concordat (§3.5), our commitment to supporting researchers’ careers was
 substantiated in 2020 on renewal of the European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research
 Award (first achieved 2012). The University’s ERE Career Pathways provides clear guidance for
 ECR development while an ECR network, supported by CHEP, provides access to networking
 events, discussions on career development, access to mentoring, and peer-mentoring through
 action-learning sets.
 A University-wide approach is taken to help ECRs applying for fellowship funding, led by the
 Associate Deans Research and supported by RIS. Our strong enterprise and impact
 environment supports ECRs seeking to follow entrepreneurial career paths, and in public
 engagement and public service, while the University Careers & Employability Service assists
 ECRs exploring non-academic careers.

 3.7 Training and supervision of PGR students
 The Doctoral College, led by a senior academic director reporting to VPRE and VP Education,
 provides a focal point for doctoral training and researcher development. Regulations for doctoral
 degrees are developed in combination with the Education Committee and Academic Quality and
 Standards Committee. CHEP, in partnership with the Library, RIS, iSolutions and Careers &
 Employability Service, delivers a flexible and high-quality learning experience including a core
 development programme via face-to-face training and on-line courses, aligned to Vitae’s
 Researcher Development Framework. EDI, research ethics and data management modules are
 mandatory.


                                                                                               Page 13
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 PGRs can also participate in intensive training and development activities through summer
 schools. Each Faculty has a Graduate School, led by a director which ensures implementation of
 University policy regarding doctoral students and degrees, and maintains a local doctoral
 student community. During the REF period, the University participated in 26 externally funded
 CDT/DTPs awarded by all UKRI research councils, the NHS and UK Government. For the
 ~3,000 PGR students we host, 57% funding comes from external, non-UKRI sources.

 3.8 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI)
 In October 2019, a new governance structure was implemented to provide clearer routes
 through which EDI matters can be raised and decisions made. VPRE is the University’s EDI
 champion and chairs the EDI committee reporting to UEB.




 The focus on improving EDI is ensured through a strategy and action plan. All protected
 characteristics are covered by the strategy, with resulting policies and initiatives supported by an
 EDI team in HR. An annual diversity report on our performance is reviewed by UEB, Senate and
 Council, and is publicly available. EDI is a key component of the University’s staffing strategy
 and all staff involved in hiring, appraisal and promotion processes are required to undertake EDI
 training.
 We have signed two key pledges: Time to Change, a national campaign to end mental health
 discrimination; and the Mindful Employer Charter to create a supportive and open culture for
 employees with mental health issues. The University is a founding signatory of the Athena Swan
 charter and received a Silver award in October 2016 following ten years work at bronze-level. In
 addition, nine Schools and Faculties have obtained silver and bronze departmental awards,
 recognising their work to implement University policies and broaden awareness of gender
 equality in their local area.
 We are a member of Inclusive Employers, which supports building inclusive workplaces and a
 partner of AccessAble (formerly DisabledGo) to promote disability-accessible buildings. In
 December 2017 we became the first UK university to achieve Disability Confident Leader status,
 the highest level accreditation for employers committed to ensuring recruitment processes are
 inclusive and accessible; this was reaccredited in 2020.



                                                                                             Page 14
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 In January 2018 the University signed the Race Equality Charter to improve the representation,
 progression and success of minority ethnic groups of staff and students. In 2019 we conducted a
 University-wide equality survey to understand our staff’s experiences in relation to their gender
 and race in our community. We are working towards a bronze award by 2022.
 Staff and students maintain networks and societies to represent, support and engage members
 who share a similar background, characteristic or common cause, for example:
    •   Black Asian and Minority Ethnic Staff Network
    •   Christian, Islamic and Jewish student societies
    •   Disability Staff Network
    •   International societies
    •   Parents' and Carers' Network
    •   Pulse LGBT+ Staff Network
    •   Student Union Feminist Society
    •   Theano
    •   Women in Science, Engineering, Technology and Humanities (WiSET+)

 These groups are autonomous with their own terms of reference and aims. They participate in
 an annual programme of networking events and provide advice to the University when it
 develops new or existing policies.
 We have been a Stonewall Diversity Champion since 2010.
 Our Equal Pay Reviews show that the University provides equal pay for work of equal value and
 that the mean gender pay gap has reduced to 18.9% (21.5% in 2017, 22.9% in 2015); they include
 recommendations and action plans to raise awareness and address issues, including continuing
 to remove barriers to promotion for women. The University has achieved its 2020 target to have
 30% female representation on all University Committees and is aiming for 40% by 2025.
 We aim for the highest EDI standards and have a zero tolerance towards discrimination,
 harassment and bullying.

 3.9 REF submission
 Our Code of Practice (CoP) was widely communicated internally and published on the University
 website.
 The Reward and Recognition framework (§3.1) unambiguously defines ERE staff on balanced
 and research-led pathways, readily identifying all researchers having significant responsibility for
 research. Rigorous monitoring of staff records (on a weekly basis by RIS and at least annually
 by Faculty REF committees) ensured that the diversity of the staff cohort returned to REF,
 matched the criteria specified in our CoP.
 Committees at University, Faculty and UoA levels provided robust oversight of REF policies and
 scrutiny of processes to ensure these were inclusive, and over 130 staff involved in REF
 decision-making attended bespoke, unconscious-bias workshops. An initial Equality Impact
 Assessment (July 2019) was widely circulated and findings discussed at UEB and other senior
 management meetings. The final EIA identifies subsequent enhancements made to REF
 processes and recommends improvements to systems and the collection of data for protected
 characteristics.

                                                                                             Page 15
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 4.1 Research income
 Increasing research and enterprise income, and overhead and full economic cost-recovery are
 strategic priorities. Overhead cost-recovery has improved from 28.1% (2013/14) to 29.2%
 (2019/20). Income growth during the REF period is shown in the table.

                       Income(£M)        2012/13     2019/20      Growth
                       Research            147         173         18%
                       Enterprise           37          59         59%
                       Total              184           232        26%
                      Source: Financial Accounts
 Research applications targets are set annually as part of the business planning process and are
 a focus in appraisal discussions for all research-active staff; progress is monitored monthly by
 Finance and UEB.
 The VPRE, Associate Deans Research and Enterprise, Deputy Heads of School for Research
 and RIS are actively engaged in supporting individual members of staff and research groups to
 apply successfully for research funding. Where applications are evaluated as being strategic at
 the Faculty and/or University levels, additional bid support is provided.

 4.2 Specialist infrastructure and facilities
 The University has consistently ensured its research is supported with appropriate infrastructure
 and facilities, investing regularly and strategically in a wide range of leading-edge experimental
 facilities. Since 2014, major investments include:

    •   The Boldrewood Innovation Campus, in partnership with Lloyd’s Register, with the
        largest university-owned towing tank in the UK. Boldrewood also houses the National
        Infrastructure Laboratory (NIL) (part of the UKCRIC) and facilities for autonomous system
        development and testing, and other fluid dynamics research (£100M+ including £26M
        from EPSRC for NIL).
    •   Upgrading the University’s major research wind tunnel, the RJ Mitchell, as part of the
        National Wind Tunnel Facility (£0.7M, EPSRC).

    •   High Performance Computing (HPC) infrastructure with the creation of a new Data
        Centre and three upgrades of Iridis, one of the largest computational facilities in the UK.
        These support work across the University, including in Arts, Humanities and Social
        Sciences (£50M+).

    •   Centre for Cancer Immunology, including animal facilities and state-of the art research
        equipment (£27M).

    •   µ-Vis Computed Tomography Centre, which supports work across the University
        including in Archaeology, Palaeontology and Music (£10M).
 We maintain one of the world’s most capable cleanrooms for micro- and nano-fabrication with
 exceptional capabilities in optoelectronics. This underpins the Zepler Institute and represents an
 ongoing investment of £120M+ since 2007. Over the next decade capital funding will be used to
 leverage external funds, including philanthropy, to continue to develop our research facilities.



                                                                                             Page 16
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 This is also the aim behind the allocation of £0.75M/year to the Multi-User Scientific Equipment
 for Research (MULSER) fund.
 The Library’s annual budget (£8.5M) includes £4M to support research including access to
 8,000+ academic journals, 1.6M volumes and 6.5M historic manuscripts.
 Turner Sims concert hall and John Hansard Gallery are internationally recognised Arts Council
 England national portfolio facilities.

 4.3 Shared/Collaborative facilities
 The University hosts two EPSRC National Research Facilities, Crystallography and Physical
 Sciences Data-Science services, and is an access point to the National Dark Fibre Infrastructure
 Service. We are a founding member of the SES Consortium (with Oxford, Cambridge, Imperial,
 UCL, King’s College and QMUL), which shares computational and experimental equipment to
 ensure effective use across the region, and has successfully created three “Tier 2” HPC clusters.
 We are a major user of the UK National Supercomputing service, ARCHER and the STFC
 Harwell Research Campus, in particular, the Diamond Light Source as well as international
 synchrotron facilities across a wide range of research areas. We regularly collaborate on
 international programmes using major research facilities in Oceanography, Physics and
 Astronomy. Our own facilities are regularly accessed by users from other institutions and
 industry, nationally and internationally. The development of a publicly available equipment
 register (https://equipment.data.ac.uk/) was led by the University.

 4.4 Major benefits-in-kind
 We regularly receive donated equipment from industry partners, or significant discounts from
 equipment suppliers wishing to have their equipment used at the University. During the REF
 period we acquired £72M capital equipment with £28M from grants and donations, while income-
 in-kind (REF4c) totalled £123M.

 4.5 EDI enhancements
 Robust approaches to equality and diversity apply to all aspects of our operations including
 acquisition of research funding and support for accessing infrastructure. Workload models,
 designed and operated by individual schools, assign teaching and administrative duties in a way
 that ensures staff have a substantial baseline to undertake research. Workload levels are fully
 transparent, allowing gender benchmarking and fairness in the allocation of work. All
 researchers (full- and part-time) are offered research leave with the timing of sabbaticals
 scheduled to accommodate staff circumstances where necessary, with financial support for
 seed-corning new work or conference attendance, allocated by staff grade to ensure gender
 parity.




                                                                                           Page 17
