Unit-level environment template (REF5a)



Institution: Hartpury University

1. Context and mission

Hartpury University is taking part in its first Research Excellence Framework (REF) with a single
submission, having transferred to the Higher Education (HE) sector and attained University status
in September 2018. While our foundation in scholarship prior to 2018 provided a base on which to
build, a significant proportion of Research and Knowledge Exchange (RKE) activities that underpin
this REF submission result from activity post-2018, as we entered the HE sector. We recognise
that as a relatively small, specialist and new University, we are early in our research excellence
journey.

Hartpury’s mission is to be a specialist, niche provider delivering relevant, effective and high quality
education, training for employment and applied research in the animal, agriculture, equine and
sport industries locally, regionally, nationally and internationally. Hartpury has delivered higher
education for over 25 years alongside its FE provision, which is now encapsulated within the
subsidiary company, Hartpury College. When using the term Hartpury, we are referring to the
whole organisation (both University and College).

Hartpury comprises a university, a college, and areas of commercial activity including outstanding
sports facilities, human performance laboratories, the Rider Performance Centre, an international
equestrian centre, and canine and equine therapy and rehabilitation centres. There are
approximately 4,000 students (~50% study at the University) and it is amongst the world’s largest
providers of equestrian education. Our integrated and self-contained campus includes animal
collections, a working farm and Agri-tech centre, all set within a 360 hectare rural estate on the
outskirts of Gloucester. As a specialist institution, we have strong links with the business sectors
and professional bodies relevant to our areas of expertise and education, both locally and more
broadly. We also have close links with GFirst LEP, the local enterprise partnership for
Gloucestershire and our Vice-Chancellor is a Board member. We are members of GuildHE and
GuildHE Research (the research consortium for smaller and specialist higher education
institutions) and Landex (the organisation for colleges and universities operating in land-based
occupational subjects).

In December 2018, we established new structures and career pathways to support staff with
responsibility for undertaking research. As of 31st of May 2020, we had 88 academic staff, all
contracted to engage with scholarly activity, with 9 (10%) having specific responsibility for
research. Through recruitment of new staff and an annual progression opportunity to apply for
contractual research responsibilities, we will elevate this percentage ensuring alignment to our
research centres and excellence in the research produced. Our research degrees are awarded in
partnership with the University of the West of England (agreed 2017). We aspire to excellence in
all research areas and have a long-term goal of applying for RDAP by 2030. We have a strong
record of knowledge exchange activity and achieved the HEIF threshold in our first year as a
university, following our initial HE-BCI survey return.

The University’s research and impact activity draws on the combined infrastructure, people and
partners deriving from all aspects of Hartpury’s activities across many years. Our research is highly
applied, with multiple routes into practice, and we undertake research at a scale unachievable in
most other locations, for example, having access to over 1,000 sportsmen and women, more than
230 horses and 250 cattle on site. This capacity has enabled projects evaluating fatigue in female
athletes, dairy cattle health, rider performance, and the application of equine therapy and
rehabilitation in sports horses.

In the context of RKE, Hartpury aims to:
      Contribute to new knowledge and transfer it into practice, at national and international


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5a)

       levels;
      Support the sharing of best practice and research in the animal, agriculture, equine, and
       sports industries; and;
      Contribute to economic and community development within our region.

2. Research and Impact Strategy

2.1 Strategic development

The University’s research and impact strategy builds upon Hartpury’s 25-year record of applied
activity in its areas of specialism. At the core of the strategy is the aim to establish a vibrant and
dynamic culture of RKE that fosters excellence, cooperation and impact.

The achievement of University status has facilitated a planned evolution during this REF period. As
part of the ongoing development of our research approach, areas of activity have been grouped in
order to benefit from collaboration, multi-disciplinarity and scale. We have evolved a focused
approach to scholarship that supports high quality RKE that purposefully aligns investments to our
niche area strengths. Building on a solid foundation of scholarship (HER, 2014), the University
(then College) created four RKE Arenas in 2017 to co-ordinate RKE in cognate areas of:
      Animal welfare;
      Equestrian performance;
      Pedagogy, practice and community;
      Sport, exercise and wellbeing.

We reviewed the performance and progress of these in 2019 and collectively decided to evolve the
Arenas into three Research Centres, coupled to a range of Communities of Practice (CoP) with the
explicit aim of creating linkages between our research and other institutional communities and
activities. The CoP effectively replace the conversational and translational mechanisms of the
Pedagogy, Practice and Community Arena, so that such conversations are embedded across all of
the Research Centres. They are accessible to staff, students and invited external partners,
providing a supportive forum to develop ideas and build research expertise and confidence, and
propagate engagement and partnerships in scholarly activity. The three Research Centres, details
of which are provided in the Unit Environment Statement (ULES, Section 1.1), are:
      Sport and Exercise;
      Equestrian Performance;
      Animal and Agriculture.

Underpinned by previous investment in staff and facilities, we recognise our Sport and Exercise
and Equestrian Performance Centres are more established than Animal and Agriculture. We are
developing our RKE capability in agriculture and agri-tech activity, including current infrastructure
investment of £2 million (Section 4) to support our planned direction of travel. We are currently
using out HEIF income strategically to continue to support our areas of strength in practice, as well
as promoting further knowledge exchange partnerships and innovation within agriculture. Although
not directly supporting research, this will provide expertise, opportunities and impact in these
areas. In a REF context, we anticipate increasing our scope to include Unit 6, Agriculture, Food
and Veterinary Sciences in the next exercise.

2.2 Achievement of strategic goals

At a practical level, we have achieved our strategic goals for this period:
      Creation, review and evolution of research groupings;


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5a)

      Establishment of organisational and career structures consistent with a university
       environment and REF submission;
      Increase in PhD supervision capacity, along with clarity of status and a physical base for
       research students;
      Sharing of best practice and celebrating excellence through the annual Hartpury Research
       Conference and Research Centre events;
      Establishment of support structures, including leadership, research management, and open
       access infrastructure coupled to partner and external engagement.

The University’s current RKE strategic goals are to:
      Increase the quality of research across Research Centres and ensure research has real
       world impact;
      Develop an inclusive RKE culture that develops and retains talent, benefitting all of
       Hartpury;
      Be outward looking and build RKE partnerships with industry and the community;
      Increase income from RKE in a sustainable manner;
      Ensure that research and evidence-informed practice is adopted across all parts of the
       organisation through effective internal knowledge exchange.

These goals reflect our continuing development and capacity building, including the expansion of
equine, agri-tech and animal resources and facilities.

Core actions in supporting these goals are:
      Annually funding doctoral studentships (one per Research Centre);
      Fostering Communities of Practice that are inclusive across and beyond the organisation,
       and providing opportunities to develop Early Career Researchers (ECR);
      Providing structured CPD opportunities that support progression for all staff, in particular
       ECRs and those new to doctoral supervision;
      Developing resources to enable animal and agricultural RKE to excel including building an
       Animal Science Centre and Digital Innovation Farm;
      Investment in infrastructure and partnerships that support commercial research, public
       engagement and knowledge transfer.

2.3 Practitioner, business and societal engagement

The University and wider institution have strong links with practitioners, businesses and relevant
professional bodies at local (e.g. Cheltenham Town FC and Active Gloucestershire), national (e.g.
the British Equestrian Federation and Guide Dogs), and international levels (e.g. International
Equestrian Federation (FEI) and Swimming Australia: Paralympic swim team) (ULES, Section 1.1,
1.3).

Hartpury is committed to public engagement of our research activity; we achieve this through
involving, interacting with and listening to industry and community partners within our applied
research projects, combined with a strong commitment to translate our findings back to the public
to generate mutual benefit. For example, the University’s Equine Department supports the equine
industry at local, national and international levels through the work undertaken within the Rider
Performance Centre and Equine Therapy Centre (ULES, Section 3.1). We also provide a base for
our local Riding for the Disabled Association branch, who regularly use our facilities and are
working with us to evaluate the impact of equine-assisted activities on human wellbeing.


                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5a)

The University also engages with 2,000 local businesses in RKE. For example, we work with
Glideology, a local SME developing sensor technology for use in athletes and equine sport. We are
committed to working with local schools focused around showcasing the benefits of physical
activity to enhance wellbeing. HARTLINX is a RKE network between the University and schools
researching children’s physical activity; seven hundred children participated in this project in the
last year. Hartpury also supports many external public engagement events; the Hartpury Science
Hub is a regular fixture at the Cheltenham Science Festival. Approximately 6,500 school children
visit the festival and this event provides an interactive hub where we engage in public
communication, showcasing our research and communicating ideas and science from across all of
our specialisms.

As we build these relationships and develop resources, we are also progressively expanding our
knowledge exchange and practice-based research coupled to professional practice development.
The effects of these economic and society interactions include: developing evidence-informed
training regimes and performance analysis with Gloucester Rugby, across canine sport with the
Kennel Club, and advancing management, training and rehabilitation of sport horses working with
the Animal Health Trust and the Association of Chartered Physiotherapists in Animal Therapy
(ULES, Section 1.1, 3).

2.4 Creation of the institutional research environment and culture

Our research is undertaken in an environment with high standards of research integrity and
governance. We seek to operate an open research environment that enables access to, and
sharing and replication of our research.

As a new University, we had no strongly embedded research structures or practices.
Consequently, we have been able to create our own unique research environment and culture, and
this continues to evolve. Much of our research is cross-disciplinary as well as being applied, so
there is a natural culture of collaboration across boundaries. Whilst seeking excellence and
applicability in what we do, we are also conscious of the need to enable and encourage good
practice in research, as embodied in our Code of Research Practice. The Code covers topics such
as professional standards, research with human participants and animals, data management, and
conflicts of interest, and underpins our embedded approach to research integrity and governance.
We seek to ensure that our research vision, strategy, operational plans, resource deployment and
performance monitoring all take account of our commitment to research integrity and do not
introduce inappropriate or perverse incentives.

The University has actively engaged with arrangements to enable open access to its research,
including the establishment of our repository for research outputs, data and other relevant
materials. Rather than constrain the repository to a narrow focus of scholarly outputs, we have
chosen to make it a doorway into the range of expertise, activities, outputs and content of the
whole of Hartpury, thus supporting the engagement of the full range of potential internal and
external interests. We have introduced a requirement that all research (for staff and postgraduate
students) should have a formal data management plan linking to their project proposals and ethics
applications, as appropriate.

Organisationally, the Dean of RKE has lead responsibility for RKE at the University, supported by
the RKE Committee, and is responsible to the Pro Vice-Chancellor for Hartpury University, and
thence to the Vice-Chancellor.

3. People

3.1 Staffing Strategy

Hartpury recruits, develops and retains high quality staff with appropriate skills, aptitudes and
values aligned to our own. The achievement of University status has facilitated a greater focus on
the skills and competencies we needed to deliver excellent applied RKE, alongside delivering

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5a)

research informed curricula. This led to the creation of a new career structure for teaching and
research in January 2019.

The introduction of the new structures allowed us to identify staff with research track records and /
or ambitions, providing them with career advancement and active support. All staff with
responsibility for research are allocated designated time; this is negotiated with individuals based
on their annual research targets. During the REF period, we have targeted our recruitment on
employing experienced international researchers in order to lead and build capacity in each
research centre. These include Professors in Sport and Exercise Sciences, and Human Animal
Interaction. We have also appointed world-leading scientists as Visiting Professors (VPs) within
each Research Centre to advise on the strategic direction of research, and to mentor our staff and
doctoral students (ULES: Section 2.1). Since we had no staff with significant responsibility for
research in 2014, there has been a substantial investment in people and research capacity within
this REF cycle.

Our policies and structures creating a vibrant and productive working environment include:
      A strong wellbeing agenda;
      Flexible and remote-working policies that support personal needs;
      Staff development and training (generic and in technical specialisms);
      Sabbaticals, in flexible quanta;
      Conference support to enable development, professional networking (academic and
       practitioner), and reputation building;
      A policy to pay full fees for staff completing research degrees.

The University’s sabbatical scheme has been key to facilitating progression onto the teaching and
research pathway, providing staff with capacity to expand their research portfolio and the
confidence to apply for research positions within the University. For example, colleagues have
utilised sabbatical allocations to complete doctorates, build external research partnerships that
have led to publications, create successful funding bids and undertake broader media
dissemination of work, and move towards having significant responsibility for research.

We are committed to developing all of our researchers throughout their career, supporting
undergraduate research, postgraduate research students, postdoctoral researchers, and early
career and established academic staff. We are implementing the revised Concordat to Support the
Career Development of Researchers and are working towards the HR Excellence in Research
Award (or its equivalent successor).

3.2 Early Career Researchers

As a newly formed university, all of our Category A staff would be classified as Early Career
Researchers within a REF definition; in reality we have a mixture of both experienced and
inexperienced researchers across our staff base. We are particularly conscious about how to
support ECRs appropriately, whilst not overburdening our more established staff. We use
mechanisms of peer support for early-stage publishing, mentoring, managed workloads, CPD,
sabbaticals, conference attendance, staff mobilities, and access to research support from VPs to
support staff development and progression.

We are in the process of creating Hartpury University Press to enable all of our researchers to
publish; this will support staff and students towards first publications, provide a publication vehicle
in areas where existing publication channels are scarce, and will enable dissemination of our
specialist areas of RKE to support practical application within industry and by the general public.
We provide opportunities for ECRs, other staff, and students to present and disseminate their
research findings on-site including at the Hartpury-Alltech Equine Performance Conference, the
Hartpury Research Conference, the Hartpury Teaching and Learning Conference and regular

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5a)

Research Centre seminars.

3.3 Research Students

The number of postgraduate research (PGR) students has grown substantially from 1 in 2017-
2018, to 7 in 2018-2019, to 19 in 2019-2020. We had our first completion in 2020 and are
expecting three more in 2021, reflecting the development of our research and supervision
capability.

The University has supported research students by investing in their physical environment with a
dedicated PGR office and prioritised their inclusion in the wider research community at Hartpury.
Hartpury’s Achievement and Success Centre provides individualised and workshop support for
academic and personal development. Our Innovation, Careers and Enterprise Centre provides
career and enterprise support including the opportunity to bid for an annual Innovation Award
alongside funding and business mentoring, to translate their research into a viable business post-
graduation. We also provide access to a range of resources for PGR students to support their
research and personal development, including access to internal and external PGR skills
development programmes, doctoral summer schools, Guild HE researchers’ network, funding to
support individualised external CPD and events, and volunteering within Hartpury’s commercial
centres and sporting events.

3.4 Equality, Diversity & Inclusion

Hartpury has strong principles and enabling policies with respect to equality, diversity and inclusion
(EDI). The current policy, which applies across the whole organisation, originates from 2005, with
regular updates and approval by the Corporation, as the ultimate governing body.

To quote from the EDI policy: “At Hartpury we are committed to valuing diversity and promoting
equality. One of our Corporate Values is promoting respect for all and this means we create an
inclusive and accessible environment that enables and promotes belonging and respect for staff,
students and the wider community. We create an inclusive approach for both students and staff
that promotes diversity, positive behaviours, builds effective relationships and enables all our
students to develop and achieve the best possible outcomes. We value others for their
contribution, irrespective of personal differences.”

Hartpury’s approach is to go further than legal compliance, embedding a culture of EDI across all
our work. We commit to the principle of EDI for all by creating an inclusive environment where
differences are celebrated and everyone is valued and respected. We actively monitor EDI through
a termly EDI Forum and a biannual EDI Report presented to the Corporation. The Forum views all
EDI action plans and relevant statistics at each meeting. The policy is reviewed annually by the
Vice-Principal Resources, with any changes agreed by the EDI Forum before approval by the
Corporation.

Over recent years, Hartpury has enhanced its approach to EDI by:
    Promoting EDI initiatives across campus, celebrating and recognising events, including the
     annual EDI celebration week;
    Conducting bi-annual staff surveys to gain a better understanding of what it is to work at
     Hartpury, and identify areas for improvement;
    Taking the Time to Change pledge, achieving Equality Gold Standard re-accreditation, and
     renewal of Disability Confident and Mindful Employer charters;
    Conducting annual equal pay audits (Hartpury has higher median pay for women than men).

All staff and PGR students are required to undertake safeguarding and EDI training, to support and
protect them, and those they will interact with, in their future research. We are also increasing our
internal and external presence in EDI committees, including on the BASES EDI Committee, as well

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5a)

as coordinating internal opportunities such as ‘Diversity Dates’ to highlight positive role models in
sport and exercise research and lecturing roles to staff and students.

4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Hartpury has considerably developed its research infrastructure and facilities leading up to and
since achieving University title. Therefore, whilst Hartpury is probably the newest University
entering REF, it already has a research repository, research staff including professors, a strong
cohort of PGR students, and resources and processes to support research income generation.

The University has key infrastructure and facilities (Section 1) that support our research. The
development of our research income profile is at an early stage, consistent with our organisational
development. Substantial amounts of research funding were not available as an FE College.
Despite this disadvantage, we have engaged with academic and industry partners to undertake
contract research; for example, with the Society of Master Saddlers. Alongside this, we have a
strong record of knowledge exchange income relative to our size that reflects our applied
expertise. Whilst not included in REF4b, this typically translates to £2.5 million HE-BCI income per
year, and generates HEIF as a consequence.

Our key facilities, aligned to our Research Centres, include:
      Equestrian Performance: world-leading Rider Performance Centre incorporating eventing
       and racing horse simulators, commercial Equine Therapy Centre (with resident veterinary
       practice), and ~250 riders and their horses on-site; representing competitive and
       recreational equine populations.
       These facilities underpin our research in riders and sport and racehorse performance
       (ULES, Section 1.3).

      Sport and Exercise: sport biomechanics and human performance laboratories, including
       an altitude chamber and motion capture technology.

       These support research investigating training adaptation in female and veteran athletes,
       and cardiorespiratory physiology (ULES, Section 1.3).

      Animal and Agriculture: extensive animal collection, canine hydrotherapy centre, canine
       agility arena, a working farm, and an agri-tech centre.

       These support research in canine biomechanics and the planned establishment of the
       Digital Innovation Farm.

The University has also invested in organisational infrastructure to support RKE, including in
leadership, management and administrative capacity (3 FTE administrative and 9.6 FTE Research
and Teaching staff), six Visiting Professors, and information sources (IDOX) and systems (Pure).

The expansion of our VP scheme has been influential in increasing our RKE activities. The VPs
have been actively involved in research CPD, delivering sessions for staff and PGR students, as
well as being used to support targeted research activities. For example, Professor Adam Hart
(University of Gloucester) has supported staff development sessions and individual staff members
to enhance their confidence in engaging in science communication. As a result, we have expanded
this aspect of public engagement running a webinar series for equine students, researchers and
industry, presenting at industry events, e.g. Horses Inside Out, and increasing engagement with
lay press and social media. Professor Steve Williams (King’s College London) has worked with
colleagues within the drumming project (ULES, Section 1.3) and proved invaluable as a mentor for
senior teaching and research staff.

Whilst numbers of Category A staff are modest, to support our growth in staff engagement in RKE,
we have created a structure where research is accessible to all staff, through Communities of

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5a)

Practice. These are a key component for our research aspirations to be successful; they provide
an interface between research, curriculum and broader industry partners, where like-minded
individuals across the institution and industry can come together to co-create applied research that
influences real-world practice. The CoP provide a supportive environment to grow staff experience
in RKE, while also facilitating access to RKE across the institution (University and College) and
within local and industry communities. These are as diverse as developing science communication,
promotion of physical activity to enhance health and welfare within children and adolescents, and
the EDI community, committing to increasing awareness of EDI initiatives and engagement in EDI-
related research, within and outside of Hartpury.

An important part of the supporting infrastructure has been our annual Research Conference. This
provides a venue for staff, students and alumni from across the Hartpury community to come
together with external partners to hear about and discuss the institution’s research and impact.
Starting in 2016 as an internal exercise to offer students the opportunity to experience a scientific
conference as a presenting author or delegate, it now involves 12-15 colleges and universities
across the UK and overseas, along with a wide range of our business and industry partners.

Extensive campus developments are scheduled for the next 10 years. These include developing a
bespoke equine assisted-activities centre, an animal science and research centre, expansion of
our laboratory facilities, expansion of the Digital Innovation Farm to create a National Centre for
Agricultural Data Management, and sports academy; culminating in the aspiration to have a
dedicated National Institute for Equestrian Research on site by 2030. The planned developments
will strengthen further the facilities and access to populations and state-of-the-art equipment to
underpin our aspirations to enter a second unit of assessment (Unit 6) in the next REF.

In summary, Hartpury University is a new University that has already established a research
culture and infrastructure, with an emphasis on applied research in its specialisms. The University
has invested in outstanding facilities to support research in Sport and Exercise (including
equestrian sport) and is further investing and developing its facilities and research portfolio in
animal and agriculture. The campus plans to support our growth in student numbers will also
deliver the investment and infrastructure to support research excellence in all of Hartpury’s
specialisms.




                                                                                             Page 8
