Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: University of Wales Trinity Saint David

 1. Context and mission

 University Structure.
 The University of Wales Trinity Saint David (UWTSD) was formed in 2010 through the merger of
 the University of Wales Lampeter and Trinity University College Carmarthen, under Lampeter’s
 Royal Charter of 1828. In 2013, Swansea Metropolitan University became part of UWTSD. The
 University of Wales and the University of Wales Trinity Saint David are now fully operationally
 merged and have been jointly governed and operated since 2017. All staff are now employed by
 UWTSD and professional services are delivered through a single organisational structure.
 UWTSD has three main campuses in South West Wales, Carmarthen, Lampeter and Swansea,
 as well as a campus in London and learning centres in Cardiff and Birmingham. The Centre for
 Advanced Welsh and Celtic Studies is based in Aberystwyth. In Academic Year 2019-20 much
 of the University’s Swansea provision relocated to the new SA1 Waterfront Campus, a new
 £350m development in the city’s maritime area. Since then research, knowledge exchange,
 teaching and scholarship have been consolidated through an Institute structure as detailed in
 Table 1.

  Institute                  Research Centres and Academies
  Institute of           •   Centre for Research in Education and Pedagogy (CREP)
  Education and          •   Centre for Education Policy Review and Analysis (CEPRA)
  Humanities (IEH).      •   International Institute for Creative Entrepreneurial Development
                             (IICED)

                         •   Psychological Evaluation and Research Consultancy Hub
                             (PERCH).
                         •   Centre for Advanced Welsh and Celtic Studies (CAWCS)
                         •   Alister Hardy Religious Experience Research Centre (RERC).
                         •   Sophia Centre for the Study of Cosmology in Culture
  The Institute of       •   Wales Academy for Professional Practice and Applied Research
  Management and             (WAPPAR)
  Health (IMH).
                         •   Wales Academy for Health and Physical Literacy (WAHPL)
  Wales Institute of    • Assistive Technologies Innovation Centre (ATiC)
  Science and Art       • Cerebra Innovation Centre (CiC)
  (WISA).               • Creative Industries Research and Innovation Centre (CIRIC)
                        • Wales Centre for Advanced Batch Manufacture (CBM)
                        • Swansea College of Art
 Table 1. Institute Structure

 Submissions
 The University’s educational research is delivered through both the Institute of Education and
 Humanities and the Institute of Management and Health. The Institute of Education and
 Humanities combines the disciplines of Education (UoA 23), Psychology (UoA 04) and
 Humanities, the latter with a focus on Theology and Religious Studies (UoA 31) and Celtic
 Languages and Literatures (UoA 26). Research in the Institute of Management and Health is
 closely related to that in the Institute of Institute of Education and Humanities being focused on
 education and physical literacy, work based learning and enterprise education, each also
 submitted to UoA 23. Research in the Institute of Science and Art forms the basis of the
 University’s submission to UoA32, and covers the broad range of methodologies and
 approaches from contemporary arts practice in the Swansea Collage of Art to design in four
 specialist design centres, each which interface with the needs of life-science and health
 professionals.



                                                                                                Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2. Strategy

 Institutional research and impact strategy
 The University has undertaken a journey to consolidate and further develop the existing areas of
 academic excellence identified through REF2014, to which we made a number of small
 submissions in Geography, Archaeology and Environmental Studies (UoA17), Engineering
 (UoA15), Classics (UoA 31), Theology and Religious Studies (UoA33), Celtic Studies (UoA28)
 and Art and Design (UoA34). The aim during this period has been to ensure that the University
 both builds on the strength of its research output (45% and 3*/4*) and impact (60% 3*/4*) but
 also addresses development opportunities in the research environment identified in REF2014
 (39% 2* and 23% 1*). In this regard the University has capitalised on the opportunities inherent
 within the merged institutions, in particular building upon the strengths of the Wales Centre for
 Advanced Batch Manufacture and the Centre for Advanced Welsh and Celtic Studies, and
 building interdisciplinary research groupings in the areas of education, humanities, design,
 engineering and the arts. Recognising our strengths in a number of key areas, we have pursued
 a strategy of depth rather than breadth, by focusing investment in the key areas of: education;
 design, health and wellbeing; of religion and culture; and of language, identity and contemporary
 arts practice.

 Research impact, collaborations, networks and partnership
 The University’s institute structure has been effective in developing research impact,
 collaborations, networks and partnership across these interdisciplinary and cross-cutting areas.
 As the University’s strategy places equal emphasis on research and impact, this support is
 based on four key areas: basic and applied research, but equally on securing resources,
 collaborations and facilities to generate research impact through organised programmes of
 knowledge exchange, and also those involving continuing professional development.

 Wider contributions to the economy and society.
 A key strategic priority has been to develop funded collaborative research opportunities with
 industry through the European Regional Development Fund (8 projects, £9.7m) and commercial
 contracts. While this has provided a substantial underpinning base to grow the research capacity
 in the area of design for health and wellbeing, a key priority for these projects is also to
 contribute to economic growth though collaborative industrial research and experimental
 development. The University has also developed a broad portfolio of knowledge exchange
 activities as part of its impact strategy. A key strand in this regard is though building strategic
 alliances for the exchange of good practices with educators across Europe, which has been
 supported through Erasmus + Key Action 2 Strategic partnerships and Key Action 3 Policy
 experimentations (9 projects) and Welsh Government funding (11 projects). The PhD
 opportunities offered through the pan-Wales Knowledge Exchange Scholarships Programme
 (KESS) (£1.4m) had been instrumental in building strong research collaborations with industry
 and third sector organisations, while the Wales Centre for Batch Manufacture builds strong
 knowledge exchange partnerships with industry across Wales through the Industry 4.0 (£2.12m)
 and International Innovation Masters (£2.38m) programmes. Research and knowledge
 exchange in the Wales Academy for Professional Practice and Applied Research. has been
 sustained though professional, CPD and consultancy fees and research funding, through for
 example the Horizon 2020 funded project Food Nutrition Security Cloud.

 Looking forward, research and knowledge exchange are fundamental to UWTSD’s strategic
 vision and the University is committed to providing a high-quality environment to enable research
 and knowledge exchange to thrive. In Education our research will engage with the Welsh
 Government’s vision for education in Wales. This work will see further growth and support in the
 Centre for Research in Education and Pedagogy (CREP), the Centre for Education Policy
 Review and Analysis (CEPRA) and International Institute for Creative Entrepreneurial
 Development (IICED), the Wales Academy for Professional Practice and Applied Research
 (WAPPAR) and the Wales Academy for Health and Physical Literacy (WAHPL). In the areas of
 Religion, Language, Culture & Identity we will continue work with interfaith communities, both
 within Wales, but also on an international scale. The Centre for Advanced Welsh and Celtic

                                                                                              Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Studies (CAWCS) has firmly established collaborations with national heritage institutions and will
 continue to contribute to Wales’ linguistic infrastructure through the Welsh Government’s
 Cymraeg 2050 strategy. Our work in contemporary arts practice will continue to develop
 research interventions in the area of Health and Wellbeing. Research in the area of Design for
 Wellbeing Health and Innovation will consolidate work in the Wales Centre for Batch
 Manufacturing (CBM), the Assistive Technologies Innovation Centre (ATiC) and Cerebra
 Innovation Centre (CIC).

 Open Research
 The University has made good progress in completing the transition to an open research
 environment and adopted its Open Access and Research Data Management policies in 2016.
 This also saw the launch of its open access publications repository, the research data repository
 and a suite of resources to assist staff in working to the evolving open access environment. The
 launch of the repositories has been supported by advocacy and support from the University’s
 Research Innovation and Enterprise Services, Library and Learning Resources and open access
 champions in each Institute. The University has recently revised its open access and research
 data management policies. In this we are cognisant of international initiatives such as Plan S
 and developing policies from UKRI, Wellcome Trust, the EU and other researcher funders.
 Library and Learning Resources are working with publishers and aggregators to transition to
 open access publishing models where possible, and now participate in several transitional
 agreements which cover the cost of open access article processing charges along with library
 subscription fees. Ongoing training and awareness is continuing in this regard. Our research
 data management policies and infrastructure meet the ten principles of the Concordat on Open
 Research Data and work is ongoing to embed this within our research practices in each Institute.

 Research Integrity
 The University has updated its ethical guidelines for the conduct of research in terms which meet
 the 2019 Revised UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity. This has improved accountability
 and provides assurances to the sponsors, participants, recipients and those who undertake
 research that robust measures are being taken to support high standards of research integrity.
 Research ethics and integrity is led by the Chair of the University’s Ethics Committee, who is the
 direct contact for University’s UK, HEFCW and research sponsors. The Chair reports as a
 standing member to the University’s Research Committee and to the University’s Governing
 Body. An annual statement on actions and activities, planned activities for the forthcoming
 academic year and any formal investigations of academic research misconduct are reported to
 the University Council and HEFCW on an annual basis, and also made available on the
 University’s website. Each research institute has three permeant members on the central
 research ethics committee, which meets regularly to review applications throughout the
 academic year. Each member acts as research ethics lead at institute and / or centre level to
 create and embed a research environment in which research ethics are acknowledged and
 understood, and in which all staff, researchers and students feel comfortable to report instances
 of misconduct should they occur. To support this staff development in research ethics is offered
 to all staff undertaking research supervision and is mandatory for new supervisors (as a
 condition of entry onto the University’s Directory of Supervisors).

 3. People

 Career Pathways
 All staff can participate in the Performance and Development Review Scheme to identify short
 and longer term career, performance and development goals. While the University works in
 partnership with Advance HE to champion teaching excellence, by offering professional learning
 programmes and pathways which lead to fellowship status at Associate to Principal, a
 Professorship Scheme also enables a process for academic staff to be recognised for their
 contribution to the advancement of knowledge through research, scholarship, publication,
 knowledge transfer or professional practice. The University operates the HERA job evaluation
 scheme and this is embedded into the pay structure, thereby ensuring a transparent pay scale
 with clear parameters regarding progression.

                                                                                             Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Career pathways for part-time and fixed term staff
 Supporting, valuing and recognising excellence in teaching, learning and applied research is an
 important priority for the University. Academic staff on fixed term and part-time contracts have
 access to the same professional development opportunities as full-time members of staff and
 can participate in the Performance and Development Review Scheme to identify short and
 longer term career, performance and development goals.

 Study Leave Arrangements
 The University recognises the benefits of developing its people and provides a range of
 opportunities for staff to undertake personal and professional development. Managers are
 encouraged to accommodate an employee’s study leave needs where practicable and this
 approach recognises that circumstances and types of study will vary. Academic staff use a
 planning and workload management tool, which is negotiated and agreed with the line manager
 and is aligned to the Performance and Development Review Scheme. It acknowledges that the
 role of a full‐time or part-time member of staff involves a range of activities, including research,
 study and development activity.

 Supporting Staff Well-Being
 The University’s approach to supporting and managing the well-being of staff is focused on
 prevention and early intervention strategies. The development of family friendly and flexible
 working polices enables people to balance work and caring responsibilities, and the principles of
 equality and diversity are fully embedded across all employment related polices and processes.
 The importance of providing well-being and dignity at work is emphasised by integrating these
 themes into all management and leadership development programmes. This also supports
 leaders and managers to have effective well-being conversations with people in their team. Staff
 access a range of mental health and well-being focused learning and resources through an
 online self-development toolkit and holistic well-being sessions, which support them to make
 informed choices about their well-being. They can also access a 24-hour counselling service and
 peer support platform monitored by clinical professionals. Early interventions are enabled in a
 timely and proportionate way using appropriate referral pathways. For individuals requiring
 additional support, physically, emotional or psychologically – occupational health referral and
 additional well-being services are available.

 Postgraduate Research Students
 Doctoral research students are supervised by a team of at least two (lead and second
 supervisor), often a mix of ECR and experienced staff. This has been a valuable aspect of
 career development for junior research staff who have been mentored by experienced
 colleagues. PhD students are initially accepted on probationary status and have to submit an
 overview of their progress, plans for the next stage and evidence of writing to the probation
 panel that assesses their progress. The Progress Review Board monitors the progress of all
 research students on an annual basis and can withdraw a student if satisfactory progress is not
 made following the provision of additional support, training and action plans. These systems are
 run centrally by the Academic Office.

 Following the institutional merger in 2013, UWTSD established a centrally run Researcher
 Development Programme to support the training and supervision of PGR students. Overseen
 and given strategic direction by the Research Degrees Committee, and supported by Research,
 Innovation and Enterprise Services, the programme is fully aligned to the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework and all students and staff are encouraged to establish personal
 development plans using Vitae’s online RDF planning tool. The programme provides an
 overarching programme of webinars (RDP Online), planning tools, research conferences and
 events, and resource banks. Given that the University has a multi-campus provision across
 different locations in Wales (Swansea, Lampeter, Carmarthen, Aberystwyth and Cardiff) as well
 as London and Birmingham, these have increasingly been delivered on a blended and online
 only format. This reflects strong student preference for remote opportunities, as well as the
 current experiences of online provision with COVID19, and a commitment to flexible provision in
 support of equality and diversity considerations.

                                                                                                Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Evidence of quality across the institution based on the 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience
 Survey demonstrates a high level of provision in this regard ranking 17th overall (out of 103
 institutions), with scores in the top 10% of institutions for supervision (1/103), research skills
 (6/103), professional development (8/103). Progression was also excellent (27/103) with
 resources (48/103), research culture (58/103) and responsibilities (59/103) showing good levels
 of satisfaction, but also areas to focus new developments in. The University conducts the
 survey every 2 years, and shows steady improvement in this regard:

                                 PRES 2019      PRES 2017       2019 vs 2017
 Supervision                     92.0%          83.4%           8.6%
 Resources                       81.0%          68.1%           12.9%
 Research Culture                59.2%          60.4%           -1.2%
 Progress and Assessment         83.9%          80.9%           3.0%
 Responsibilities                77.6%          78.2%           -0.5%
 Research Skills                 90.7%          87.7%           3.0%
 Professional Development        84.3%          76.8%           7.5%
 Overall Section                 86.6%          79.7%           6.9%
 Overall Satisfaction            84.5%          74.5%           10.0%
 Table 2. PRES 2019

 Further support across each institute, particularly with reference to resources and research
 culture, has been provided by participation in the pan-Wales Knowledge Economy Skills
 Scholarship Programme (KESS 2), which has secured £913k from the European Social Fund to
 support 26 fully funded collaborative PhD scholarships between 2016 and 2023. This provides
 structured and funded opportunities for researcher development in the form of a post graduate
 skills development award supported by £9k personal training fund, and further opportunities
 across the partnership (Bangor University, Swansea University, Cardiff University, Aberystwyth
 University, Cardiff Metropolitan University and University of South Wales). During AY19/20 it
 was agreed that University would establish a Doctoral College to further develop our provision
 as a centre of excellence. Planned for launch for AY 21/22 this is based on strategic plans for
 innovation and diversification in PGR provision, led by expertise in the Wales Academy for
 Professional Practice and Applied Research.

 While the University has a historical reputation in research and PhDs based at the Lampeter
 campus, it also has a growing reputation in the provision of Professional Doctorates with a good
 range of provision including one of only two generic DProfs globally, DBAs, an EdD as well as
 interdisciplinary professional doctorates delivered from the Lampeter campus. These
 development opportunities are aligned to the University’s strategy to provide opportunities for
 employed, professional and non-standard learners wishing to study whilst at work. Current
 distribution across different awards is as follows:

  PhD                                        210
  Doctor of Business Administration          161
  Doctorate in Education                     22
  Doctorate in Professional Practice         22
  Professional Doctorate                     15
  MPhil                                      5
  MRes                                       1
  Total                                      436
 Table 3. Enrolled PGR 19/20



                                                                                             Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Equality and Diversity

 Gender pay gap. An equal proportion of female to male academics make up the profile of
 submitting staff at Professorial level. 100% of our submitting female Academic Directors (HESA
 level D) and Principal Lecturers (HESA level I) are remunerated at the top of the relevant pay
 scale which matches the remuneration of 100% of male colleagues at this level. Female
 academics in HESA level J, (Senior Lecturer and Senior Research Fellow) make up the largest
 proportion (26%) of the total cohort of submitting academics in comparison with 7% of submitting
 male academic at this level. At level K (Lecturer and Research Fellow) there is a balance
 between submitting female academics and male academics at 15% respectively of the total
 cohort. At both these levels a higher percentage of male academics are remunerated at the top
 of the relevant pay scale. The University operates the HERA job evaluation scheme and this is
 embedded into the pay structure, thereby ensuring a transparent pay scale with clear
 parameters regarding progression. Incremental increases are implemented annually, based on
 length of time that the staff member has been in post. The range of pay points within a HESA
 level would reflect the profile of service of the staff members within it.

 Protected Characteristics

 Age. Over 34% of the entire cohort of submitting academics are under 44 years of age. More
 than 40% of submitting academics in each UoA apart from UoA26 are under 44 years of age.
 Academics over 65 years of age are also well represented within the total cohort. The University
 is committed to ensuring that age does not lead to deteriorating opportunities for research.

 Gender. Across the entire cohort of submitting academics 58% are female and 42% are male
 which reflects the gender profile for the total academic population. The proportions within each
 of the UoAs however reflect variations from this overall balance. UoA 04 and UoA23 have a
 significantly higher proportion of female academics (80% and 81% respectively). In contrast the
 proportion of female academics in UoA32 is 36%. An objective of the University’s new Strategic
 Equality Plan is to address gender inequalities including consideration of participation by women
 in STEM subjects.

 Disability. Although improving, the percentage of the total staff of the University who disclose a
 disability is very low. 33% of submitting academics across all UoAs did not disclose a disability.
 One of the objectives of the Strategic Equality Plan is to reduce inequalities that exist within the
 University’s communities. As part of this objective the University will work to become accredited
 as a Disability Confident employer.

 Ethnicity. 89% of all submitting academics have declared their ethnicity as White. Within the
 new Strategic Equality Plan the University will consider appropriate actions to increase the
 diversity of its workforce and this will include a review of recruitment and selection policy,
 process and practices. Work to enhance the support for staff from under-represented groups
 during their careers will also seek to ensure they do not experience deteriorating opportunities
 during their careers.

 Wellbeing
 The University is taking an evidence based approach to the development of a longer term well-
 being strategy and is engaging with staff through pulse surveys this year to identify levels of
 well-being, the impact of immediate interventions and using data to inform future actions.
 Through the University’s new Strategic Equality Plan, further well-being focused commitments
 are made, including the ‘Time to Change Pledge’ to end the stigma around mental health
 conditions and Stonewall accreditation to enable a University community that is a welcoming,
 nurturing and supportive place for all.

 Student wellbeing
 UWTSD has an effective student support system in place on every campus, which is equally
 available to research students. They are supported by the Learning Support Team within the

                                                                                               Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Student Services which provides comprehensive support for students at all levels with specific
 learning difficulties including one-to-one support for disabled students. The Student support
 team has also set up special drop-in sessions for distance learners (e.g., online or by phone).
 With regard to wellbeing, confidential counselling is available to students and staff through the
 well-established professional counselling service that operates within the ethical framework of
 the British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy. In cooperation with the Student
 Union staff also have access to Big White Wall, a 24/7 online support resource that offers
 support with regard to mental health.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Institutional strategies and facilities for generating research income across research
 units.
 Each of the three Institutes, and their constituent research centres and academes are supported
 by the central team based in Research Innovation and Enterprise Services (RIES). This strategic
 unit provides specialist support in developing and delivering research and impact activity across
 the University. Large investments have been secured for infrastructure through several projects
 in healthcare facilities, healthcare technologies and assistive living, including £4.6M of ERDF
 funds for the Assistive Technologies Innovation Centre (funded through collaboration with the
 Welsh Government’s Life Science Hub Wales, Swansea University and Cardiff University),
 £305k from the national charity Cerebra to support the Cerebra Innovation Centre, and in excess
 of £2.5m in core funding and ERDF through the Advanced Design Engineering project and
 contract income for the Wales Centre for Advance Batch Manufacture (CBM). Each facility is
 available for collaborative research across the Universities research centres, with for example
 colleagues in UoA4 collaborating with those with colleagues in UoA32 in the ATIC User
 Experience research facility. Earlier investment was secured for the Institute of Sustainable
 Design (£1.3m). CBM’s facilities and infrastructure in medical devices (certified to ISO
 13485:2016) brings further strength to this provision.

 Professional Services & Income.
 The principle means of support is in pre-award functions of competitive bid development
 (including collaborative partnerships), and post award project management. Spanning both
 areas RIES provides professional services in legal, financial, state aid, intellectual property,
 contractual, technology transfer and project management aspects of the Institutes’ portfolio of
 projects. During the census period RIES has supported more than 200 project applications,
 securing grant income in excess of £28m across the submitting units. In accordance with
 accounting rules, the value of much of these research, knowledge exchange activities as
 supported with funds from the EU (ERDF, ESF and Erasmus +) is not recorded as research
 income in HESA Table 5, although these are a major source underpinning research in the
 University. In response to the emerging post-Brexit funding landscape, over the next five years
 the University will use targeted funding council support (RWIF) to build capacity and add value to
 the work of existing research and knowledge exchange centres by investing in and supporting
 their longer-term transition to commercial viability by:

    •   Strengthening the reporting and recording of business and community engagement;
    •   Strengthening the Project Development Team to provide additional capacity to target new
        external sources of funding through grants and commercial contracts;
    •   Strengthen the capacity and connectivity of the Business Engagement Team to enhance
        external industry support through collaborative research, consultancy, knowledge transfer,
        training and CPD;
    •   Growing the number of SMART Partnerships to 6 per year over three years;
    •   Growing the number of Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) to 9 over three years;
    •   Working with existing EU funded project teams to identify alternative funding sources and
        to maintain pan-European strategic partnerships.




                                                                                              Page 7
