Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Queen’s University Belfast

 1. Context and mission

 1a. Introduction and Overview

 Founded in 1845, Queen’s has grown from a small cohort to a thriving multicultural community of
 4,300 staff and 24,000 students, including 3,000 international students from 85 different
 countries.

 Uniquely placed as a member of the Russell Group and Universities Ireland, it is a research
 intensive university with academic excellence across the breadth of disciplines, notably receiving
 seven ‘Queen’s Anniversary Prizes for Higher and Further Education’ in areas including shared
 education, cancer care, cyber-security, and ionic liquids.

 Queen’s is joint-1st in the UK for research intensity (Complete University Guide 2021) and has
 fifteen subjects in the global top 200 (QS World Rankings 2020). THE Impact Rankings (2020)
 found Queen’s to be the 87th most impactful university globally for tackling the UN Sustainable
 Development Goals (SDGs).

 1b. Size and Shape

 Queen’s is structured in three faculties, with research and teaching taking place within schools
 and interdisciplinary research institutes. Figure 1 depicts the FTE of REF submitted staff for
 each school. In 2016 the University implemented a radical rethink of its academic structures,
 including the establishment and empowerment of academic-led executive boards in the three
 faculties with collective responsibility for determining and delivering the strategic plans for their
 respective areas, and the creation of new multidisciplinary schools for cognate disciplines (see
 below – AEL, HAPP, SSESW, NBE).




                                                                                                  Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)




                                             Figure 1

 The University hosts a broad base of core academic disciplines with porous inter- and cross-
 disciplinary connections. These can be broadly grouped into five strategic themes that
 summarise existing research strengths and future priorities:
      A healthy life for all
      Secure, connected intelligence: AI and the data revolution
      A symbiotic and natural world
      A transformative and productive economy
      Inclusive and cohesive communities

 1c. Governance

 Queen’s chief ambassador is its Chancellor – Secretary Hilary Rodham Clinton – appointed in
 October 2019 as the first female post holder. It is led by the President and Vice-Chancellor -
 Professor Ian Greer – appointed in 2018, who is supported by six Pro-Vice-Chancellors and a
 Registrar and Chief Operating Officer. Research and innovation activity is overseen by the Pro-
 Vice-Chancellor, Research & Enterprise – Professor Emma Flynn – appointed in 2019.

 Governance is underpinned by Charter and Statute and overseen by University Senate.
 Membership is drawn from academic staff, support staff and the student body of the University
 and ten appointed external lay members, who guide the strategic direction of the University,
 management of its revenue and property, and general conduct of its affairs (Figure 2).




                                                                                           Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)




                                             Figure 2

 1d. Regional and local context

 Queen’s is one of two HEIs in Northern Ireland (NI), with the Department for the Economy NI
 (DfE) fulfilling the role of government department and funding council. This assessment period
 has been one of challenge for the sector, due to the uncertainty caused by Brexit and Covid-19.

 Comparably low levels of R&D investment in NI – relative to the rest of the UK - combined with
 SME dominance of the economy, places a disproportionate importance on public interventions.
 Queen’s is increasingly a critical conduit for these, providing skills and innovations to create
 wealth and support local industry, in partnership with NI’s regional economic development
 agency – Invest NI.

 The growth of a sustainable knowledge economy in NI requires further investment in HE to drive
 social and economic recovery. Following the imposition of successive budget reductions since
 2010-11, a comparative funding deficit has emerged which DfE acknowledges is in order of
 £34m, based on 2017-18 data, in comparison to England (Figure 3). Moving into the next REF
 assessment period, this will be a major focus for the University and its partners in NI.




                                                                                            Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)




                                             Figure 3

 2. Strategy

 2a. Strategic framework

 An institutional Research Strategy was published following REF 2014 as part of the University’s
 Corporate Plan. The Strategy focusses on three priorities, each informed by common cross-
 cutting themes (Figure 4). An agile approach was adopted to flexibly adapt to dynamic internal
 and external environments, exemplified by various auxiliary strategies and plans.




                                             Figure 4

 Sections 2b – 2d detail strategic developments during the assessment period. Areas of activity
 are porous and interconnected, but for ease of reference are summarised as follows:
      2b. Research Ambition and Environment (Priority 1, Priority 3 & Theme 3)

                                                                                           Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
       2c. Connecting to Tackle Global Challenges (Priority 2 & Theme 1)
       2d. Impact and Innovation (Priority 2, Theme 2)

 2b. Research Ambition and Environment

 To facilitate a vibrant and integrated research environment there has been a concerted focus on
 ‘people’ and ‘research ambition’, with strategic interventions to attract, retain and develop
 promising talent, from postgraduate to professoriate, and ambitious targets to benchmark
 progress, including:

       People: A new holistic framework for academic career progression; investment in
        institutional fellowship schemes to attract the most promising global talent; a new
        Fellowship Academy to holders of prestigious independent fellowships; implementation of
        the ‘Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers’, including
        introduction of 10 guaranteed learning and development days each year for postdoctoral
        staff; a pilot ‘Postdoctoral Development Centre’ in the medical faculty; investment in
        fixed-term fractional posts to host global research leaders at Queen’s; and, a new
        Graduate School. These activities are detailed in ‘Section 3 – People’.
       Research Ambition: An ambition to deliver high-quality research in collaboration with
        our partners locally, nationally and globally underpinned by the highest standards of
        research integrity. Building on our core disciplinary strengths across the breadth of the
        University, and delivering on our commitment to facilitate inter-disciplinary and multi-
        disciplinary research. Further strengthening our research quality through establishment
        of interdisciplinary research platforms – GRIs and PRPs. A ‘Research Income Action
        Plan’, introduced in 2018, in recognition of an increasingly competitive sector
        environment, with renewed and targeted interventions. These activities and measures of
        progress are detailed in ‘Section 4 – Income, Infrastructure and Facilities’.

 To support an increasingly ambitious cohort of researchers in achieving these goals there was
 significant strategic investment in professional support during the period, notably through
 the Research & Enterprise Directorate, including new faculty-aligned teams with specific remits
 for bid development, industry collaboration, research impact and commercialisation. The scale
 and scope of professional support for research and innovation is also detailed in Section 4.

 2c. Connecting to Tackle Global Challenges

 Interdisciplinary research

 A new ecosystem for interdisciplinary research was introduced, recognising that teams of
 researchers are required to address the biggest problems facing society. New Global Research
 Institutes (GRIs) and Pioneer Research Programmes (PRPs) were introduced to reinvigorate the
 research ecosystem and deliver a step change in quality.

 Three GRIs were supported for an initial period of 5 years, delivering a concentration of world-
 leading expertise aligned with funder priorities, leading to notable increases in research income
 (see Table 1). They were subject to an external mid-term review in 2019 and forward plans have
 been developed for each GRI aligning with a new institutional strategy.

                                                                           % Increase in
                                                                           research income
                                                                           (2013-19)
   Institute for Global Food Security (IGFS)                               +21.8%
   Senator George J Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security          +52.2%
   and Justice
   Institute for Electronics, Communications and Information               +41%
   Technology (ECIT)
                                           Table 1

                                                                                            Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 PRPs were a flexible model for early-stage prospects, supported for 3 years. Six were launched
 in the period, four of which have begun to demonstrate significant global impact in the areas of
 social innovation, intelligent autonomous manufacturing systems, materials and advanced
 technologies for healthcare, and sustainable energy. These will be further embedded into
 research structures moving forward.

 To support embryonic projects in core disciplines, an Interdisciplinary Pump Priming Fund was
 introduced and a Global Challenge Networking Programme facilitated cross-disciplinary
 engagement around themes.

 Internationalisation and partnerships

 Strategic interventions were adopted to increase and broaden our impact on key global
 challenges, including the introduction of a dedicated International Research Development Team
 and establishment of targeted action plans, including:
      an EU Funding Action Plan (2015) which established a regional network of thematic
        leads to support EU framework funding, five of whom are based at Queen’s, as part of
        the NI Horizon 2020 Strategy, with institutional success including 103 awards with more
        than 700 partner organisations in 52 countries for a total value of £36m;
      a Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) Strategy adopted in 2018, providing
        pump-prime support for workshops, pilot projects, ECR training, and delegations to target
        countries, with success measures including 48 awards with more than 30 overseas
        partners in 21 different countries for a total value of more than £8.3m;
      strategic alignment with major education priorities e.g. North America Strategy which
        has seen almost £35m in research awards with US partners, including £2.5m for 7
        projects funded by EC-Horizon 2020 with US based collaborators; and
      a focus on all-Island funding, as the only UK region with an EU land border, e.g. over
        £10m through the US-Ireland R&D Partnership Programme (USA, RoI and NI partners)
        and £7.9m for projects with RoI partners funded by Science Foundation Ireland (SFI).

 Overall, during the period 2015-2020 Queen’s received 1,042 awards involving EU and
 international collaboration and/ or funding with a total value of £172m. The percentage of income
 from EU funders is higher than research-intensive comparators (relative to FTE) and in line with
 sector income. International co-authorship has risen from 59% in 2016 to 67% in 2020 – the
 highest proportion in the Russell Group.

 2d. Impact and Innovation

 Building on a track record for societal engagement, Queen’s has embedded a culture of ‘impact
 and innovation’ underpinned by high quality research.

 Early-stage impact development and ‘engaged research’

 In 2016 Queen’s invested in a dedicated team to further embed a ‘culture of impact’. Their role
 includes supporting the articulation of impact to external audiences, facilitating engagement with
 stakeholders, and delivering learning and development opportunities, with a focus on ECRs.

 In 2018, Queen’s launched a fully-resourced Engaged Research Action Plan (ERAP)
 dedicated to establishing sustainable long term relationships with external partners, building on
 its status as a partner in the National Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement (NCCPE) and
 signatory to the Concordat for Engaging the Public with Research. Over £3m has been awarded
 to initiatives seeding partnerships and impact through internal funds alongside ‘Impact
 Acceleration Accounts’ or equivalent programmes funded by ESRC (£1m), EPSRC (£850k),
 MRC (£1.3m) and STFC (£60k). Responding to staff and partner consultation, sector-aligned
 engagement ‘hubs’ have been established e.g. the all-island ‘Patient and Public Involvement
 Hub’ and the ‘Heritage Hub @ QUB’, as well as secondments and practitioner appointments.

                                                                                             Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)



 Knowledge exchange and collaborative research

 An Institutional Knowledge Exchange (KE) Strategy sets out how Higher Education
 Innovation Fund (HEIF) investment from DfE is utilised to support regional economic
 development through support for academic staff and services for external stakeholders, e.g.:
     Stimulation of SME engagement in R&D through relatively small-scale programmes
        such as ‘knowledge transfer partnerships’ (Queen’s is UK’s leading provider with c. 50-60
        live Innovate UK projects, 2020) and consultancy services (e.g. Invest NI Innovation
        Vouchers scheme). These are first points of contact for businesses new to R&D
        collaboration and provide routes to higher levels of engagement.
     Brokering collaborative research partnerships with larger firms through inward and
        outward secondments, research fellowships, development of collaborative research
        proposals, and jointly-funded studentships. This is supported by a faculty- and sector-
        aligned team of Business Alliance Managers who work with academics to encourage
        engagement with collaborative R&D and forge long-term, strategic relationships with
        critical NI and international corporates.
     Leveraging public and private funding for joint centres to act as anchors for R&D
        excellence in the region and attract foreign direct investment. For example, the University
        hosts industry-led ‘competence centres’ in agri-food and sustainable energy, a state-of-
        the-art Precision Medicine Centre with Invest NI and the Belfast Health Trust, and the
        UK’s Innovation and Knowledge Centre for cyber-security (CSIT).

 Through these interventions, Queen’s has increased appetite for engagement in collaborative
 research activities during this assessment period. Indeed, for the period 2014-20, it ranks 11th in
 the UK for total value of Innovate UK grants offered (5th by total value as lead partner) with £25m
 and 9th in the sector for total value of contract research income received from the public and third
 sector - £71.1m (HE-BCI 2016-17 to 2018-19).

 Queen’s regional economic anchor status is exemplified by its role in the Belfast Region City
 Deal (BRCD). Negotiated between UK and regional government, six councils, and HE/FE
 institutions, the £1bn Deal consists of four strands: Infrastructure, Tourism, Employability and
 Skills, and Innovation and Digital. The latter of which Queen’s jointly leads with Ulster University,
 comprising a suite of five projects with a common thread of digital innovation, which will receive
 over £200m capital funding. These are detailed further in Section 4.

 Commercialisation and innovation

 Queen’s is renowned for its top-tier research commercialisation ecosystem. A centrally-based
 research commercialisation team provides support from “idea to innovation” including: managed
 invention disclosure process; expert support with IP protection; one-to-one support from sector
 aligned business development experts to develop a commercialisation strategy; support in
 executing licences or spinning out new entities via the University’s highly successful spin-out
 vehicle – Qubis Ltd.; and access to campus-based business incubator space for early-stage
 commercial ventures arising from Queen’s research.

 The University is taking an increasingly leading role in delivering enterprise programmes across
 the UK and Ireland including ‘Lean Launchpad’ - a rapid pre-accelerator customer-discovery
 platform – which the University has been invited to deliver on behalf of Innovate UK. Queen’s is
 lead partner in the ‘North by Northwest’ consortium of universities which accounts for 25% of the
 UK’s intellectual property income from HEIs.

 Queen’s is one of the few HEIs to generate significant profit from commercialisation activity
 (£25m+ in 2019-20) and Octopus Ventures Entrepreneurial Impact Ranking found Queen’s
 commercialisation ecosystem to be the UK’s most effective in 2019 and 2020. As measured by
 HE-BCI figures, Queen’s has generated, on average, £7m in IP income and £15m in IP revenue

                                                                                                Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 per annum over the past six years, ranking top 10 in the UK on both measures. Spin-outs have
 drawn down £85m p.a. in investment (top 5 in UK), achieved £224m in turnover (top 3), and
 employ 1,961 FTE staff (top 3). The University has instigated over 90 spin-out companies, three
 of which have been publicly listed on the London Stock Exchange (Kainos, Andor Technology
 and Fusion Antibodies). These outcomes have been achieved from a smaller research income
 base relative to many peers and within a region with the lowest levels of R&D investment in the
 UK.

 2e. Future strategic goals for research and impact

 The University is currently developing a new strategic plan which will articulate ambitions for the
 next 10 years and establish a framework for the delivery of its institutional vision – to conduct
 leading-edge education and research, focused on the needs of society.

 The over-arching theme of the strategy will be ‘Social and Civic Responsibility, and
 Economic Prosperity’. This will inform three priority areas of ‘Research & Innovation’;
 ‘Education and Skills’; and ‘Global Reputation and Partnerships’, supported by four enablers –
 ‘Sustainability’; ‘People’; ‘Infrastructure’; and ‘Technology’. A draft version of the framework for
 Research & Innovation is outlined at Figure 5.

 Locally, this will involve a focus on supporting the recovery of NI from recent challenges and
 driving the growth of a knowledge-based economy with new strengths and skills, for example
 through Queen’s role in the Belfast Region City Deal. Globally, the University will reassert its
 commitment to addressing the most pressing needs of society and further align its education,
 research, operations and outreach activities in critical partnerships to address the UN SDG
 goals.

 Within the ‘Research & Innovation’ priority area, the University will use its strengths to deliver
 high-quality outcomes (disciplinary, societal, environmental and economic) in five strategic
 themes. This will be achieved through a focus on people, research quality, partnerships and
 place.




                                               Figure 5

 Strategies that enable the delivery of research and innovation plans will include:
      An Enterprise and Knowledge Exchange Strategy which recognises the increased
        focus of funding bodies and the UK Government on the translation of research into real
                                                                                                 Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
        world impact. It will seek to build upon existing KE excellence and secure UKRI funding,
        particularly through the Levelling-Up agenda to work in partnership with critical
        stakeholders in NI, to strengthen the innovation ecosystem and develop strategic
        investment plans for economic growth and prosperity.
       The University’s first Research Culture Action Plan (RCAP), formally launched in
        January 2021, aims to put Queen’s at the forefront of a sector-wide effort to develop a
        positive research ecosystem. It addresses explicit challenges with the current internal
        and external research culture and commits to tangible actions aimed at diminishing these
        in the years ahead. It is owned by the entire research community and will adopt an agile
        and iterative approach to implementation, informed by twice-annual surveys of staff.

 2f. Institutional approaches to other sector priorities

 In addition to the strategic priorities detailed above, Queen’s is a committed supporter of sectoral
 efforts to address a range of policy priorities, as outlined in Figure 6 below.




                                                Figure 6

 Open research

 An institutional open access (OA) policy is supported by a dedicated team who deliver advice
 and training and monitor ongoing compliance. During the period OA has been embedded as the
 norm, with a module on OA being a mandatory component of staff training and 95% of
 publications subject to the OA Policy for REF meeting compliance. The University is a signatory
 to the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) and has published
 institutional principles on responsible use of metrics.

 Research integrity

 Queen’s reports annually on its compliance with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity,
 and has established associated regulations, policies and codes of practice. Staff and students
 are expected to adhere to these processes and are made aware of their existence via relevant
 webpages and induction programmes. Research is audited to ensure compliance with legislation
 and institutional policies. This ensures research is conducted, managed and reported robustly,
 and where identified, good practice is shared. Where a potential breach is identified the
 Regulations Governing the Allegation and Investigation of Misconduct in Research are
 implemented and used to investigate the breach.


                                                                                               Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 3. People

 3a. Staff development

 The University launched a new institutional ‘people and culture’ strategy in 2018. ‘People First’ is
 delivered by the People & Culture (P&C) Directorate and its implementation is informed by
 regular staff surveys (2016 and 2019) and feedback from an institutional ‘Staff Forum’.

 Key changes during the period include a new approach to academic career development -
 ‘Academic Progression’ - was designed in consultation with staff and takes a holistic view of
 individual contributions beyond traditional, narrow metrics such as publications and income.
 Revised policies on Workload Allocation and Flexible Working were introduced 2020 to further
 complement the principles of this approach.

 There are two equal career pathways within this – ‘Research and Education’ and ‘Education
 Only’. Academic ‘profiles’ tailored to disciplines and career stage define the standards expected
 in three areas – teaching, research and, notably, the new category of ‘citizenship’, which
 recognises and incentivises leadership skills, collegiality, impact, and contribution to the
 discipline.

 All staff enjoy access to a range of resources, without restriction, including a ‘Career
 Development Hub’, the extensive ‘Learning for All’ programme, and access to online resources
 such as ‘LinkedIn Learning’.

 To recognise exceptional performance, contribution and accomplishments, there are flexible
 schemes for managers to make annual performance awards or smaller-value instant, recognition
 awards. An annual suite of ‘Vice-Chancellor’s Research Prizes’ was launched in 2015 to
 recognise outstanding achievements in research through financial prizes and recognition at an
 annual awards ceremony.

 3b. Early-career researchers (ECRs)

 Support for ECRs is organised across three areas – fixed-term research staff, independent
 fellows, and those recently appointed to their first full academic post.

 Queen’s is a committed signatory of the ‘Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers’ and holds the EU HR Excellence in Research Award. Postdoctoral research staff
 are guaranteed 10 annual development days, which they can use for bespoke development
 needs that they identify with support from P&C, and benefit from a ‘Researcher Development
 Framework’. An institutional forum of researchers represents postdoctoral issues to the PVCR
 and an annual showcase is held as part of ‘National Postdoc Awareness Week’. A pilot
 ‘Postdoctoral Development Centre’ was trialled in the medical faculty from 2017 to provide a hub
 for all aspects of the ‘postdoctoral experience’ and, due to its success, will be rolled out
 institutionally in 2021-22.

 To attract the next generation of research leaders and increase the number of staff holding
 independent early-career fellowships during the period, there was targeted recruitment to
 institutional schemes (see Table 2 below) and a new ‘Fellowship Academy’ (2020) was launched
 to support independent fellows across three main themes: research funding, leadership
 development, and networking and impact. The combined effect of these interventions has been
 a step change in the University’s performance in attracting independent externally-funded
 fellowship awards, i.e. in the relatively short period since the additional institutional support was
 introduced, applicants from Queen’s have been awarded seven independent 5-year fellowships
 (UKRI FLF, RAEng, EPSRC), representing a substantial rise from previous years.




                                                                                              Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

  Scheme                   Total          Fellows        Start-up      Permanent       Additional
                           investment     Recruited      funds         post            benefits
                                                                       subject to
                                                                       meeting
                                                                       criteria?
  Queen’s University       £5.4m          15             £20-40k       Lecturer        Enabling
  Research                                                             after 4 years   Fund for
  Fellowships                                                                          discrete
                                                                                       projects
  (2014 – 2019)
  Vice-                £3.6m              9              £40k          Lecturer        Access to
  Chancellor’s/Patrick                                                 after 3 years   Fellowship
  G Johnston (MHLS)                                                                    Academy

  (2018 – 2021)
  Illuminate: The          £3.67m         7              £20-50k       Lecturer        Access to
  Vice-Chancellor's                                                    after 3         Fellowship
  Fellowships                                                          years,          Academy
                                                                       Senior
  (2019 – 2024)                                                        Lecturer        PhD
                                                                       after 5         studentship
                                               Table 2

 Staff appointed to their first full academic post benefit from the same support as established
 colleagues, alongside tailored programmes including: the ‘Fellowship Application Support
 Programme’ for those applying to independent fellowship schemes; the ‘Global Research
 Training Programme’ for ECRs engaged in research addressing global challenges; and the
 ‘iCure’ programme which supports them in developing innovations with commercial potential.

 3c. PGR students

 A new Graduate School was launched in 2015 to provide a hub for postgraduate community and
 development, covering the spectrum from application and recruitment, fees/ funding, academic
 training and development, employability and careers, and pastoral advice and guidance.

 The School is based in its own building – the restored and remodelled Victorian Lynn library – a
 fully-accessible space with modern, hi-tech meeting and group study rooms, a silent study area
 and social spaces creating a vibrant hub for intellectual exchange and collaboration.

 Queen’s offers places on over 15 flagship doctoral training programmes, centres and
 partnerships. More than 100 students are currently engaged in a range of training programmes
 supported by major funders, and places are available for 2021 entry to collaborative training
 partnership schemes funded through UKRI schemes with HEIs across the North of England,
 Scotland, Republic of Ireland and industry partners.

 3d. Equality, diversity and inclusion

 The University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Policy fosters equality of opportunity and
 treatment to protected groups. Institutional policies, procedures and job descriptions are
 procedurally screened for compliance with statutory obligations. A dedicated Diversity &
 Inclusion Unit in P&C supports implementation of the EDI policy and other initiatives, including:
      Work-life balance policies and services;
      Bullying and Harassment and Anti-Harassment; and,
      Mandatory E&D training, e.g. annual online EDI and Unconscious Bias courses.



                                                                                             Page 11
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 EDI is central to Queen’s REF Code of Practice, which was developed through staff consultation
 and learnings from REF 2014 (where Queen’s submitted one of the highest proportions in the
 sector – 95%). As well as committing to fully-inclusive 100% submission in REF 2021, the Code
 clarifies that decisions made for REF have no bearing on e.g. career progression. Regular
 equality impact assessments have monitored the distribution of outputs between individuals. As
 requested by the panel, figures have been collated for professors and senior staff by protected
 characteristic, as depicted in Figures 7 – 10.




                                           Figures 7 - 10

 The University invests in programmes to support equality for all protected groups, including staff
 networks for staff who identify as LGBTQ+, BAME and international, and female, and
 institutional commitment to sector frameworks as outlined in Table 3.

 Unlike the rest of the UK, Northern Ireland does not yet have gender pay gap reporting
 regulations in place; however, the University strongly supports equal pay for all and recognises it
 should operate a system that is free from bias and based on objective criteria. Queen’s has
 conducted regular Equal Pay Audits since 2009 (next scheduled for Spring 2021) and an
 institutional Working Group has led efforts that have resulted in a narrowing of the professorial
 pay gap in recent years.

   Gender                  Queen’s holds one of only 19 Institutional Silver Athena SWAN
                           Awards, renewed in 2019, and 14 Departmental Awards (3 Gold, 6
                           Silver, 5 Bronze). The Queen’s Gender Initiative (QGI) represents
                           female staff to the University; leads the development of action
                           plans to advance gender equality; and delivers bespoke mentoring
                           and career development training. It is leading on institutional
                           efforts to understand and mitigate the impact of COVID-19 via a
                           major institutional survey which occurred during 2020-21.

   Sexual Orientation      Queen’s is a Stonewall Diversity Champion and launched an
                           LGBT+ staff network in 2018 - ‘PRISM’, which won ‘Best LGBT
                           Initiative' at the NI Equality and Diversity Awards, 2019.



                                                                                            Page 12
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
   Gender Identity         Queen’s launched its Trans Equality Policy in 2016 and won a
                           national Universities Human Resources (UHR) Award in 2019 for
                           its work to provide equality for those who identify as transgender or
                           transsexual.

   Ethnicity and           The University’s first BAME and International Staff Network was
   Country of Origin       launched in 2019 - ‘iRise’. Queen’s secured institutional
                           membership of the Race Equality Charter in 2020 and will apply for
                           ‘Bronze’ accreditation in 2023.

   Disability              The University’s Disability Action Plan promotes positive attitudes
                           towards, and encourages participation from, disabled staff and
                           students.

   Age                     As requested by the panel, the figures below outline the age profile
                           of new appointments during the census period (c. 1200 total):


                                              20-34  35-49  50-64  65+
                               Academic (T&R)  41.6%  46.6%  11.1%   0.8%
                                    Research   73.8%  22.8%   3.4%   0.0%


                                              Table 3


 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 4a. Research income strategy and outcomes

 Research strategy during the period set ambitious targets for grant income to facilitate a
 sustainable research ecosystem. Recognising the challenging economic climate, a ‘Research
 Income Action Plan’ was introduced in 2018 to further consolidate a shift in focus from quantity
 to quality of research applications and secure large-scale, multi-institutional grants from major
 funders. The Plan focussed on creating an environment where research grant capture is fully
 enabled and rewarded, with the highest quality support. Activity undertaken includes:
      Enhanced peer support for development of research ideas and mandatory internal peer
         review of all applications to UKRI and equivalent funders
      Formation of internal ‘funder liaison groups’ for each UKRI research council, chaired by a
         senior member of the professoriate closely linked to the funder, in order to centrally
         coordinate funder intelligence and engagement
      Peer-led ‘action learning surgeries’ tailored to the specific funder/ PI(s) to provide in-
         depth feedback on specific applications, develop peer reviewing skills, develop peer
         networks etc.
      Allocation of leveraged support to deliver strategic research agenda

 As part of this strategy, the University has managed to increase overall research income, shift
 the portfolio towards high quality funding sources, extend grant activity amongst staff, and
 increase quality of academic output as measured by standard citation metrics:
      Increased annual research income from £64m in 2014-15 to £90m in 2019-20
      Increased UKRI success rates from 25% in 2015-16 to 28% in 2018-19 despite
         significantly increased application values from c. £100m to c. £120m
      Citation score of 52.2 (ranked 324th) in the THE World University Rankings (2015)
         increased to 84 (ranked 216th) in 2021



                                                                                            Page 13
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 4b. Professional support for research

 A dedicated Research and Enterprise Directorate (R&E) was established in 2011 to help secure
 the University’s vision for excellence and impact in research. During the assessment period
 there has been significant additional investment in R&E aligned to strategic priorities (c. £1.2m).
 R&E now comprises approximately 80 staff across 9 teams specialising in discrete areas as
 outlined in Figure 11 below. Support for research also includes dedicated teams including
 Research Finance (Finance Directorate), Researcher Development (People & Culture) and
 Faculty-based support.




                                                Figure 11

 In addition to leveraged external funding (e.g. IAAs) there are a range of internally resourced
 strategic funds for activities such as conference fees and travel, preparing large-scale grant
 applications, seed funding for interdisciplinary collaborations, and consolidating relationships
 with external partners.

 4c. Infrastructure, facilities and equipment

 The Estate at Queen's includes c250 buildings over 100 acres. Investing £700m over a 20 year
 capital development programme, Queen’s has some of the best campus facilities in the UK and
 Ireland across sites encompassing the main campus in South Belfast, the Belfast City Hospital
 and Royal Victoria Hospital, and city-centre adjacent Titanic Quarter.

 Major projects completed during the assessment period include a new School of Biological
 Sciences and the Institute for Global Food Security (£39m); a new home for the School of Law
 and institution-wide teaching and social space (£15.7m); and, a redeveloped Computer Science
 Building acting as an integrated hub to support expansion in STEM subjects.

 Queen’s is leading on three of the five projects (worth over £200m) in the Innovation strand of
 the Belfast Region City Deal:
      Advanced Manufacturing Innovation Centre (AMIC): new manufacturing technology
         development through the innovation phase and ensure real-world industrial challenges,
         based on market need, are solved through cutting-edge research.
      Global Innovation Institute (GII): co-innovation between researchers and industry in
         digital technologies, including AI and data analytics, with a particular focus on
         applications across the One Health spectrum, spanning human health and agri-food.
      Institute for Research Excellence in Advanced Clinical Healthcare (iREACH): unified
         capability for clinical research, bringing together academic, industry, NHS and
         government stakeholders to create a unique ecosystem for testing new drugs through
         their development life cycle and integration into care pathways.

 Investment in leading-edge equipment is recognised as critical to delivery of Queen’s research
 ambitions. Over the past few years, under the leadership of the PVCR, and with the support of


                                                                                              Page 14
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 funders and partners, Queen’s has invested significantly in infrastructure and now has a
 substantial portfolio of research equipment (>£100m). Major developments in the period include:
 the establishment of five ‘core technology units’ in medical sciences; leading the NI component
 of the ESRC Administrative Data Research Centre; and a £2.1m EPSRC award in 2020 to
 develop a £5m high performance computing (HPC) facility with Ulster University.




                                                                                         Page 15
