Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Imperial College London

 1. Context and mission

 Imperial College London is a research-intensive university focusing on Science, Technology,
 Engineering, Medicine and Business. Our four Faculties (Natural Sciences, Engineering,
 Medicine and Imperial Business School), 1,300 academic staff and 2,400 research staff pursue
 basic and applied investigator-driven research within and across Physics, Chemistry, Biology,
 Biochemistry, Mathematics, Engineering, Computer Science, Medicine and Business. Our seven
 Global Challenge Institutes bring together transdisciplinary communities (involving c.400
 academic staff) to tackle significant challenges that we have identified as strategic priorities.

 During the REF period the College attracted over £2.6bn in research grant and contract income
 from external sources. We host over 60 externally funded research centres, including the
 SybBiCITE Centre for Synthetic Biology, The Brevan Howard Centre for Financial Analysis, and
 the MRC London Institute for Medical Sciences. We are consistently ranked amongst the world’s
 top universities – 9th in the QS World University rankings 2020, 11 th in the THE World University
 rankings 2021. Over 140 of our staff are either FRS, FMedSci, FREng or FBAs.

 We are members of the UK’s leading collaborative research institutes: the Francis Crick Institute,
 The Henry Royce Institute, and the Rosalind Franklin Institute. We have a wide range of national
 and international strategic partnerships – e.g. with the George Institute for Global Health, the
 Technical University of Munich and the CNRS in Paris. We lead the Imperial College Academic
 Health Science Centre, a consortium of all the medical research-intensive organisations
 (including 9 major hospital sites, with >1m patient contacts per year) in west London. We are a
 member of the Russell Group of research-intensive universities and the League of European
 Research Universities, a network of 23 leading European research-intensive universities.




 Our outlook is global: we are ranked 6 th most International University in the World (THE 2020).
 60% of our students come from outside the UK, and 55% of our academic and research staff
 have non-British nationality. Our cultural and intellectual diversity is critical to our success,
 helping to equip our graduates (including PhDs) for work as leaders in global companies and
 institutions. We collaborate extensively to further enrich our perspectives: two-thirds of our
 research involves international collaborators, and we have collaborations with 192 countries. We
 have established international partnerships with MIT, CNRS (Paris), the Technical University of
 Munich, Tsinghua University, Nanyang Technology University and the African Institute of
 Mathematical Sciences.

 We are entrepreneurial: we are ranked 10th most innovative university in the World (Reuters Top
 100). We undertake research oriented towards real-world impact, whilst recognising that the
 most significant impacts often arise from fundamental science. Our research is supported by an
 infrastructure designed to give easily accessible, high quality support to researchers (including
 students) wishing to commercialise their research, to influence policy, or to work in and with the

                                                                                             Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 community. We value and reward entrepreneurial activity and see it as a key component of our
 mission.
 Recognising the strengths on which we build, we also seek to address historic weaknesses, for
 example in the diversity of our community. The College has made significant progress towards
 being a more inclusive place to work and study over the REF period (see ‘People’ below), and
 we hold an Athena Swan Silver Award at institutional level.

 Education and research at Imperial are mutually re-enforcing, and the College holds a Gold
 award in the TEF. Undergraduates are partners in our research, with 71% of our Science and
 Engineering students undertaking four-year degrees with a substantial research element.
 Approximately 600 students per year undertake paid research through our Undergraduate
 Research Opportunities Programme.

 The College is headquartered in South Kensington. The Faculty of Medicine has a significant
 research presence at the Hammersmith Hospital, St Mary’s, and the Royal Brompton. Our
 campus at Silwood in Berkshire provides a non-urban environment for staff and students
 engaged primarily in ecological research. In total, we operate 161,000 sqm of academic space.
 In 2009, the College acquired land formerly occupied by the BBC at White City and in 2013
 further adjacent land, providing 23 acres of development capacity for a new research and
 innovation campus. This once-in-a-generation opportunity to develop new research
 infrastructure to meet the needs of academia and industry in the 21st century is discussed in
 Section 4.

 2. Strategy

 Imperial’s research strength is built upon the ideas, discoveries and inventions of our research
 community, working in small teams within academic departments. We value top-down and
 bottom-up, challenge-led and curiosity-driven, transdisciplinary and single-discipline research.
 The President’s Excellence Fund for Frontier Research is an investment of up to £750,000 per
 year of College funds in high-risk and fundamental research.




 Our Academic Strategy sets out our distinctive approach (our four ‘capabilities’) and identifies
 themes for strategic cross-College investment. The four themes encompass c. 75% of the
 research undertaken at the College but are not exhaustive. They represent areas where our
 particular strengths are aligned with opportunities for significant and important impact.

                                                                                              Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Our capabilities

 Entrepreneurial

 We are ranked 10th most innovative university in the World (Reuters Top 100 Most Innovative
 Universities). Since 2013, >2,100 invention disclosures were made, >800 patent applications
 were filed, and >450 patents were granted. The total number of active patents in the portfolio in
 any given year was between 330 and 440. In 2018-19, we received £65m in Research income
 from >400 companies. We have a track record of licencing our technologies and have raised
 £13.2m in licencing income over the REF period. We support our staff in undertaking
 consultancy work, and in offering science-led services (e.g. medical testing and aerodynamic
 measurements), with over £46.6m of revenue from these sources over the REF period.

 Our Business School is at the forefront or academic research in entrepreneurship, advancing the
 understanding of the entrepreneurial phenomena at Imperial and elsewhere, and engaging in the
 development and application of the latest findings and methodologies.

 We have long-term multi-million pound strategic relationships with companies such as Shell, BP,
 Rolls Royce, ABB, Agilent, Dyson and GSK, and significant collaborations across a broad range
 of sectors - with Boehringer Ingelheim, Sinopec, Mitsubishi, Samsung, Huawei, Citibank, Lilly,
 Sainsbury’s, BASF and Proctor and Gamble, as well as with >50 SMEs. Our breadth allows us
 to develop unique, cross-sectoral insights, as well as delivering science and technology-driven
 interventions.

 We are proactive in seeking funding for start-ups and have raised over £2m for a seed
 investment fund in collaboration with Parkwalk Advisors since March 2020. From 2013-14 to
 2018-19 there have been 43 new IP start-ups, with financing of over £900m. In 2018-19 there
 were 72 active College IP start-ups. Successes include SLAMcore, a specialist in spatial
 intelligence for autonomous location and mapping, which has recently raised $5m and tied up
 with NVIDIA, and GraphicsFuzz and HARK, both recently acquired by Google. Process Systems
 Enterprise (PSE) was founded in 1997 and by 2019 had 170 employees at the point that it was
 sold to Siemens. Myricx – a small molecule drug discovery company – launched in July 2019.

 In 2018–19, a record 59 student startups were incorporated, 350 jobs were supported by
 student-based startups, and over £39m investment was received. The three-year survival rate
 for companies founded by Imperial students is 70% compared with a London average of around
 50%.

 Our Accelerator Programmes help early career researchers to explore the commercial potential
 of their work. Since January 2018, Techcelerate has offered 34 postdocs a three-month
 programme of entrepreneurship training to explore the market pull of their business ideas. Four
 cohorts have now completed this programme. In June 2018, an Imperial-led consortium
 launched the MedTech SuperConnector entrepreneurship programme, with £5m funding from
 the Research England, to boost the commercialisation of new medical technologies. Fifty-five
 Early Career Researchers have participated, and the first two cohorts have raised over £2.4m in
 venture capital and further grant funding. Seven patents have been filed and five spin-outs
 launched. Our partner the Royal College of Music have commercialised their first technology IP
 through this collaboration.

 WE Innovate is a nine-month pre-accelerator programme with one main goal – to increase the
 number of women in leadership positions, running startups and raising funding. Since 2017, it
 has supported between 60 and 70 women per year. The programme involves 25 teams of
 women entrepreneurs who are offered masterclasses, coaching and networking opportunities.
 Five teams progress to the WE Innovate Final and pitch their idea for a share of the £15,000
 Prize Fund and a tailored mentoring programme.


                                                                                             Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Engaged

 We are a trusted source of STEM expertise. Our experts engage extensively with local, national
 and international media, and provide advice to Governments and legislators both at home and
 abroad. For example, Robin Grimes, Professor of Materials Physics, is the Nuclear Chief
 Scientific Advisor at the MOD, and Profs David Miles and Jonathan Haskell have served on the
 Monetary Policy Committee of the Bank of England. The Imperial Forum provides an opportunity
 for a large number of experts to engage with Westminster and has organised engagements with
 c. 130 civil servants over the last three years, on topics ranging from Food and Nutrition, Data
 Security, AI, and Decarbonisation. Over the course of the last year, Imperial academics have
 played leading roles during the COVID-19 pandemic through membership of SAGE and
 NERVTAG.

 We embed public engagement in research projects and research culture at Imperial. Our
 Societal Engagement Seed Fund enables a wider range of staff to become actively involved in
 engagement activity; involving our communities in the design of our research. Our medical
 researchers involve patients and the public through initiatives such as People’s Café, which has
 enabled small-group interactions with over 600 members of the public since 2019. An on-line
 platform, VOICE, enables patients to identify specific opportunities to engage with our medical
 research community, and has facilitated 117 opportunities for engagement involving 80
 researchers and over 650 members of the public. Through our Biomedical Research Centre, we
 provide grants to academic clinicians for activities that involve patients in their research.

 We develop accessible and inspiring programmes and platforms that empower people in topical
 science issues. The Great Exhibition Road Festival, a collaboration between 20 cultural and/or
 academic institutions in South Kensington, attracted over 60,000 visitors in 2019. We run five
 themed ‘Imperial Late’ events per year, each involving 40 researchers and attracting about 800
 people for an evening of deliberative dialogue events, exhibits and creative activities to explore
 contemporary issues.

 We foster an ethos of working in partnership with community and public groups to tackle shared
 societal challenges. The Invention Rooms at White City are an integrated maker and innovation
 space for the College and the community that has enabled us to engage more than 20,000 local
 people since it opened in 2017.

 Transdisciplinary

 We work across disciplines, sharing ideas and expertise, to understand and change the world.
 Our academic strategy, our networks, centres and institutes are all oriented towards lowering
 barriers to collaboration. 28% of our external grant income is held in more than one department.

 Our seven Global Challenge Institutes bring together transdisciplinary communities to tackle
 significant challenges that the College has identified as its highest strategic priorities. Institutes
 have a small core of academic and support staff but work primarily by gathering together
 communities of common interests from across the College, enhancing collaboration around the
 Global Challenge, and providing expertise (e.g. in strategic communications) to facilitate
 engagement with policy makers and technology users.

 Our 24 Research Centres and 31 Networks of Excellence are ‘bottom up’ initiatives driven by the
 desire of our academic community to make connections across the College, these can be
 thematic or challenge driven. Over 2,000 of our academic and research staff participate in these
 initiatives. Examples include Structural Biology, Cardiac Engineering and Infrastructure Robotics
 Ecosystems (Centres) and Malaria, Artificial Intelligence and Air Quality (Networks).




                                                                                                  Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Quantitative

 Our expertise in quantitative approaches to research complements qualitative inquiry to inform a
 holistic approach to discovery and application. Researchers from Mathematics and Computer
 Science lead our exploration of sophisticated statistical approaches and the rapidly expanding
 opportunities in data science. With researchers in engineering and the physical and life
 sciences, we are developing and applying tools which can revolutionise research across a wide
 range of application areas. For example, our Platform for Research in Simulation Methods is
 applying mathematical algorithms to complex simulation models in applications areas including
 aerospace and automotive sectors, renewable energy, medicine and surgery, the environment,
 and manufacturing.

 Our Data Science Institute and AI Network have been instrumental in supporting our academic
 community as data assimilation, machine learning and artificial intelligence have become
 increasingly central to almost all of our academic disciplines, from Chemistry to Engineering,
 Management and Medicine.

 Research Culture and Governance

 Integrity and inclusivity are critical for excellence in research, and Imperial is committed to
 embedding a positive research culture throughout the College. The College Research
 Committee, chaired by the Vice-Provost (Research), is responsible for College-level
 governance, and is supported by Research Committees in each of the four Faculties.
 We are signatories to the Universities UK Concordat to support research integrity. We actively
 promote research integrity and transparency and publish an annual report on any formal
 investigations of research misconduct. We provide training for researchers on the ethics of
 scientific research, plagiarism awareness and best practice, including open research.

 We became a signatory of DORA the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment
 (DORA) in January 2017. We no longer consider journal impact factors in decisions on the hiring
 and promotion of academic staff, nor in selecting REF outputs. Imperial’s Assistant Provost for
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (Professor Stephen Curry) is the Chair of the global DORA
 Steering Committee.

 We are committed to disseminating our research and scholarship as widely as possible, both to
 widen access to the outcomes and to help drive reproducibility. We support the principle that ‘the
 results of research that have been publicly funded should be freely accessible in the public
 domain’ and encourage all our academic staff and students to make their research open access
 (OA). Our Library Director Chris Banks has led the UKSCL Rights Retention initiative to secure
 the rights of academics to publish their work OA. Subject to publishers’ deposit policies, authors
 are required by the College to upload their author accepted manuscripts into Imperial’s OA
 research repository, Spiral. In total, over 40,000 papers by Imperial academics (84%) have been
 published in this way during the REF Assessment Period.

 The College supports our community in managing their research data and making data
 accessible. This includes guidance on best practice in data management, advice on compliance
 with funder requirements, choosing a repository, and how to make data discoverable, as well as
 providing a College-based repository. A Research Data Management Working Group is charged
 with continuing to develop the College offering.

 We are committed to the principles of the UK Reproducibility Network (UKRN): research
 transparency, responsible evaluation, and rewards and incentives for open research practice, as
 described above. We have appointed Dr Alexandra Collins (Centre for Environmental Policy)
 and Professor Paul French (Vice-Dean for Research for the Faculty of Natural Sciences) as
 institutional leads for reproducibility in science and are applying to join the UKRN. Dr Collins is a
 member of the UKRN steering group.


                                                                                                Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 For research which does not fall under the scope of the NHS ethics process, the College has
 three Ethics Committees for research on human subjects and one for research involving the use
 of animals (in line with Home Office requirements). The three committees for human research
 deal respectively with health research; science, engineering and technology research; and
 educational research. The college has made significant efforts to increase awareness of ethical
 review processes, and the numbers of applications considered by the College committees more
 than doubled from 2019 to 2020, to a total of >400.
 3. People

 We aim to build a supportive, inclusive and highly motivated staff community across our
 disciplines, functions and activities. We recruit, develop and retain colleagues who make world-
 class contributions to research and innovation: academics, postdocs and fellows, technicians,
 research support staff and PhD students.

 Staff Recruitment and Progression

 Imperial requires all staff involved in recruitment to complete mandatory training online, with
 further intensive face-to-face training for those heavily involved in recruitment. We provide
 advice and support to candidates on our disability confident scheme, our work with Stonewall,
 our Athena SWAN Award, and our commitment to flexible working.

 Appointments committees for academic posts include a College Consul – Professors of the
 College elected by senior academic members of their constituency to represent the academic
 community within College governance. Active recruitment to academic and research posts
 ensures that the field of candidates is diverse and of the highest possible quality. Measures
 include the use of search committees, circulating details of the opportunity widely within
 academic networks, and maintaining a ‘bank’ of potential recruits.

 We offer a total reward package that is equitable, fair and appropriately reflects our standing as
 a world leading university based in London. We use benchmarking data to review our approach
 to pay including the annual pay award and the criteria for the review of individual salaries. We
 aim to pay mid to upper quartile rates of pay for our staff against appropriate external
 comparators. We review the pay of every member of staff annually, to ensure that remuneration
 accurately reflects the contribution of each individual to the College, and to address any pay
 gaps which may have arisen. The College makes pay increases worth c.1% of the total pay bill
 each year through this exercise.

 We provide opportunities for progression to all staff, with regular processes for considering
 promotion for all grades of academic and research staff. All staff who are eligible for promotion
 are considered by their manager, whether or not they have self-nominated. This is in accordance
 with best practice to reduce gender bias in promotions.

 Special and Sabbatical Leave, Flexible and Remote Working and Staff with caring
 responsibilities

 The College has a comprehensive policy covering special leave (e.g. compassionate and
 parental leave and public duties). Sabbatical leave is at the discretion of the department and
 may be offered for up to three terms, for either academic or personal refreshment.
 In 2016 the College became a member of Working Families which is the UK’s leading work-life
 balance organisation. The College has taken part in the Working Families Top Employers
 Benchmark from 2016 up until the present year and has consistently been placed in the top 30
 employers for its family friendly initiatives and has won several Working Families awards in
 recognition of its support to working staff.

 We recognise that flexible working can be of benefit to both employees and the College and
 plays an important role in recruitment and retention of a diverse and talented workforce.


                                                                                              Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 We offer a range of practical help and support to staff with caring responsibilities. These include
 generous arrangements for special leave, dedicated nursing rooms, the Early Years Education
 Centre, an on-site nursery for children between six months and five years, negotiated discounts
 at other local nurseries and holiday camps for the children of staff and students.

 Following the 2019 Staff Survey and feedback from the recent Carers Focus Groups held in
 February 2020, the College recently became a member of Carers UK to help improve our offer
 to Carers.

 Early Career Researchers

 The College has held the HR Excellence in Research Award – which incorporates our
 commitment to the Researcher Development Concordat – since 2012, renewed most recently in
 March 2020.

 Dedicated support for ECRs is provided via the Postdoc and Fellows Development Centre
 (PFDC), including: bespoke courses; pop ups; funder showcases; one to one support; mock
 interviews and online resources. The College has invested and committed to the core funding of
 the PFDC since 2012. To ensure that ECRs have the opportunity to access the services that are
 available to them, all ECRs benefit from ten days training and development in their contracts.
 Over the REF period, >1,900 ECRs have attended one-to-one sessions, >750 have attended
 mock interviews, and >2,400 have attended training courses.

 The College has its own prestigious Fellowship scheme, the Imperial College Research
 Fellowship (ICRF). ICRFs are four-year fellowships which also include up to £45,000 per year of
 research expenses. The College awards 20 of these each year, and a significant proportion
 move on to permanent academic contracts either within the College (18%) or elsewhere (41%).
 Over the REF period, there have been 158 Imperial College Research Fellows, of whom 84 are
 submitted to this REF.

 Technicians

 In May 2017, Imperial pledged to support our technicians by becoming a founder signatory of the
 Technician Commitment. We offer a broad range of professional development and networking
 opportunities to all our technicians, and proactively support them to achieve professional
 registration. Our achievement in this area has been recognised by the award of Science Council
 Employer Champion.

 Research Students

 Imperial’s Graduate School develops and delivers a programme of professional development
 training for our c. 4,200 postgraduate research students, complementing their academic studies
 and providing opportunity to develop skills for a range of careers.

 We have awarded over 340 prestigious President’s PhD Scholarships over the REF period.
 These are fully funded for up to 3.5 years, open to all applicants irrespective of nationality and
 awarded on the basis of academic excellence.

 Our International Global Fellows Programme has offered over 250 Imperial College doctoral
 students the unique and exciting opportunity to visit leading research universities around the
 world including the Technical University of Munich, Nanyang Technological University,
 Singapore and the Tokyo Institute of Technology.

 Our Industry xChange Programme runs three times a year to provide over 100 research
 students with an opportunity to gain an understanding of the viewpoints of industrialists.
 Students engage in various industry relevant activities which help them to better interact with
 people outside of academia and to transform research into real business innovation.

                                                                                                Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 The College was a founder member of the Athena SWAN Charter in 2005. We hold an
 institutional Silver level award which we are aiming to renew in 2021. During the REF period, we
 appointed our first Assistant Provost (EDI) to take senior leadership of these issues, supported
 by professional staff in the Equality, Diversity & Inclusion Centre.

 Our strategic priorities for EDI include integrating equality, diversity and inclusion into all
 management processes; taking positive action to improve the opportunities and experiences of
 underrepresented groups, especially women, and Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic, LGBTQ+
 and disabled staff and students; reducing the incidence of bullying and harassment; gathering
 and publishing data to monitor progress; and being open to dialogue and challenge on our work
 on equality, diversity and inclusion

 Examples of our achievements include:

    •   Implementing our Stonewall action plan resulting in an increase in our Stonewall
        Workplace Equality Index of over 100 places. We are a Stonewall Diversity Champion
    •   Celebrating Women@Imperial week including 18 events across our campuses such as a
        ‘Wonder Women Late’ event for c.1,000 public visitors
    •   Holding our fourth annual BME Early Career Researcher Conference in 2020
    •   Creating a new Conference Policy to underpin the provision of safe and inclusive
        environments. We require event organisers to publish a Code of Conduct for their events
        including a strong anti-harassment statement
    •   The College is a member of the Race Equality Charter and will apply for its first award in
        2021
    •   We are a Disability Confident Leader, the highest level of recognition, achieved in 2019

 Our staff networks provide places for staff with protected characteristics to come together, and to
 provide a conduit for their views and concerns to the EDI team. These include Imperial As One
 (BAME staff network), Able@Imperial (staff disability network) and Imperial 600 (staff LGBT
 network). Over 1,000 members of staff are members of these networks.

 We offer an extensive array of staff development courses which includes programmes that are
 specifically targeted at women (Springboard), at Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic staff (IMPACT)
 and at disabled staff (Calibre).

 The College has a fellowship scheme (The Elsie Widdowson Fellowship) to protect the research
 time of academic staff returning from maternity/adoption/surrogacy/shared parental leave. The
 Fellowship pays 50% of the returning academic’s salary for up to 12 months. 87 have been
 awarded during the REF period.

 The College is aware of sensitivities concerning its history, and particularly its association with
 Empire. We have established a History Group to collect evidence and views from our community
 on aspects that are particularly troublesome (e.g. prizes endowed by or named after individuals
 associated with the Slave Trade), and to make recommendations. An early action and sign of
 further intent has been the removal of the College Motto (previously 'Scientific knowledge, the
 crowning glory and the safeguard of the empire')

 The College REF Equality Committee has scrutinised our return, and has concluded that,
 although there are some discernible inequalities within our REF submission, these reflect known
 inequalities within our population that we are addressing through the initiatives described above.
 Moreover, we have made progress since the last REF: 24% of staff submitted in the REF (i.e. all
 teaching and research staff and those research-only staff judged to be independent) are female
 (c.f. 20% in 2014).; 16% of staff submitted with known ethnicity are BAME (c.f. 12% in 2014);


                                                                                              Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 and 2.8% of submitted staff have declared a disability (c.f. 1.7% in 2014). 18% of REF submitted
 staff are early career researchers, and 16.4% are on fixed-term contracts.

 We have specifically examined the outcomes of our research independence and output selection
 processes:

     •   12% of staff submitted are independent research-only staff. This represents 10% of the
         post-PhD research-only population. Women and men were equally likely to be judged to
         be independent. Disabled staff were slightly (11.0% vs 10.5%) more likely to be
         considered independent than those that had declared that they were not disabled, white
         staff were slightly more likely than average (12%) to be considered independent, whilst
         the least likely to be considered independent were Chinese (3.8%).

     •   8% of women vs 11% of men had five papers selected. 49% of women (39% of men) had
         only one paper selected. Staff with undeclared race and mixed race were less likely (7%
         each) than white staff (11%) to have five outputs selected, and more likely (47% and
         41%) than white staff (40%) to have one output selected. Disabled staff were less likely
         (4%) to have five outputs selected than non-disabled staff (11%), though staff whose
         disability status is unknown were more likely (21%) to have five outputs selected. The
         REF Equality Committee has concluded that these differences are largely a function of
         age and seniority, with staff in the less diverse 50-59 age bracket most likely to have five
         outputs selected.

 The median gender pay gap for academic staff in 2019 was 8.7% and the mean gap was 16.9%.

 The age profile of REF eligible new starters and promoted staff during the REF 2021 period is
 shown in the table:

                                                   New
                                                starters   Promotions
                                 Under 30         26.8%         36.6%
                                 30-39            57.7%         41.1%
                                 40-49             9.1%         16.6%
                                 50-54             1.6%          3.2%
                                 55-59             1.2%          1.6%
                                 60-69             3.0%          0.5%
                                 70 plus           0.5%          0.4%
                                 Total           100.0%        100.0%

 The profile of submitted professors and senior staff (HESA contract levels A-F) is as follows:
 18% are female; 10% are BAME; and 3% have a declared disability. The age profile of this
 group is:

                                30-39                            0.96%
                                40-49                           20.52%
                                50-59                           39.53%
                                60-69                           30.17%
                                70+                              8.82%
                                Grand Total                    100.00%
 Or to


 put it more succinctly, 80% are over the age

                                                                                               Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The College’s research requires extensive financial and physical resources in order to sustain
 excellence. The College has the fourth largest research income portfolio of any university in the
 UK (£368m in 2018-19: 31% UKRI, 18% Industry, 22% Charities and 29% other). During the
 REF period the College attracted over £2.6bn in research grant and contract income from
 external sources.

 We support staff to generate the research income that they need in order to pursue their
 research: every department has mechanisms for internal review of research grants, advising on
 fundamental quality, and on best practice in obtaining funding. Early Career Researchers, and
 those who have not held a grant for some time, are mentored by a colleague with a track record
 of attracting funding. Where an application requires an interview, mock interviews are
 conducted. Departmental research committees play an important role in ensuring that the
 support offered locally is relevant and appropriate, and our networks, centres and institutes play
 a role in supporting transdisciplinary applications.

 The College operates internal schemes to provide seedcorn funding – for example in relation to
 GCRF applications, where expertise is also available centrally on working within the framework
 of Overseas Development Aid, in order to support researchers who have not previously been
 active in this area.

 Academic Masterclasses, run by the Learning and Development Centre and the Enterprise
 Division, help all academic staff, but particularly Early Career Researchers, to develop the skills
 that they need to engage with Industry, and introduce them to the range of opportunities for
 working with Industry and the challenges that each brings. Similar Masterclasses are available
 to help academics manage research grants, and, for those pursuing broader societal
 engagement, how to communicate their science using social media.

 The College has 87,250 sqm of research laboratory space, equating to 71 sqm per member of
 teaching and research staff (excluding the Business School). Research facilities are mainly
 managed at departmental level. Where operationally desirable, we have established College-
 wide facilities in areas such as microscopy, flow cytometry and clinical trials.

 The Imperial College Advanced Hackspace provides facilities for rapid prototyping, electronic
 and digital manufacturing workshops, metal and wood workshops, a Bio Lab and collaboration,
 co-working and meeting space. It is a place for staff and students to come together and innovate
 as a community, supported by Hackspace Fellows who are experienced innovators with
 expertise in workshop and innovation disciplines. The Hackspace is also used to host events
 such as Hackathons which can bring together a large group of innovators to make rapid
 progress on a particular problem. Over 1,400 of Imperial’s community have used the Hackspace
 in the last three years.

 The College continues to invest >£4m annually in Research Computing Services, to support the
 community's diverse computing needs. The service offers High Performance Computing, data
 management, secure processing of sensitive data, data management, software engineering
 support, and training in a range of research computing techniques.

 Central Biomedical Services provides and operates animal research facilities for the biomedical
 research community working to 'leading practice' guidelines, recognising that good laboratory
 animal welfare is an essential component of good laboratory animal technology and science.
 The multi-campus CBS facilities can accommodate a variety of species at various levels of
 discipline, including a full barrier unit, containment level 3 suites and quarantine facilities. Each
 year, approximately 100,000 animals are used in research at Imperial. The College won two
 national awards in 2019 for excellence from the National Centre for the Replacement,
 Refinement and Reduction of Animals in Research (NC3Rs), as well as £2.6m in research
 funding from NC3Rs over the last decade.

                                                                                                Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 At White City we are developing a research and innovation ecosystem with an emphasis on co-
 location of academic and commercial research. We operate at scale, with 240,000 sqm of co-
 location space currently accommodating c.70 commercial tenant-collaborators. We offer space
 in shared labs and offices in our Incubator, sole-occupation offices and labs in our Innovation
 and Translation Hub. Our ScaleSpace is an innovative offering to growing businesses, with
 education, research and business expertise offered by our own Business School and by our
 partners Blenheim Chalcot, a venture builder. To date, over 100 new jobs have been created
 and over £85m has been raised by incubator companies. Our offering at White City includes
 an Experts in Residence Programme for giving incubator tenants access to expert advice and
 mentoring and a White City Innovators Programme to provide entrepreneurs and startups with
 workspace and workshops for development. Our activity on campus has been a key driver in
 bringing the HQs of Novartis and L’Oreal to White City.

 Proximity to our campus at the Hammersmith Hospital gives a particular opportunity for
 translational medical research, and we have already opened buildings for Molecular Sciences
 and Biomedical Engineering on the campus: an investment of £300m giving 33,000 sqm of new
 space. These are transdisciplinary, multi-department research hubs. The Molecular Sciences
 Research Hub, as well as housing the research laboratories of the Department of Chemistry,
 houses researchers working in synergistic areas from the National Heart and Lung Institute, the
 Department of Materials, and the Department of Chemical Engineering. The building houses
 state-of-the-art facilities available to the whole College community, including the Agilent
 Measurement Suite, an advanced analysis facility which is at once an innovative industry-
 academic collaboration, a College-wide facility, and a demonstrator site for Agilent. The Sir
 Michael Uren Hub hosts laboratories from the Departments of Bioengineering, Chemical
 Engineering, Materials, and the Faculty of Medicine, as well as a purpose-built clinical facility.
 Relocation of our School of Public Health to the campus will complete this unique translational
 cluster comprising basic science, engineering, medicine and population health disciplines. Plans
 for the development of the south side of the White City site include further academic and
 commercial space, giving scope for significant further growth in our priority areas supporting our
 ambition to realise a sustainable, smart, healthy and resilient society.




                                                                                           Page 11
