Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: The University of Manchester

 1. Context and mission
 The University of Manchester (UoM) ranks among leading research universities globally, with a
 history of world-changing achievements spanning almost 200 years. Our global collaborations
 include strategic partnerships with leading universities across the world.
 Our strategic goals are research and discovery, teaching and learning, and social responsibility.
 Running through our goals is an emphasis on innovation, civic engagement and global influence,
 all driven by our people and underpinned by our values (Figure 1). Our vision is “to be recognised
 globally for the excellence of our people, research, learning and innovation, and for the benefits
 we bring to society and the environment”.


                                 Figure 1 – Our Strategic Goals




 The University employs >11,000 people, including >2,000 REF-eligible academics, nearly 2,000
 research staff, and >1,000 technical and experimental officers. The majority of academics
 undertake research and teaching (~84% FTE). UoM has 40,250 students, including over 4,000
 postgraduate researchers (PGRs). Placed 23rd in the 2020 THE global ranking of the most
 international universities: 36% of staff and 28% of students are from outside the UK. International
 research funding accounts for 15% of our research income including over 400 EU Horizon 2020
 awards in the REF period. Our annual income exceeds £1bn with an average of 26% generated
 from research over the REF period.
 Large multidisciplinary Schools and Faculties (Figure 2) and interdisciplinary University Research
 Institutes, which underpin our Research Beacons (Section 2), enable discipline-specific research
 excellence and interdisciplinary collaborations. Our REF 2021 submission includes 31 UoAs.




                                                                                             Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


                          Figure 2 – University of Manchester Structure




 Since our 2004 foundation (merger of The Victoria University of Manchester and UMIST) we have
 worked closely with industry and other stakeholders to maximise the positive impact of our
 research in Greater Manchester (GM), nationally and globally. GM is one of the largest and most
 diverse city regions in the UK, with 2.8 million residents and another 7 million living within an hour’s
 travel time. Through civic commitment, our research contributes to the delivery of GM’s Local
 Industrial Strategy’s priorities in health innovation, advanced materials, and building a creative
 and digital city region committed to clean and inclusive growth and carbon neutral living by 2038
 (Section 2).


 2. Strategy
 Our strategy is to achieve research excellence and impact across diverse research activities,
 promoting cross disciplinary research, innovation and international recognition.
 Unless otherwise stated, growth figures refer to the REF period.
 Our strategic goals and achievements were:
    To raise our research quality and global standing. In 2020 we ranked 36th in the Academic
     Ranking of World Universities (ARWU), (38th in 2014), and 22% of our publications were in the
     top decile for citations in their field. We have two Nobel Laureates, two Regius Professors, 123
     fellows of National Academies, 32 Fellows of Academia Europaea and 33 Clarivate Highly
     Cited Researchers. Two research teams were awarded Queen’s Anniversary Prizes:
     Manchester Institute of Biotechnology (2019) and Imaging for Advanced Materials (2013).
    To generate research impact and commercialisation. We were first in the UK in the 2020
     THE University Impact Rankings and 8th globally for social and environmental impact and
     contribution to the delivery of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
     Commercialisation progress was recognised by a rapid climb in Reuters’ Europe’s Most
     Innovative Universities ranking 8th in Europe and 4th in the UK in 2019.




                                                                                                  Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 In 2013, we set five priorities to achieve these goals:
 i)     People
 We enhanced career development support and training for all researchers and set high
 recruitment standards. We invested >£10m in 136 early-career research (ECR) fellows, including
 flagship Presidential Fellows; another 121 were externally funded, including 14 UKRI Future
 Leaders. Research fellows increased from 332 to 456, including an expansion of externally funded
 fellowships to 355 in 2020. We awarded 6,642 research doctoral degrees.
 ii)    World-class research environment
 We secured ~ £2bn research income, £389m external capital investment in research infrastructure
 and >£130m UKRI in-kind income. Our market share of the sector’s research grants and contract
 income rose from 4% to 7%, placing us 5th in 2018/19 (latest HESA data); our share of UKRI
 research income rose from 5% to 7%.
 iii)   Interdisciplinary collaborative research founded on disciplinary pillars
 We invested ~£147m in new interdisciplinary research to build teams and support success in
 external funding applications (ii above).
 Our five research beacons highlight areas of interdisciplinary excellence and scale: advanced
 materials, cancer, energy, global inequalities and industrial biotechnology. Cross-cutting
 thematic priorities in Digital, Creative and Environment stimulated new collaborations with
 external stakeholders. Policy@Manchester draws our research discoveries into thought
 leadership and policy making forums (see iv).
 Sixteen of our twenty-three interdisciplinary Research Institutes launched in the REF period,
 including our lead of the Henry Royce Institute (Royce) national facility (Figure 3). They
 encompass ~43% of our academic researchers. Twelve institutes combine STEM, social sciences
 and humanities. Each has a significant external funding portfolio and a large number of Principal
 Investigators: median 57; >100 in 10 institutes. Together they generated ~66% of our external
 research income and philanthropic donations.




                                                                                           Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)




 We host major national and international infrastructure (Section 4). Collaborations include the
 NHS, graphene innovation ecosystem and membership of national facilities including the Turing
 Institute for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence and the Rosalind Franklin Institute. Regional
 collaborations include the N8 Research Partnership, Northern Health Science Alliance and ERDF-
 funded AI and Cyber-security initiatives with Greater Manchester universities.
 We established strategic international partnerships with the Universities of Melbourne, Toronto
 and the Chinese University of Hong Kong. Each has a pump-priming fund to initiate collaborations
 (£275,000 during the REF period). Dual PGR programmes with Melbourne and Toronto are
 supported by a further £160,000. Our global research collaborations are strengthened through
 partnerships with Copenhagen University, Peking University Health Sciences Centre, Tsinghua
 University, KTH/Stockholm University and the Indian Institute of Science. International
 partnerships in the Global South were supported through UKRI’s Global Challenge Research Fund
 and the Newton Fund (£42m total).



                                                                                              Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 iv)    Impact: ensuring parity of support and esteem between research discovery,
        application and impact, including commercialisation where appropriate
 Our mission is to deliver economic, social, cultural, health and wellbeing benefits for society and
 the environment. Our policies and infrastructure enable impact and engagement. Evidence
 includes our THE University Impact Ranking (see above), and the range and quality of our 160
 impact case studies (ICS): over 30% report health impact, 23% economic and commercial, 24%
 policy, ~20% include public engagement or cultural impact, and 94% map to at least one SDG.
 Impact is rewarded and celebrated. Impact is one of four criteria in academic probation and
 promotions (alongside research, teaching and academic service), and time is allocated to support
 impact alongside research activities. Events celebrating impact include our annual Distinguished
 Achievement Awards and Making a Difference Awards for social responsibility. Specialist
 professional teams support impact with target research users, including commercialisation (Figure
 7), policy makers and influencers through Policy@Manchester, public engagement and the
 Masood Entrepreneurship Centre for PGR/ECR enterprise start-ups (Section 3).
 Significant funding supports impact activity. An average £1.9m p.a. is invested through UKRI
 Impact Acceleration Accounts (IAA) from BBSRC, ESRC, EPSRC and STFC; MRC Proximity to
 Discovery and Confidence in Concept funds, and Wellcome Trust’s Translational Partnership
 Award. These schemes lever additional direct and in-kind investment from industry and other
 partners; for example the EPSRC IAA (£6.4m) and ESRC IAA (£2.8m) over the REF period. Five
 UKRPIF awards, with significant industry co-investment, enhanced our impact infrastructure.
 We shape and deliver global, national and regional research priorities.
 Industry research collaborations generate significant economic contribution. HESA ranks us 4th
 in the UK for SME engagement and top two over the last two years for the value of industry
 collaborative research. We rank 5th in the UK for publications with industry, 24th out of 1,000
 universities globally in the CWTS Leiden Ranking and 2nd for Innovate UK Knowledge Transfer
 Partnerships (KTPs) - 38 live. Our KTP portfolio increased by >50% (number and value) securing
 ~ £10.4m government funding and nearly £9m industry contribution (2013-2020). In 2018/19 two-
 thirds of the new KTPs were with SMEs and 40% were GM-based. Significant growth in our
 strategic industrial research partnerships include Unilever, Boots and four EPSRC Prosperity
 Partnership awards with AstraZeneca, BP and other global partners. Major industry partners in
 our doctoral training centres include the BBC, EDF, Rolls-Royce and GlaxoSmithKline. Over 1,500
 GM-based SMEs access our advanced research facilities through ERDF and other programmes,
 attracting international inward investment from high-tech firms.
 Research commercialisation generated £402m economic impact over five years to July 31st
 2020. The 2020 relaunch of our IP commercialisation subsidiary has already doubled the number
 of annual spin-outs, reinforcing our presence in the top six for invention disclosures from 2014 to
 2019 (>1000 in period 2015-20). The National Graphene Institute and Graphene Engineering and
 Innovation Centre are establishing Manchester as the major global hub for graphene and 2D
 materials research and commercialisation. We sit at the heart of Manchester’s vibrant Oxford
 Road Innovation District and are developing the former UMIST campus into a city-centre world-
 class Innovation District (£1.5bn).
 Our health research delivers benefits through our partnership with the NHS Trusts in Health
 Innovation Manchester and the Manchester Academic Health Science Centre within the context
 of a devolved health and social care budget (£6bn p.a.), including our Biomedical Research Centre
 (£28.5m) and NIHR Applied Research Collaboration (£8.5m). Our Wellcome Trust funded
 Translation Manchester (£3.6m) facilitates smooth translation pathways. The benefits of this
 infrastructure are detailed in our Panel A submissions. Our university-wide COVID-19 Rapid
 Research Response group coordinated a multidisciplinary contribution to address the crisis,
 including £4.2m UKRI research awards and over 8,000 patients recruited to 73 GM clinical studies.
 Regionally, our research informs GM strategy and policy. Our President co-led the GM Local
 Industrial Strategy (LIS), informed by the GM and Cheshire East Science and Innovation Audit
 that we also co-led. Our GM Inclusive Growth Analysis Unit, co-funded with the Joseph Rowntree
 Foundation (£400k), developed evidence-based policies for economic growth and poverty

                                                                                             Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 reduction. Manchester Institute for Collaborative Research on Ageing supported the design of
 GM’s Ageing Strategy, enabling GM to become the UK’s first city and region to achieve World
 Health Organization age-friendly status. We are core participants in GM’s devolved health and
 social care partnership. Digital Futures researchers support GM’s ambitions to be a top five
 European digital city region; including collaboration with GCHQ’s new base in Manchester. Our
 climate and environment research informs GM’s carbon-reduction strategy led by Tyndall Centre
 Manchester and Manchester Environmental Research Institute. Our contributions to GM’s cultural
 sector and creative economy accelerated through the launch of Creative Manchester, supported
 by University endowment investment.
 Our public engagement excellence is accredited with a National Co-ordinating Centre for Public
 Engagement Gold Engage Watermark. A public engagement academic lead and professional
 team coordinate activity, including through our public-facing Jodrell Bank Discovery Centre, John
 Rylands Library, Manchester Museum and Whitworth Art Gallery. Research-led public
 engagement is supported through training, mentoring and funding, and is recognised, rewarded
 and celebrated. We work with community partners through citizen science projects, patient and
 public involvement and engagement in health and medical research, and other forms of
 participatory research. Public events promoting understanding of research attracted >2m
 attendance (2014-19, HE-BCI).
 v)     Research integrity, including Open Research
 We foster the highest standards of research integrity with senior leadership (Vice-President)
 oversight of research governance, ethics and integrity (RGEI), supported by an Academic Director,
 a University Research Ethics committee and a RGEI office. Our Code of Good Research Conduct
 includes a robust and independent process for investigating alleged misconduct and aligns with
 the UUK Concordat to Support Research Integrity. Regular research conduct, integrity, data
 protection and export compliance training is mandatory for all staff undertaking research. PGRs
 complete subject-specific training in research conduct and integrity, the same mandatory training
 as staff, and can access advanced research conduct training opportunities.
 Our RGEI includes commitment to research reproducibility (Section 4) and creating an Open
 Research environment. We were an early signatory of DORA and endorse the Leiden Manifesto
 and responsible metrics principles through our Statement on Research Publication Metrics.
 Hence, we assess output quality through peer review, not journal metrics. Our Open Research
 Strategy is led by our National Research Library, working with a forum that mobilises our academic
 community.
 ORCID registration is mandatory. The REF Open Access (OA) requirements are met by 97% of
 submitted and ~90% of in-scope outputs. OA is supported by our publications repository (PURE),
 data repository and a Library OA service, delivered by dedicated professional teams. Our
 institutional OA budget (£300,000 pa) supplements external funding for article processing charges
 (APC), OA monographs and ECR attendance at OpenCon. The Library and Manchester University
 Press are trialling OA innovations and preparing implementation of Plan S principles. This includes
 an OA journal that does not operate the APC model to help drive the development of the UK-SCL
 model policy; publisher negotiations for compliant transformative agreements, and additional
 support for OA monographs.
 A refreshed 5-year strategy, launched in 2020, following University-wide consultation, focuses
 on:
 i) research leadership, creativity and team collaboration at all career stages;
 ii) interdisciplinary themes of digital, creative and environment;
 iii) civic and international partnerships;
 iv) producing benefits on a regional, national and global scale;
 v) research-led innovation, enterprise and commercialisation;
 vi) research culture and environment with exemplary research integrity, open research, and
      equality diversity and inclusion.




                                                                                             Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 3. People
 3.1 Staff strategy and support
 People are at the centre of the University’s strategic plan (Section 1). Our policies, infrastructure
 and transparent expectations help staff reach their potential and our collective ambitions. Our
 academic and research staff profile is diverse (42% women, 21% BAME, 3.8% declared disability,
 7.8% LBGT) and 36% EU/overseas. In our latest Staff Survey (2019, 69% response rate) >80%
 of academics and research staff said the University is a good place to work.
 The University’s Statement of Research Expectations summarises academic expectations for
 producing outputs, funding and impact; professional conduct, including research integrity and
 collegial service; and our institutional responsibility to provide a vital, inclusive and well-resourced
 environment. The Statement informs recruitment, performance development reviews and
 progression decisions against transparent criteria in four domains: research, teaching, knowledge
 transfer and external engagement, and service to the University and the academic profession.
 Employment policies exceed minimum statutory requirements for flexible, remote and part-time
 working arrangements, career breaks, family-related leave, and childcare support that includes
 two award-winning nurseries on campus. Comprehensive wellbeing services and activities for all
 staff and students are provided through an annual investment of >£250k in sports facilities, online
 mental health support and in-house counselling, occupational health and disability support
 services.
 A similar proportion of research staff and REF eligible academics are employed part-time (13%).
 Most research staff (92%) and a minority of REF eligible academics (8%) have externally funded
 fixed-term contracts. Their career stability and progression is supported by transfer to open-ended
 contracts after four years continuous service and extensive development opportunities from the
 outset (Section 3.4).
 3.2 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 The University’s EDI commitment and action plan progress is recognised through accreditations
 (Figure 4).
                     Figure 4 – University of Manchester EDI accreditations




 Our Dignity at Work policy for staff and students implements zero tolerance of discrimination,
 harassment or bullying, supported by our specialist team and reporting channels.
 Equality targets are embedded alongside the other key performance indicators (KPIs) in UoM’s
 strategic plan, mobilising improvements in the gender and BAME profile of our staff (Figure 5).



                                                                                                  Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


               Figure 5 - University of Manchester’s EDI KPIs and processes




 3.3 Research career development
 Extensive professional and career development opportunities are provided for all career stages
 and pathways (Figure 6).
                          Figure 6 – Career development pathways




                                                                                         Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 3.3.1 Academic career development
 Early Career Academics (ECAs) and research staff (ECRs) complete the New Academics and
 Researchers’ Programme (AdvanceHE accredited) as part of their probation. A third of this training
 programme focuses on research, innovation and impact, and PGR supervision. A tailored
 programme for research fellows, with a focus on research leadership, developed and piloted with
 ~90 Presidential Fellows in 2018-20, is being rolled out to all research fellows.
 ECAs are supported through probation (normally three years) with transparent expectations set at
 the outset (in line with the University’s Statement of Research Expectations see 3.1), completion
 of the above training programme, resources available through their Research Development team
 and an academic mentor.
 All academics and research staff are offered annual professional development reviews (PDR),
 >80% take-up each year. Career development is discussed as part of the PDR, including in-house
 training opportunities in research, innovation and leadership. Each year in total our academic and
 research staff complete >2,000 online courses and >1,000 places on workshops and leadership
 training programmes offered by our Staff Learning and Development Team and our Institute of
 Teaching and Learning.
 Peer mentoring is embedded. Peer review is mandatory for most external research funding
 applications, with mock interviews for applicants called to interview. Faculties run regular grant-
 writing workshops and arrange peer-review feedback for outputs in preparation and once
 published (further detail is in the UoA environment statements).
 All academics can apply for academic leave to initiate or complete an ambitious programme of
 research or impact activities (one semester/year after six semesters/years or pro rata part-time
 leave). The majority of proposals are approved (>75 %), reaching 90-100% in some UoAs.
 3.3.2 Early Career Research Staff
 We have held the EC HR Excellence in Research Award since 2011 recognising our full adoption
 of the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. Our
 Concordat action plans for biennial reviews have transformed the research environment for our
 circa 2,000 research staff. Achievements include improved engagement through research staff
 forums; creation of a specific promotions track for researchers and automatic transition on to an
 open-ended contract after four years’ continuous service; visibility and recognition through a
 research excellence award scheme, an annual in-house conference; and research collaboration
 funding for research staff. Enhanced support for Principal Investigators in their role as line
 managers has been developed alongside innovative training programmes. Tailored support for
 research staff wellbeing has been implemented to supplement the University’s wellbeing services,
 complementing ongoing Concordat-related initiatives.
 The professional training and development programmes offered to PGRs and research staff map
 onto the VITAE Researcher Development Framework. These build upon our New Academics and
 Researchers Programme with additional courses supporting publishing, grant writing, knowledge
 transfer and impact (including pathways into industry, entrepreneurship and research
 commercialisation), and research leadership to forge independent careers. Training is
 complemented by mentoring and coaching programmes, and an organised peer support network.
 The University Statement of Expectations on the Career Development of Researchers explains
 the responsibilities of the institution, the academic line-manager, and researchers themselves. It
 recommends ten days p.a. for professional development. Progress to embed this recommendation
 is being made: 60% of research staff undertake at least one formal development and training
 opportunity each year; one-third are mentored or coached; and one-third have at least seven days
 of professional development.
 ECRs are exposed to a range of career options and networks. Over the REF period >150 PDRAs
 had placements or secondments through our KTPs, IAAs and related schemes. Outgoing
 fellowships and industrial placements are funded by the BBSRC Flexible Talent Mobility Accounts
 and other schemes. Over half of our research staff engaged with non-academic partners as part



                                                                                             Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 of their research and impact activities. We collaborate in the Prosper initiative to enhance
 postdoctoral career success in industry (£4.4m, Research England Development Fund).
 This comprehensive infrastructure has enhanced researcher’ calibre and career progression;
 including a 10% increase in promotion rates for research staff, reaching an average 147
 promotions p.a., and a rapid increase in the numbers completing the AdvanceHE-accredited
 Leadership in Education Awards Programme (LEAP) for teaching excellence and internal
 leadership programmes (~350 research staff since 2018). Investment for research staff fellowship
 applications, including institutional match funding, expanded the number of our externally funded
 research fellows across the REF period to 355 employed in 2020. Increased investment in
 internally funded fellows nearly doubled with the Presidential Fellows recruitment of future leaders
 (£5.1m of total £10.4m), which increased the international profile of our fellows through
 appointments made from 24 countries.
 3.3.3 Postgraduate research students
 UoM Doctoral College delivers a training and funding environment that prepares ~4,000 PGRs to
 further their careers. Substantial competitive funding (>£116m) from UKRI and major charities
 (Wellcome Trust, BHF) support Centres for Doctoral Training (CDT or DTC) and Doctoral Training
 Partnerships (DTPs). We currently lead 12 CDT/DTPs and partner in 11 others; 20% of our PGRs
 are registered with a CDT/DTP programme. We invest in UoM studentships (approximately £6.7m
 p.a.). Our President’s Doctoral Scholar Awards enhance support for the most outstanding PGRs
 with >100 studentships each year (£2.5m over four years) and a bespoke training programme
 focusing on research leadership and impact.
 Academic supervision is supported through a PGR supervisor toolkit, new supervisor training and
 an online system (eProg) that monitors progression against milestones, including year-end
 reviews. We support supervisors’ applications for UKCGE-accreditation and 7% of UKCGE-
 accredited supervisors are from UoM. In the PGR Experience Survey 92% of our PGRs report
 that their supervisor has the skills and subject knowledge to support their research.
 PGRs complete an annual skills and development needs audit in discussion with their supervisory
 team, from which a tailored training programme is devised. The extensive training menu is
 designed by the Doctoral College and maps onto the VITAE Research Development Framework,
 as for research staff (3.3.2 above).
 We prepare PGRs for a range of careers. PGRs are offered placements and internships in
 industrial, government, clinical and cultural organisations. They explore career plans and options
 at the annual Pathways event, hosted by the Careers Service. Our Masood Enterprise Centre
 (MEC) trains PGRs in commercialisation and entrepreneurship; over 750 PGRs took this training
 or participated in entrepreneurial competitions such as Venture Further over the REF period. MEC
 partners with UCL to evidence how knowledge exchange activities can benefit PGR career
 development. Over 300 gained LEAP programme accreditation for teaching excellence (3.3.2
 above).
 The publications record of our PGRs illustrates their excellence: 22% of our REF-submitted
 articles include a PGR author and 48% published during the REF period, including a rapid increase
 in the thesis by publication format to 32% of all doctorates awarded in 2020. PGRs achievements
 are celebrated through the PGR Excellence Awards. Nearly half progress into university
 employment (~35%) or research positions in other sectors (~13%).
 3.4 EDI in our REF Submission Institutional Code of Practice
 EDI principles were applied throughout the preparation of our REF submission, including EDI and
 unconscious bias training for all staff involved in decision-making. Equality impact assessments
 (EIA) embedded EDI principles to inform and improve decision-making. The EIA results show no
 major discrepancies and EDI progress since REF2014, although some gender and ethnicity
 differences remain. Women accounted for one-third of our REF output and ICS authors, but a
 slightly lower average number of outputs (2 vs 2.3 for men). BAME staff submitted a similar
 average number of outputs to White staff, but were under-represented among ICS authors (BAME
 staff comprised 15% of our REF submission and 7% of our ICS authors).


                                                                                             Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 4.1 Support for acquiring research funding
 Our University Statement of Research Expectations commits to providing services and
 infrastructure to enable researchers to secure external research funding. This commitment has
 helped deliver growth in our research income and market share over the REF period, accompanied
 by significant UKRI income in-kind; with our interdisciplinary research institutes and other
 collaborative vehicles driving much of this success (Section 2.ii-iii).
                   Figure 7 - Research and Business Engagement Services




 Comprehensive Research and Business Engagement professional services work with
 researchers from project inception to completion, with specialist teams to support grant writing and
 project management for major collaborative bids, impact-generating activities, development and
 management of industry collaboration and strategic partnerships, and commercialisation (Figure
 7). Faculty arranged peer review of applications (Section 3.3.1) are supplemented for large
 strategic calls with a University-wide peer-review process under senior oversight (Vice-President
 Research), to ensure quality and priorities are met. This support through professional service and
 academic peer review has produced above sector average success rates; for example our UKRI
 success rate was 38% by volume and 35% by revenue compared to the sector average 28% and
 27% (2015-2020).
 Through EDI monitoring we identify where specific groups (ECRs, women, BAME staff or staff
 with disabilities) are under-represented in applications and awards. These data inform workshops
 to support applications, our internal peer review arrangements and feedback, and decisions when
 assembling large research teams for major funding calls. Our EDI commitment is threaded through
 post-award support, including access to OA and impact resources (Section 2 iv-v) and research
 facilities (Section 4.2 below).


                                                                                             Page 11
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 4.2 Research infrastructure and facilities
 Our investment in research infrastructure and facilities (~£584m) is part of one of the biggest
 investments in facilities undertaken in any UK university. Investment decisions are driven by the
 University’s strategic plan and shaped by national and regional priorities and opportunities for
 collaboration (Section 2 iv). Over the REF period £389m was secured from external sources for
 capital investment, including £28m ERDF funding and £80m in five UKRPIF awards.
 Our strategy delivers state-of-the-art, fit-for-purpose equipment underpinned with well-qualified,
 well-resourced technical support. Many parts of this infrastructure are used by academics and
 industry partners from across the world.
 The University of Manchester Library is the only National Research Library in the north of
 England. With >10m items, it is the largest non-legal deposit library in the UK, holding the most
 extensive digital collections of any UK academic library. Ranked second in the UK and globally
 within the top five for its university special collections; in a number of fields it is world leading. The
 collections are accessible with curation-enhanced digital imaging facilities.
 Our research IT infrastructure includes:
    High Performance and High Throughput Computing (HPC/HTC) including ‘free-at-point-
     of-use’ access for smaller-scale users. Over £6m was invested in these platforms over the
     REF period. Collaboration in the N8 Centre of Excellence in Computationally Intensive
     Research (CIR) provides an EPSRC Tier-2 Graphics Processing Unit-based HPC platform.
    Research Software Engineer team (25 FTE) provide a fully cost-recovered service, ensuring
     service continuity and institutional memory between projects.
    Research applications support and training covers programming, software engineering
     and research IT facilities.
    Research data storage (8TB) per researcher, with higher requirements costed into grants.
    Digital innovation though significant IT investment (£5m in REF period; £15m total) to extend
     the digitisation, curation and access to the University’s cultural assets and to support Open
     Research.
 Our Faculty of Science and Engineering (FSE, Panel B) has a substantial portfolio of large
 equipment infrastructure, the majority of which is shared internally by research groups and
 externally with other academic and industry partners. UoM’s Jodrell Bank Observatory (JBO)
 operates the UK’s e-MERLIN telescope array, involved in global observation networks, funded by
 the STFC and EC. JBO hosts the international Square Kilometre Array (SKA) headquarters
 (since 2017), one of three global SKA sites and governed by an intergovernmental treaty. SKA
 HQ was financed by UK public monies (£10.8m) and UoM investment (£5.7m), with our
 astronomers leading technical development projects.
 UoM hosts the Henry Royce Institute, the UK’s national facility for advanced materials;
 accessible to external HEIs and industry. EPSRC invested £150m in capital build and cutting-edge
 equipment between 2015 and 2020. The 2D materials core theme of the Royce is underpinned by
 equipment offered through the University’s National Graphene Institute and the Graphene
 Engineering Innovation Centre. Other examples are the world-leading £11m Henry Moseley X-
 ray Imaging Facility and the National Grid Power Systems Research Centre (largest UK
 university high-voltage laboratory).
 We operate a number of EPSRC National Research Facilities (NRFs), including in electron
 paramagnetic resonance. Our ~£5m suite of facilities for X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS)
 provides a spoke of the EPSRC NRF and took delivery of a ‘world first’ spectrometer for hard XPS
 in 2018. In 2020, we were chosen to host the hub of the new £10m NRF for laboratory X-ray
 computed tomography. Our Michael Barber Centre for Collaborative Mass Spectrometry
 supports >30 University and 18 external research groups and companies. UoM is a founding, Tier-
 1, academic partner of EPSRC-supported UK Community for Analytical Measurement. The
 Dalton Nuclear Institute’s Cumbrian Facility, part of the National Nuclear User Facility, provides
 the most advanced nuclear research capability in the UK for academic and industry collaboration.

                                                                                                   Page 12
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 It includes the Industrial Strategy Challenge funded RAIN (Robotics in AI and Nuclear) specialist
 facilities supporting collaboration with Sellafield Nuclear Site. UoM is the hub for the International
 Centre for Advanced Materials (£732m BP, £6.6m UoM), providing BP with access to extensive
 research infrastructure and University expertise. UoM hosted the EPSRC Supergen Bioenergy
 Hub and hosts and co-directs three of the EPSRC Supergen Hubs (2018–22: Bioenergy, Energy
 Systems, Offshore Renewable Energy). Tyndall Manchester is one of four core partners in the
 UK Tyndall Centre for Climate Change. FSE researchers play major roles in developing and using
 the ATLAS detector at CERN, lead the UK catalysis hub at the EPSRC-funded National
 Laboratories at Harwell Science and Innovation Campus, and are major users of other Harwell
 facilities, in particular Diamond Light Source.
 Our Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health (BMH, Panel A) offers extensive platform
 technologies, most operated with, or available to, NHS and academic partners, including Core
 Laboratory Facilities (Bioimaging including super resolution microscopes; Biological Mass
 Spectrometry; Biomolecular analysis; Electron Microscopy; Flow Cytometry including single
 cell systems; Genomic Technologies with integrated bioinformatics support; Histology;
 Proteomics). Over £28m has been invested in the equipment base (plus >£14m from UoM),
 staffing has increased from 33 staff in 2014 to 49 in 2020, and turnover has increased from <£2m
 in 2014 to ~£3.5m in 2020. An extensive Biological Services Facility provides a wide range of
 model organisms and with strategic investment from Wellcome now incorporates Genome
 Editing. The Facility is one of the largest in Europe, with 9000sqm of usable space, turnover of
 £2.5m, 42 FTE staff (38 in 2014), £1.4m investment since 2014, including the construction of a
 germ-free facility. Core Imaging Facilities (preclinical and clinical PET, MR and PET-MR
 imaging), Manchester Clinical Research Facility, NIHR Biomedical Research Centre (£28.5m,
 the largest outside the southeast of England) and Manchester Clinical Trials Unit are run jointly
 with our partner NHS trusts. The Faculty hosts the Wellcome Centre for Cell-Matrix Research
 (£6.6m) and the Stoller Biomarker Discovery Centre (MRC and philanthropy £13m), the largest
 single-site discovery proteomics centre in Europe. The Proton Beam Therapy and Research
 Centre (£6m) is jointly run with The Christie hospital, and the University houses the CRUK Major
 Cancer Centre (£35m) and CRUK Radiotherapy Centre of Excellence (£16.5m). The Oglesby
 Cancer Research Building houses 150 Manchester Cancer Research Centre scientists and 100
 support staff in state-of-the-art laboratories (£38m from CRUK and UoM). UoM co-owns the
 Manchester Science Partnerships which houses >150 research-based businesses and fosters
 collaborations between SMEs and larger companies, and our co-investment in Citylabs 1.0
 (£25m) brings together and accelerates collaboration between UoM researchers, NHS and
 industry.
 Our Faculty of Humanities (Panels C, D) researchers benefit from a distinctive infrastructure. In
 addition to discipline-focused and dedicated research laboratories, workshops, and performance
 spaces, the research environment includes an ESRC-funded secure data access facility
 (safepod), the collections of John Rylands Library, Whitworth Art Gallery (WAG) and
 Manchester Museum (MM), and the new data visualisation and behavioural
 science/economics laboratories housed in the Alliance Manchester Business School which
 were part-funded with RPIF investment (£9.7m). The WAG and MM are major assets for our
 interdisciplinary Creative Manchester initiative as sites of research collaboration and public
 engagement. The WAG collections of over 60,000 artworks are in a building transformed by an
 award-winning £15m investment in 2015 which included improved research and engagement
 facilities and new exhibition spaces. The MM collections span more than million objects, from
 Darwin to Turing, with research collaborations and public engagement further enabled by the
 £13m investment (2019–22) to create expanded exhibition space and new South Asia and
 Chinese Culture galleries.
 Our TRAC demonstrates £239m research equipment spend from 2013 to 2020. Faculty leadership
 teams identify and enable the most effective and efficient ways of delivering a sustainable world
 class equipment and computing infrastructure with University-level oversight and coordination.
 The substantial STEM infrastructure and procurement is managed by dedicated Faculty-level
 facilities groups in BMH and FSE to ensure sustainable operation, collaborative and shared use,



                                                                                               Page 13
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 competitive access to support the highest-quality science, and significant external use by HEIs
 and industry alike, contributing to delivering impact through partnerships.
 Measures exist to ensure that the equipment can be accessed by all. For example, Schools
 support ECR access (including PGRs) while they establish a grant portfolio to fund access
 charges. This approach also incentivises the ECR cohort to develop collaborations with
 established researchers.
 4.3 Supporting the reproducibility of research
 UoM is a member of the UK Reproducibility Network (UKRN). Our UKRN academic lead and Open
 Research forum catalyse development of open research practices across the University.
 Awareness and capability is built through events, training, mutual learning through innovation
 exemplars, and advice through the Library-run online forum. Our research IT strategy includes
 investment in a work programme to engage researchers in trialling and recommending tools to
 support open research practices, including data management (Section 4.2 above).




                                                                                        Page 14
