Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: University of Gloucestershire

 1. Context and mission

 The University of Gloucestershire’s mission is founded on values, centred on students, and
 focused on learning. Our University Strategic Plan for 2017-2022 states four primary goals:

 •   To provide a breadth and richness of experience that enables all our students to reach their
     full potential
 •   To provide teaching and support for learning of the highest quality
 •   To undertake excellent research and innovative professional practice which enrich students’
     learning and create impact and benefit for others
 •   To build partnerships which create opportunity, innovation and mutual benefit for the
     communities we serve.
 Within this strategic direction, our research programme is selective and prioritised on the areas
 where we can achieve excellence. We want our research to inform and enrich the learning of
 our students; to provide career development, reward and recognition for our academic staff; and
 create opportunities to work with partners where we can pursue knowledge creation and
 exchange for mutual benefit, with an emphasis on applying research for greatest impact.

 The University had 8,487 enrolled students in 2019/20. 73% were studying at first degree level,
 11% Masters, and 5% Doctoral level. 59% were aged 18-20, and 27% were aged 25+. We are
 committed to widening access and participation, with a large school and college outreach
 programme to tackle the low HE entry rates across the South West region. We have strategic
 partnerships with key FE Colleges in the area. We have a further 2,304 students enrolled with
 partners in the UK and overseas on programmes leading to UOG awards.

 Our subject range covers business and management; computing, technology and engineering;
 arts and design; media; natural and social sciences, including our Countryside and Community
 Research Institute; education and humanities; nursing, allied health and social care; and sport
 and exercise. We are rated TEF Silver, and the majority of our NSS indicators are above the UK
 sector average. We are focused on providing the best possible experience for our students, with
 a strong emphasis on building employability.

 Within our total budget for 2020/21 of ~£80 million, some £4.3 million is attributable to income
 from research and business development. A key part of our mission as an anchor institution for
 our community is to work with local businesses and employers to drive innovation, enterprise,
 higher level skills and economic development. This work is focused on our award-winning
 Growth Hub, which co-locates the University Business School with our business development
 services and the Gloucestershire Local Enterprise Partnership. In line with our commitment to
 student employability and economic growth, we have invested strategically in growing our
 portfolio of higher and degree apprenticeships, with a latest forecast of some 850 apprentices on
 some 15 apprenticeship programmes during 2020/21.

 2. Strategy

 Following the 2014 REF, we completely redesigned our University research strategy, in order to
 achieve a more targeted approach to supporting our staff to undertake high quality research in
 selected areas of excellence, with a strong focus on impact.

 That approach has proved very successful in developing both research quality and volume and
 its impact. We have achieved our corporate research targets for the period, with a REF 2021
 submission that is almost triple the size of our REF 2014 submission, in terms of the number of
 staff and outputs submitted, and the number of UOAs we submit to, while sustaining our

                                                                                             Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 estimated research quality (based on external peer review). For REF 2021, we are submitting to
 13 UOAs, compared with just 6 in 2014. We consider this the best evidence of the real progress
 we have made in achieving both vitality and sustainability for our research, in line with the
 ambitions stated in our strategic plan.

 The main components of the University’s research and impact strategy are:

 •   We have positioned research as one of our top four strategic goals as noted above. This
     creates a clear line of sight for all our research activities through to our corporate purpose.
     The research goals are incorporated in our annual operating plan, with specified actions and
     targets and regular reporting to the University’s Council and Academic Board

 •   The corporate research goal is also incorporated within our thematic Academic Strategy for
     2017-2022, which sets out in more detail how we will develop and deliver our research
     programmes, and how those programmes will inform teaching, the student experience and
     our collaborative work with partners

 •   We created a new Research Committee in 2015, chaired by the Vice-Chancellor and
     meeting 5 times a year, as our University level forum for developing research strategy and
     monitoring progress. The Committee has been significant in providing consistent, committed
     corporate leadership for our research strategy and programme

 •   We have identified six Research Priority Areas (RPAs) to give thematic coherence to our
     research activities. They are deliberately cross-cutting and inter-disciplinary, to encourage
     research developments across our School structures. The RPAs are:

        o   Applied Business & Technology (maps to UoAs 12 and 17)
        o   Being Human: Past, Present & Future (UoAs 27, 28, 31, 32 and 34)
        o   Creative Practice as Research (UoAs 32 and 34)
        o   Environmental Dynamics & Governance (UoAs 13, 14 and 21)
        o   Learning & Professional Contexts (UoA 23)
        o   Sport, Exercise, Health & Wellbeing (UoAs 4 and 24)

 •   Each RPA is led by a Convenor supported by an RPA steering group to manage, support
     and encourage the research programme for that RPA. Each is mapped to relevant Units of
     Assessment (see previous bullets), and we appointed a Co-ordinator for each of our 13
     target UoAs.

 •   As detailed in our REF Code of Practice, we use our annual Staff Review and Development
     programme to set and review research objectives with each research active member of staff.
     RPA Convenors and UOA Coordinators work with research active colleagues to review their
     research plans and outputs within the peer-support group of researchers active in that
     RPA/UoA. Progress is reported to each Research Committee meeting

 •   As research outputs and impact case studies are completed, we have submitted all of them
     to external review, to get an independent assessment of quality and expert feedback on
     areas for improvement. That feedback is used by both individuals and research teams as a
     basis for continuous improvement in the quality of both outputs and impacts

 •   The University has a successful postgraduate research programme, with 538 enrolled PGR
     students in total in 2020/21, including a large DBA programme. We ranked 6 th for overall
     student satisfaction in the 2019 PRES survey

 •   During 2020, we began developing our next quinquennial University strategic plan for
     research. Following extensive discussions in the University’s Council, Research Committee,
     and Academic Leadership Group, we have now formulated our research strategy and action


                                                                                              Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
     plan for the period to 2027, which was approved by the University’s Council in February
     2021. The new strategy deliberately builds on and extends the progress we have made
     since 2014, re-scoping our 6 Research Priority Areas and laying plans to strengthen our
     research programmes across the board so that by 2027 we could submit to as many as 18
     Units of Assessment.
 The University’s largest self-standing research unit is the Countryside and Community Research
 Institute (CCRI). The CCRI was established in 2008, originally as a collaborative partnership
 between UOG, the University of the West of England and the Royal Agricultural University,
 developed from our Countryside and Community Research Unit founded over 30 years
 ago. CCRI has become a leading research institute specializing in the social sciences of
 planning, management, development, sustainability and change in the countryside, agri-food,
 and rural communities and economies. It currently deploys 26 research staff, with several
 project collaborators at the RAU, and will submit within UOA13.

 As noted above, “impact” is a cross-cutting consideration for all our research, linking directly to
 the University’s strategic goal “To undertake excellent research and innovative professional
 practice which enrich students’ learning and create impact and benefit for others”.
 Consequently, we have integrated attention to impact at every level. We see it as part of our
 mission as an anchor institution to consider how all of our activities, including research, can
 impact beneficially in the communities we serve, complementing our fourth strategic goal to work
 with partners for wider wellbeing. For example:

 •   We co-created Research4Gloucestershire as a forum for health-related research with our
     NHS partners in the county, so that we can support practice improvement through the
     application of research. The forum is chaired by the Chair of the Gloucestershire Hospitals
     NHS Trust. We are also partners in the NIHR-funded Academic Research Centre West, led
     by the University of Bristol

 •   As the leading UK University for Sustainability (top in the 2019 People and Planet League),
     many of our research programmes in CCRI and biosciences are focused on practical support
     for communities in managing climate change, winning the 2019 Green Gown award for
     impactful research, along with numerous other awards for Education for Sustainability

 •   In partnership with the Universities of Newcastle and Warwick, the CCRI has been
     successful in securing £3.7m of funding to establish a National Innovation Centre for Rural
     Enterprise, drawing on our long established social science expertise in applied rural
     development

 •   In partnership with the Universities of Bristol, Cardiff and Bath, we have developed a bid to
     the UKRI/RE Strength in Places programme for a major project to apply research excellence
     in cyber to promote economic development across our locality, and specifically to support the
     creation of a new Cyber Business Park adjacent to GCHQ in Cheltenham

 •   We have a large and successful knowledge exchange programme, co-ordinated through our
     Growth Hub and drawing on EU ESIF funding to support services for incubation, enterprise,
     SME growth, innovation and KTPs. Since 2014, we have been providing business support
     via the Growth Hub. We have worked with more than 6,000 businesses of all sizes, of which
     over 40% have been identified as high growth potential, with client satisfaction of 86%. Our
     work with Employers has led us to develop a large and growing portfolio of Degree
     Apprenticeships. We currently work with over 90 employers, offering high quality and
     relevant professional development. We won the Times Higher Award for Outstanding
     Employer Engagement in 2018 recognition of collaborative work between our Employability
     team and businesses coming through our Growth Hub.
 To create an open research environment, we have created an open access University research
 repository at https://eprints.glos.ac.uk/, and we monitor compliance with open access


                                                                                              Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 requirements at each meeting of the Research Committee. We receive approximately 8,000
 unique downloads from our repository per month. All research active staff are encouraged to
 create an ORCID record. Our new University website gives greater prominence to publicising
 our research activities and our researchers via staff profiles, giving full transparency of outputs
 and people.

 We regularly review how our research programmes link to national and regional priorities, in line
 with our commitment to impact and working in partnership. We have mapped where our subject
 communities and research programmes can link to priorities within the Industrial Strategy, which
 for example is the basis of our Strength in Places cyber project referenced above. We
 contributed to the South West Science and Innovation Audit. We work closely with the Local
 Enterprise Partnership, both on their previous Strategic Economic Plan for Gloucestershire, and
 in drafting their new Local Industrial Strategy. The two priorities identified in the LIS (cyber and
 agri-tech/green) both build directly on University areas of excellence in research and teaching.

 We engage extensively with the wider community through research, for example:

 •   Through the work of our Professor of Science Communication, Adam Hart, who is a regular
     broadcaster and commentator on TV, radio and social media

 •   Through our public lecture series, which include public inaugural lectures on their research
     by all our new professors

 •   Through working with partners to use research to inform their professional practice, for
     example working with primary and secondary schools across the region through our School
     of Education and Humanities, and working with local NHS Trusts through the School of
     Health and Social Care

 •   Through the Erasmus+ projects that we have led with partner universities in Indonesia, one
     focused on developing enterprise and business support on a basis analogous to UOG’s
     Growth Hub, and one focused on building crisis resilience. In both cases, we are drawing on
     expertise within the University to create networks of partner universities working together to
     achieve real world impact in areas identified by the Indonesian Government as priorities.
 We recognise the importance of ensuring that all our research is conducted with integrity. To
 that end:

 •   We are signatory to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, and have recently
     reviewed compliance against all of its expectations to identify where we need to continue to
     improve. The University’s Council and Research Committee have approved the resulting
     action plan

 •   We have an active Research Ethics Committee, which is our forum for consideration and
     approval of all University-wide issues of research ethics, covering both staff and student
     research. The Committee makes an annual report to the Research Committee, giving an
     overview of its work during the year

 •   We have an identified Research Ethics lead in each School, to give first tier consideration to
     all research ethics proposals, referring on to the Research Ethics Committee for decisions as
     necessary

 •   Research ethics is built into research methods training at both undergraduate and
     postgraduate levels of study. It is taught as a core component of the postgraduate research
     training in modules MR401 & 402. Additional research ethics training is provided to
     researchers and supervisors via School and University staff development opportunities such
     as school meetings, research seminars, and other events.


                                                                                                Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 We are fully committed to the highest standards in terms of research integrity, including the
 reproducibility of research and the open research environment. Our subjects are diverse, with
 differing cultures and conventions, but through our university community we engender a culture
 of openness about our research practices, mutually supporting efforts to adopt best practice, and
 working to ensure our research is reproducible. We encourage recognition of contributions to
 research and the importance of transparency about that. Our research ethics committee leads a
 programme of researcher development encapsulating integrity in the widest sense.

 3. People

 The University’s strategic framework for staffing has the following main components:

 •   Successful recruitment, retention, motivation and management of our people is identified as
     one of six key “enablers” of organisational performance within the University’s strategic plan.
     From that starting point, we have developed a People and Culture strategy identifying
     objectives, targets and actions for achievement of that enabling goal

 •   85% of the University’s academic staff are on permanent employment contracts. We do not
     use zero hours contracts. We do use PTHP contracts to bring in particular areas of expertise
     needed for research and teaching, but in all cases those contracts specify the hours and the
     role. In order to avoid the risks of casualization, we do not rely on teaching of
     undergraduates by postgraduate students

 •   All staff are covered by the University Staff Review and Development (SRD) programme.
     This is an annual process to ensure that all staff agree annual objectives with their manager,
     review progress and performance, and can discuss career development and training goals.
     For relevant academic staff, the SRD process includes discussion with their manager of their
     research ambitions and career goals, annual objectives for research, and feedback on
     performance

 •   We have a well-established and comprehensive training and development programme,
     including induction for all new staff, support to achieve accreditation in the Advance HE
     Professional Standards Framework, a specific ‘Learning Leaders’ programme for Academic
     Subject Leaders, and use of the PGCert in Academic Practice for all staff new to teaching.
     For academic staff who do not have a higher degree, the University offers time allocations
     and fee waivers to support staff to work towards Masters and Doctoral qualifications

 •   The University is currently supporting 34 academic members of staff to undertake Doctoral
     studies (27 PhDs and 7 Professional Doctorates)

 •   We have developed a revised and updated set of academic career pathways, setting out the
     University’s expectations for each level across three pathways of teaching and scholarship,
     teaching and research, and research only.
 As a relatively small, student-centred new University, we select carefully which external
 accreditation schemes will add most value for us, taking account of their resource requirements
 and whether they are applicable. We believe this approach is consistent with the principles
 identified by the Forum for Responsible Research Metrics relating to burden and institutional
 differences.

 On that basis, we have prioritised external accreditation against the Disability Confident and
 Workplace Wellbeing Schemes. Focussing our effort helped us achieve Level 3 of Disability
 Confident, recognising us as a ‘Disability Confident Leader’. We have also achieved re-approval
 under the Time for Change programme in recognition of our support for mental health, and were
 recently re-accredited as meeting the Workplace Wellbeing Charter. We are accredited by
 Advance HE to award fellowships within the UK Professional Standards Framework.


                                                                                              Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 We have formally committed to the ten key principles that the Athena Swan Charter is based on.
 We are actively embedding the principles within our culture, policies, practices and action plans.
 Now that the Athena Swan review has been completed, and the new accreditation arrangements
 are being put in place, we expect to work towards institutional recognition.

 We are committed to, and have formally endorsed, the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers. We have recently reviewed our approach against all of the
 expectations in the Concordat to identify priorities for further improvement. Our action plan for
 continuing to make progress in implementing the principles of the Concordat was approved by
 the University’s Council and Research Committee.

 We have established an Early Career Researchers Network which provides networking and
 development opportunities, including for PGR students. The ECR Network is represented on the
 University’s Research Committee.

 Research Students

 In 2020/21 the University enrolled 540 research students, of whom 146 were on the DBA
 programme, 32 on other Professional Doctorate Programmes, and 282 on PhD
 programmes. We also have enrolled 80 students on Masters by Research programmes. The
 largest concentrations of enrolled research students in 2020/21 are in the Schools of Business
 (253), Education and Humanities (91), and Natural and Social Sciences (62).

 The total number of doctoral completions is shown in the table:

     2014                      18
     2015                      23
     2016                      24
     2017                      23
     2018                      19
     2019                      24

 The majority of our PGR students are self-funded, part time and mature. Our DBA programme
 has been particularly successful overseas, especially in Germany. We have worked hard to
 ensure an approach to programme delivery that supports an effective and coherent experience
 for the students through a blended approach including block delivery in Gloucestershire.

 We were pleased to be ranked 6th out of 103 for overall satisfaction in the 2019 Postgraduate
 Research Experience Survey (PRES). We also ranked highly for research skills (17 th out of
 103). We recognise that research culture and resources are areas requiring further
 enhancement. Through the work of our PGR Leads, we are developing postgraduate research
 action plans to build on our areas of success and address areas for improvement.

 Our framework for supporting PGR students has these main components:

 •    All PGR students have a “home” location within a School and subject community, so that
      they can be integrated within an active research community at a subject level, and can take
      part in research activities of that community (e.g., local seminar series and common research
      topic forums)

 •    We have deliberately not created a single, centralised postgraduate centre, believing that PG
      students will have a better experience if integrated with the relevant subject communities
      across our Schools. So we have created PG spaces distributed across our campuses and
      Schools

                                                                                              Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 •   Our supervision model assigns at least two supervisors to each PGR student. All PGR
     students will discuss and agree with their supervisors training needs, conference
     opportunities and signposting to careers advice; will review annual progression, including a
     log of meetings; and opportunities for teaching if relevant

 •   All PGR students are required to undertake two compulsory modules of research methods
     training, and can participate in relevant methodologic interest groups (e.g., practice as
     research)

 •   Each School has a member of staff identified as PGR Lead to co-ordinate the School’s PGR
     programme. All PGRLs have developed an improvement action plan for their School, which
     links to a University level PGR action plan approved annually by the University’s Research
     Degrees Committee

 •   A postgraduate research administration office supports PGR students from the point of
     enquiry through to completion, with all supervisor development and research student training
     provided through an Academic Development Unit

 •   The CCRI is part of the Wales ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP), as it is recognised
     as a ‘pocket of excellence’ by the Research Council. The CCRI has been successful in
     winning four fully funded ESRC studentships, with partner organisations providing funding
     and supervisory input.
 Equality and Diversity

 The University’s commitment to equality and diversity, and its specific application to research
 staff and programmes, is detailed in our REF Code of Practice. In developing the Code, we
 prepared a comprehensive Equalities Impact Assessment which has helped us to identify areas
 for future focus.

 The main steps we have taken to ensure due regard to equality, diversity and inclusion issues in
 relation to research are:

 •   We operate our annual SRD programme in such a way that all academic staff have equal
     opportunity to identify their research ambitions and potential, and to agree research plans
     with their manager

 •   Those staff who are identified as research active have equal access to support from the
     relevant RPA and UOA; and to access financial support through the allocation of our
     research investment funding distributed through RPAs following approval by Research
     Committee

 •   We have publicised the Code of Practice widely, including its specific provisions for staff to
     raise concerns and complaints for independent consideration with appeal through to the
     Dean of Academic Development

 •   The University has supported the establishment of a Women Professors Group, as a forum
     and network to support progression of female academic staff. As noted above, we have
     formally committed to the Athena Swan principles. 36 staff have participated in the Advance
     HE Aurora programme since it was launched in 2013/14, and the University has supported
     the formation of a women’s network

 •   Similarly, the University has supported the establishment of a BAME+ network for staff and
     students, to provide peer support and a forum for addressing issues affecting BAME staff
     and students.


                                                                                               Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 We submitted all eligible staff who are grade 7 or above in the teaching and research or
 research only academic career pathways (employment function) which is 35% of all academic
 staff. Our Equality Impact Assessment will provide full details. However, in terms of EDI
 indicators for those academic staff we are submitting to the REF (n = 152), the latest data show:

 •   Percentage of staff on fixed term contracts: 15%
 •   Percentage of staff with a declared disability: 5%
 •   Gender profile: Male 57%, Female 43%
 •   Ethnicity profile: White 90%, Black 0%, Chinese 3%, Asian 5%, Other/Mixed 1%, Unknown
     2%

 The staff Gender Pay gap for all our academic staff (not just those being submitted to the REF)
 is Mean 5.34%, Median 11.06%.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 As a student-centred University, the great majority of our infrastructure and facilities are
 designed for dual use in teaching and research. We make a virtue of our facilities being
 available to students as well as research students and staff. Our capital programme is allocated
 to support priorities in the development of our academic portfolio. Recent investments have
 included a new Business School and new specialist facilities for nursing and allied health,
 computing, engineering, design, media, psychology, natural sciences, and sport and exercise.
 Building projects currently in train will create new facilities for biomedical sciences; allied health,
 including diagnostic radiography; and architecture, construction and the built environment.

 Examples of our specialist research facilities include:

 •   Luminescence laboratory. Specialising in archaeological dating using geological markers,
     this internationally-reputed laboratory has secured contract research and evaluation income
     of £553,000 over the period 2014 – 2020
 •   Computing facilities. Specialising in cyber security, and based at Berkeley Science and
     Technology Park, these industry standard research and development facilities were created
     with a ~£3million grant under the local Growth Deal
 •   Sport and exercise facilities. Specialist laboratories and associated facilities for high
     performance sport and exercise for health are used for postgraduate programmes with a
     range of sports governing bodies. These facilities helped us gain status as one of only 7 FA
     High Performance Centres for Women’s Football.
 We allocate our REF grant funding to Research Priority Areas pro-rata to the size and quality of
 their research programme, and in response to proposals from each RPA identifying their
 priorities. Over the past REF cycle, £4.2 million REF funding has been invested in the RPAs,
 funding sabbaticals, research assistants, buy-out of teaching, attendance at events, and travel
 and subsistence. In addition, Schools use their budgets for staff development to support
 researcher development in accordance with the development needs as determined in the annual
 Staff Review and Development process.

 Since the REF2014, we have secured £10.932M in research income. We have only been able
 to recognise £9.860M in REF 4b. The difference applies to:

     •   UoA31 - £580K of research endowment income
     •   UoA12 - £300K of research KTP income
     •   UoA23 - £190K of research income

 Aside from the REF itself, we take the following approach to generating research income:

 •   As part of the annual budget setting round, each School is set a target for business
     development income, including research income. Progress towards that target is tracked

                                                                                                  Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
     through the year, and discussed at School business planning meetings. Those targets are
     converted into income targets for each RPA and UOA and progress tracked through
     Research Committee

 •   Our University in Business (UiB) team (part of the Growth Hub) and the University Funding
     Office (UFO) support research teams in identifying potential bidding opportunities and
     preparing and submitting research bids. UIB/UFO are a University-wide resource supporting
     all research teams to develop bids

 •   As noted in Section 1, since the 2014 REF, we have achieved significant success in bidding
     to Horizon2020 and Erasmus+. Over the past seven years, we have secured £8,734,764
     overall in funding for projects led by the University. We have won and led over 33 EU funded
     projects, and partnered on a further 23

 •   Since the EU Referendum on BREXIT, we have been working to diversify research funding
     away from EU sources. We have been successful in securing funds from UK Government
     and agencies (e.g., DEFRA, Innovate UK, Research England, Sport England); and from
     other national governments (e.g., Norway and Japan). We are preparing for new funding
     programmes being brought in by Government to replace EU funding programmes, such as
     the Shared Prosperity Fund, the Strength in Places programme, and the National and Local
     Industrial Strategies

 •   We work in partnership with other UK universities in submitting bids to UKRI, including the
     NICRE project with Newcastle and Warwick, the Cyber Wales and West project with Bristol,
     Cardiff and Bath, and the Wales Doctoral Training Partnership

 •   We have secured significant endowment funding, totalling some £2 million from a charitable
     foundation (the Kirby Laing Foundation) to support an endowed Chair who leads our
     research programme in theology.




                                                                                           Page 9
