Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: University of Northumbria at Newcastle

 1. Context and mission


 1.1 Disciplinary Roots and Size
 Northumbria University’s submission to REF 2021 consists of 1096 academic staff (1056
 FTE) across 13 UoAs This is three times the number of colleagues entered for REF2014
 (343 FTE) and is the outcome of a strategic commitment to transforming the research
 capacity of the University. From genomics to glaciology; and from award-winning artists
 to esteemed engineers, Northumbria University is contributing to overcoming some of the
 most enduring challenges facing humanity and the future of the planet, from
 understanding the impacts of climate change to contributing to debates about what it
 means to be human.


 Northumbria was awarded university status in 1992. Since 2008 the University has been
 on a transformational journey to place research, alongside education, at the heart of all
 its activities. This submission to REF 2021 represents an important milestone on that
 journey and reflects an institution in which research is pervasive and is used to drive
 improvement across the full range of the University’s activities.


 Northumbria’s historic origins are in colleges of Design, Engineering and Business in
 Newcastle upon Tyne. Today, those disciplines are represented in the University’s four
 Faculties and 19 departments. In addition, Northumbria has strength in both traditional
 areas such as Humanities and Social, Life and Physical Sciences, and in professional
 disciplines such as Law, Architecture and Nursing. Northumbria has 1,406 REF-eligible
 staff, and a vibrant community of 31,540 students globally with 24,948 on our Newcastle
 upon Tyne campus, including 621 postgraduate research students (PGRs).


 Northumbria is a global university, with additional campuses in London and in
 Amsterdam, the latter launched in 2018 as a strategic response to the change in the UK’s
 relationship with Europe. Northumbria is one of the largest providers of UK higher
 education in Hong Kong and Indonesia and has strategic partnerships with seven
 international Universities in Australia (Monash), China (Northwestern Polytechnical and
 Nanjing Normal), EU (Palacky, Amsterdam UAS), India (Amity) and USA (Northeastern
 and Michigan State).




                                                                                    Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 1.2 Mission and Vision


 Research, and education informed by that research, are the key mechanisms by which
 Northumbria will make its most significant impact and contribution to overcoming the
 greatest challenges facing the region, the nation and the world. This is reflected in the
 University mission to:


       create and apply knowledge for the benefit of individuals, communities and the
       economy. Through excellent research, teaching and innovation we transform
       lives, making a powerful contribution to cultural and economic development and
       regeneration, locally, nationally and globally.


 This mission can only be delivered through the highest quality research and this is at the
 core of Northumbria’s Vision 2025 ‘to be a research-rich, business-focused, professional
 University with a global reputation for academic excellence’.


 2. Strategy


 2.1 University Strategy 2013-2023: Research Power with Quality
 In response to RAE 2008, where Northumbria submitted 161.6 FTE, the University
 fundamentally reassessed its future direction and set an objective to grow both the
 volume and quality of its research. In REF 2014 Northumbria entered 342.7 FTE, more
 than doubling its submission. There was also a significant increase in quality, raising GPA
 from 2.15 to 2.71, which was higher than the sector institutional average. This growth in
 volume and quality was recognised as a stand-out result at the time when the THE noted
 that: ‘Northumbria University expanded its research power market share, from 0.26 per cent to
 0.6 per cent, after more than doubling its submission volume. It is also the biggest riser when
 ranked by research power’.


 REF 2014 was an important milestone in the ongoing research-led transformation of the
 University. In 2012, Northumbria had set-out a 5-year Strategy 2013-2018, and a Vision
 for then 2025, with high-quality research and impact at its heart. Enhanced research
 performance would drive global reputation and thus the market position of the University;
 research excellence would drive education provision and thus student satisfaction;
 excellent research performance would increase income and open new revenue streams
 and avenues to business and economic impact.




                                                                                          Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 In 2018, a subsequent phase of this transformation was established in a second 5-year
 University Strategy 2018-2023 under a long term vision for 2030. Again, sustained growth
 in research excellence was placed at the heart of the University’s strategic objectives:


      •   Exceptional people empowered to achieve shared ambitions
      •   World-class research driving excellence in all of the University’s activities
      •   Transformed student and stakeholder outcomes
      •   Strong global reputation and market position, with diversified revenue streams
      •   Organisational sustainability, efficiency and effectiveness


 Success against these objectives would be measured by two research specific key
 performance indicators. First, to increase the number of colleagues producing
 internationally excellent research outputs and second, to increase research income by
 40%.


 2.2 Implementation of University Strategy
 After REF 2014, and in order to meet its strategic objectives, Northumbria prioritised
 investment in people and infrastructure. A renewal of the academic staff base would lead
 to a significant growth in research intensity, capability and performance. A programme of
 capital investment in the physical estate, facilities and the equipment base would provide
 a world leading environment in which those people could operate.


 REF 2014 resulted in annual mainstream QR more than doubling from £1.9M to £5.1M.
 Increased funding enabled greater investment in research, including in the staff base. The
 University made four key decisions to help shape that investment:


  •   to define Multidisciplinary Research Themes (MDRT) aligned to societal and global
      challenges and complementing disciplinary research
  •   to create a Vice-Chancellor’s Fellow (VCF) scheme in order to invest in Early Career
      Researchers (ECRs)
  •   to create a new Academic Career Framework which aspired to 100% inclusivity in
      research ensuring that all staff engaged in research
  •   to support doctoral studentships (ca. 82 new per year) through a University/Faculty
      Research Development Fund Studentship Scheme.


  Following REF 2014, to further realise interdisciplinary potential and address regional,
  national and global challenges Northumbria created 6 MDRTs. These are now: Energy



                                                                                          Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
  Futures, BioDesign for the BioEconomy, Extreme Environments, Global Development
  Futures, Integrated Health & Social Care and Human & Digital Design. MDRTs were
  designed to help drive critical mass by focusing staff recruitment; to generate impact; and
  to be the engine for strategic collaboration.


  Successful examples of strategic collaborations built on the MDRTs include:


     •   The Northumbria led EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) for Renewable
         Energy, with Newcastle and Durham as University partners, and with 35 additional
         partners including Airbus and Siemens (EP/S023836/1, £5.5M, 2019-2027).
     •   Research England Hub for Biotechnology in the Built Environment, joint with Newcastle
         University (£8M, 2019-2022); the largest of only 13 projects funded nationally under the
         Expanding Excellence in England initiative (E3).


  MDRTs were also a focus for staff investment. This included the VCF scheme. These are
  high quality research-led, cross-disciplinary thematic posts. Prior to embedding as
  permanent academics, Fellows are given the opportunity to focus their time on research
  with teaching commitments increasing over three years. As each cohort embeds, a new
  cohort is appointed thereby helping to drive long term change in the culture, aspirations
  and interdisciplinarity of our academic staff (ca. 76.7 FTE since 2016/17).


  Northumbria created a new Academic Career Framework in 2014. Following the Stern
  Review, Northumbria rejected any move towards teaching-only contracts, and re-
  confirmed a determination that all academic colleagues carry out research. To accelerate
  the transformation to a research-rich University, Northumbria determines significant
  responsibility for research through workload allocations and research objectives as per
  the code of practice. This approach will allow research intensity to grow sustainably to
  100% by the end of the next REF cycle.


  Finally, substantial investment in Research Development Fund Studentships recognised
  the essential contribution that PGRs make to a vibrant research community and helped
  support the renewal of the academic staff base. Across the REF period Northumbria has
  funded 552 studentships across all UoAs.


 2.3 Research Impact
 Our Multidisciplinary Research Themes are aligned to regional, national and international
 challenges in order to maximise their impact potential.



                                                                                            Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)




 Figure 1. Example alignment of Multidisciplinary Research Themes to Regional (North East Local
 Enterprise Partnership (NE LEP) Strategic Economic Plan)), National (Industrial Strategy Grand
 Challenges) and Global (UN Sustainable Development Goals) cultural, economic and societal
 challenges.


 By concentrating research excellence around these grand challenges, and recognising
 that those problems require complex, multi and interdisciplinary solutions, Northumbria
 has, across multiple UoAs, produced research addressing some of the most intractable
 problems facing humanity.


 For example, through Global Development Futures, Northumbria has been working with:


     •   NGOs and charities to reduce inequalities experienced by displaced youths in
         Uganda and to build their skills and employability (ESRC GCRF award
         ES/S005439/1, £790k, 2019-2021)
     •   The UN to develop better tracking of Female Genital Mutilation, transforming
         efforts to end FGM by 2030 (ICS, UoA 14)
     •   The World Bank to increase digital literacy within impoverished communities in
         Nigeria (ICS, UoA 11)


 Through the Integrated Health and Social Care MDRT, Northumbria researchers have:


     •   Helped shape new government initiatives amounting to £22M investment to
         address ‘holiday hunger’ across the UK (ICS, UoA 20)
     •   Developed a novel diagnostic tool for the most common childhood brain tumours,

                                                                                         Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
            increasing the speed of diagnosis and improving the outcomes of patients (ICS,
            UoA 3)


 Northumbria’s Research and Innovation Services (RIS) have a dedicated Impact Team
 that helps maximise the generation of impact across all UoAs. The team support
 researchers to design projects with the end beneficiaries in mind. This includes business
 development managers who support working in partnership with industry, for example the
 proposed International Centre for Connected Construction (IC3), a £44M partnership with
 UKRI and the North East Local Enterprise Partnership (NE LEP) including £7.5M of private
 investment.


 RIS       also   support   researchers    to   commercialise     their   research,   through   an
 IP/commercialization team which supports invention disclosures and patents and
 licensing. Examples of success include:


       •    Research England Connecting Capability Funding (“Northern Accelerator”, £4.9M with
            Durham, Newcastle and Teesside) to commercialise research and boost the region’s
            economy
       •    The creation of spinout companies such as PulmoBioMed Ltd. established with
            £148k of Innovate UK and £460k of additional external funding to produce and market
            the PBM-HaleTM breath condensate collection device for respiratory infection diagnosis
            and analytics, and environmental aerosol sampling.


 2.4 Performance Against the University Strategy
 Northumbria’s submission of 1,056 FTE (75% of all REF-eligible staff) to REF 2021
 represents the outcome of this strategy. The research capacity of the University has been
 transformed:




  Figure 2. Increase in NU research capacity – Percentage of REF-eligible staff FTE submitted.

                                                                                             Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
  Northumbria has exceeded all targets relating to the development of research in the 2013-
  2018 strategy and is on-track to exceed 2018-2023 strategy targets.

   Performance Against Strategy:

       •   75% of cat. A staff (1,056 FTE in REF 2021 compared to 343 FTE , 29%, in
           REF 2014) (2018 target = 60%). (Fig. 2)

       •   RGCI more than doubled (£4.6M to £10.0M) over the REF 2021 period
           (HESA return) (2018 target = double RGCI over 5 years).

       •   17.1% p.a. increase (£3.4M to £8.8M) in user-led research and consultancy
           over the REF 2021 period (HESA return) (2018 target = 15% p.a.).


  Northumbria has also significantly increased the wider influence of its research. A greater
  proportion of outputs appear in the world’s most cited and prestigious journals, and with
  an increase in international co-authorship (Fig. 3). Northumbria output has increased
  year-on-year to 544% of its 2007 position, compared to a national increase of 151%.
  Further evidence is given by the increase in research awards (Fig. 9).




  Figure 3. Growth in Research Output and its Influence. Scholarly research output (all types)
  2007-2020 with UK sector comparator (right axis normalized to Northumbria in 2007) and
  international co-authorship (left axis only). Inset: Northumbria outputs (all types) in world-top
  10% by citations, and outputs (excl. Books) in world-top 10% journals. (Source: Scopus data
  using sector-agreed metrics; https://snowballmetrics.com)



                                                                                             Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


 Northumbria is now 27th in the UK, and within the top 175 universities (top-15%) worldwide, for
 research citations. (Source: THE World University Rankings 2020 and 2016).


 2.5 Research Integrity, Open Research and Open Data
 The University Research Ethics Committee (REC), a sub-committee of Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Committee (RaKE), ensures that University policy in the areas of
 research integrity and ethics are reviewed regularly and align with sector best practice.
 Northumbria subscribes to the UK Research Integrity Office and actively participates in
 the North East Ethics and Integrity Forum. REC undertakes rigorous self-assessment
 against the expectations set out in the Concordat to support Research Integrity and
 reports these findings annually to the Board of Governors, a report published on the
 Northumbria website. Expectations around good practice in research are communicated
 through University-wide training. This is supplemented at discipline-level by Departmental
 Ethics Leads who meet regularly as an Ethics Steering Group to review current practice,
 address training and development needs, and ensure policies are operationalised
 effectively.


 The Scholarly Communications Group (also a subcommittee of RaKE) drives
 Northumbria’s approach to creating an open research environment and ensures that the
 University is engaged and responsive to developments such as Plan S, rights retention
 and transformative publishing deals. Northumbria is committed to the aims and principles
 of open research and has issued an open research statement alongside which existing
 open access policies will be reviewed. Northumbria is a signatory of DORA. The University
 has an institutional repository for research data (Figshare) promoting the principle and
 supporting infrastructure for open research data.


 2.6 Future Strategy
 The University will extend the achievements of this REF period over the next decade through
 continued strategic investment. Investment will be driven by quality in line with core strengths, and
 will sharpen interdisciplinary focus. We will ensure the future sustainability of our research base
 by investing in:


    •   People:
            ➢ Making 285 appointments of high-quality researchers by 2024
            ➢ Further development of the Academic Career Framework (ACF) and the
                introduction of a new title of Assistant Professor to replace Senior Lecturer



                                                                                                Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
             ➢ Transforming disciplines (such as Nursing and Design) where research intensity
                has traditionally been lower, achieving 100% research intensity by the end of the
                next REF cycle
    •   Infrastructure:
             ➢ Our financial forecasts to 2023 include between £16M and £23M per annum in
                capital expenditure. This will be divided between ongoing investment in extant
                infrastructure, for example expansion of our Multi-Omics Lab and High-
                Performance Computing provision; and strategic investment in STEM, for
                example IC3 which includes a forecast £5.2M capital investment in a c. £44M
                partnership with UKRI, industrial partners and North East Local Enterprise
                Partnership.
             ➢ Further investment in PGR studentships to enhance our research culture and
                capacity, develop our own next generation of researchers, and support the
                achievement of a 1:1 ratio with staff submitted to the next REF.


 3. People


 People are fundamental to the University Strategy which commits to ‘Exceptional people
 empowered to achieve shared ambitions’ as a key outcome. Accordingly, Northumbria
 has transformed its research capacity by up-skilling and renewing its academic staff base.


 3.1 Academic Career Framework
 In 2014, Northumbria introduced a new and award-winning Academic Career Framework
 (the winner of the 2018 UHR Awards for Excellence in the category “Business Effectiveness and
 Organisational Performance”). The ACF revised probation, redefined maximum teaching
 contact hours, transformed the Performance, Development and Appraisal Scheme (PDA),
 and introduced an academic workload planning scheme to ensure a balanced workload
 averaging       40:40:20      (research,     scholarship       and     enterprise;     teaching;
 leadership/administration) across each academic area. By 2019/2020 42% of academic
 workload time across the institution was allocated to research.


 In 2016, the University implemented an Academic Career Pathway introducing a single
 Associate Professor title awarded through application to University Appointments Board.
 Associate Professor replaced the existing Principal Lecturer/Fellow/Reader titles and
 made academic excellence the key criteria for progression. Northumbria also introduced
 a three-band scheme for Professorial title, with the top-band equivalent to a Distinguished
 Professor to enable recruitment and retention of outstanding world-class researchers.




                                                                                            Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 All colleagues can apply for academic promotion in an annual scheme. Across this REF
 cycle 45 colleagues have been promoted to Professor and 88 to Associate Professor.
 These changes have increased leadership capacity for research across the institution,
 supported by a recruitment drive for Professors that has bought 43 new colleagues to the
 University.




 Figure 4. Increase in research leadership capacity within the academic staff base –
 Teaching and Research staff headcount by role.

 The ACF recognised that colleagues were at very different stages of their academic
 careers. Some, especially in disciplines such as Nursing and Design, were entirely new to
 research and required additional support. Accordingly, Northumbria has operated an in-
 service doctorate scheme. 122 doctorates have been awarded to staff under this scheme,
 while 12% of colleagues are currently registered for doctoral study.


 For colleagues who did not wish to engage with research, Northumbria provided financial
 support to re-orient their careers through Voluntary Severance. This increased annual
 staff turnover to 9%, providing flexibility to invest and diversify income streams. Over the
 REF 2021 period, 817 academics have been appointed (22% international). 70% of
 colleagues are now doctorally qualified compared to 48% in 2014.

                                                                                      Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)




    Figure 5. Increase in research capability of the academic staff base – Teaching and
    Research Staff with Doctorates.

 3.2 Recruitment, Mentoring, Probation and Early Career Researchers
 The VCF scheme was a new entry route for ECRs, designed to increase research quality
 and critical mass. VCFs are supported through an extended probation process, designed
 to equip postholders for a successful career. In 2018, the University introduced Faculty-
 based probation panels which approve probation plans incorporating the submission of a
 First/New Investigator or equivalent grant proposal, and the publication of quality research
 outputs. ECRs have reduced teaching duties and are supported by research mentors.
 New ECRs are offered a one-to-one with a Research Development Manager to create a
 development plan and can participate in the University’s ‘ECR Development Programme’.


 Northumbria has deliberately minimized fixed-term contracts (3.4% of REF-eligible staff)
 in order to provide the most secure environment for the development of research careers.


 3.3 EU and International Colleagues
 Northumbria is an international community and supports the international diversity of its
 staffing base by funding application fees for permanent residence in the UK or British
 Citizenship for EU staff, and essential immigration costs for International staff (Tier 2 visa,
 NHS surcharge, Settlement/Indefinite Leave to Remain application fees). The University
 supports other immigration application costs for staff/dependents through interest free
 short-term loans.




                                                                                        Page 11
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


 3.4 PDA, Training, Sabbaticals and Promotion/Progression
 PDA meetings are twice yearly. Staff self-assess against their previous year’s objectives
 and discuss future objectives and training/support requirements. All colleagues have an
 ongoing research plan. Workload allocation for research is agreed for the following year
 after PDA discussions, in order to support agreed objectives. Colleagues who have more
 than 30% of their workload for research and / or an agreed independent research objective
 are considered to have significant responsibility for research as set out in Northumbria’s
 REF code of practice. 71% of REF-submitted staff have more than 30% of their workload
 for research and 100% have an independent research objective.


 Research Development Programmes are career-stage focused. For example, there are
 “Fellowship Ready”, “Early Career Researcher Development” and “Next Generation of
 Large Award Holder” programmes. The Library also offers a Research Skills
 development programme. The University is a member of Vitae and is committed to the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. In 2019 Northumbria
 retained its HR Excellence in Research Award.


 The University runs a Sabbatical scheme which offers a semester of leave in every seven
 to all colleagues. Applications are triaged at Faculty level and the process is overseen by
 the University Sabbatical Committee.


 3.5 Graduate School and Postgraduate Research
 The Graduate School oversees research degrees ensuring compliance with the QAA
 Quality Code. Faculties have a Director of PGR, who Chairs the Faculty Postgraduate
 Research Committee, and all departments have a PGR Programme Leader. Doctoral
 candidates have a minimum of two supervisors who are given a shared total workload allocation
 of 50 hours per annum for supervision.


 The Graduate School supports applications/interviews, supervision records, project
 approval, annual progression, submission/examination of theses, and individual
 circumstances applications. An on-line system, eVision, ensures consistency.
 Northumbria is a member of the UK Council for Graduate Education and participates in
 the Advance HE Postgraduate Research Experience Survey.


 Training for supervisors is provided on an ongoing basis and is mapped against the Vitae
 Researcher Development Framework. Supervisors attend a regulations session update
 every 3 years and new supervisors complete a competency process (expertise,


                                                                                       Page 12
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 experience, skills, prior completions).


 Students attend a Professional Development and Research Training Programme with
 compulsory (Induction, Ethics, Annual Progression Preparation, Viva Preparation) and
 optional sessions (for example, Careers, Resilience, Practical Demonstrating). There is a
 specific PGR Teaching Programme to support entry into academic careers. The Library offers
 a complementary Researcher Development programme using workshops (e.g. Mind
 Mapping, EndNote), topic-specific drop-ins (e.g. copyright advice), on-line collections
 and one-to-one appointments. Staff/students have access to Vitae’s digital resources.
 Departments have discipline-specific training and research seminars.


 Students plan bespoke training using a Researcher Development Personal Planner. A
 PGR Conference Bursary Scheme supplements project-specific funding and there is a PGR
 Research Events Support Scheme.


 University   Research    Development      Fund    and   Faculty-funded     studentships    are
 complemented by Collaborative Doctoral Studentship (50:50 funded with an external
 partner) and ERDF Intensive Industrial Innovation Programme schemes (for PhDs in NE
 LEP priority sectors).


 Research Council Doctoral and Collaborative Doctoral Training Partnerships include:
     •   AHRC Northern Bridge with seven University partners
     •   AHRC Heritage Consortium with eight University partners
     •   ESRC NINE with six University partners
     •   NERC One Planet joint with Newcastle
     •   EPSRC CDT in Renewable Energy Northeast Universities


 3.6 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 Northumbria is committed to ensuring and promoting the diversity of its staff base. It is
 only by realising the talents of all that the University will succeed in creating the pervasive
 research culture to which it aspires. That aspiration also includes ensuring that all
 colleagues have the same opportunities to hold significant responsibility for research.
 Northumbria University aims to reflect in its REF submission the full diversity of its REF-
 eligible staff base.


 Since REF 2014 particular efforts have been made to remove barriers to women’s progression
 and improve the gender and ethnicity profile in senior academic roles. Activities around
 recruitment, promotion and training have underpinned positive change in this area. The

                                                                                        Page 13
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 percentage of women at Grade 9 (Professor) has been at or above the sector average for the
 entirety of the current REF period.




 Figure 6. The percentage of female Professors compared to male over time compared to sector
 average (HESA)

 Other than 2018/19 the proportion of all promotions to Professor awarded to female colleagues
 was 50% or higher:




          Figure 7. The percentage of promotions to Professor awarded to female colleagues


 Gender pay gap data indicates that median pay is equivalent for male and female academic staff,
 but that there is a 6.09% gap in the mean salary (Source for all employee data: ONS-ASHE Survey
 2019):


                                                                                         Page 14
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)



        2019           Northumbria         Northumbria           Nationally            Sector
                        Academic           All employees       All employees       All employees
                        employees
  MEDIAN                   0%                  20.5%                17.4%               15.9%
  MEAN                    6.09%                14.7%                16.3%                16%

 Northumbria has also made significant improvements in the gender balance of the REF
 submission since 2014. In 2014 34% of all submitted staff were women. However, only
 20% of female REF-eligible staff were submitted whereas 35% of REF-eligible men were
 submitted. In 2021, 42% of the submitted staff are female and 67% of all eligible female
 staff have been submitted. 81% of all eligible male staff have been submitted.


 Northumbria will achieve a balanced gender representation in its REF submission across
 the next period, building on the progress made. Each UoA is required to ensure equitable
 access and participation in their research culture. Northumbria is also recognised for
 promoting access to disciplines beyond the University, for example with the award of an
 EPSRC Inclusion Matters project “Northern Power: Making Engineering and the Physical Sciences
 a Domain for All in the North of England” with eight other universities and five industrial partners.
 (EPSRC EP/S012206/1).


 Colleagues from racialised minorities are represented in greater proportion in
 Northumbria’s REF submission than in the general REF-eligible population. 89% of
 colleagues who identify as BAME have been entered for example, as opposed to 71% of
 those who identify as white. While the REF submission reflects the ethnic diversity of the REF-
 eligible staff base, Northumbria is committed to promoting that diversity further, and removing any
 barriers to race equality. Northumbria is a member of the Race Equality Charter. A strategic priority
 for post REF2021 is to increase the proportion of BAME colleagues in senior research roles. At
 present, the proportion of BAME staff at Associate Professor level is steadily rising but there
 remains underrepresentation at Professorial level.




                                                                                              Page 15
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)




 Figure 8. The percentage of BAME staff by grade 7 (Senior Lecturer) to 9 (Professor)

 Northumbria’s strategic ambitions to promote and protect diversity are supported through the
 following internal structures and initiatives:


 Athena SWAN Charter
 Northumbria was awarded a Bronze Athena SWAN Award (STEMM) in 2015, which
 catalysed fundamental changes to its EDI structure. The University renewed in 2020 under
 the broadened criteria covering Arts, Humanities, Social Sciences, Business and Law,
 Professional Support and trans staff and students. The 2018-2023 University Strategy
 embeds a timeline for all departments to achieve Athena Swan recognition and the first
 subject awards in Business and Law, Geography and Environmental Sciences, Nursing,
 Midwifery and Health and Psychology have been granted.


 University EDI Structure and Initiatives
 The EDI committee, chaired by the Vice-Chancellor, has five sub-groups (Unions Special
 Interest, Athena SWAN Self-Assessment Team (SAT), Accessibility Review, LGBTQ*
 Steering Group, and the Race Equality Charter SAT). Faculties have a Director of EDI,
 Departments/Services have EDI leads and our HR service has a Head of EDI as well as
 an Organisational Development Manager (EDI), an Organisational Development Advisor
 (EDI) and a Race Equality Manager. Unconscious Bias training takes place across the
 University, there is a Women's Network, a VC Diversity and Inclusion Fund, and a BAME
 Staff Network. The University has an Equality Impact Assessment framework, which was
 used for the development of the REF 2021 Code of Practice.



                                                                                        Page 16
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Northumbria is a member of the Stonewall Diversity Champion Programme and is self-
 assessing against the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index. Northumbria is proud to be a
 Disability Confident Employer. The Accessibility Review Group focuses on improvements,
 reviewing and developing procedures and policies to ensure a safe and accessible
 working environment.


 The University is committed to helping colleagues achieve work-life balance and actively
 protect their mental health and well-being. The Employee Assistance Programme has 24/7
 access for confidential counselling/support (Health Assured Ltd). NU has signed the Time
 to Change Pledge (mental health) and the action plan includes Mental Health First Aid
 and   Mental     Health   Awareness    training.   Family-friendly    policies/support    include
 maternity/paternity/adoption support/leave, flexi-time, career break and working locations,
 a     Coaching      Transition    Programme        (supporting       those    returning     after
 career/sickness/maternity breaks) and an Ofsted Outstanding-rated University Nursery.


 In aspiring to be a community which is welcoming and respectful of all we are also
 unequivocal in our unwillingness to tolerate conduct that is damaging. To this end, we
 have clear policies, guidance and reporting systems for staff and students around
 unacceptable behaviour.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 4.1 Research & Innovation Services
 In 2013, Northumbria invested in in its research infrastructure in order to professionalise
 research support in line with our growing ambition. We have increased investment in this
 support year-on-year from £2.7M in 2014 to £3.7M in 2020, expanding from a staff base
 of 55.2 to 70.6 FTE. We have recently agreed a further investment of £407k in additional
 capacity (over 2 years), and a further infrastructure investment in a new grants and
 contracts system to support the expansion of our research capacity (£300k approx.).


 Research and Innovation Services is a central research support team with faculty
 alignment for some activities. The full lifecycle RIS support includes research development
 for grant applications, pre- and post-award grants management, research policy, quality,
 ethics, integrity and culture, support for impact, IP commercialisation and researcher
 development. The team also produce and analyse management information and work
 closely with Library colleagues on matters of scholarly communications and open research
 including OA and the responsible use of metrics.




                                                                                           Page 17
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Business support includes client relationship management, CPD, commercial contracts,
 collaborative/contract research, consultancy, degree apprenticeships, KTPs and regional
 economy initiatives (e.g. ERDF, NE LEP, Strength in Places). Business Development
 Managers have Faculty and industrial sector (e.g. Health, Digital) alignment and link
 companies to academics for contract research and KTPs, and support academics in
 finding project partners.


 4.2 Library and Information Services and IT
 There are two main campus libraries and a specialist Law Practice collection. Library
 services maintain Northumbria’s open access institutional repository (ca. 5k items
 deposited/year), a Gold Open Access fund and includes 94 databases, 51 digital sources,
 84k eJournals, 900k eBooks and 460k print books. It provides “Skills for Research
 Training”, supports in-house Law journals, Inter-Library Loan, copyright advice and access
 to   UK/Ireland   libraries   (SCONUL).   The     SafePod   award    will   provide   secure
 facilities/services for remote access to large social science datasets from UK Data Centres
 (ESRC, 2019-22).



 IT services support all software, printing/copying, storage, sharepoint, conferencing (e.g.
 Microsoft Teams), eduroam, procurement, and use of national resources (e.g. National
 Supercomputing Services: DiRAC, ARCHER). High Performance Computing investment
 includes two clusters with 1216 cores for processing, a GPU node, dedicated visualization
 nodes and 571 TB of parallel storage.


 4.3 Facilities and Capital Investment
 On-campus infrastructure to support research across all UoAs includes archival holdings,
 clinics (business, law) laboratories (biological, chemical, materials, mechanical, physical,
 psychological and physical performance), and galleries and studios (architecture, art,
 design, exhibition and performance). Sport Central includes physiology research
 laboratories and an instrumented running track.


 Infrastructure is extended through off-campus partnerships UK-wide and overseas. For
 example:


      •   The Offshore Renewable Energy Catapult
      •   Space Weather researchers have access to the world’s largest solar telescope
          ($344M US NSF Daniel K. Inouye Solar Telescope) through consortium
          membership (STFC grant ST/LT006243/1).


                                                                                       Page 18
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


 Since REF 2014 Northumbria has also invested in a University Gallery comprising Gallery
 North (experimental/exhibition space), University Collection (3000 paintings, drawings and
 sculptures, and archives) and The Woon Gallery of Asian Art (alongside contemporary
 pieces by Picasso, Warhol and Hirst).


 University capital supporting research was £26.6M p.a. over the REF 2021 period (19%
 of       University    capital)   and     included     a     long-term    estates     plan,
 refurbishments/improvements, Faculty CAPEX, and strategic grant application match-
 funding. In the course of the 2013-2018 strategy period there was major estates
 investment in bespoke research facilities including Computer and Information Sciences,
 Architecture, and Business Clinic buildings, refurbishment/extension of Engineering
 laboratories, a library extension (with Research Commons for PGR), a University Gallery,
 and interdisciplinary spaces (e.g. Co-Create Design space, Institute of Humanities).
 Research impact investments included a Centre for International Development, Enterprise
 suite and an NUSTEM space (outreach/pedagogic research).


 The 2018-2023 strategy includes investment in laboratories supporting initiatives such as
 the EPSRC CDT in Renewable Energy and the major reconfiguration of the Health and
 Life Sciences estate. Faculty budgets for research equipment support new staff, research
 group development, maintenance of well-found laboratories and faculty-wide shared
 items (e.g. Electron microscopy, Multi-Omics, High Performance Computing).


 Examples of strategic match-funding include the transfer of a world-leading glaciology
 group from the British Antarctic Survey into UoA 14 and E3 Hub for Biotechnology in the
 Built Environment.


 4.4 Networks, Partnerships and Engagement
 Northumbria partners with a range of organisations with the aim of leveraging impact from
 research. The University’s partnership with Ryder Architecture, the spin out company
 Building Information Academy Enterprises Ltd, was the winner of the THE Awards ‘Most
 Innovative Contribution to Business-University Collaboration’ in 2017. Other Examples
 include:


      •    the UN Academic Impact group (UN SDGs).
      •    Mozilla Foundation (Internet of Things)
      •    New Writing North (Northern Writers Award and literary festivals/events)
      •    Dynamo North East (IT enterprise cluster linking Building Information Modelling)

                                                                                      Page 19
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
     •   NUSTEM (outreach in schools underpinned by disciplinary/pedagogic research)
     •   Creative Fuse North East (AHRC/Arts Council and ERDF-funded) and the Fuse
         Centre for Translational Research in Public Health (both involving the five NE
         Universities)


 4.5 External Research Income
 Northumbria’s increase in research capacity through staff renewal, critical mass aligned
 to MDRTs and the development of partnerships has also supported a rapid growth in
 external research income. Faculties are supported to meet annual RGCI targets, while
 individuals are incentivised through our Research and Enterprise Reward Scheme. Major
 grant applications are coordinated centrally through a Research Content Board to ensure
 the necessary supporting investment can be released.


 Increased capacity has resulted in a marked step change with major awards from
 Research England (E3), Research Council CDT/DTPs, GCRF, EU projects, KTPs and
 individual project awards. Cumulatively, there is a strong growth trajectory in research
 awards (Fig. 9). The increase in partnership payment components of research awards
 (white bar on black bar) to collaborators points to the growing connectedness of the
 University with research intensive partners. The systematic increase in value (three-fold)
 and connectivity of grants won illustrates the vitality of Northumbria’s research
 environment. The systematic increase in external research income also points clearly to
 a sustainable research environment beyond REF 2021.




  Figure 9. Increase in research grant awards (including partnership payments) and HESA
  returned RGCI




                                                                                    Page 20
