  Institution: University of Central Lancashire

  1. Context and mission


1.1. Mission
The University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) is an international, multi-campus university. We
gained university status in 1992, but our origins date back almost 200 years. The spirit of opportunity
for all, which inspired us then, remains at the heart of our mission today. We inspire people to achieve
their potential, seize opportunities and achieve things they never thought possible.
As one of the UK’s largest universities, with staff and student community approaching 40,000, we
are a truly international university, with 2,000+ students from 100+ countries and global 200,000-
strong alumni network. As the first university to establish an overseas campus in Cyprus, we have
forged strong partnerships with institutions worldwide (from China to the Middle East).
UCLan is growing its focus on impactful research from science to the Arts. We have made significant
investment in STEM research during REF2021 and around a third of our submission is STEM-facing.
Academics carrying out fundamental research work alongside our thriving practice-based
community, from health to artists, musicians and writers. UCLan is perfectly positioned to produce
research that is relevant to the real world.
We are a global leader in patient-centered, applied health research, one of the UK’s largest providers
of nursing and allied healthcare professionals – a third of our REF2021 Impact Case Studies are
linked to health and wellbeing. In delivering high quality research to inform practice, we are uniquely
placed to produce outstanding practitioners equipped with a robust understanding of the field who in
turn contribute to the sustainable development of evidence to underpin future practice.
Many of our researchers are world-leading experts whose work is transforming lives globally. Our
research is contributing towards UN Sustainability Goals and two-thirds of our REF2021 Impact Case
Studies involve countries receiving ODA funding or UK areas ranking in the 25% most deprived
nationally. Around one third of our work involves at least one major international NGO (e.g. UN,
WHO,UNESCO). We are the first UK signatory to the Global Code of Conduct for Research in
Resource-Poor Settings (GCC).

1.2. Context
As a civic, anchor institution, we are proud of our place at the heart of the local and regional economy
and are a Northern Powerhouse Partner. Lancashire is one of the most economically challenged
counties in the UK and the University is a significant driver of economic, cultural and social
development in Preston, Lancashire, Cumbria and the North West.
Our researchers are passionate about involving diverse communities in research, with a long history
in Public Engagement (PE) going back to the 1800s. We hold the NCCPE Silver Watermark for
Public Engagement. Our award-winning Lancashire Science Festival, running annually since 2011,
attracts over 12,000 visitors per year.
UCLan is a multi-campus university with a thriving campus in Cyprus:
   ✓ Preston, home to our main campus, is a mid-sized modern city and key contributor to the
     Northern Powerhouse.
   ✓ UCLan Burnley, established 2010, serving HE needs of Pennine Lancashire.
   ✓ UCLan Westlakes, West Cumbria, is focused on innovation in the NHS, nuclear industry and
     public sector.
   ✓ UCLan Cyprus, opened 2012, has close working ties with UK-based researchers, including
     joint PGR supervision.
The University has an important role within the Lancashire Enterprise Partnership (LEP), helping
develop the regional economic evidence base and priorities for regional economic strategies.
University leaders chair the Lancashire Innovation Board (Vice Chancellor), Health Sector Group
(PVC for Research and Enterprise) and others.
Collaborative work with partners has enabled large-sale regional economic development
programmes, including a partnership with BAE Systems, AMRC NW, local authorities and SMEs to
create a new aerospace cluster in Lancashire.
We are members of important sector groups, such as the Northern Health Science Alliance, better
enabling NW organisations to access our expertise.

1.3. Structure
Our activity is structured across five Faculties and 15 Schools (Figure 1), bringing together
academics across disciplines and practice-based specialisms. 11 UOA submissions map to multiple
Schools, reflecting our interdisciplinary foundations.
This structure is complemented by challenge-led interdisciplinary University Research Institutes and
Centres (Section 2) and Faculty-led entities such as the Jeremiah Horrocks Institute.
Figure 1. UCLan structure 2019/20 mapped to UOAs of submitted staff

                       Clinical and                            Culture and          Lancashire
    Science and                            Health and                                School of
                       Biomedical                                Creative
    Technology                             Wellbeing                               Business and
                        Sciences                                Industries
                                                                                    Enterprise1

      Psychology                              Community            Art, Design &
                            Dentistry          Health &               Fashion
                                               Midwifery

      Forensics &                                                  Humanities,
        Applied             Medicine            Nursing            Language &
       Sciences                                                      Global
                                                                     Studies

                         Pharmacy &           Social Work,
      Engineering                               Care &             Law & Social
                         Biomedical                                  Sciences
                          Sciences            Community

       Physical                             Sport & Health         Journalism,
      Sciences &                              Sciences               Media &
      Computing                                                    Performance

                             UOA 3                                  UOA 18
                    UOA 4                                                             UOA 17
                                                          UOA 20
                                              UOA 24
     UOA 9,10,11,12                                        UOA 30
                                                                UOA 28, 32,
         UOA 15                                                UOA 25,26,27,33,
                                                                     34,

1
 On REF2021 Census Date, the Lancashire School of Business and Enterprise had no
School structure.
  2. Strategy

2.1 Strategy
Strengths across fundamental, applied and practice-led research with strong international links
underpin our strategic focus on research with impact, central to the University Strategy 2015-2020.
Building on this, our Research Strategy 2018-2020 documents how research, informed by local and
global challenges, leads to impact.
Key aims of these Strategies with related achievements are set out in Table 1 and were delivered
by:

A. Interdisciplinary structures
   ✓ £3m investment since 2017 in two University Research Institutes and 11 Research Centres
     to facilitate interdisciplinary research.
   ✓ This top-down, strategic approach is complemented by bottom-up coalescing of academics’
     interests around six research themes, giving our researchers awareness of their place within
     the institutional picture, a sense of common enterprise and encouraging researchers to
     recognise the interconnectedness of their work and the expertise available to build fundable
     projects (Figure 2).

B. Investment in the Engineering Innovation Centre (EIC)
   ✓ Section 4

C. Funding programmes
   ✓ £20m of QR and £7m HEIF was invested centrally and by Faculties to support buyout of staff;
     studentships; pump priming; bridging; infrastructure and equipment.
   ✓ £200k invested in Distinguished Visitor Scheme to develop international partnerships – 100
     leading academic visitors from 31 countries, leading to £1.1m of collaborative external
     funding and 100+ publications.
   ✓ £150k Catalyst Programme, small pots of flexible funding to support research activity
   ✓ £0.5 million QR-GCRF and QR SPF funding have supported our goals to promote challenge-
     led disciplinary and interdisciplinary research with developing countries and to support work
     with local, national and international government.

D. Researcher Development
   ✓ Section 2
Figure 2 University Research Institutes and Centres mapped to research themes
                                                                                      Research Themes
                                                            Citizenship,         Lifelong     People, Place   Sustainability,   Transformative
                                            Arts, Culture
                                                            Society and         Health and         and        Business and       Sciences and
                                            and Heritage
                                                              Justice           Wellbeing      Environment     Enterprise         Technology
 University Research Institutes
    Global Health and Wellbeing (LIFE)

       Citizenship, Society and Change
 University Research Centres
                   Brain and Behaviour

           Business, Management and
                          Enterprise

                             Digital Life

        Drug Design and Development

                           Engineering

       Field Archaeology and Forensic
                          Taphonomy

                   Global Development

     Migration, Diaspora Exile (MIDEX)

                       Smart materials

                Sustainable Transitions

  Transdisciplinary Health Research for
   Thriving in the Early Years (THRIVE)
Table 1 - Achievement of our strategic objectives for research and impact excellence

     University Strategy 2015-2020          Research Strategy 2018-2020                         Examples of our achievements

 Enhanced recognition for the quality     Increase external profile of the      • Global Sound Movement THE Award for Excellence and
 of our international and world-leading   University as a research provider       Innovation in the Arts, 2016
 research, innovation and enterprise      and a place of research for           • Professor Lubaina Himid’s 2017 Turner Prize and CBE for
 across an expanded range of              academics and students.                 services to art
 disciplines.                                                                   • Professor Dame Caroline Watkins 2017 Dame of British
                                                                                  Empire for services to nursing
                                                                                • Most Innovative Contribution to Business-University
                                                                                  Collaboration Award (THE) for partnership with Preston-
                                                                                  based Recycling Lives, 2018
                                                                                • Professor Derek Ward-Thompson's contribution to the first
                                                                                  image of a black hole, 2019
 Growing and vibrant community of         Provide appropriate support to        • See Section 3
 academic innovators, nurturing PGRs      academics and research students       • HR Excellence in Research Award
 and ECRs.                                in their research endeavour
                                          relevant to their career stage.
 Increased number of high-quality,        Provide a leading contribution to     • Professor Soo Downe led two world-leading H2020 COST
 results-driven relationships with        developments in the area of policy,     networks and helped shape WHO childbirth guidance
 public, private and third sector         practice, technology and services     • Professor Doris Schroeder is a leading academic on ethics
 organisations.                           as a civic and anchor institution.      dumping and lead author of the Global Code of Conduct for
                                                                                  Research in Resource-Poor Settings, now used in at least
                                                                                  40 countries
                                                                                • See Engineering Innovation Centre (Section 4)
University Strategy 2015-2020           Research Strategy 2018-2020          Examples of our achievements

Substantial funding from external       To deploy internal resources to     • Growth in research income from £5.8m pa in 2013/14 to
sources to broaden and deepen our       support areas of research and         pre-Covid forecast of £8.0m in 2019/20.
research and innovation and             encourage collaboration and         • £15m internal investment in the EIC (Section 4)
enterprise activities, maximising the   development of inter-, multi- and   • £9m NIHR funding as part of the Applied Research
resulting economic and social impact.   trans-disciplinary research.          Collaboration North West Coast, working with Liverpool,
                                                                              Lancaster Universities and 60+ partners, building on the
                                                                              work of the CLAHRC North West Coast (£23m).
A dynamic, supportive and               Build and promote successful        • ERDF research projects with NHS Trusts, Innovation
enterprising environment in which our   collaborations, internally and        Agencies, FE and Universities have led to 1,250
                                                                              engagements with SMEs to March 2020, 236 jobs created.
students, graduates and staff can       externally with business and
establish resilient businesses – an     community organisations, as well    • 369 businesses receiving ERDF support via the
area in which we will continue to be    as other HEIs.                        Engineering Innovation Centre, with 350 businesses
                                                                              attending events since 2019.
sector leaders.
                                                                            • Multi-award winning Propeller Hub supports UCLan staff,
                                                                              students to create new businesses. We reported 920 active
                                                                              staff/student businesses in 2019 (HEBCIS) with £37 million
                                                                              turnover per annum.
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

2.2 Open research
Supporting the Open Research/Open Data agenda across all disciplines by:
   •   Signatory of DORA and Responsible Research Metrics policy
   •   Policies supporting green Open Access since 2014 and Research Data Management since
       2015.
   •   JISC pilot of the Open Journal Systems (OJS) platform, enabling publication of 93 articles
       across six fully open access UCLan journals during the REF period.
   •   Active role in Open Research debate with representatives on UKCORR, UKRI Open Access
       Practitioners Group and UUK Open Access Monographs Subgroup.
   •   JISC ORCID consortium member since 2015. 99% of submitted staff have an ORCID.

2.3 Enabling and facilitating impact
Embedding and developing impact is led by our Impact Team, supported by Partnership
Development Managers and Public Engagement Team (Section 4).
   •   UCLan was an early adopter of the Vertigo Ventures Impact Tracker (VVIT) and are an active
       participant on the VVIT Steering Group shaping future developments of the product.
   •   Training and support is provided to researchers, including PGRs, from workshops to 1:1
       coaching. Includes external workshops from the NCCPE, GK Strategy, Fast Track
       Impact. Internal catalyst funding and faculty sabbaticals have enabled time for impact
       development. HEIF funding has been used to develop video impact case studies.
   •   £10k per annum PE Catalyst funding for 5-10 projects each year throughout REF2021.
   •   We have embedded PE training within PGR student induction and offer PE training to
       research staff, including externally delivered communication training for engagement
       activities, complementing the range of media training undertaken by the Press Office.
   •   UCLan hosted the 2019 STFC Interact Symposium, bringing together researchers and PE
       practitioners from across the UK to share best practice.

2.4 Engaging with regional, national and international priorities
Our priorities for local growth and regeneration are consistent with regional priorities. We work
closely with regional partners LEP to develop the evidence base, establish strategic objectives and
develop, deliver and evaluate regional economic development programmes aligned to national and
regional challenges, such as those in the UK Industrial Strategy. For example:
   •   As the largest University healthcare provider we work closely with local Primary Care Trusts,
       including Mersey Care, one of the largest UK PCTs.
   •   Our work on recycling in the automotive industry aligns to the Clean Growth agenda.
   •   A range of our research and impact is relevant to the Ageing Population challenge, from
       understanding molecular basis of neurodegeneration, stroke treatment and rehabilitation, to
       our FidgetWidget for dementia sufferers.
The University is a major provider of ESIF projects with SMEs and individuals and has accessed
significant Local Growth Deal funding to respond to local productivity and skills challenges.

2.5 Future strategy
Research and Enterprise is a key pillar in our Institutional Strategy 2021-2028, with five areas of
focus (Figure 3).



                                                                                            Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Figure 3. Future strategy - five areas of focus


        Culture

       •Create an environment which is supportive and expectant of researchers to
        achieve research and impact of international standing


        Accountability; Appraisals

       •Provide resources and support to enable our academics' aspirations to be
        realised


        Civic and Anchor Institution

       •Collaborate and contribute to cultural, social and economic vitality by
        leveraging our resources and networks


        Align with External Strategies

       •Enable leverage of external funding in line with local, regional, national and
        international strategies


        World Class Institution

       •Established academics producing outputs and outcomes of at least international
        level, with ambitions to be world leading in areas of strength



Our new strategy will be delivered through:
   •   Continued development of our University Institutes and Centres approach, including the
       Global Race Centre for Equality (GRACE) (2021); incorporation of the JHI under this
       strategic umbrella (2020); complementing Faculty-level development of the Arts and
       Humanities and Creative Practice Research Academies, fostering collaborative research
       culture among researchers in the Arts and Humanities and beyond.
   •   Building on our commitment to the Global Code of Conduct (Section 1.1) ensuring best
       practice in ethics and integrity across disciplines.
   •   Developing the UCLan Health Innovation Programme to respond to regional and national
       needs - our work during the pandemic with NHS and local partners has fostered new
       opportunity for collaborating to help the region be responsive to health and other
       emergencies.
   •   Supporting researcher development and management, building capability, capacity and
       sustainability of the research force.
   •   Development activities to embed impact at all levels, growing our researchers’ confidence
       in adopting innovative approaches to creating, capturing and communicating impact; and
       benchmarking our progress in this area by adopting international impact frameworks such
       as Times Higher Impact Rank.
   •   More strategic focus on Public Engagement through implementation of our PE Strategic
       Framework and governance to ensure activity aligns with University priorities and measures
       impact.

                                                                                           Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
  3. People

UCLan’s academic community comprises 1,356 Teaching and Research, and 120 Research Only
staff. The research body consists of 449 research-active staff – 23% Professors, 14%
Readers/Principal Lecturers, 32% Senior Lecturers, 21% Lecturers, 9% Research Fellows.

3.1 Staffing strategy and development
Our mission is to TRANSFORM LIVES of employees and the local community. We were among the
first UK universities to receive the HR Excellence in Research Award in 2010 and, as a signatory
to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, are committed to support
researchers “beyond the current contract”.
The UCLan People Plan sets out priority activities which underpin the UCLan Strategy. Key pillars:
    ✓ Reward and recognise staff
    ✓ Support managers to manage
    ✓ Attract the best talent
    ✓ Open career pathways
    ✓ Simplify systems
    ✓ Measure and monitor success.

The University does not employee staff on zero hours contracts with 93% of academics on
permanent contracts compared to a sector average of 87% (2019/20). Between 2016-2018, 246
employees (50:50 F:M gender split) moved onto permanent contracts.
UCLan uses its Home-Grown Talent Initiative (established 2014) to nurture, retain and support staff
throughout their careers by providing clear career pathways. All vacancies up to School
Leadership Team level are initially advertised internally with 14 staff (78% women) promoted to
management contracts since 2014.
Staff can follow, and move between, three career pathways:
   ✓ Teaching and Learning
   ✓ Research and Impact
   ✓ Innovation and Enterprise

Progression is supported from Associate Lecturer onwards, with individual development plans for
key progression points.
    ✓ Lecturers can apply for progression to SL on reaching grade maximum, with no quotas.
    ✓ In 2016 progression criteria were broadened to reflect the range of professional practice,
      increasing the number of women occupying SL roles by 10% (250 to 275). Since 2016, 55%
      of promotions to SL have been for women; 20% from fractional staff.
    ✓ Promotion to Professor/Reader from any pathway is considered by the Professorial and
      Readership Committee.
    ✓ All staff are expected to have an appraisal each year, with a mid-year review, including
      discussions on research careers development.
    ✓ Mentoring is available to all staff
A range of training and development programmes for UCLan researchers, including provision
tailored to career stage, is available via our Researcher Development Portal (2019), which
aggregates all central and Faculty researcher training mapped to the Vitae Researcher Development
Framework.
   ✓ Since October 2016 all staff involved in appraising or recruitment receive Unconscious Bias

                                                                                           Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
       Training. Those involved in REF2021 decision making received bespoke training from
       November 2018 onwards.
   ✓ The Researcher Development Unit (Section 2; Figure 4) coordinates research-specific
     training and resources, including Academic Research Induction programme and blog.
   ✓ UCLan’s Centre for Collaborative Learning supports researchers in developing their teaching
     skills to become Fellows of the Higher Education Academy.
   ✓ Since 2017 staff development resources have focused on leadership and management skills.
     This enabled 215 managers (481 places) (71% female, 29% male attendees) to engage in
     the development of coaching, emotional intelligence, influencing and engaging others,
     honest conversations, resilience and change management.
   ✓ Staff are encouraged to undertake professional development, with 62 staff currently
     undertaking PhDs and a further 70 pursuing Professional Doctorates. 50 staff are currently
     pursuing academic professional apprenticeships.

3.2 Working Environment
We survey staff to assess wellbeing and effectiveness of management/leadership. Staff networks
provide peer support for female, BAME, disabled and LGBTQ+ staff and complement the following
career stage specific forums:
    ✓ Early Career Research Forum (see 3.4)
    ✓ Mid-Term Research Network (2020) – 66 members
    ✓ College of Professors and Readers (formed 2016) – 141 members

Flexible working arrangements are in place, with phased return, adaptive working or reduced working
hours available to those returning from an extended absence.
We are a family-friendly employer, mindful of needs of parents and carers, including investment in
three breastfeeding/expressing rooms across campus; and pre-school centre rated Outstanding by
OFSTED and a central fund established in 2019 to support additional expenses staff incur, i.e.
extended childcare arrangements.
The number of staff returning to work following maternity leave in 2016/17 rose to 100% (from 88%)
and remains at this level.

3.3 Early Career Researchers
In REF2014 ECRs comprised 5% of our submission. Development activities focused on supporting
ECRs has raised this figure to 10% in REF2021. ECRs benefit from:
   ✓ Affiliate/associate membership of relevant UCLan Institutes/Centres, with progression to full
     membership supported by mentoring/collaboration with senior colleagues and seed-corn
     funding.
   ✓ ECR Forum (2018) - 147 members. Monthly meetings with opportunities for tailored
     professional/personal development; and a supportive and welcoming space for ECRs to
     share research, knowledge and practice; facilitated sessions on key research skills.
   ✓ 12 ECRs benefited in 2019 from a series of Sense about Science workshops on working with
     policy makers and the media.
   ✓ Access to start-up funds and reduced teaching loads at School-level to establish research.

3.4 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

We value our richly diverse community and take seriously our responsibility to provide a safe,
inclusive and welcoming environment.

We promote EDI in collaboration with a range of partners, including Preston City Council, Lancashire

                                                                                           Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
County Council, City of Sanctuary, Universities of Sanctuary, NHS, Preston Black History Group
(PBHG), Lancashire LGBT, Disability Northwest and Mermaid.

Through the Cara Network, we have opened our doors to those in danger with two Cara-funded PhD
students receiving UCLan Living Expenses Stipend Scholarship plus fees during REF2021 and a
permanent contract for a Syrian academic originally joining us through Cara as a visiting scientist.

Our accreditations:
    •     Athena SWAN Bronze Institutional Award, charter member since 2005 and actively working
          towards Silver
    •     Race Equality Charter
    •     Stonewall Diversity Champion
    •     AccessAble
    •     Level 1 Disability Confident employer
    •     Mindful Employer charter mark
    •     Defence Employer Recognition Scheme Silver Award

Attracting a diverse staff and student community is essential to our continuing success. Our EDI
policy and Equality and Diversity Strategy (2016-2020) show our commitment to delivering a
welcoming and inclusive culture which promotes inclusion, tackles inequalities and values diversity.
Diversity starts at the top - 50% female/14% BAME representation in senior management (38%/8%
sector average, 2019/20); 37% Professoriate are female (28% average), 13% BAME (10% average).
Three BAME researchers promoted to Reader/Professor during REF2021.
In 2020 a Director of Diversity and Inclusion was appointed to complement School EDI leads.
We are in the top 10% best performing Universities on gender pay gap. 21 women benefitted from
the Aurora Leadership Development Initiative since 2013, 47% of participants subsequently
promoted. There have been 99 Springboard participants since 2015.
“Race in Focus” studentships have resulted from £280K investment in research into racial
inequalities in HE.
A framework for supporting transgender staff developed in 2017 in consultation.
UCLan actively promotes cultural change and challenges gender stereotypes through its events,
teaching, and research projects.
    •      Annual Diversity Conference since 2011 - 934 attendees in 2019
    •      Black History Month and Pride celebrated annually.
    •      EDI is a research focus for many of our academics, keeping discussion around diversity
           alive (e.g. Institute for Black Atlantic Research, UCLan Research Centre for Migration,
           Diaspora and Exile, and others.)

3.5 Research Students
We support a diverse PGR cohort of 637 students. 542 students completed doctorates in REF2021
– 498 PhDs and 44 Professional Doctorates, with increases throughout REF2021 in line with
expansion of our research activity.
We have a track record in widening participation that extends to PGR. Two thirds of PGRs are part-
time (sector median 36%). Our flexible programmes also enable higher uptake by female students.
The Graduate Research School leads the PGR experience.
•       Support for research careers begins through the Undergraduate Research Internship
        Programme. Over 600 students have produced outputs with UCLan researchers since 2008.

                                                                                           Page 11
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
•    £7.8m investment during REF2021 to support PGR fees and stipends.
•    10 places in the University Alliance DTA3/COFUND Marie Skłodowska-Curie PhD Fellowship
     programme, which is supported by €6.5 million funding, UCLan hosting a 3-day event for ~70
     external PhD students and 30 supervisors on employability, writing skills and resilience.
•    PGR training is mapped to Vitae RDF and delivered via inclusive/accessible formats.
•    Supervisor training mapped to UKCGE Good Supervisory Practice Framework.
•    Regular PGR networking - events programmes, annual PGR conference, 3MT competition.
•    Small-scale research grants awarded biannually.
•    PGR Society coordinates networking and academic citizenship opportunities.
•    Paid teaching opportunities with training programme leading to Associate Fellowship of the HEA.


    4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

4.1 Masterplan

In 2015, we announced our £200 million Campus Masterplan that will spark a major focus on
regeneration and investment in the University quarter, reinforce our ties to the local community and
create wider benefits for Preston and beyond.

A key focus is the Engineering Innovation Centre (EIC) opened in 2018 (see below).

Our Masterplan has led to improved Social Spaces developed including purpose-built multi-faith
centre (Spring 2018) and new Student Centre with dedicated communal space for PGRs.

4.2 Engineering Innovation Centre (EIC)

Developed in partnership with the Lancashire LEP, the £35 million EIC is a key regional asset and
gateway for industry to access our expertise, facilities and services. It is now home to more than 40
researchers, now working in improved research facilities. The new facility supports our delivery of
world-leading aerospace, advanced engineering and manufacturing research and innovation in
collaboration with industry, supporting UK Industrial Strategy objectives. Industry collaboration is
built into the EIC’s delivery model, ensuring our research is industry-informed, applied and with a
clear route to impact.

Supported by £20.5 million in external funding (Growth Deal, ERDF and HEFCE STEM Capital), the
EIC is a platform on which to develop new and grow existing specialisms. It is a major success story
for UCLan and the wider Lancashire LEP area that clearly demonstrates capability to identify and
respond to an opportunity to build upon a local specialism, address market failures, and design and
deliver a large scale, high quality capital investment.

4.3 Income
UCLan researchers have attracted £50m in external research income, including £2m UKRI income-
in-kind, over the REF2021 cycle to deliver ~1000 projects.
Research Services provide support throughout the research project cycle, from concept to reporting.
We have seen an increase in bidding activity and success over the REF period with award value secured
more than doubled over the REF2021 period.
Researchers have access to:




                                                                                            Page 12
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    • Institutional subscriptions to Research Professional, GRANTfinder 4 Education, UKRO and
      The Training Gateway
    • Fortnightly funding magazines tailored to UCLan’s research themes. Blog to disseminate
      funding opportunities, events and internal competitions.
    • UCLanKNOWLEDGE, database of staff research interests, expertise and connections
      (launched 2015).
    • Vertigo Ventures Impact Tracker, since 2015
    • Expert support in coordination of bidding, peer-review, demand management and cross-
      Service coordination of Post Award activities.
    • Comprehensive training programme, including tailored workshops to support funding calls.

We have 13 projects part-funded from European Structural and Investment Funds worth £38
million with academic investigators supported by a team of 20 project officers.
We have a wide-ranging IP portfolio with support mapped to an Innovation Roadmap.
Researchers have secured 17 live patents during REF2021, 10 with signed agreements or with
advanced discussions, with a success rate of 65%, highest in North West [2018].



4.4 Infrastructure
UCLan’s research and impact endeavour is supported by a network of centrally coordinated Professional
Services that complements technical and administrative support provided at Faculty/School level (Figure
4). Governance of Research and Impact is provided by University- and Faculty-level Research &
Innovation Committees.




                                                                                              Page 13
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Figure 4. Professional Services working alongside researchers to deliver Research and Impact


                            •Supports researchers across the funding lifecycle for
        Grants and
                             contract research and consultancy, from initial scoping,
          Funding
                             internal approval, submission, to contract management.


                            •Leads on Research Integrity and Ethics, Animal Research
                             Governance, Human Tissue Governance and Clinical
         Research            Research Governance.
       Governance
                            •Coordinates and delivers training in Research Integrity
                             and Ethics

                            •Ongoing training of research staff and coordination of the
                             College of Professors and Readers, and MCR/ECR
                             Forums (see Section 2).
       Researcher            •Academic Researcher Induction Programme
      Development            •Researcher Development Portal (2019), aggregates all
                              central and Faculty researcher training mapped to Vitae
                              Researcher Development Framework.
                             •Researcher Development Blog

                            •Manages UCLan's publications and data repositories
       Scholarly            •Lead on advocacy, advice, resources and training for
  Communications             Open Access, Open Research and ORCID.
                            •Open Research Steering Group

                            •Implementation and monitoring of strategic initiatives
         Research           •Responsible Research Metrics
        Excellence          •Impact support across the research lifecycle
                            •REF management


       Intellectual         •Identifying, protecting and exploiting intellectual capital
     Property and            developed at UCLan through IP Roadmap.
  Commercialisation         •Training


                            • Engagment with Local Authorities, LEP and other
                             regional partners to support "Levelling Up" agenda
          Regional
       Engagement           •Aligning the University's objectives with priorities of
                             national/regional bodies to develop regional economic
                             development programmes.

                            •Propellor, supporting staff and student businesses
          Business          •Community of Practice, launched 2019 - Winner of
       Development           Internal KE Institution of the Year (Praxis-Auril/UKRI KE
                             Awards, 2020)

                            •Linking researchers with stakeholders and the public.
                            •Supporting projects, including sourcing funding and
     Engage UCLan            evaluation of impact
                            •Sharing opportunities for training and development
                            •Promotion of engagement events


                                                                                           Page 14
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Public Engagement
Our researchers are involved in a broad spectrum of PE – from dissemination and outreach activities
to engaged research.
PE is supported by Engage UCLan; alongside key community facing initiatives:
   •    Community Engagement and Service User Support (COMENSUS), who embed the service user
        and carer voice in our research and teaching;
   •    Centre for Volunteering and Community Leadership (CVCL) who promote community cohesion
        and championing active citizenship. CVCL research was shortlisted for THE International
        Collaboration of the Year in 2020 for “Letters from Lesvos”.
   •    Member of The Conversation since April 2016, with researchers supported in producing articles.
        175 articles published during the REF period by 120 UCLan authors.
   •    First national branch of the Young Scientist Centre outside London in partnership with the Royal
        Institution (opened 2015).
   •    Lancashire Science Festival entered its ninth year in 2020 (cancelled due to Covid), a three-
        day event with 12,000 attendees in 2017 to 2019, two days dedicated to primary school
        children and the Saturday open to families.
Library and Information Systems
Our Learning and Information Services (LIS) supports IT needs of researchers.

• Academics are provided with laptop/docking facility to enable flexible working. This enabled a
  smooth transition to home-working during the pandemic.
• 90+ specialist technicians provide support/guidance around our specialised facilities.
• Onsite High Performance Computing Facility (HPCAVF), with additional HPC services available
  through cloud-vendor partners.
• Successful bid in 2019 for SafePod, providing secure data connection to highly
  confidential/classified datasets. Launched January 2021.
• Comprehensive journal access and support from Research Librarian team.
• Many Special Collections of national and international importance.
    o    Our Temperance collection, featured in the BBC’s “A House Through Time”, is most popular
         with researchers and communities internationally.
    o    First UK University to be awarded special status by the Republic Embassy of Korea (2018)
         to showcase Korean artefacts of cultural and educational importance in our “Korea
         Corner”.

Open Research
• Two repositories: CLoK for outputs and UCLanData for datasets.
• Full programme of staff engagement and advocacy; supported through the Open Research
  Steering Group
• Central funding to support OA and access to transformative publisher deals.
    o    RCUK/UKRI grant - £107k over REF2021 for advocacy, system development and “gold”
         OA of 39 publications
    o    £20k per annum central OA Fund i
• Opening up Arts and Humanities portfolios with Open Book Fund of £20k to facilitate OA
  monographs and subscription to Open Book Publishers (2019/2020).



                                                                                               Page 15
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Ethics and integrity
• Our commitment to research integrity is set out in the Code of Conduct for Research, further
  strengthened by our Ethical Principles, reviewed annually by the Committee for Ethics and
  Integrity.
• Member of UK Research Integrity Office and signatory to the UK Concordat to Support Research
  Integrity.

• UCLan Code of Practice for the Investigation of Allegations of Research Malpractice is promoted
  to all staff with mandatory training for researchers and relevant Professional Services staff.
• Signatory to Global Code of Conduct (1.1, Table 1).
• Robust, cascading governance through the Committee for Ethics and Integrity, responsible for
  maintaining strategic oversight of ethical processes and systems for approval.




                                                                                        Page 16
