Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Canterbury Christ Church University

 1. Context and mission

 1.1. Institutional Context and Mission

 Canterbury Christ Church University (CCCU) was established in 1962 as a training college to
 address a lack of teachers for Church of England schools. From an initial intake of 70 students, it
 has grown over almost 60 years into a multi-faculty university with ~15,000 students, of which
 ~3,000 are postgraduates, including ~750 research students. Our vision is to be recognised as a
 leader in education, research and enterprise that supports the South East region’s growth and
 economy, building on our heritage as a globally connected, dynamic and innovative University,
 delivering an excellent and inclusive experience that provides enterprising, professional
 graduates.

 CCCU has provided 14,000 graduates to the Kent & Medway economy in the last five years, of
 whom 90% originally came from the region. Another 10,000 graduates joined the national and
 international workforce. We are a member of Million Plus, of which our Vice-Chancellor is Chair,
 and the Cathedrals Group, for which our Pro Vice-Chancellor (Research & Enterprise) is Chair of
 the Research & Enterprise Group. We are in Cluster J (mid-sized teaching-focused but research
 active universities) for the Knowledge Exchange Framework.

 Student fees comprise ~80% of income, but we have developed significant ambitions and
 implemented plans for income diversification across postgraduate provision, CPD, enterprise and
 business services, knowledge exchange and research. Funding for research and enterprise from
 all sources comprises ~12% of institutional income.

 During the REF2021 period, CCCU comprised four faculties: Arts & Humanities; Education; Health
 & Wellbeing; Social & Applied Sciences. Supporting our future ambitions, we will re-structure into
 three faculties from 2020/21: Arts, Humanities and Education; Medicine, Health and Social Care;
 Science, Engineering and Social Sciences.

 1.2. Research Focus and Scope

 Institutional growth initially came as subjects featuring in teacher education (e.g. English, History,
 Music, Art, Physical Education), developed in their own right, followed by expansion into public
 services (eg, health, policing), then sustained growth across social science, humanities and
 science, with degree-awarding powers and University College status granted in 1995.

 CCCU’s first PhD student (in Education) graduated in 1990, our bursary programme began in
 1994, and we adopted our DClinPsychol in 1996. An exploratory submission was made to
 RAE1992 (25.8FTE: 50%+ in Education). This grew to 61.4FTE for RAE1996 as other subjects
 developed.

 However, while research and enterprise has featured in CCCU’s portfolio for ~25 years, it was not
 until the dual stimulus of Research Degree Awarding Powers in 2009 and our first tranche of QR
 funding following the submission of 76.7FTE to RAE2008, that it was possible to invest to embed
 and grow research across the institution. Across just twelve years of meaningful investment and
 strategic development, REF2014 marked an 80% increase in submitted staff to 137FTE, and six
 years on, this submission to REF2021 totals 205FTE, a further 50% increase. We have therefore

                                                                                                Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 tripled the number of staff with significant responsibility for independent research (SRIR) across
 the last two REF periods, a growth which means that, while teaching-focused, we are now a
 meaningfully research-active institution able to devote an average of 20% of academic staff time
 to research and enterprise.

 Staff with SRIR comprise 34% of the staff body. We have submitted UoAs to Main Panels A, C &
 D (with future submissions to Panel B expected); 10 of 12 submitted UoAs are within the faculties
 of Arts & Humanities and Social & Applied Sciences (3.1). New UoAs in Psychology, Biological
 Sciences and Law have grown from groups previously submitted to other UoAs. Other areas have
 either stabilised (Music; Education; Theology; Media), or experienced growth of up to 25% (Allied
 Health Professions; Sport and Exercise Sciences Leisure and Tourism). Where there are
 reductions in numbers (eg, Politics and International Studies), this is because groups previously
 within these UoAs have reached critical mass and are now submitting to UoAs in their own right.

 2. Strategy

 2.1. Strategic Goals

 Research and Enterprise (R&E) is one of three academic pillars in CCCU’s Strategic Framework
 (2015-2022), with a key Strategic Objective to ensure our research, enterprise and scholarship of
 practice informs and influences the industries, sectors and communities we serve and in which
 our students wish to develop careers. Informed by this strategic context, our Strategic Plan for
 Research and Enterprise (SPRE) (2018-2023) has three foundations: a duty and desire to
 contribute to the challenges facing society; a distinctive student experience in which R&E that
 shapes disciplines and influences policy and practice is shared and co-created; and R&E as a
 core part of our identity that shapes engagement with our stakeholders and communities. The
 foundations are supported by seven core features – that our R&E will be connected, dynamic,
 collaborative, inspiring, creative, valued and sustainable for our staff, students and stakeholders
 – and the futures to which we aspire, including targets for capacity, quality, income, impact and
 community. These targets carry forward continuity from our previous strategy, and are expected
 to remain largely consistent beyond the life of the SPRE. Consequently, they have been extended
 back to 2014 to illustrate progress during the REF2021 period, and forward to 2026 to illustrate
 ambitions for the next REF period (table 1).

 To support delivery of the SPRE, from 2017/18 we established an annual Research & Enterprise
 Quality Improvement & Enhancement (REQIE) process to drive quality improvement and inform
 resource allocation. REQIE supports the development of Faculty Research & Enterprise Portfolio
 Plans (FREPPs) setting out substantive areas of strength and areas for development, and
 translating these into priorities for the coming year. FREPPs supplement the institutional SPRE,
 which did not fix substantive priority research areas, thus allowing these to develop and evolve
 dynamically in UoAs and faculties.




                                                                                             Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Table 1:                                     OUTCOMES                           TARGETS
 Outcomes & Targets for              Start of      Strategic Plan for R&E period      End of
 Research & Enterprise              REF 2021     SPRE        SPRE mid-     SPRE      next REF
 (2014-2026)                         period       start         point     end-point   period?
                                     (2014)      (2017)        (2020)      (2023)     (2026)
 CAPACITY
 All staff will undertake
 research, enterprise or          VARIABLE MAJORITY              ALL            ALL           ALL
 scholarship of practice activity
 Proportion of staff submitted          25%                       34%
                                                     n/a                        n/a          50%
 to REF will increase                (137 FTE)                 (205 FTE)
 PG research student
                                        565         613          745            800           850
 population will increase
 QUALITY
 REF: Will have aspects of
                                       10/10                   PENDING                       15/15
 activity rated ‘world-rating’ in                    n/a                        n/a
                                       UoAs                    (12 UoAs)                     UoAs
 all UoAs
 TEF: Will contain evidence of
 ‘gold’ activity in Scholarship,        n/a       SILVER          n/a         GOLD          GOLD
 Research & Prof. Practice
 KEF: Will evidence our                                   narrative
                                                                     Extensive             Extensive
 extensive influence in local &    n/a          n/a      evidence
                                                                     evidence              evidence
 regional economy                                         provided
 INCOME
 R&E income from all sources
                                   not       £11.1m        £16.9m
 (QR, RDP, HEIF, HEBCI                                                £20m                   £25m
                                comparable (15/16 data) (18/19 data)
 return, PGR) will increase
 HEBCI returned income will            £5.7m        £5.7m        £9.5m
                                                                               £12m          £15m
 increase                           (13/14 data) (15/16 data) (18/19 data)
 REF returned Income per
 FTE- submitted to REF will     £41,795      n/a      £49,035                   n/a        £60,000
 increase
 IMPACT
 Proportion of REF impact         52%
                                                    PENDING
 case studies rated 3*/4* will   (11/21      n/a                                n/a          75%
                                                    (26 cases)
 increase                        cases)
 COMMUNITY
 Multiple industry hubs will be
                                   not   1 industry 2 industry               5 industry    7 industry
 embedded with local industry
                                measured     hub       hubs                     hubs          hubs
 partners
 Our R&E community will be                       Institution   5 School      Institution   Institution
 inclusive of diversity, and           not         Athena       Athena        Athena        Athena
 Athena SWAN Silver will be          measured      SWAN         SWAN           SWAN          SWAN
 awarded                                           Bronze       Bronze         Silver         Gold

     RED = NOT ACHIEVED | AMBER = PENDING | GREEN = ACHIEVED / ON TARGET




                                                                                                    Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2.2. Impact Strategy

 CCCU’s dual aim to deliver deep local and regional impact and focused national and international
 influence is set out in the SPRE, operationalised in FREPPs, and monitored and supported via
 REQIE.

 •   Locally & Regionally, our target area for impact is geographically-defined. We take an
     integrated approach, seeking to be essential across the breadth of the local and regional
     community and economy, and influential in its social and economic growth.
     Our Enterprise and Engagement Team was specifically established to provide support and
     resources to enable staff to engage across the employment, enterprise, research and
     knowledge exchange agendas (4.2). Our success in this area was evidenced by the first
     Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF1), in which we were in the top 30% of English HEIs
     for both Working with the Public and Third Sector and Public and Community Engagement.

 •   Nationally & Internationally, our target communities for impact are defined by substantive
     sector and user groups. We seek to develop and deliver research with impact on policy,
     practitioners and end users in specific areas of research strength.
     In addition to support provided to deliver local and regional impact, UoAs are further supported
     through REQIE to develop bespoke impact strategies in FREPPs appropriate to their
     disciplines and their defined stakeholders and research users, which are then used to allocate
     resources and identify specific training, support and development needs. We involve and
     embed research users throughout the research lifecycle, from conceptualisation and design,
     to conclusion, outcome and impact. Our success at doing so is evidenced by our listing in the
     top 10% of English HEIs for Research Partnerships in KEF1.

 In some UoAs, specific Research Centres with varying local, national and international remits have
 a co-ordinating and convening function with stakeholders and users to leverage collaboration,
 influence and impact.

 2.3. Open Research

 Our Open Access Policy has been in place since 2014. We deliver our commitment to open
 research via ‘green’ open access (because we do not receive block grants for Article Processing
 Charges). However, we have signed Transformative Open Access Agreements via JISC with five
 publishers (BMJ, Cambridge University Press, SAGE, Taylor & Francis, Wiley) with further
 agreements pending. In 2019 we invested in a new institutional repository as part of
 ResearchSpace, our integrated research management system (4.2), which we also specified to
 support future expansion to host datasets as well as outputs.

 We see REF2021 open access requirements (with which we have achieved 99% compliance) as
 the minimum standard for open research, with our commitment, approach and ambition reaching
 significantly beyond this. We make as many other outputs as possible open access, within the
 constraints of the ‘green’ open access model and the physical nature of the outputs. As such, our
 institutional repository contains monographs, novels and practice-based research alongside peer-
 reviewed journal articles in scope for REF2021. We use Individual Research Plans and appraisals
 to support staff to make outputs openly available.

 Linked to our commitment to deep regional impact and focused national and international
 influence, the initial dissemination of much research, consultancy and knowledge exchange work
                                                                                              Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 is via reports to the local, regional, national and international agencies that funded them, with peer-
 reviewed outputs often following. Our presumption is to publish such reports in ResearchSpace,
 and we always negotiate to remove contract clauses that restrict access and/or provide sustained
 privileged funder access to findings. We highlight findings via the Expert Comment blog on our
 website and corporate and individual social media, with training provided to staff to do so. We
 encourage staff to use pre-print servers and dissemination and discussion platforms such as
 ResearchGate. This approach means early insights are placed in the public domain to benefit
 policy-makers, practitioners and end users, as well as the wider research community.

 2.4. Collaboration and Culture

 A culture of interdisciplinarity and collaboration is embedded in our infrastructure. Our academic
 Schools are founded on interdisciplinary grounds. Half of our UoAs draw staff from more than one
 Faculty and the majority reach across Schools. REQIE provides a fora to explore interdisciplinary
 opportunities, with FREPPs developing research themes across Schools. The presentation of
 FREPPs to the University Research and Enterprise Integrity Committee, which has strategic
 oversight of integrity, quality assurance, and quality improvement and enhancement relating to the
 conduct of research, supports identification of cross-university collaborative opportunities. Staff-
 led collaborations include: our professoriate, which has developed protocols for mentoring across
 schools, faculties and disciplines; an Interdisciplinary Staff Group, led by early- and mid-career
 researchers. Embedded thematic collaborations on arts and culture and health span UoAs and
 Main Panels; however, related collaborative income is not always visible in individual UoA’s
 REF4b.

 A values-led and integrity-driven culture is embedded in our Church foundation, our Strategic
 Framework, and our Strategic Plan for Research and Enterprise, which sets out a foundational
 values-led duty and desire to contribute (2.1). These values commit us to our research having a
 transformative impact at local, regional, national and international levels (evidenced in REF3), and
 to creating knowledge which makes a real difference to people’s lives. This is evidenced in our
 KEF1 metrics and narratives, in which we committed to formalising our partnership with the local
 and regional economy in a Civic University Agreement. Such public commitments, together with
 our practices of governance, hold us to account and ensure that we are living up to the
 expectations that we, our communities and our stakeholders, have of us.

 Externally, our Department of Enterprise, Employability & Research Development (EE:RD) (4.2)
 supports staff to build networks and develop collaborative research funding nationally and
 internationally through its Research & Innovation Funding Unit (RIFU), and collaboration and
 engagement with the local and regional economy through its Enterprise and Engagement Team.
 Our Graduate College links this engagement to our offer to postgraduate students, distinguishing
 our offer as one focused on the issues, skills and research questions relevant to the industries
 and sectors in which our postgraduate students wish to pursue careers.

 As a teaching-led but research-active University in the top 10 for getting graduates into
 employment, our research benefits from a collaborative circle between stakeholders, staff and
 both undergraduate and postgraduate students. We collaborate with graduate employers in the
 public, private and third sectors to embed applied questions and research projects relevant to the
 industries and sectors our research serves, and in which our students aspire to work, into our
 curriculum. This delivers research co-created with students and co-produced with stakeholders
 that, by design, delivers influence and impact.

                                                                                                 Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 3. People

 3.1. Staffing Strategy

 Virtually all academic staff at CCCU are employed on Teaching and Research contracts, with only
 a very small proportion (6%) on Research Only contracts, and no staff on Teaching Only contracts.
 Part-time staff (38%) include many practitioners (particularly in health and education) who retain
 a link with their professions and bring this into the University through their Scholarship of Practice
 (SoP) and to enhance the curriculum. All staff are allocated time for Research, Enterprise and/or
 SoP in their Academic Workload Profiles (AWLP). Staff with Significant Responsibility for
 Independent Research (SRIR) comprise 73% of our Faculty of Arts & Humanities, and 49% of our
 Faculty of Social & Applied Sciences. In our Faculties of Education and Health & Wellbeing, SoP
 dominates, consequently less than 10% of staff in these faculties have SRIR.

 We have recently formalised our support for staff applying for academic progression in a cohort-
 based preparation for promotion programme, FutureSpace. This provides support, mentoring,
 development, and capacity-building in the 12-18 months before staff apply for promotion. Study
 leaves are encouraged and enabled, but decisions on if, how and when they take place are locally-
 devolved with funding (see 4.2).

 The University has policies to support an optimal work-life balance, particularly for staff with
 parental, caring or other responsibilities. In addition to policies to support maternity, parental,
 shared parental, compassionate and dependents leave, our flexible-working policy, which allows
 staff to formally request changes to working patterns, hours, home-working or job share, has been
 in place since 2014.

 Our Mental Health and Wellbeing Framework has developed as a whole-University partnership
 (including staff, Student Union, Chaplaincy, HR&OD) that takes an integrated approach to
 enabling both staff and students to realise their potential in a positive environment, and take a pro-
 active approach towards enhancing their own health and wellbeing. It is supported by an ongoing
 programme of activities, including wellbeing weeks, staff and student support groups, sport and
 active health, and a cycle-to-work scheme. An externally-provided employee assistance
 programme provides telephone, face-to-face and online support or counselling for staff on legal,
 financial, health and wellbeing issues, alongside a digital wellbeing support service.

 3.2. Early Career Researchers & Concordat to Support Career Development of Researchers

 We are a signatory to the Concordat to Support Career Development of Researchers. However,
 to make this meaningful for our staff profile (3.1), we have committed to extend the Concordat
 principles to all staff on T&R contracts, continuing our long-standing commitment to developing
 ‘home-grown’ researchers, including former practitioners.

 Our AWLPs include support for ‘Developing Researchers’ in the pre-ECR stage of their career,
 often specifically recruited from practice or from industry, many of whom are supported to
 undertake a PhD. We also explicitly seek to recruit staff who are either new ECRs, or on the cusp
 of becoming so, and to enable progression from Developing Researcher or ECR on to established
 researcher.

 In supporting staff to develop research-active careers, we combine an individual and cohort-based
 approach. Both Developing Researchers and those with SRIR (including ECRs) design individual

                                                                                                Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 research plans, including training needs, which become part of their AWLP. Since 2016 we have
 delivered a cohort-based Supporting Progression in Academic Research Careers (SPARC)
 programme, comprising focussed workshops and mentoring, to annual cohorts of ~30 ECRs and
 developing researchers aspiring to their first independent grant application, peer-reviewed article
 or other major project. 71 staff have completed SPARC, and from 2021/22 we will deliver SPARC
 as an Academic Professional Apprenticeship (Research) – we are one of the only HEIs developing
 the research route of this standard. In addition, EE:RD and the Graduate College jointly deliver
 shorter cohort-based ‘bootcamps’ focused on specific bidding or writing outcomes. A new ‘future
 Principal Investigators’ package, identified as a training need in REQIE to target major income
 generators of the future, is under development.

 3.3. Research Students

 Postgraduate growth was identified as both an educational and research objective at the start of
 the REF2021 period (2.1). In 2018, to build growth capacity and enhance the postgraduate
 experience, we transformed our Graduate School into a new Graduate College, creating a physical
 and digital community of over 3,000 students, a quarter of whom are research students. The
 Graduate College occupies a physical space at the heart of campus and supports our student-led
 Postgraduate Research Association, including an annual student-led research conference and
 three-minute thesis (3MT) competition. The College also specifies our innovative bursary
 packages, including traditional full-time bursaries, ‘half-time’ ‘instructor’ bursaries that supplement
 0.5FTE instructor/demonstrator duties, ‘top-up’ bursaries to Doctoral Loans, and part-time fee-
 waivers (including for staff undertaking a PGR degree).

 Our PGR community is focused on the applied questions that matter to the industries, professions
 and communities we serve, and upon which our research students wish to impact or develop their
 careers. Our 700+ PGR community includes ~150 DClinPsychol, ~100 EdD, and ~100 Masters
 by Research students, many of whom number among our ~500 part-time students, and all of
 whom are researching questions relevant to the areas in which they are, or aspire to be, employed.
 Provision also includes PhD by portfolio, by publication, and a soon-to-be-validated DBA, each of
 which support our PGR community to undertake and gain credit for research undertaken in
 settings that most support their careers. Regardless of programme, each PGR student is
 supported by a Chair of Studies and one or two Supervisors, at least one of whom must have
 experience of supervision to completion, and all of whom must annually participate in the Graduate
 College’s Supervisor Training Programme.

 Supporting this diverse community, our entire PGR research training programme (organised
 around the four domains of the Vitae Researcher Development Framework), as well as ‘wrap-
 around’ provision including writing boot-camps, is available online, as is Research Degrees
 Manager (part of ResearchSpace; 4.2) which enables and quality assures PGR supervision and
 progression. This ensures equality of opportunity and engagement for our part-time and
 professional students. From 2021/22, we will offer PGR students the opportunity to undertake
 formal assessment of their researcher training to gain a postgraduate certificate, diploma or even
 Masters in research methods alongside their substantive PGR degree.

 3.4. Equality and Diversity

 CCCU is a Disability Confident Employer, a Stonewall Diversity Champion, and signatory to the
 Armed Forces Covenant and Race Equality Charter. We hold Institutional Athena SWAN Bronze,

                                                                                                 Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 five School-level Bronze Awards, and have set an ambition to achieve Institutional Silver by 2023
 (2.1). Our mean gender pay gap is +9.4% (Male:Female) and our mean ethnicity pay gap is +6.3%
 (BAME:White). Our Strategic Plan for Research and Enterprise commits that our research
 community will be inclusive and welcoming of diversity (2.1), and our institutional equality
 objectives, monitored annually, commit to increasing, supporting and celebrating the diversity of
 our workforce, and to deploying an inclusive lens to ensure staff, students and stakeholders can
 reflect on and improve the equality impact of their activities. We support various staff-led groups,
 including a women’s network and a BAME network, which feed into our Equality, Diversion and
 Inclusion Committee, reporting directly to the Governing Body.

 Our Code of Practice determined eligibility for submission to REF2021 according to SRIR in
 2019/20, allowing us to present a Stage 1 Equality Impact Assessment of our submission. The
 gender balance of staff submitted (54%male:46%female) has improved since REF2014
 (58%male:42%female). In the two faculties comprising 79% of our submission (Arts & Humanities;
 Social & Applied Sciences), the gender balance of staff (56%male:44%female) differed by only
 four percentage points from the population (52%male:48%female). In the professional faculties
 (Education; Health & Wellbeing), the difference between the included cohort
 (45%male:55%female) and the population (31%male:69%female) was more significant. Initial
 analysis suggests more female staff in these faculties are recruited as former practitioners, and
 more male staff are recruited with an existing academic background. Other insights are a greater
 rate of inclusion among BAME staff, those aged 31-50, and full-time staff, although the numbers
 of part-time staff submitted, and the average age of staff submitted, have both increased since
 REF2014. Although there is work still to do, this analysis shows the profile of staff submitted is
 closer to that of the staff population, and more inclusive of diversity, than for REF2014. Post-
 submission, the analysis will be completed to include analysis of outputs inclusion.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 4.1. Research Income

 Annual combined income for Research Grants & Contracts (RG&C) and KE & Consultancy was
 consistent at around £2.5million (+/-£200k) from 2012/13–2016/17. However, 2017/18 saw a step
 change increase to £3.7m, increasing further to £3.9m in 2018/19. Despite an inevitable COVID-
 19-driven fall in 2019/20 (due to loss of virtually all KE income from March 2020), outturn remained
 above the previous ‘baseline’ at £2.9m. Contracted income of £3.4m for 2020/21 as of December
 2020 already significantly exceeds the COVID-affected 2019/20 outturn, and further in-year
 income successes are likely to deliver recovery to income exceeding our 2018/19 peak.

 Within the total, RG&C have grown in absolute terms, and as a proportion, and also held up well
 in the COVID-affected year. RG&C grew from £1.1m in 2016/17 to £1.7m (+/-£50k) across
 2017/18–2019/20, and are already contracted at £2.4m for 2020/21. The sum of our REF4b
 submissions exceeds £10million, and represents 439 individual awards of which six are over
 £500k.

 Our Department of Enterprise, Employability & Research Development (EE:RD), created in 2017
 (4.2), includes a Research & Innovation Funding Unit (RIFU) and an Enterprise and Engagement
 (E&E) Team. Together with establishing REQIE to develop and scrutinise FREPPs (2.1), which
 includes working with RIFU to explicitly identify priorities for securing external income, this
 represented a shift away from a responsive approach to bidding, towards a pro-active strategic

                                                                                              Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 approach supported by a dedicated team who both support bids and inform strategy. E&E also
 supports income generation by promoting our research, evaluation and knowledge exchange
 services and priorities to stakeholders in the local and regional economy.

 Our 10-step process for bidding includes a comprehensive early consideration of strategic fit,
 detailed review and quality assurance, as well as budget scrutiny and institutional sign-off. Since
 2017, as well as income increases described above, our average bidding success rates exceed
 40%. For 2018/19 (the last full year unaffected by COVID-19) our bidding effectiveness (average
 income per successful bid) increased to £102,000, and bidding efficiency (average income per
 submitted bid) to £51,000. We have also increased collaborative bids and successes with other
 HEIs and stakeholders, which total more than £32million, and had breakthrough and repeat
 successes with funders such as Leverhulme Trust and European Union.

 4.2. Infrastructure & Specialist Faciltiies

 Supporting infrastructure for research comprises the strategic deployment of services, systems
 and funding streams, and significant investment in specialist campus facilities and local and
 regional industry hubs.

 In 2017, we doubled the size of our research and enterprise support service, creating a new
 Department of Enterprise, Employability and Research Development (EE:RD) linking employer
 engagement with wider enterprise, knowledge exchange and research impact, quality, income and
 integrity activity. In addition to RIFU and E&E (4.1), and a Careers & Enterprise Hub, EE:RD
 includes our Research & Enterprise Integrity & Development Office (REIDO), supporting our
 commitment to the two key areas of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity - integrity and
 rigour (quality) – through our Research & Enterprise Integrity Framework and REQIE (2.1). EE:RD
 also collaborates with the Graduate College (3.2) on researcher development.

 We have integrated QR, HEIF and institutional PhD bursary funding into a single Research &
 Enterprise Support Funding (RESF) stream, with priorities for spending devolved to faculties and
 UoAs to deliver FREPPs following development and scrutiny through REQIE (2.1). Initiatives such
 as study leaves or PGR bursary types are therefore deployed as appropriate to UoA priorities,
 rather than determined by a one-size-fits-all central policy.

 In 2018 we invested in ResearchSpace, a comprehensive research management system,
 integrating ethical approval with research degree supervision, training, quality assurance and
 management, our institutional repository for open research, and the identification, development,
 approval and delivery of external funding. ResearchSpace also provides management information
 to inform REQIE and other aspects of quality assurance and a self-service individual researcher
 dashboard. It feeds key parts of our website, such as staff profiles, PGR information, and research
 pages, ensuring information provided to stakeholders and students is up-to-date.

 Building on the £35million development of our award-winning, technology-rich and digitally
 enabled Augustine House Library during REF2014, and complementing the £5.4m investment in
 the Lucy Fildes Building in Tunbridge Wells in 2017, in 2014 we increased the size of our
 Canterbury campus by 50% by purchasing the adjacent former HM Prison. We will invest £150m
 over 15 years to develop a state-of-the-art modern campus on our UNESCO World Heritage Site
 in the heart of the city. Our £13m Daphne Oram Building for the Creative Arts opened in 2019,
 comprising cutting-edge production and performance spaces for staff, students and the local

                                                                                             Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 community. In March 2021 we opened our £65m Verena Holmes Building, housing specialist
 STEM and related facilities, including our Engineering Design, Growth & Enterprise (EDGE) Hub
 and the Kent and Medway Medical School (KMMS), plus laboratories, simulation suites, forensic
 simulation, sport and exercise sciences, hydra suites, and courtroom and mediation facilities. Our
 Canterbury campus is supported by our expanding local and regional industry hubs for life
 sciences, medical technologies, health innovation, clinical psychology and digital technology in
 Sandwich, Medway, Ebbsfleet, Tunbridge Wells, Folkestone and Maidstone.

 The regional economic importance of this expanding provision was recognised by £12m funding
 from the Local Growth Fund. Its social and educational importance, and specifically its explicit
 focus on EDI outcomes, seeking to encourage women and minorities into STEM careers,
 innovation and research, was recognised by £7m HEFCE funding and £7m in charitable and
 philanthropic donations.




                                                                                           Page 10
