Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
     Institution: Royal Agricultural University

     1. Context and Mission
     1.1    The Royal Agricultural University (RAU) is a small specialist institution that gained
            University status in 2013, but has a long history, originally founded as the Royal
            Agricultural College in 1845. The University is located in Cirencester
            (Gloucestershire), around a 55-ha campus developed from 1845 onwards. The focus
            from its foundation has been on improving agriculture in Britain and globally, through
            research and education. Today its purpose has widened to embrace more aspects
            of the land-based sector and is “to cultivate care for the land and all who depend on
            it”, in terms of food and farming, ecology, rural economy, estate management,
            equine, and cultural heritage. Our vision is to become the leading specialist
            university providing deep expertise on the land, agri-food and rural enterprise
            sectors.

     1.2    There are 58 members of academic staff, of which 19 (33%) have significant
            responsibilities for research (SRR). The RAU is led by the Vice-Chancellor
            (Professor Joanna Price), and a small executive team. The academic structure
            covers three Schools: Agriculture, Food and the Environment; Equine Management
            and Science; and Real Estate and Land Management. The University offers 11 BSc
            programmes, as well as foundation degrees and top-ups, 12 taught MScs, and PhD
            and Masters by research. As at January 2021, 882 undergraduates, 128 taught
            postgraduates and 18 research postgraduate students are studying at the RAU (FTE
            numbers). The University also delivers a number of industry-leading continuous
            professional development programmes.

     1.3    For REF2021, the University is submitting into the unit of assessment: Panel 6
            Agriculture, Food and Veterinary Sciences.

     1.4    The annual income of the University (FY2019-20) is £17.8m.


     2. Strategy

     2.1    The RAU, as a small specialist institution, has a research strategy that recognizes
            and allows us to operate in the space between pure and operational (applied)
            research, providing both societal impact and underpinning of our knowledge
            exchange activities. Through our extensive industry connections with the land-based
            and food supply sectors, we have been able to develop relevant and agile research
            projects and innovative methodologies. Access to farmland and related facilities
            (which we either own or lease) enables us to undertake long-term field-based
            research projects, often decadal in length, while our partnerships with larger
            universities and research institutes have enabled us to conduct world-class
            research, often interdisciplinary in nature.

     2.2    The RAU has established a significant presence in China with collaborative teaching
            agreements with Shandong Agricultural University, Qingdao Agricultural University
            (QAU) and Beijing University of Agriculture. Recently we established a new Joint
            Institute in Advanced Agri-technology with QAU and we are the only UK small
            specialist institution to have gained Chinese Ministry of Education approval for a
            Joint Institute. The first exchange of researchers was planned for early 2020 but
            remains delayed due to COVID-19 until 2022. Our professoriate and SRRs also

                                                                                             Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
            have established personal international research networks that have been
            developed in some cases over decades.

     2.3    In the last few years, the RAU has transformed its research culture, support systems
            and strategy, because a key strategic priority for the institution is to become a high
            achieving and internationally acknowledged research institution which seeks to
            address questions of practical relevance globally and nationally. This has been
            associated with renewal of the academic establishment and a rapidly improving track
            record of grant success, research projects and peer-reviewed publications. We have
            repositioned our research and Knowledge Exchange strategies to include the
            appointment of a dedicated Director of Research (DoR), who sits on the University
            executive, and a Director of Knowledge Exchange (KE) – both professorial-level
            appointments. A research office is led by the Head of Knowledge Exchange and
            Research Support, with additional financial, contractual and administrative support.
            We use standard-operating-procedures for grant applications, including peer review
            in advance of submission, and post-award procedures and monitoring.

     2.4    The DoR chairs the Research Committee with representation across the schools
            and has managerial oversight of the research process. Research integrity is
            managed by the Research Ethics Committee, which reviews all research work
            undertaken by the University. The Committee develops policies and codes of
            conduct and reports directly to the Research Committee on its recommendations.
            The University encourages and financially supports its staff in publishing in open
            access (gold route). All research outputs are placed on CREST– a repository of
            research outputs, operated by Guild HE.

     2.5    Central to the RAU’s mission over the last few years has been the development of
            the University as a centre of knowledge and scientific research excellence for the
            rural food and farming economy. The University has an established track-record for
            its KE activity and is one of a small number of specialist HEIs to receive HEIF
            funding, and we are participating in the development phase KE concordant. The
            Vice-Chancellor represents Guild HE on the KE Strategic Planning Committee. In
            recent years KE has been driven by an increased focus on research, the creation of
            knowledge exchange activities to provide input into emergent UK policy, in helping
            industry navigate change and uncertainty, and in pioneering farmer-led innovation. A
            number of professorial-level appointments have been made to support this strategic
            positioning of thought leadership. Through European and Local Enterprise
            Partnership funding, a LEP Growth Hub and Farm491, an agri-technology incubator
            and accelerator are located on campus. This co-location provides a unique link
            between our research activities, the industrial strategy (essentially now the “Build
            Back Better Plan”) and food, farming and environmental strategies locally, nationally
            and internationally. These easily accessible links bring our researchers into
            collaboration with industrial innovators and entrepreneurs.

     2.6    In 2019, the RAU adopted a new 5-year institutional research strategy, to enable it to
            focus on the future needs of society. Currently agriculture contributes 7% of the UK’s
            greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, 70% of this directly, through methane, nitrous
            oxide and carbon dioxide, and around 30% indirectly in manufacturing, land use
            change and distribution activities. The sector has set itself the challenge of moving
            towards net zero by 2040 and it will require smart, innovative and agile research to



                                                                                            Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
              achieve this. For this reason, the RAU has realigned its research around these three
              themes:

              •     feeding the world in a changing climate,
              •     sustaining and restoring the global environment, and
              •     enabling and revitalizing global rural Britain in a post-Brexit and post-Covid
                    world.

      2.7     These themes focus our research in the land-based food supply sectors and the
              wider rural economy, to address these critical issues and contribute to a more
              healthy and regenerative agriculture. The RAU is located in the Cotswolds AONB,
              and is adjacent to well-managed landed estates, so is in a good position to
              undertake research that can critically examine animal and soil health, crop and wild
              plant biodiversity, woodland and wildlife as well as the sustaining and enhancing of
              the historic environment and rural economy. Contributing to the UN’s Sustainable
              Development Goals and UK Government’s 25-year plan for the environment, our
              overseas connections, established over many years, provide opportunities to
              develop global research projects that address global warming, food insecurity and
              reversing biodiversity loss. Our critical expertise in food safety, animal welfare, the
              supply chain and entrepreneurship are internationally recognized, and inform policy
              change as UK farming and land managers face an uncertain post-Brexit and post-
              Covid future. This research strategy directly aligns with the UKRI Roadmap in finding
              ‘nature-based solutions…in building sustainable agricultural and food supply
              chains’.1

      2.8     The University has ambitions to further develop its research base during the next
              REF cycle, with expectations of submission into two further UOAs – Panel 17
              (archaeology) for cultural heritage, and Panel 19 (business and management
              studies) for rural economy and land management.

      3. People

      3.1     The RAU strives to achieve a diverse and balanced staffing structure in both its
              academic and professional services. The University has a clear policy of identifying
              its research-active staff and supporting them in their academic career. A Code of
              Practice (produced in 2019), sets out the institution’s policy for the transparent
              identification of existing staff with a significant responsibility for research,
              determining research independence, selection of research outputs, and taking into
              account individual circumstances affecting outputs. Where new appointments have
              been made, research has been included in their contracts, as appropriate.

      3.2     The first element of our strategy created an institutional professoriate to develop
              research leadership across the institution namely: Mark Horton (Archaeology and
              Cultural Heritage), Tom MacMillan (Rural Policy and Strategy), David Main (Animal
              Health and Welfare), Louise Manning (Agri-Food and Supply Chain Security), Meriel
              Moore-Coyer (Equine Science) and Neil Ravenscroft (Land Economy). Their role
              has been to enable the RAU to develop its research capacity, research impact and


1

https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/896799/UK_Res
earch_and_Development_Roadmap.pdf., p. 8.

                                                                                                     Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
            knowledge exchange across its activities, to influence national policy, to secure
            significant research income and to mentor early and mid-career staff.

     3.3    Through the 5-year ‘Invest to Grow’ strategy, approved by the University Governors
            in 2018, the institution has explicitly targeted the development of its research
            strength as a priority, through a rigorous review of staffing. The RAU has
            restructured academic roles, removing the grade of Principal Lecturer, introducing
            that of Associate Professor, and adopting a transparent promotion and progression
            processes. An important part of our recruitment success has been through the
            award of a HEFCE, now Office for Students (OfS), Catalyst grant “Building a
            sustainable future for land management and food production post-Brexit” that
            resulted in the appointment of four research-focused posts in agriculture and related
            subjects, one being a joint appointment with the CCRI at the University of
            Gloucestershire. As a result of these initiatives, the proportion of research-active
            academics has doubled from 17% to 33% over the REF cycle.

     3.4    The progression process (from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer) and promotion process
            (from Senior Lecturer to Associate Professor) are based on the principles of equity,
            fairness and the recognition of an individual’s contribution as a member of academic
                                                              staff. Research can be a
                                                              contributing component in support
                                                              of appointments and progression to
                                                              Lecturer and Senior Lecturer. For
                                                              the grade of Associate Professor
                                                              and above, candidates need to be
                                                              excellent in at least two of three
                                                              categories, namely Research and
                                                              Knowledge Exchange, Teaching,
                                                              and Leadership. The promotion and
                                                              progression processes recognize
                                                              the importance of the protected
                                                              characteristics; for example, the
                                                              University takes account of periods
                                                              of maternity leave and the number
                                                              of hours that part-time staff are
                                                              contracted to work. Such staff are
                                                              expected to produce work of the
                                                              same quality as their full-time
                                                              colleagues but may be less in
                                                              quantity. The University’s Action
                                                              Plan for the 2020 Gender Pay Gap
                                                              Report highlights our commitment
                                                              to supporting and encouraging
                                                              female staff to apply for
                                                              progression, promotion and
                                                              professional development.

     Table: Academic and All Staff profiles (November 2020).




                                                                                            Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
     3.5    While academics identified as SRRs have a work-load allocation of at least 30% of
            their time for research, all academic staff are expected to undertake some form of
            scholarship or research. This time includes at least 10% devoted to scholarship
            (including paper writing, grant applications and outreach activity). Staff are
            supported in their research through regular meetings within their research clusters
            (set out in REF5b) and in monthly University-wide informal gatherings, mentoring by
            more senior staff, and formally in annual staff reviews, managed by the DoR and
            Head of School. Staff who are non-SRR, are encouraged to participate in the
            research culture of the University, support research informed learning activities,
            attend seminars, bid for grants, take part in knowledge exchange activities, and
            publish articles.

     3.6    The RAU seeks to create an inclusive community, which promotes diversity and
            equality of opportunity for all. The University’s Inclusivity, Equality and Diversity
            Policy expounds the value and dignity of each individual and states a commitment to
            treat everyone with fairness and respect, acknowledging the adverse effect any form
            of discrimination will have on individuals. Our recruitment process for academic staff
            aims to encourage as much diversity as possible, and to help reverse the current
            lack of diversity within agriculture.

     3.7    An Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee, chaired by the DoR, monitors and
            promotes research equality and diversity. The Committee supports statutory equality
            obligations, OfS requirements and actively works to support the University
            commitment to be a fully inclusive institution, welcoming people from a diverse range
            of backgrounds and promoting equality of opportunity for students, staff and other
            stakeholders. This equality of opportunity is achieved through the development of
            strategies, procedures and practices to foster inclusion, raise awareness and
            celebrate difference in the RAU community and in the wider land-based higher
            education and business sectors. The Code of Practice explicitly includes policies in
            this area. In 2021, the University set up an independent Diversity Commission
            (chaired by Mr. Levi Roots) to examine the institution’s long-term record in race and
            diversity, and to make recommendations as to how this might be further improved.

     3.8    As a small institution, we are well placed to encourage interdisciplinarity, with our
            academics working out of a single building and therefore in regular contact. This has
            been done through the establishment of a Research Academy that includes both
            SRR, research students and non-SRR staff who want to develop their research
            careers. The Academy organizes regular meetings to discuss opportunities and
            ideas, as well as weekly seminars, with internal and external contributors, which
            since COVID-19, have been held via Zoom. We have been especially active in
            developing research networks beyond the University, enabling us to apply for a wide
            range of grants and to harness expertise both nationally and globally. Recent grant
            applications have included partners from Imperial, Leeds, Reading, Cardiff,
            Leicester, Swansea, Northumbria, Queens University Belfast, Warwick, and
            Liverpool.

     3.9    The University’s Staff Development Policy outlines a strategic approach to support
            the attraction and retention of high-calibre staff with the skills and competencies
            necessary to deliver its objectives in fulfilment of corporate plans. The RAU
            recognizes that as an educational provider it has a unique responsibility to support
            the development of its staff and is committed to continuing professional development


                                                                                            Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
            of the skills and knowledge of all staff, irrespective of their working hours or contract
            type. All staff are expected to have a personal development plan (PDP) which they
            review annually with their manager and DoR during the appraisal process.

     3.10   Currently our research degrees (doctorates and masters-by-research) are franchised
            by the University of Gloucestershire (UoG). Our post-graduate research students are
            supported both at the RAU and in the ability to take courses at the UoG. All research
            students are allocated at least two supervisors and have a minimum of once-monthly
            meetings. Research students develop research methodology skills at the UoG and
            can take additional modules in data analytics run by University of Bristol. Students
            are encouraged and supported financially, through a designated fund, to present
            papers at academic conferences. Our PGR community is very diverse, with 41% of
            students being from sub-Saharan Africa where food insecurity and adaption to
            climate change form key elements of their studies supporting the RAU’s research
            strategy. The University manages an endowment fund to support up to five research
            scholarships, (including fees and grants).

     3.11   The University has aspirations to be granted research degree awarding powers
            (RDAP) in the near future and will be applying as soon as possible after REF, as we
            consider that we have reached the required bench-marks.


     4. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities

     4.1    The main Cirencester campus comprises both listed historic buildings from the 19th
            century, and buildings that have been added during the twentieth century. These
            include our 650m2 laboratories space, with facilities for chemistry, microbiology,
            dissection and a clean room. In 2020, Governing Council approved the development
            of a new research campus, to include a dedicated 200m2 research laboratory space
            for post-graduate and staff research, a Big Data Centre and post-graduate study
            facilities. The start has been delayed due to COVID-19 and will hopefully begin in
            summer of 2021. During the academic year 2020-2021, the University has
            committed to a re-equipment spend of £50k.

     4.2    In 2018 the University completed the £4.2m Alliston Centre, a state-of-the-art
            location for innovative and near-market research through an incubation and
            acceleration centre for agri-technology and a Growth Hub business support facility.
            Funded by GFirst LEP and the RAU, this highly successful centre provides 1,342m2
            of space to enable academics, innovators, SMEs, student entrepreneurs and
            funders to come together. Between the Alliston Centre and the main campus, a
            Living-Land Laboratory has been created as an open collaborative space used by
            staff, students and Farm 491 members. It is used to carry out field-trials, soil health
            experiments, UAV multi-spectral imaging and pXRF soil sampling, and campus
            rewilding activities.

     4.3    To the west of the main 55-ha. campus, the University leases Coates Manor Farm
            (194 ha.) and the Fossehill Equestrian Centre. Both locations provide research
            facilities. At a further location, Harnhill Farm, the University operates the John
            Oldacre Rural Innovation Centre, with a “dirty” laboratory facility for primary field
            work and Farm491 workshops to support innovation to commercialization activity. In
            2020, the RAU’s Swindon Centre was established, located in the Railway Village in
            Swindon (Wilts). This £1.8m investment by Swindon Borough Council is a facility for

                                                                                               Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
            research and teaching in cultural heritage, located adjacent to the headquarters of
            multiple national heritage bodies as well as UKRI. This co-location provides
            opportunities to enable our land-based research to influence national landscape
            policy.




                                                                                           Page 7
