Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Robert Gordon University (RGU)

 1. Context and mission
 Robert Gordon University (RGU) is a post 1992 institution with a mission to transform people and
 communities by providing demand-led teaching and research that contributes to economic, social
 and cultural development regionally, nationally and internationally. Based at our £135m Garthdee
 Campus, the University has eleven academic Schools: Pharmacy & Life Sciences; Health
 Sciences; Nursing, Midwifery & Paramedic Practice; Applied Social Studies; Computing;
 Engineering; Law; Creative & Cultural Business; Scott Sutherland School of Architecture & Built
 Environment; Gray’s School of Art and Aberdeen Business School. Our student body numbers
 11,000 undergraduate and 5,000 postgraduate students of which 305 PGRs are supported by our
 Graduate School. Our success in delivery of our teaching is evidenced in the generation of highly-
 skilled professionals and reflected in our sustained excellent NSS and employability scores, the
 Times Higher and Sunday Times award of Business School of the Year and Scottish University of
 the Year 2021-22, and our Gold rating in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF).

 In line with our University strategy (revised 2018) we are playing increasingly important research
 roles at regional (our contribution to the Aberdeen City and Region Deal), national (creation of the
 National Subsea Centre) and international levels (joint partnerships and funding successes). In
 this REF period we have maintained long-standing partnerships with NHS Grampian, have created
 RGU Orkney and increased our industrial and international research collaborations with Scotland’s
 Medical Device Manufacturing Centre, Scotland’s Research Pools and Innovation Centres. This
 is further evidenced through competitively won research funding (UKRI, H2020, INTERREG
 Programmes, CSO, NIHR), industrial contracts, Innovation Vouchers, Knowledge Transfer
 Partnerships, and developing international partnerships in Mexico, Brazil, Sri Lanka and China.
 These activities are complemented by RGU’s significant contributions to the national skills agenda
 with Graduate Apprenticeships and upskilling courses. During this REF period, RGU has remained
 independent of any mission groupings but will align with the MillionPlus grouping during the next
 assessment period.

 This REF period has been one of significant transition for RGU and the region. In response to the
 REF2014 results, the University underwent a significant change in approach to research. In 2016,
 Faculties, their Graduate Schools and Research Institutes were disbanded, to encourage
 increased internal interdisciplinary engagement. Our Outcome Agreement (2018-21) indicates
 that we are in the process of growing our research activity, income, impact and demand-driven
 knowledge exchange. In 2018 the Board of Governors approved an investment of £27m focusing
 on our strategic research areas while other areas continue to be supported.

 2. Strategy
 RGU’s revised institutional structure has embedded ownership of the research strategy and
 responsibility for its delivery within the core activities of Schools, each supported by a Research
 Lead. The strategy, established in 2018, aims to grow the University’s globally recognised
 impactful research, ensuring its vitality and sustainability by:

 • Building critical mass around established research leadership (Sustainable Transport, Built
   Environment Visualisation, Industrial Biotechnology, Smart Data and Artificial Intelligence)
 • Developing strategic collaborations through academic, private and public research
   partnerships
 • Fostering excellence in interdisciplinary research and knowledge exchange
 • Supporting early career researchers

 This strategy was paralleled with a revised approach to knowledge exchange focusing on
 harnessing the teaching and research base to stimulate economic development, deliver impact,
 and support organisations to be more successful. The Vice Principal (Research) provides
 leadership for the University’s research strategy and is supported by a Research Strategy & Policy
 (RS&P) team, a single Graduate School and the University’s Research Committee which has
 members from every School.

                                                                                              Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Building Critical Mass and Developing Strategic Collaborations
 The establishment in 2018 of RGU Orkney (a research hub in Stromness, Orkney) is a strong
 example of our approach to developing strategic collaborations. Discussions in 2016 with Orkney
 Islands Council and Highlands & Islands Enterprise indicated that a range of stakeholders in
 Orkney would be interested in working with RGU to address local challenges. Our goal has been
 to contribute to the economic, health, social and cultural development of Orkney, with and for the
 people of Orkney. RGU Orkney is supported by a dedicated Development Manager based at the
 Orkney Research and Innovation Campus (ORIC) whose role is to promote RGU locally, liaise
 with stakeholders and match RGU academic expertise with local challenges to identify innovative
 solutions. This role was initially jointly funded by RGU and Orkney Islands Council.

 Health and social science research has developed since REF2014 with 20 of the 29 researchers
 being submitted to REF for the first time. Targeted emphasis on inter-disciplinarity, and applied
 research capabilities, has focused around three thematic areas: communities; long-term
 conditions - prevention and management; and new pharmaceuticals/nutraceuticals & novel target
 discovery. Key to this has been collaborations including two jointly funded clinical Professorial
 appointments with NHS Grampian and evidenced by large-scale collaborative EU grants.
 Moreover, health and social sciences researchers have responded to the COVID-19 pandemic
 through the creation of multidisciplinary research groups providing a platform for future research
 collaborations.

 RGU was one of only four European institutions chosen by the Mexican Government to work in
 collaboration with Mexican universities to address the future needs of the country’s energy sector.
 The University signed a Memorandum of Understanding with SENER (Mexico’s Secretary of
 Energy) in 2017 and has since worked with the UK and Mexican governments to recommend the
 skills and capabilities required to develop an international hydrocarbon sector.

 This REF period has been one of transition for Oil and Gas, the predominant industry of the
 Aberdeen region and historically a major focus for research and teaching at RGU. Industry
 downturns compounded by the COVID-19 pandemic, have hampered industry investment in
 research during this REF period. In collaboration with Opportunity North East, the University of
 Strathclyde, and partners including the Oil and Gas Technology Centre (OGTC), RGU has
 developed the National Subsea Centre (NSC) to tackle the Energy Transition and Net Zero
 agenda, through the acceleration of subsea technology development and deployment. It will be
 supported with institutional investment in research leadership (two Professors appointed in 2020),
 postdoctoral and postgraduate researchers and dedicated high performance computing
 functionality, building on RGU expertise and capability, to become a global centre for subsea R&D.
 The centre will leverage existing skills and develop new ones in areas such as subsea technology,
 sensing, data science & analytics, automation, robotics, human factors and visualisation. Although
 the NSC will be part of RGU, it will also be part of a wider network of subsea capabilities across
 the UK through a hub and spoke model.

 Fostering Excellence in Interdisciplinary Research and Knowledge Exchange
 Our approach to supporting interdisciplinary research has been transformed in the last five years
 and is showing significant success. In 2018/19 RGU Orkney ran a series of interdisciplinary
 sandpits about Active Ageing, Smart Tourism and the Circular Economy; co-created with Orkney
 Islands Council and Highlands & Islands Enterprise to reflect local priorities and maximise
 potential societal and economic impact. As a direct result we have seen an increase in
 engagement with Orkney from RGU staff which has helped to embed RGU in the local HEI and
 community framework. Successful funding applications submitted with local partners following
 these events include: Storytagging (Interreg NPA), Augmented Fashion, (AHRC), and My Orkney
 Story (Royal Society of Edinburgh).

 We have renewed our efforts in securing KTPs in Computing and Engineering and are extending
 across the spectrum of KTP-eligible disciplines. We hold 13 KTPs ranking 4th in Scotland (total =
 86). Institutional support to SMEs, and engagement with Interface have resulted in a four-fold

                                                                                             Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 growth in securing Innovation Vouchers in the last two years. RGU now leads Scotland in
 innovation support for SMEs through Innovation voucher provision. The University has grown its
 collaboration with Innovation Centres, working most closely with the Oil and Gas Innovation Centre
 (OGIC), Datalab, and Construction Scotland Innovation Centre (CSIC): aligning portfolios and
 regional priorities. In 2017/18, the University submitted 21 Innovation Centre proposals worth over
 £1.5million. Ten of these projects, worth £0.8million were awarded.

 RGU is a member of the Scottish Official Development Assistance (ODA) Network, with the RS&P
 team allocating the GCRF grant from SFC (2020/21 grant - £74,339). Our projects have developed
 collaborations with academic colleagues in countries including the Republic of North Macedonia,
 India, Mexico and Sri Lanka. The University published research-focused safeguarding and due
 diligence policies in 2020 evidencing our support for overseas research.

 An Entrepreneurship and Innovation Group was established in September 2018 to encourage
 entrepreneurial activity. Their Accelerator programme supports teams of students, staff and recent
 alumni through an intensive mentor-led accelerator process, to develop their value proposition,
 leading to the establishment of new businesses to diversify the regional economy. In 2018/19, 165
 teams applied and 28 were selected covering a range of industries, including creative industries,
 food and drink, healthcare, digital, education, and technology.

 Open Research
 RGU Research Week takes place annually and allows staff to share their research and raise
 awareness of professional support available (e.g. open access, impact, integrity). The Research
 publication, created annually by RS&P since 2018, showcases RGU research and its impact with
 external stakeholders including SFC, local authorities and enterprise agencies.

 RGU received an open access block grant from UKRI (£11,637) in 2020/21. This was the first year
 that RGU had been eligible for this funding and demonstrates growing success with UKRI through
 increased ambition of our researchers. This funding allowed us to provide targeted support for
 open access publications for the first time in this REF period.

 In 2020, the University published a Research Data Management policy which implements the
 principles in the Concordat on Open Research Data and the UKRI Common Principles on Data
 policy. RGU advocates an open access approach to research data, supported by our Institutional
 Repository (OpenAir) which was established in 2006 and currently holds 4483 outputs and 22
 datasets representing research from every School. The Research Support Librarian provides
 research related support including for publications, open access queries, our subscriptions to
 SciVal and RDF Planner and the repository.

 All research students complete a PGCert (Researcher Development) which is linked to the Vitae
 RDF Planner and provides an excellent foundation in generic and specialist skills. Since March
 2020, it has been delivered online and feedback in November 2020 provided a rating of 95%
 Excellent. Since 2018, PGRs have participated in the national ‘3 Minute Thesis’ competition.
 Research supervisors undergo mandatory supervisory training, with refresher training every three
 years. Performance of the complete supervisory team is assessed via the University’s Research
 Degrees Committee.

 The University signed the Concordat to support Research Integrity in 2016 and the revised
 Concordat in 2020. The University has implemented the Impact module on Worktribe and will be
 expanding our provision for impact in the post REF2021 period – supporting an active approach
 to driving impact from our research.

 3. People
 Overall Staffing Context
 RGU operates with contractual terms derived from the HE 2000 Contract such that all staff are on
 a Teaching and Research contract, but some have a minor, or even no responsibility for
 undertaking research. The distribution of effort is determined by Schools through an annual review

                                                                                             Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 that allows individuals flexibility to move between research and teaching, enriching the academic
 environment, encouraging knowledge exchange, entrepreneurial activities and professional
 practice.

 During the REF2021 assessment period, the University has undergone a series of staffing
 changes (including voluntary severance of 5% of academic staff), some a result of significant
 budgetary pressures thus our submission to REF2021 is smaller. RGU has an exception from
 submission to UoA 18 due to the small number of staff that have remained research active during
 the assessment period.

 The University has experienced several key changes to senior management over the course of
 this REF period. In August 2018 the Principal stepped down and his replacement remained until
 his retirement in August 2020. The Vice Principal (Research) left RGU in January 2015. His
 replacement joined in December 2016 whereupon the department that supported research activity
 was re-organised as Research Strategy & Policy (RS&P), providing a more robust internal review
 of draft grant applications, funding call alerts and workshops and support for impact narratives.

 Graduate School and PGR Community
 The Graduate School leads on the training and support activities for postgraduate students
 supported by the annual Research Postgraduate grant (£352k in 2020/21) from SFC. Our PGR
 population has grown from 230 to 305 in this REF period. The University supports a range of
 professional doctorates including DBA, Doctor of Information Science (DInfSc), Doctor of
 Physiotherapy (DPT, the first of its kind in the UK) allowing students to combine professional
 practice with a research degree. PGR students have access to generic skills training and state of
 the art discipline-specific training opportunities. The impact of this can be seen in our recent
 internal PRES (November 2020) overall student satisfaction rating of 89% (this compares to 71%
 overall satisfaction in our 2015 PRES). Despite the very positive PRES, the time taken for PGR
 students to complete PhDs has often exceeded the maximum registration period of four years full-
 time or six years part time. In 2019/20, completions within registration period have improved from
 <40% overall to just about 70% - a very positive sign of progress.

 Early Career Researcher and Staff Development Support
 Staff who identify as being early career can join our early career researcher (ECR) network. Our
 Research Training Coordinator (appointed in 2019) delivers an informal support network (during
 the COVID-19 pandemic via Zoom) and a series of training events. The vibrant Researcher
 Development Programme (launched September 2020), has offered over fifty masterclasses,
 workshops and informal sessions designed to broaden knowledge and skills, foster
 interdisciplinary dialogue and strengthen research culture. Some examples include: Quick
 Colloquiums where PGR students present their research to peers for feedback; How to Write
 Research Funding Applications; as well as weekly Coffee & Blether, and Shut Up & Write
 sessions. Currently there are approximately 100 staff and PGR students in the ECR network from
 all our academic Schools although sessions are open to all RGU staff. The Research Training
 Coordinator role will enable us to demonstrate our activities in line with the Concordat to Support
 the Career Development of Researchers.

 A notable development in supporting research excellence and staff development is the
 introduction of research sabbaticals. This programme started in January 2017 to allow staff a
 period of six months sabbatical leave, fostering the creation of networks and cross-disciplinary
 collaborations (both internal and with other HEIs), and the subsequent development of high-quality
 outputs and increase in external funding. To date, this programme has supported seven
 academics across a range of academic disciplines (three male, four female). Their activities during
 this time have included publication of books, contributions to major research initiatives and
 generation of research income totalling nearly £2.8 million.

 A number of successful internal networks exist that bring together colleagues from across Schools:
 for example, the qualitative researchers network which has 110 members whose purpose is to


                                                                                             Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 inspire colleagues about methodological practices as well as contribute to a vibrant research
 community.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 The University submitted an AthenaSWAN bronze application in November 2017, which was
 unsuccessful. We have since established an Equality & Diversity Committee and will recruit our
 first Equality & Diversity Advisor in August 2021. The action plan from the November 2017
 application will be reviewed but a substantial revision of policies has already been undertaken to
 ensure compliance with current legislation, with most extending our provision beyond legal
 minimum requirements. These include family friendly policies relating to maternity, paternity and
 adoption. RGU staff are key enablers of our institutional strategy, highlighting the importance of a
 culture of staff engagement, empowerment and community; treating individuals equitably, fairly
 and with respect; providing opportunities for development and progression; and promoting
 employee wellbeing.

 The University continues to support its female staff through the Aurora Advance HE Women in
 Leadership programme which was introduced to address the reducing numbers of women in
 senior posts in HE. In this REF period, 47 academic staff have participated in this Programme
 which includes themed workshops, action learning set sessions, and support from an institutional
 mentor. RGU benefits from an active Leadership & Development Team who offer programmes
 to support career development for both research and professional support staff, delivered through
 a combination of workshops, tutorials, directed study, self-reflection and formal ILM-accredited
 assessments. These include: Discoverer (First Line Managers), Voyager (Middle Managers) and
 Pioneer (Future Leaders) and modules cover a range of topics, such as Change Management,
 Leading Teams, and Institutional Strategy.

 As of June 2020, RGU comprises 1586 staff of which 642 are academic staff, from Grade 6 to the
 Professoriate. 354 of the academic staff are female and 288 male. We are a diverse institution,
 82% of these identify as white (n=529), 18% as BAME, well in excess of local or Scottish
 proportions of these groupings. 38% are over the age of 50 (n=242). The number of Professorial
 appointments has contributed to the overarching E&D strategy in research, where 12 female staff
 have been appointed Professors, compared to five male staff in this REF period. RGU’s
 commitment to gender balance is further evidenced in the representation of key strategic groups
 such as the University’s Executive Board and Research Committee, both with a 50/50 ratio of
 female and male staff. Our gender pay gap continues to close, now below 10% having been over
 13% two years ago and we are in the process of enhancing our flexible working offer which will be
 of benefit to all eligible staff, in particular working parents.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Income
 RGU’s research income strategy is driven by the University’s commitment to addressing research
 challenges across disciplines, through collaboration with internal and external stakeholders.
 Strategy development is steered and approved by the Executive Committee with Vice Principal
 for Research (VPR) managing the work, engaging with the University’s Research Committee and
 Heads of Schools to generate and refine ideas. The Research Excellence Grant (£1.2m in
 2020/21) is allocated to Schools to strategically support research.

 In 2017, the Board of Governors approved the phased release of £27m for investment in research
 over a ten-year period. This will support key strategic research areas by harnessing expertise and
 recruiting research leaders with complementary skills to build larger and more capable
 interdisciplinary teams to deliver novel solutions to the challenges facing society. The funding is
 also aimed at leveraging additional grant support, with, for example, funding being released for
 ECR posts if external funding is secured. Such investment is expected to yield significant tangible
 and non-tangible benefits, including positive impact on the research culture, and an increase in
 volume of externally funded research. To date, funding has been invested to support two NSC
 professorial staff, further investment has been on hold since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic
 and the change in senior management at RGU.

                                                                                              Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 The portfolio of research undertaken at RGU is largely funded by Innovation Centre and UKRI
 (EPSRC, AHRC, BBSRC, ESRC) grants, as well as a variety of charities. The largest grants in
 this REF period have been funded by OGIC, H2020 and BBSRC. There has been an increase in
 larger grants, as evidenced during this period - average award value has increased from £31k
 (2015/16) to £39k (2018/19).

 A pump priming scheme was created to support interdisciplinary projects designed to secure
 preliminary data to support major research grant applications as well as projects with relevance to
 industry. This scheme has supported 20 projects with a total of £157k granted to projects
 supporting RGU Orkney, long-term health conditions and smart cities with partners including
 Historic Environment Scotland, NFU Scotland, NHS boards and various industrial partners. These
 projects have led to further larger applications for external funding.

 Digital Infrastructure
 Since REF2014 the University has provided significant financial investment (approximately £500k)
 to support research. This has included investment in a new Research Information System
 (Worktribe) to manage our research assets and meet external requirements for good data
 management and open access practices, and provide robust management information about
 externally funded research activity. The new system has enabled accurate costing of research
 proposals, management of post-award and contract functions, while also supporting secure and
 effective management and curation of open access outputs through a repository tool. The
 researcher profile functionality of Worktribe has contributed to increased visibility of our
 researchers both internally and externally to encourage networking and new external
 collaborations while the interface with Tableau has improved our management reporting.
 Investment in IT Services has ensured Windows upgrades at pace with releases, with Windows
 10 being the standard at RGU. The Office 365 suite has been rolled out across the University, with
 research teams using Microsoft Teams and OneDrive for internal and external collaboration, which
 has been vital for the continuity of services at a high standard during the extended periods of
 lockdown due to COVID-19.

 Physical Infrastructure and Specialist Resources
 The University is home to world-class research and training facilities, including:
 • The Drilling and Rig Training (DART) facility (established with support from SFC) with a
   DrillSIM-6000 simulator and now complemented by the DrillSIM-5000 simulator, the world’s
   first simulator designed for well decommissioning training.
 • A state-of-the-art full metal laser sintering machine which completes the comprehensive suite
   of modern rapid-prototyping technologies.
 • 3D printers for prototyping, composites and materials synthesis and testing suite
 • Human Performance Laboratory: two 3D optical motion capture systems, isokinetic
   dynamometry, and physiological testing equipment, ensuring state-of-the-art equipment for
   research on human movement and athletic performance (through a £200k investment).
 • A platform of HPLCs (£75K); a water purification system (£148K); GCMS (£66K); FLOW
   Cytometer (£39K); rheometer (£75K); and a Victor Nivo Multiplate Reader to support the natural
   product screening programmes (£28K)
 • CyanoSol Lab: state-of-the-art facilities for algal/cyanobacterial production, down-stream
   processing and supporting analytics for water and wastewater treatment research.
 • Process Integration and Membrane Technology laboratory: equipped with gas chromatography
   mass spectrometry (GC-MS) systems and Quantachrome nitrogen adsorption analyser (BET),
   low and high temperature multi-gasses reactors to study gas and liquid mixture separations
   and for catalytic processes.
 • Offshore Energy / Hydrodynamic Multi-Phase Flow laboratory: a customised large-scale multi-
   phase flow loop, remote operated vehicle (ROV) Pool: a 3-metre-deep test tank for underwater
   robotics and subsea projects, 1Hz Wave Tank and Plint TE 44 subsonic model Wind Tunnel.




                                                                                             Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Research Hubs and Centres
 In April 2018, RGU established its RGU Orkney research hub in Stromness, Orkney and in
 October 2019 moved into the new Orkney Research and Innovation Campus (ORIC), where other
 tenants include Heriot Watt University, EMEC, Aquaterra and Solo Energy. The Hub acts as a
 central management point for RGU’s activity in the islands, coordinating academic and student
 visits, supporting the project management of locally based research projects, and ongoing
 networking and liaison with internal and external collaborators. The facilities at ORIC, including
 shared meeting rooms, exhibition area and hot-desking space, foster an exciting environment
 where RGU can deliver on our ambitions of engaged, relevant and innovative research.

 The National Subsea Centre (NSC) represents a significant investment (in this REF period funding
 recruitment of two Professors with another to be recruited in 2021) to deliver cost-effective, faster,
 smarter and cleaner technology to the industry. Drawing on the University’s academic talent,
 tailored research and expert facilitation, the development of the NSC aims to build capacity and
 capability in subsea research and anchor that in the north-east of Scotland.


 REF2021 and the future
 Reflecting on the REF2021 period it has been one of significant structural, leadership and
 management change for the University but one which has created a platform for the strong and
 sustainable development of research in the future. The establishment of a single Graduate School
 has become the focus for a growing PGR community; the creation of a research strategy and
 policy team (RS&P) means there are enhanced levels of support for academic staff around grant
 preparation; and strategic initiatives like NSC and RGU Orkney are creating new opportunities for
 interdisciplinary research. The next REF period, led by a new VPR, will see continued investment
 in innovative, interdisciplinary and impactful research along with a strong focus on building an
 inclusive research culture meeting the highest standards of ethics and integrity to deliver high
 quality research and knowledge exchange.




                                                                                                Page 7
