Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: University of East Anglia

 1. Context and mission

 The University of East Anglia (UEA) was established in 1963, with the motto “Do Different”. The
 founding Schools were English Studies and Biological Sciences, with the first cohort of about 90
 students graduating in 1965. UEA has steadily grown over the intervening 58 years, with the most
 recent academic additions being Schools of Medicine (2002) and Pharmacy (2003) with the
 School of Engineering to be launched in 2021. Notable alumni include Sir Paul Nurse (1973, Nobel
 Prize for Medicine 2001), Kazuo Ishiguro (1980, Nobel Prize for Literature 2017), Michael
 Houghton (1972, Nobel Prize for Medicine 2020) and Sarah Gilbert (1983) who led the Oxford
 University team to develop a COVID-19 vaccine, approved in 2020. UEA’s mission has always
 been three-fold: to achieve research excellence, teaching excellence, and civic excellence.

 The University comprises four Faculties (Arts and Humanities, Medicine and Health, Science, and
 Social Sciences), with over 1500 academic and research staff in 19 Schools, nearly 17,000
 students, and over 2100 support staff across seven professional services divisions. UEA has led
 the way in shaping and creating disciplines such as international development studies, creative
 writing and environmental sciences, recognised by the awards of Queen’s Anniversary Prizes for
 Higher and Further Education in 2009, 2011, and 2017 respectively. UEA is ranked in the World
 Top 200 (192nd overall, 44th for research citations, THE World University Rankings 2020). A
 commitment to small group teaching and a first-rate learning environment has resulted in a strong
 student experience, a culture of partnership with the Students Union, and development of
 innovative curricula. These qualities are recognised within the Teaching Excellence Framework
 (TEF Gold, 2017-2022).

 UEA is a founding member of the Norwich Research Park (NRP), one of Europe’s leading centres
 for research in Biotechnology, Genomics, Food, Health, and the Microbiome, employing over 3000
 researchers and clinicians. The NRP brings together UEA, the Norfolk and Norwich University
 Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, and a unique cluster of internationally-renowned research
 institutes: John Innes Centre (JIC), Quadram Institute (QI), Earlham Institute (EI), and The
 Sainsbury Laboratory (TSL); funded by the John Innes Foundation, Biotechnology and Biological
 Sciences Research Council, and the Gatsby Charitable Foundation. TSL and QI are legal
 subsidiaries of UEA. This distinctive combination of life sciences expertise and research intensity
 means that Norwich is the 4th most cited city for research publications in the UK (Thomson Reuters,
 2014).

 A campus university of 320 acres of scenic parkland, woodland, wetland, and playing fields,
 UEA is much more than simply a place of learning and employment – it provides a wonderful
 recreational location for staff, students, and the public. Funded by the Lottery and Sport
 England, the £30m Sportspark opened in 2000. Recognised as one of the best sporting facilities
 of its kind in the UK, it boasts an Olympic-sized swimming pool, climbing wall, and many other
 world-class facilities. With a wide-ranging programme of activities, attracting over 1.3m visits per
 year it underpins UEA’s Active Campus campaign, encouraging staff and students to undertake
 activities with an emphasis on participation and fun. The Sainsbury Centre for Visual Arts is a
 world-leading art museum, situated in the heart of UEA’s campus. Sir Norman Foster was
 commissioned by Sir Robert and Lady Lisa Sainsbury to create an iconic building to house their
 art, including works by Bacon, Moore and Picasso, and to provide dedicated space for research
 on the collection. SCVA created a campus sculpture park with pieces by Moore, Gormley and
 Frink for the enjoyment of UEA staff and students, and to attract more visitors to experience the

                                                                                               Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 unique art and architecture. UEA is highly regarded for its live performance offerings - since
 1963, we have hosted nearly 3000 gigs (including Pink Floyd, Nirvana, and Amy Winehouse),
 performances from our own choirs and symphony orchestra, as well as a world-famous Literary
 Festival attracting internationally renowned writers of all genres.

 2. Strategy

 In 2014, the incoming Vice-Chancellor prioritised an institutional review to build a long-term vision
 and plan. Staff and students participated in a campus-wide conversation. The result was the UEA
 2030 Vision, which identified four key areas of focus: research success, student success, staff
 success, and global success. To facilitate research success, we committed to enhancing UEA’s
 reputation by tackling major global challenges and further increasing the reach, quality, and
 volume of world-leading research. To achieve this, we planned to increase our research capacity,
 collaborate further with NRP partners, build additional strategic partnerships, enhance facilities for
 research and innovation, further develop impact and innovation activities, and improve the training
 environment for postgraduate researchers (PGRs).

 First steps towards achieving the Vision were articulated in the UEA Plan 2016-2020. We
 committed to identify a small number of pan-university research priorities and to establish a
 coherent programme of strategic partnerships across the NRP and with key organisations
 nationally and internationally to improve our research and generate impact. We have identified
 three initial interdisciplinary research themes: ClimateUEA (launched 2019), CreativeUEA (2020)
 and DecisionsUEA (launching 2021). These themes build on existing research strengths, with
 academics from across UEA and NRP, and aim to shape future research priorities, tackling
 significant global challenges through interdisciplinary collaboration and partnership. We also
 launched two new Institutes in 2020:

 (1) Norwich Institute for Healthy Ageing: promotes sustained population behaviour change to
 improve physical and mental wellbeing. Led by the Faculty of Medicine and Health, with
 researchers from Schools of Biological Sciences, Computing Science, Psychology, Economics
 and Norwich Business School, with over 40 collaborators and funders including the QI and JIC,
 BT, Unilever, East of England Co-Op, Age UK, Alzheimer’s Research UK and Voluntary Norfolk.

 (2) Norwich Institute for Sustainable Development: creates synergies across the natural and social
 sciences, transforming research and practice to enable equitable, food security and sustainable
 futures. Led by the School of International Development, in close partnership with NRP institutes,
 and has international collaborators including from Ethiopia, Kenya, Madagascar, Uganda, and
 Nepal.

 Since 2017, UEA has taken a strategic approach to organising research equipment into key
 platforms with academic leadership and dedicated technical support. An institutional strategy
 prioritises how we continue to invest in, upgrade and replace major capital equipment items. As a
 result, we have had a step-change in competitively won funding (BBSRC, NERC and EPSRC
 Capital/Equipment calls) as well as focused investment of UKRI equipment grants and match
 funding from the UEA PVCRI Capital Equipment Fund. This has led to enhanced research facilities
 and major investments of £1.8m in mass spectrometry, £1.5m in structural and biological imaging,
 £2.1m in the Biorepository, and £3m in the Disease Modelling Unit, as well as other smaller
 investments across all Faculties.

 At UEA, impact and innovation are recognised as the natural result of high-quality research and
 have been a key focus for improvement since REF2014. This area is led by the Pro-Vice

                                                                                                Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Chancellor for Research and Innovation (PVCRI), who is a member of the University’s Executive
 Team. At university level, the PVCRI is supported by an Academic Director for Innovation (since
 2018). At Faculty level, there are Associate Deans for Research and for Innovation, with Directors
 for both within Schools. In addition to centralised Research Managers and an Impact Team, in
 2014, we appointed six industrial-sector aligned Relationship Managers, responsible for building
 connections between academics and key external sectors. These posts have both an internal and
 external focus, enabling interdisciplinary research and identifying opportunities in research and
 innovation impact from healthcare to heritage. UEA is an active member of the Universities Policy
 Engagement Network. We provide direct strategic financial support, including an annual £250K
 PVCRI HEIF Fund for developing impact cases, and Proof of Concept and Innovation funds
 (£1.2m invested in 77 projects, and £1.1m in 18 projects respectively) to help academics along
 the commercialisation path. Within this REF period, we have held NERC, BBSRC and ESRC
 Impact Accelerator Awards (totalling £1.5m) which have been used to support 96 projects across
 UEA.

 Impact activity is encouraged and rewarded at individual level with dedicated time in staff workload
 models. Achievements are celebrated through the annual Impact and Innovation Awards.
 Established in 2018, the Awards formally encourage, recognise and reward staff, and showcase
 our research and innovation to the wider community across a wide range of sectors at a gala
 presentation evening. This encouragement and recognition is not confined to academic staff. In
 2019, Science Faculty technicians won an award for their development of “SmartCondensing”,
 which saves UEA 600,000 litres of water annually. Innovation Fellowships have been awarded to
 two academics who have each established highly successful spinout companies based on their
 research.

 Since 2015, we have encouraged and supported our PGRs to participate in the i-Teams
 programme, where they have twelve weeks to work on a real business problem, supported by a
 dedicated business mentor. To date 150 students have participated, resulting in three spinouts,
 the launch of a UEA wellbeing app and one student start-up business. UEA’s annual 54-hour Sync
 The City start-up event, launched in 2014 with SyncNorwich (a vibrant local tech network), has
 had over 660 participants, including 330 students supported by 60 experienced mentors, and has
 led to successful start-up businesses, including Safepoint. This event received an AdvanceHE
 Collaborative Award for Teaching Excellence (2020). In 2017, we established our Entrepreneur-
 in-Residence programme to mentor new staff and student start-ups and spinouts, totalling 481
 during this REF period.

 The success of our innovation and impact approach is exemplified by a growing portfolio of impact
 cases, steady and high annual consultancy income (~£9m), a cumulative portfolio of 174 patents
 and significant growth in IP income to £1.9m (2019/20) from £0.25m (2013/14).

 Since 2010, UEA has operated the Low Carbon Innovation Fund (LCIF1), a venture capital fund
 supported by ERDF, providing equity finance into East of England SMEs developing innovative
 technologies and products with a significant greenhouse gas reduction impact. This unique fund
 invested £21.4m into 48 innovative companies between 2010-2016. LCIF1 has continued to invest
 legacy funding, leveraging over £48m of additional private sector investment and taking part in
 20% of all investment rounds of this scale in the East of England (Beauhurst, 2018). Independent
 analysis estimated that LCIF1 portfolio companies saved the equivalent of 250,000 tonnes of CO 2
 emissions by 2020. A new LCIF2 fund is investing £10.9m alongside at least £11m private sector
 co-investment in innovative low carbon businesses by December 2023. Building on this knowledge



                                                                                              Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 and expertise, we launched Invest East in 2018 with Norfolk County Council, which has provided
 funding advice and support to 123 companies.

 Overall responsibility for UEA’s commitment to open access (OA) research sits with the PVCRI,
 supported by our Open Research team and Academic Liaison Librarians. UEA introduced an OA
 Policy in 2013 to encourage researchers to make their outputs OA (preferably under a CC-BY
 licence) and to take a pro-active approach to uploading manuscripts to our CRIS system (PURE),
 which feeds the institutional digital repository and website. Since 2013, the number of outputs
 deposited within PURE has more than doubled, and the proportion of articles meeting OA
 requirements is >85%. UEA promotes gold OA wherever possible, including utilisation of publisher
 deals allowing immediate OA. The University’s research data management policy promotes data
 management planning at all stages of research, producing documentation, and providing research
 data for scrutiny by others preferably by making data OA. Where this is not possible, we provide
 data to researchers on request, while maintaining high standards of research integrity. The Open
 Research team use International OA Week to engage researchers, complementing training
 available throughout the year, with particular interest and engagement from ECRs and PGRs.
 Recognising the importance of researchers’ rights to be attributed to their work correctly, UEA is
 a member of Jisc’s ORCID consortium, making it easier to register for an identifier.

 Responsibility for maintaining professional standards of research integrity at UEA rests with the
 PVCRI, supported by a Research Integrity Manager. An established set of policies and procedures
 provides a framework for the highest standards of personal conduct in research. UEA has nine
 Research Ethics Subcommittees, an Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Board, and an
 overarching strategic University Research Ethics Committee to provide university-wide guidance,
 review and advice. UEA provides bespoke training to strengthen researchers’ understanding of
 research integrity issues. PGR students undertake mandatory ethics training to pass their
 probationary period.

 UEA is proud to be a civic university and an anchor institution, with its research having a
 transformative impact on the wellbeing of local and regional communities. Analysis by Viewforth
 Consulting (2018) demonstrated that UEA activity contributes £559m annually to the region’s
 economy and supports nearly 10,000 jobs across the UK (approximately 60% in the East). UEA
 was instrumental in establishing Norwich as England’s first UNESCO City of Literature and the
 home of the National Centre for Writing. UEA’s first Literary Festival took place in 1991 and has
 hosted nearly 500 award-winning writers. UEA staff and students present their research to the
 public through approximately 90 exhibits, talks, workshops and screenings to 100,000 visitors at
 the annual Norwich Science Festival, coordinated by the Forum Trust. Since 2011, Café
 Conversations and Dragon Hall Debates encourage the public to engage with academics and
 understand their research in informal settings. The recent strategic appointments of Professors
 Ben Garrod (2019) and Christie Watson (2020) aim to further strengthen UEA’s interdisciplinary
 science and research communication activities.


 During 2019, digital platforms and focus groups enabled staff to shape UEA’s values
 (Collaboration, Empowerment, Respect and Ambition) and a core set of standards for how we
 behave; drive excellence in teaching, learning, and research; and collaborate as an anchor
 institution within our community.

 For Research and Innovation, the UEA Plan 2020-25 focuses on four priority areas:


                                                                                            Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 (1) Continuing to improve collaboration and interdisciplinarity to support researchers’ (including
     PGR) ambitions at all stages of their career and continuing to improve the quality of research
     outputs and related activities, demonstrating disciplinary and interdisciplinary excellence, and
     tackling                                   global                                    challenges.

        a. We will develop our new interdisciplinary themes: ClimateUEA, CreativeUEA and
           DecisionsUEA, and establish a further two themes to bring together researchers from
           across the NRP. We will explore and develop exciting new opportunities to bring
           together different disciplines at the boundaries between themes, e.g. climate
           narratives, the brain-gut nexus, and medical humanities.


        b. We will continue to build strategic partnerships to develop pioneering research and
           solutions that impact on key global and sustainable development goal challenges.
           Nationally, we will continue to invest in the Eastern Academic Research Consortium
           (founded in 2013/14 with Essex and Kent) to share resources, knowledge and skills
           and collaborate on research projects. In 2016, UEA co-founded the international Aurora
           Universities Network of nine European research-intensive universities aiming to match
           world-class academic excellence with societal engagement and impact. From 2021-
           2024, Aurora will deliver two European Universities funded projects (€12m) to share
           research infrastructure, improve academic-business cooperation and strengthen
           human capital.

 (2) Continuing to improve our reputation to extend the reach, influence, impact and external
     recognition of our research activity and excellence.


        a. We will integrate our online and offline presence to create a strong and consistent
           identity across our research and innovation themes, training and empowering our
           researchers to communicate their research effectively across different media.


        b. We will continue to attract visiting fellows to UEA to collaborate and experience our
           supportive research environment and culture (see “People”).


 (3) Continuing to increase and diversify research and related income to ensure continued
     investment in a vital and sustainable environment and infrastructure (see next 2 sections).


        a. We will review and further develop more inclusive, researcher-friendly and user-centric
           support and internal processes for researchers to develop their research and impact
           activities and bid for external funding. We will continue to invest strategically in
           research equipment and facilities across all disciplines.


        b. We will continue to invest in research staff development and progression at all career
           stages, recognising a range of research and innovation contributions.




                                                                                              Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 (4) Reviewing the effect of the global pandemic on staff, students, and activities. We are incredibly
     proud of UEA’s collaborative response to the COVID-19 challenges. We will develop strategies
     to support UEA’s recovery (see Annex) and work with regional partners through our pledge to
     co-develop a Civic University Agreement to support regional recovery plans, local economic
     and growth strategies, levelling up and place-based agendas.


 3. People


 UEA has focused on creating a vibrant and supportive environment for all staff as part of the Staff
 Success strand of the UEA Vision and Plan. Academic staff numbers and thus research capacity
 have steadily increased at UEA from 1,338 in 2013/14 to 1,603 in 2020. Academic posts are
 divided into three key contract types to enable UEA to fulfil two aspects of its mission - research
 and teaching excellence: Academic Teaching and Research (ATR) staff who have a mixed
 research and teaching portfolio (47%); Academic Teaching and Scholarship (ATS) staff with a
 primary focus on teaching (29%); and Research and Analogous (RA) staff, including Fellowships,
 with a primary focus on research (24%). There is a clearly defined process and support for staff
 to move between contracts.

 A revised Academic Progressions Handbook was launched in 2019 to make career development,
 promotion and progression criteria clearer and to explicitly recognise a broader range of research,
 teaching, and innovation/impact activities, as well as leadership, pastoral, and administrative work.
 Early career researchers typically start with less teaching, increasing to a full load gradually, to
 allow time to establish their research and they can bid for UEA-funded PhD studentships. UEA
 recognises that affording academic staff the opportunity to focus exclusively on research and
 impact activities is vital for innovative and meaningful academic work. As well as dedicated
 workload allocation for research, academic staff are entitled to apply for one semester of study
 leave for every six semesters worked. Applications must show how proposed activities add value
 over and above that normally expected.

 UEA’s Flexible Working Guidelines, based on good practice within the sector, set out the right for
 all employees to request flexible working or periods of unpaid leave. We are committed to ensuring
 that these are not detrimental to career development or progression. For staff with caring
 responsibilities, shared parental/dependents leave is available. UEA has a multi-cultural nursery
 on campus, caring for children from six weeks old; a salary-sacrifice scheme helps with the cost
 of places. Launched initially in 2013 by the Faculty of Medicine and Health, all Faculties now have
 Return to Work Funds to provide financial support for those with caring responsibilities or returning
 from long absences, as well as funds to support academic staff with the additional (child)care costs
 associated with conferences or fieldwork. ‘Moving On in your Academic Career’ is a workshop
 specifically for female researchers and returners from career breaks, which receives consistently
 positive feedback.

 UEA has a clear strategy to ensure that there is a positive health and wellbeing culture for all
 employees, providing a framework to encourage and facilitate working practices to ensure that
 staff are appropriately supported in the workplace. UEA launched an Employee Assistance
 Programme (2019), which provides staff with round the clock, free practical advice to deal with
 personal and professional issues that affect any aspect of their wellbeing, home or work life and
 has a good annualised utilisation of 9.7%. UEA has a robust “Report and Support” mechanism to
 report any incident of unacceptable behaviour, and we take a zero-tolerance approach as we


                                                                                               Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 believe that bullying, harassment, sexual harassment, assault, hate and discrimination are Never
 OK.

 UEA’s staff development policy sets out responsibilities, from the role of the individual in reflecting
 on their own work and future career needs, to the Executive Team who ensure a climate that
 encourages continuous learning and development. The Centre for Staff Education and
 Development is responsible for in-house and external training and development courses and
 activities, including those relating to research support, supplementing specialist School/Faculty
 based training. Within the REF21 period, there have been 6,535 attendees at these courses.

 The PVCRI has lead responsibility for ensuring that UEA meets the principles of the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Research Staff. UEA has developed a
 Concordat Implementation Plan, which details the support for the personal, professional, and
 career development of our research staff. In September 2012, UEA achieved the ‘H R
 Excellence in Research' Award in recognition of our commitment to implementing the
 principles of the Concordat. From May 2018, UEA more closely integrated these initiatives with
 Athena SWAN, to enhance synergistic positive action and change. In January 2019, an inaugural
 UEA-wide annual Researcher Summit was held (67 participants), with career development as a
 central focus along with the launch of an annual Merit in Research Awards scheme. In 2019, UEA
 extended relocation expenses to all research staff and in 2020 introduced merit-based promotion
 and salary awards for research staff, so that they can progress independent of their funding
 source. UEA signed the Technician Commitment (2018) to further ensure the visibility, recognition,
 career development and sustainability of research technicians as a vital element of our research
 environment.

 A key step in the career development of many researchers is gaining an independent fellowship.
 To support these applications and maximise success, UEA holds an annual Research Fellowships
 briefing day, typically attracting 50 attendees. For all fellowship applications, an experienced
 mentor is appointed to help them develop the best proposal possible. For example, within this
 REF period, UEA has hosted 16 Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships, two Royal Society
 Fellowships, ten European Research Council Fellowships, and supported 37 UKRI Future Leader
 Fellowship applications.

 The UEA Doctoral College, launched in 2018-19, integrates Faculty and School provision for 1600
 PGRs (including NRP PGRs), enabling collaboration and innovation. PGR numbers have grown
 from 312 starters in 2015, to 412 in 2018. Six new DTPs have been awarded within this period,
 resulting in an increase in UKRI-funded PGRs from 18.3% (2013/14), to 27.2% (2018/19) and has
 consolidated our expertise to deliver an excellent PGR experience and high-quality doctoral
 training programmes across multiple funders. The remainder of our PGRs are either UEA-funded
 (25%), self-funded/funded from other sources including DfE, NHS and non-UK governments
 (25%).

 CareerCentral supports PGRs, including a successful internship and placement programme to
 enhance employability and an OfS-funded scheme, Gateway to Growth, linking our graduates with
 regional SME employers. The 3MT competition, Sustainability Impact (SHAPE) and i-Teams
 programmes are open to all PGRs to provide useful additional experience. PGRs also have access
 to the centralised Research and Innovation Service for advice. UEA’s NRP membership allows
 PGRs access to a wider range of additional specialist facilities and training. PGRs are an integral
 part of our research community and regularly participate in research seminars, colloquia and
 annual celebratory research showcases. PGR supervisor training is mandatory and refreshed


                                                                                                 Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 every three years. Annual monitoring and progress reports enable PGRs to raise concerns, seek
 additional support and highlight training/development needs with their supervisory team.

 We have a full-time SU sabbatical PG Education Officer, uncommon among UK universities, and
 we value working in partnership with our PGRs. We applied for HEFCE Catalyst funding (£150K)
 for the Courage Project (2018-20), to improve institutional practices and self-resilience for mental
 and physical wellbeing. Some of these pioneering initiatives have since informed the Vice-
 Chancellors Task Force for Staff and Student Wellbeing. UEA enjoys a higher-than-average
 response rate (58% 2015, 58% 2017, 59% 2019) to the PRES survey and high overall satisfaction
 (84-87% over the REF period).

 Equality, diversity, dignity and respect are the keystones of the UEA People ethos. UEA’s People
 and Culture Directorate, in consultation with campus Trade Unions, developed the UEA Code of
 Practice for Staff - Equality and Diversity (E&D) to ensure compliance with the Equality Act 2010,
 and to provide a comprehensive range of guidance for staff across many aspects of working life.
 Briefing notes cover the nine protected characteristics to raise awareness amongst staff and
 managers, and to ensure that all staff are informed about their responsibilities. All staff undertake
 mandatory annual E&D training, those involved in recruitment undertake training biennially to
 minimise unconscious bias in selection processes. For new staff there is a half-day induction,
 including information about the support networks available, including: ResNET (a support and
 information network for all women working in research across the NRP, events focusing on the
 structural obstacles affecting female academic career development); Staff Pride and LGBT+ Allies
 (>350 members); Access All Areas (disabled staff and students working to pursue a fully
 accessible campus); and the BAME Staff Network (established 2018/19). New members of staff
 are assigned a mentor to guide them in their new role and life on campus.

 UEA has improved staff gender balance ratios since 2013, such that the proportion of female
 academics is now above the sector average and has improved from 26% to 32% at ATR
 Professorial level. Currently, UEA employs 56% women, comprising: academic (49% female), RAs
 (54%) and professional and support staff (64%). PGR intake has been gender-balanced since
 2012/13. The Executive Team is now 50% female (25% in 2013). UEA was awarded the Silver
 Athena SWAN Award in 2019, ten Schools have been awarded Bronze and four Silver, with the
 remaining five Schools working towards their first award. We are proactively ensuring that
 research and innovation event panels and speakers are diverse. UEA’s female academics are
 supported to participate in the Advance HE Aurora Leadership Programme for women, with
 engagement increasing year-on-year. UEA signed up to the Race Equality Charter (planned
 submission in 2022), supported by the Vice-Chancellor’s Taskforce on Tackling Racial
 Harassment and BAME staff and student networks and groups. We make annual submissions to
 the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index and progressed from rank 293 to 202 in four years.

 Equality within the REF submission is ensured by the presence of both an HR Manager and the
 University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Manager on the REF Strategy Group, which has
 overall responsibility for submission. As a signatory, UEA applies the DORA principles to all
 research assessment, including the REF submission. Unconscious bias training is mandatory for
 all staff involved in REF21 decisions as detailed in our Code of Practice.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 UEA’s centralised Research and Innovation Service of >100 staff provides dedicated professional
 support for project finances and contracts, EU and GCRF funding, ethics review and research
 governance, as well as providing consultancy, IP and commercialisation advice.

                                                                                               Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 To support research planning and management, UEA undertakes an annual individual research
 activity planning (RAP) process. Led by School Research Directors, it includes a meeting with all
 research-active staff to encourage reflection on past activities and strategically develop future
 research plans. Individuals receive constructive feedback help them shape grant proposal writing
 strategies, optimise their publication plans, and develop impact from their research where
 appropriate. This process also identifies support needs, including training, mentoring and
 participation in a UEA-wide coaching scheme.

 We have adopted a strategic approach to bidding for external research funding, informed by the
 RAP process. For large/strategic grant applications, there is an institutional sift process to provide
 a supportive framework and quality feedback through peer review from experienced and
 successful colleagues to improve the quality of the application. Internal peer review panels for
 grant applications, along with UEA’s mentoring schemes, provide support and advice for the
 development and improvement of grant applications. At 29%, our overall success rate with UKRI
 grants by value (2019/20) is a positive improvement from 2013/14 (26%).

 As described above, since 2017 UEA has reorganised its key research facilities and equipment
 into platforms and strategically invested more than £8m. The NRP provides an ideal environment
 for collaborative use of infrastructure and facilities, with a single portal for academics and
 businesses to access the specialist facilities across the Park. The Norwich Clinical Trials Research
 Unit based at UEA, employs UEA’s nursing, clinical, quality assurance, and IT staff to support
 clinical trials across the UK. The East of England Research Design Service is one of ten regional
 services providing advice and support to researchers developing applied health/social care
 proposals.

 From suffragettes to science, UEA’s Archives and Special Collections feature an impressive
 collection of printed, digital and audio-visual materials, with a catalogue system, study and
 groupwork space, and an Archivist to support researchers. UEA is home to the British Archive for
 Contemporary Writing (with material from renowned authors such as Doris Lessing and Lee Child),
 the nationally accredited East Anglian Film Archive, Sainsbury Centre for Visual Arts, Sainsbury
 Institute for the Study of Japanese Arts and Culture, and Sainsbury Research Unit for the Arts of
 Africa, Oceania and the Americas. We have transformed and continue to invest in UEA’s media
 suite with training facilities, a recording studio and vocal booth, and digitisation lab, supporting
 growth in digital humanities research, and invested £144k in new library systems (2019/20).

 A High-Performance Computing (HPC) cluster supports research across UEA, with an annual
 investment of £0.5m. It provides access to a variety of hardware that can support intensive
 computation, including high memory, GPU, parallel and standard compute nodes. The HPC team
 provides assistance with computationally challenging workflows in all areas of research at UEA,
 including climate change modelling, fluid dynamics of ocean circulation, medical statistics,
 biodiversity measurement and health economics.

 UEA’s HEBCIS facilities and specialist equipment income has grown from £0.65m (2013/14) to
 £5.71m (2019/20).

 The Enterprise Centre is a regional business, knowledge and innovation hub, with workspace
 provision and supports over 80 businesses working alongside UEA staff and students in a dynamic
 and vibrant entrepreneurial community. On the wider NRP, there are dedicated laboratory and
 office spaces in the Innovation Centre and Centrum (2014, £11.5m) hosting over 600 staff within
 a total of 115 businesses and spinouts.


                                                                                                Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


 Since REF2014, we have transformed our campus by co-investing in five key infrastructure
 projects: Bob Champion Research Centre (2014, £17m), The Enterprise Centre (2015, £13m),
 Quadram Institute (2018, £80m), New Science Building (2019, £28m) and Productivity East
 (2020, £7.5m). The next phase of the UEA Campus Development Plan includes refurbishment of
 the original Lasdun Wall, including well-designed collaboration spaces, digital infrastructure and
 facilities. Buildings will take better account of future research and innovation needs, providing
 spaces to hold seminars and events with tools for flexible working, virtual and physical
 conversations and collaboration.




                                                                                            Page 10
