Institutional-level environment statement (REF5a)

Institution: University of Bath


 1. Context and mission


   1.1. The University of Bath is a research-intensive institution of learning, committed
        to building a better world by tackling the biggest challenges on a local, regional,
        national and global level. The University’s Royal Charter (1966) describes how
        'The objects of the University shall be to advance learning and knowledge by
        teaching and research… in close association with industry and commerce', and
        this strong sense of outward-looking purpose pervades our campus-based
        Faculties of Engineering & Design, Humanities & Social Sciences, Science and
        the School of Management (as shown in Figure 1). Distinctively, our institution
        combines recognised excellence in both teaching, and in research and
        scholarship, and focuses on the generation, communication and application of
        knowledge across all career stages.




                                                         Faculty of
                                                       Engineering &
                                                        Design, 247
                             Faculty of Science,
                                    377
                                                                  School of
                                                                 Management,
                                                                     105
                                                Faculty of
                                               Humanities &
                                              Social Sciences,
                                                    299




 Figure 1: Academic staff headcount by Faculty

    1.2. The vitality of our research environment is evident in our well-resourced and
         established partnerships, research institutes and centres, supported by our
         established but responsive systems of policies, infrastructure, and facilities.
         The sustainability of our research is based on doing research of value,
         supported by growth in external funding from diverse sources and advancing
         our work in collaboration and partnership.
    1.3. We have a strong commitment to nurturing the emerging generation of
         researchers and are committed to providing an environment that values and
         promotes diversity.
    1.4. We are the University of Bath - a global university, but also of the West
         Country, of the South West and Wales, and of England and the UK. Our
       regional ambitions play out, in part, through our being a part of the GW4
       regional consortium of research-led universities, and through our work with,
       and our role in, the regional authorities and LEPs.

1.5. Our research focuses on collaborative, interdisciplinary approaches to real-
     world problems, including identified major challenges of Sustainability, Digital,
     and Health and Wellbeing. These topics resonate across our submission.

1.6.   Through the REF period under review, we have transformed the engagement
       of our staff and faculty with research. This has been made possible by the
       creation of dynamic groups of researchers, often driven and energised by new
       appointments and frequently benefiting from cohorts of early- and mid-career
       researchers. These groups have invigorated our existing strengths and added
       new strengths to our research portfolio. They have drawn together into broad
       research communities working on key research themes, in many cases closely
       aligned to regional and national needs, and addressing both academic and
       real-world global challenges, inspired by common purpose. Early successes
       out of this endeavour can be found in, for example, the Institute of Advanced
       Automotive Propulsion Systems and the Milner Centre for Evolution.
2. Strategy

Research Strategy

   2.1. Our vision is to be recognised internationally for our research excellence,
        achieving global impact through our research and strategic partnerships. This
        vision is advanced in the University’s Research Strategy which runs from 2016 -
        2021 and has driven our research environment. The aims in the strategy are:

       •   extend our research power by recruiting dynamic researchers, nurturing their
           talent and fuelling their ambition;
       •   affirm our international influence through worldwide partnerships to create
           dynamic responses to research and educational opportunities;
       •   attract increasing numbers of postgraduates by enhancing our existing
           prestige portfolio with innovative and global modes of delivery;
       •   enrich the postgraduate and undergraduate experience by engaging
           purposefully with our student, donor and alumni communities;
       •   expand our capacity and capability by investing in new infrastructure, facilities
           and technologies.

   2.2. The institutional objectives that were outlined in our REF 2014 statements were
        focussed around these strategic aims. We have made substantial progress in
        achieving these aims, while ensuring they are underpinned by a proactive
        approach to Equality, Diversity & Inclusivity.

   2.3. We have invested significantly in staff appointments, with our research active
        staff FTE increasing from 870 FTE to 1,060 FTE over the current REF period,
        with a focus on increasing diversity and enhancing multidisciplinary research.

   2.4. The REF period has seen a significant and strategic development of our
        international partnerships, which are increasingly reflected in our publications.
        The percentage of our papers with international co-authors has increased from
        46% to 59% over the REF period, as illustrated in Figure 2 for the last five years.

   2.5. In 2015 we established our Global Chair scheme to fund the engagement of
        distinguished, globally renowned scholars in high-profile research activity at the
        University. In 2019 we launched the Women Global Chair scheme to enrich the
        celebration of women academics across all disciplines. The scheme has seen us
        welcome 13 Global Chairs from all six continents.
Figure 2 Location of co-authors on research publications in the last five years

    2.6. Our PGR headcount has increased from 1,225 in 2013/14 to 1,580 in 2019/20. A
         significant proportion of this growth has been in our doctoral training entities. We
         have led/partnered in 21 DTEs, with funding spanning the Research Councils.

    2.7. Our research portfolio has increased and diversified over the period, increasing
         from £119 million in 2014 to £155 million on 31/7/2020 with funding from over
         450 different funders.

    2.8. We have made substantial investments in our research environment building on
         our strengths and supporting emerging areas of expertise. Four illustrative
         examples are:

         •     The Milner Centre for Evolution building (value £8m) opened in 2018,
               creating a home for a unique, cross faculty research centre bridging biology,
               health and education. The Centre has received over £6.0m in donations, most
               notably from Bath alumnus Dr Jonathan Milner.
         •     Building 10 West opened in July 2016 (value £30m) and houses our Doctoral
               College, the Department of Psychology including extensive laboratory space,
               the Institute for Policy Research and a postgraduate working space.
         •     The Institute for Advanced Automotive Propulsion Systems (IAAPS)
               (project value £70m) builds on a strong track record of delivering propulsion
               system research with impact at Bath. To house the institute, the University of
               Bath and South Gloucestershire Council entered a joint venture and
               purchased the Bristol & Bath Science Park (BBSP) and a major building
               project is nearing completion. The BBSP is already the home of the National
               Composites Centre.
         •     Our £72m investment in a landmark School of Management building due to
               open in 2021 will create new and novel research and collaboration
               environments add over £240 million of value to the B&NES economy over 25
               years.
   2.9. Our future strategic aims for the next REF period will be defined by our five-year
        strategy currently under development during 2021. Emerging features include:

         •   An increased focus on problems of global, national and regional significance,
             guided by our broad themes of Sustainability, Health and Wellbeing, and
             Digital, building our international reputation through the quality of our
             research, our partnerships, and the strength of our leadership,
         •   Enhanced local and regional engagement, as we develop our sense of place
             to build our city and the region. This includes working alongside the Bath City
             and Council to enhance the opportunities and the benefits of the SetSquared
             Bath Innovation Centre for the city and the region as we emerge from COVID
             and reimagine the city of Bath, supporting the Swindon and Wiltshire LEP in
             their development ambitions for sustainable technologies (as laid out in their
             Local Industrial Strategy), using our national leadership in cybersecurity to
             play a role in synthesizing relevant assets across the broader region including
             the Western Gateway, and using our Advanced Automotive Propulsion
             (IAAPS) facility to support the regional development of the automotive industry
             and supply chains,
         •   A greater focus on partnership: globally, nationally, regionally and locally,
             gaining the scale and breadth of resources required to tackle the most
             substantial research challenges. Our partnerships and agreements with
             leading universities across the globe sit alongside the regional GW4 Alliance
             that fuses the research power of the Universities of Bath, Bristol, Cardiff and
             Exeter. With GW4 we will act to support the regional Western Gateway
             Powerhouse to develop the region addressing the challenges of Net Zero,
             Digital, and Health within the region,
         •   Nurturing and developing our research environment so that our University
             continues to attract the brightest and best students and researchers,
         •   Aligning our research closely to emerging national priorities so as to play our
             part in post-COVID-19 recovery and in identifying and developing post- Brexit
             opportunities,
         •   Fostering a diverse inclusive research culture that values and supports the
             integrity of our research, to the benefit of our broader research community.

Impact

   2.10. Benefitting society through engagement, partnership and collaboration in our
         research is at the heart of our mission as a University: to deliver world-class
         research and teaching, … benefiting the wider population through our research,
         enterprise and influence.

   2.11. Research carried out by staff at Bath has made an enormous difference across
         the world. Many of these impacts are reported in our REF impact case studies,
         with impact reported in all six continents.

   2.12. A particular highlight has been the impact of our research on carbon emissions.
         As exemplars, work in the Faculty of Engineering and Design has led to
         reductions of more than 200,000 tonnes CO2/annum from more efficient car
         engines, of 575,000 tonnes/annum from more efficient electricity networks and
         1,200 tonnes/annum from improved aerospace parts. Work in the Department of
     Economics has led to a commitment to replace 18,000 diesel vans with electric
     models by 2028.

2.13. Our institutional culture is to value excellent research where impact is an integral
      part. Since 2016 we have included impact in promotion criteria for research
      active staff and celebrate it through institutional level awards and events. Impact
      is led at an institutional level by our Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research) and the
      Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee, supported by the Associate
      Deans (Research) and Faculty and Departmental Research Committees. Each
      academic department has an impact champion, with Professional Services
      support led centrally from Research & Innovation Services (RIS).

2.14. Research Institutes are important features in our stakeholder engagement. For
      example, the Institute for Policy Research (IPR) transforms the impact
      potential of our broader research, offering opportunities for leading researchers
      to share their ideas and advances with policymakers, while enabling the IPR to
      develop its own distinct strand of policy research. The Institute for
      Mathematical Innovation (IMI) is outward-facing and uses the power of Maths
      to address challenges in other areas of activity, including academics, but
      extending across diverse sectors including the agri-food, aerospace, energy,
      healthcare and retail sectors. IMI was highlighted as a successful model in the
      2018 EPSRC Independent Review of Knowledge Exchange in the Mathematical
      Sciences.

2.15. At an institutional level our impact-related funding streams include EPSRC
      Knowledge Transfer Account and Impact Acceleration Account funding since
      2009, Global Challenges Research Fund and Strategic Priorities QR funding.
      Bath has a strong track record in Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP) with
      29 KTPs being awarded during the REF period: thirteen of the eighteen
      completed were rated as outstanding or very good. In the REF period, we have
      led four European Regional Development Fund business acceleration hubs
      designed to utilise our research strengths to boost the local economy. These
      include the Social Enterprise and Innovation Programme (SEIP) where
      independent evaluation of the programme demonstrated an economic benefit of
      £16.3m and its social impact, including improved inclusivity and wider societal
      benefits such as improved quality of life, was valued at approximately £200m.

2.16. Since 2012, our Public Engagement Unit has worked to foster a culture where
      public engagement with research is recognised, practised and valued. Our
      national leadership is demonstrated by our participation on several external
      funding review panels and awards from a variety of funders. Our perception of
      the role of Public Engagement continues to evolve, as we recognise the value of
      our research to new publics, and adapt our activities to address them.

2.17. Our SETsquared Innovation Centre helps to diversify the economic profile of the
      City and way beyond by incubating high-growth businesses, and co-ordinating
      several regional networks in key technology innovation sectors. The networks
      connect corporates, growth businesses and the University’s research base to
      facilitate knowledge exchange and the flow of ideas and innovation.
      SETSquared is an enterprise partnership between the five research-led
      universities of Bath, Bristol, Exeter, Southampton and Surrey, three times
           recognised as Global No. 1 University Business Incubator and having
           contributed more than £3.8 billion in UK GVA.

   2.18. As an anchor institution in Bath, we have a key role in delivering and supporting
         the City’s economic growth ambition. In partnership with Bath & North East
         Somerset (B&NES) Council, we’ve worked over the last three years to deliver the
         socio-economic objectives of its Corporate and Economic Development
         Strategies. We are now working towards a mutual commitment to develop a
         Civic University Agreement to support the next evolution of that relationship.

   2.19. We are currently building on our research strengths to achieve further impact
         with a deliberate focus on our regional engagement. Our plans include:

       •     I-START – a collaborative venture with B&NES Council, Bath Spa University
             and Bath College to create an inclusive research, business incubation and
             accelerator endeavour where our world-class research and innovation
             expertise can transform innovative ideas into viable ventures.
       •     DETI – the University is a part of the Digital Engineering Technology and
             Innovation (DETI) consortium. This WECA-led initiative helps companies
             identify and develop the tools, technologies and processes to rapidly
             accelerate digital engineering capabilities and identify the skills to embed
             digital innovations.
       •     MyWorld - the Strength in Places-funded MyWorld project (led from Bristol)
             aims to build the Bristol/Bath reputation in the creative media industry to be
             world leading.

Research Integrity and Openness
   2.20. As an institution, we are committed to maintaining the highest standards of
         research excellence and integrity, consistent with the Concordat to Support
         Research Integrity.

   2.21. Research Integrity is supported by: Academic Ethics and Integrity Committee,
         University Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee, Animal Welfare and
         Ethical Review Body, the Social Sciences Research Ethics Committee,
         Psychology Ethics Committee and Research Ethics Approval Committee for
         Health. This committee structure is currently being reformed to refresh and re-
         focus its remit in response to the ethical challenges posed by artificial
         intelligence, data and other rapidly-evolving research areas.

   2.22. At a School/Department level the Departmental Research Ethics Officers and
         Sponsorship Facilitators provide help and advice on specific projects.

   2.23. The Department of Policy, Planning and Compliance monitor compliance with
         our policies and together with the Vice-Chancellor’s Office ensure that guidance
         is accessible and up to date.

   2.24. We have been named a Leader in Openness by Understanding Animal
         Research around our use of animals in research “in recognition for committing
         considerable resource and energy to following best practice, embedding
         openness within the organisation, and making the aims of the Concordat on
         Openness on Animal Research in the UK a reality”.

   2.25. Our Library was one of the first UK academic libraries to establish a permanent
         open access team, supporting researchers in making their research available via
         open access from training, to grant applications and through to publishing. In
         2011 the University’s Open Access Deposit Mandate (updated 2017) was
         published, emphasising our commitment. In 2019, the Leiden Ranking
         introduced a new open access indicator, and we ranked 15th in the world with
         75% of our papers open access.

   2.26. We were also one of the first UK academic libraries to establish a permanent
         data management service. This service supports researchers in the planning,
         curation, preservation, and publication of research data and software. Our data
         librarians provide extensive guidance, training, advice, and advocacy, and have
         led cultural change to where good management of data is now considered a core
         tenet of research and is embedded in doctoral training. The University’s
         expectations on researchers for open data are aligned with the Concordat on
         Open Research Data and the FAIR principles and set out in the internationally
         recognised Research Data Policy.

   2.27. In 2017 we published our Principles of Research Assessment and
         Management, being the second University in the UK to do so. This was our
         institutional response to the Metrics Tide Report: an institutional set of principles
         that work for all of our disciplines and for all research performance indicators. A
         further push for culture change is now underway, prompted by evolving
         expectations.

Interdisciplinary Research
    2.28. Our compact campus makes interdisciplinary research easy and our research
          centres and institutes are fundamental to supporting it. We regularly run sandpits
          to enhance cross-disciplinary working, build research collaborations and develop
          large interdisciplinary funding applications. The most recent drive was in
          response to COVID.

   2.29. Our research strengths make us well placed to address the big research
         challenges through an interdisciplinary approach. Exemplars include our work on
         the policy and ethical considerations of big data and AI, research to improve
         housing in refugee camps and the use of bacteria to ‘heal’ concrete.

   2.30. Our externally funded DTE’s have been a force for interdisciplinary research,
         with those in Statistical Applied Mathematics (SAMBa), Sustainable Chemical
         Technologies (CSCT), Accountable, Responsible and Transparent AI (ART-AI),
         and Advanced Automotive Propulsion Systems (AAPS) being especially
         powerful in this regard.
3. People

Staffing strategy and staff development
   3.1. We have invested significantly in staff appointments through the REF period,
         with our research active staff FTE increasing from 870 to 1,060 FTE over the
         current REF period. 97% of our submitted staff are on open-ended contracts.

   3.2. A significant proportion of this recruitment has been at early career stage (see
        below) with Early Career Researchers accounting for 21% of our submitted staff.
        Our staffing strategy embraces diversity as a valuable cornerstone of successful
        research, and we have positively sought diversity in recruitment.

   3.3. All staff who are employed with independent research as a part of their contract,
        are supported in numerous ways in their research and scholarship. These
        include reserved time, automatic access to the services and structures that
        support research at every level, and the right to apply to the University’s well-
        subscribed and successful sabbatical scheme.

   3.4. In 2016, we developed a new workforce strategy to underpin the University
        Strategy. This builds on national work including that from UKRI and has the
        following research related aims:

       •    Develop strategic leaders who are alert to opportunities, plan and focus on
            outputs and have the ability to engage, trust and empower others to deliver
       •    Actively intervene to develop a talented workforce
       •    Create new styles of performance development, tailored to the University

   3.5. Development of our researchers, at all levels, takes place in an active and
        engaged research community. Peer review and mentoring are encouraged and
        where disciplinary differences are identified they are supported as appropriate.
        At an aggregated level – most commonly by academic Department – we use
        external benchmarking to enable researchers to understand institutional
        performance and to be confident that their own careers are developing them as
        globally competitive.

   3.6. To realise the University’s ambition to have a research culture that fosters the
        highest achievements, encourages originality and innovation and embraces
        diversity, a portfolio of development opportunities is offered. The Academic Staff
        Development Team provides support for all staff, with a focus on nurturing early
        career researchers. Development opportunities align to the Research
        Development Framework and UK Professional Standards Framework as well as
        the strategic priorities of the University.

   3.7. We recognise recruitment as a powerful opportunity for change and we advance
        equality, diversity and inclusion through our recruitment processes. This includes
        analysing job advertisements for bias in language and offering inclusion advice
        for drafting to recruiting managers. Our recruitment team all hold the
        Ambassadors for Autism certification following the introduction of a series of
        evidence-based alterations to make recruitment processes more autism-friendly.
        Anonymised shortlisting is available for all recruitment.
   3.8. The dedicated careers advisor for research staff provides access to online and
        in-person career management training sessions, 1-1 advice as well as extensive
        tailored web resources, regular blog articles tailored to the career development
        needs of research staff, emails on career opportunities inside and outside of
        academia, career panel and facilitates access to professional networks inside
        and outside of research.

Implementation of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers
   3.9. Our alignment with the Concordat is one of the key tenets underpinning our
        strategic aim to recruit and retain excellence, and we have held the HR
        Excellence in Research Award since September 2011.

   3.10. The responsibility for implementation lies with the Pro-Vice-Chancellor Research
         and is managed by the Research Staff Working Group (RSWG). The group is co-
         chaired by a senior member of academic staff and a member of research staff,
         supported by the dedicated Researcher Development Manager. The research
         staff co-chair attends University Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee.

   3.11. The RSWG has developed a shared ‘Vision for research staff working at the
         University of Bath’ setting out our vision for a highly skilled and empowered
         community of research staff who make informed career choices, and work
         together to contribute to their discipline and the University community.

   3.12. We have established an Academic Career Academy with around 15 attendees
         supported per year; 12 individuals from the first two cohorts have secured
         lecturer or senior lecturer positions. In October 2017, we introduced a promotion
         process from Research Associate to Research Fellow. Our programme, Careers
         beyond Academia supports research staff to advance their careers in diverse
         ways.

   3.13. To recognize the important contribution of research staff we have introduced the
         annual Peter Troughton Research Staff Prize for the most outstanding
         performance by a member of research staff.

Early Career Researchers

   3.14. The 21% of Early Career Researchers in our REF submission have played a
         major role in our research success over the period under review. Our welcoming
         culture and our supportive policies have enabled us to attract a generation of
         dynamic researchers who have fully matched the institutional support offered
         with their own energy, driving institutional change.

   3.15. The University of Bath Prize Fellowship Scheme enabled outstanding early
         career scholars to make rapid progress in establishing their careers. Since 2014
         we have appointed 39 Prize Fellows in several cohorts, in strategically identified
         growth areas, who have benefitted from two years dedicated research time and
         development activities before being assessed for their suitability to begin
         probation as a lecturer, as part of a university-wide scheme of mentorship, peer
         exchange and development.
   3.16. The GW4 Crucible Programme provides hands-on training and mentoring to
         develop collaborative research leaders of the future. Introduced in 2016, the
         programme has trained around 100 early career researchers across the alliance
         (22 from Bath).

Research Students
   3.17. In 2017 we created a Doctoral College to bring together institution-wide
         support, training, development and administration for our diverse doctoral
         population and actively encourages cross-disciplinary and cross-institutional
         collaboration to further enrich the student experience. The Doctoral College has
         promoted important EDI campaigns such as #NeverOK, representing the
         University’s commitment to creating a community where harassment and assault
         are never tolerated, and where all students, staff and visitors feel safe and
         valued. Students with disabilities are supported by the Doctoral College and the
         well-being services on campus.

   3.18. The quality of our Doctoral training provision is evidenced by the University’s
         leadership of and partnership in a significant number of DTEs. During the REF
         period the University has led six externally funded DTEs and has been a partner
         in 15 others spanning the Research Councils and our discipline base, frequently
         alongside our partners in the GW4 collaboration. Their inter-disciplinary and
         outward-looking nature together with the strength of industry engagement echo
         and support the University’s research strategy.

   3.19. The University actively supports the internationalisation of doctoral training,
         encouraging international mobility for both UK and non-UK students. Working
         closely with the Doctoral College and DTEs, the International Relations Office
         has established joint PhD programmes with international partner institutions and
         funding opportunities for short-term doctoral mobility. The University has recently
         committed to recruiting up to 30% international students to UKRI studentships at
         no additional cost to the student.

Equality and diversity
   3.20. We value, promote and celebrate inclusion, challenging discrimination and
         putting equality, diversity and belonging at the heart of everything we do. We aim
         to be an inclusive university, where difference is celebrated, respected and
         encouraged. We truly believe that diversity of experience, perspectives, and
         backgrounds will lead to a better environment for our employees and students.

   3.21. We have made a positive commitment towards gender equality and
         intersectionality receiving a Bronze Athena SWAN award, and we are actively
         working towards a Silver award. We are members of the Aurora network and our
         academics and professional services staff have participated since its launch. In
         2019, the University established a Gender Pay Gap Working Group, jointly with
         the Trades Unions, to investigate gender pay gaps and to identify systemic
         causes that might be addressed. As a result, an action plan, which focuses on
         recruitment and progression, was developed and is being implemented.
   3.22. Our workforce is drawn from 68 different nationalities and our Postgraduates
         represent 130 nationalities. Recognising the importance of tackling racism, in
         2020 we established a Race Equality Taskforce chaired by a senior academic.

   3.23. We are a family-friendly University, with an agile workforce, and open to flexible
         working arrangements. We’re proud to be a disability confident employer. Our
         Equality and Diversity network oversee self-organised staff groups focussing on
         specific aspects of equality and diversity, including groups for carers, LGBT+ and
         disabled staff.

   3.24. We have set ourselves some challenging equality objectives for the period 2019
         to 2021 to build upon this strong platform. These include:

       •   increasing the proportion of women in senior roles and taking positive action
           to address gender imbalances and the gender pay gap;
       •   improving the recruitment of staff and students from under-represented
           groups in order to better reflect the society in which we operate;
       •   creating and maintaining a living and working environment that supports the
           health and wellbeing of all staff and students;
       •   fostering a culture of inclusion and belonging through a programme of raising
           awareness and training; creating a supportive environment for our LGBT+
           community

   3.25. With funding from the EPSRC Inclusion Matters scheme we are conducting a
         programme of research into the experiences and attitudes of early career
         academics and their potential future employers, leading to evidence-based policy
         change recommendations.

Construction of REF submission
  3.26. Our REF submission has been constructed in line with our institutional Code of
        Practice. The Code set out how our selection procedures would be consistent,
        transparent, accountable, and conducted in an inclusive manner, in accordance
        with our institutional values and existing policies. The Code was promoted
        internally via email, the University homepage, digital signage and staff twitter
        account. Open staff meetings were held both as part of the consultation
        exercise on the Code and to discuss the code once it was finalised. All staff
        involved in REF decision making processes received REF specific ED&I training.
4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

   4.1. Growth in research income is a key element of the University strategy for 2016-
        21, with research representing 13% of the University’s total income. Research
        Councils continue to be our largest source of research income (we are a Tier 1
        Strategic Partner for EPSRC). Nevertheless, we have a broad portfolio of
        funders with awards secured from over 450 different funders during the REF
        period. Our portfolio of funded research has grown from £119 million in 2014 to
        £155 million in 2020.

   4.2. RIS supports all aspects of securing, managing and optimising the outcomes of
        research funding, taking a whole lifecycle approach to research funding. The
        department has dedicated teams to support academic and research staff in all
        aspects from developing a funding idea and identifying appropriate funding
        opportunities, through bid development and submission, project management
        and financial oversight, research commercialisation support to impact evaluation
        and evidencing.

   4.3. Steps are taken at all points in the research lifecycle to address ED&I issues in
        our research support mechanisms. Our regular funding bulletin includes a
        section to highlight funding opportunities to support, for example, part-time staff
        and staff returning after career breaks. We have taken steps to ensure that our
        internal funding allocation mechanisms take an approach to promote ED&I. This
        includes ensuring diversity of internal assessment panels, formalisation of
        assessment processes and the publication of assessment criteria, and on
        occasion the use of anonymised assessment.

   4.4. The University has professionally supported Core Research Facilities (CRFs),
        ensuring maximum up-time and accessibility to our research equipment.
        Research Technical Professionals working alongside our Technicians are an
        active, recognised and valued part of our research community. The major CRFs
        include:

       •   Material and Chemical Characterisation Facility (MC2);
       •   Advanced Research Computing (ARC)
       •   David Bullett Nanofabrication Facility;

   4.5. The Institute for Advanced Automotive Propulsion Systems is a major off-
        campus new-build facility currently approaching completion. It will offer nationally
        distinctive capabilities and serve as a meeting place for the automotive industry
        with innovative academic researchers to build the vision for the future of
        automotive.

   4.6. We recognise that baseline investment in infrastructure is critical to underpin the
        research portfolio, and this is central to the University’s strategic planning. Our
        Major Research Equipment Fund, an annual ring-fenced fund, is complemented
        by Faculty-level research infrastructure budgets. The University supports bids to
        the Research Councils with (additional) cash contributions to major investments.
4.7. Key to the sustainability of these research facilities is our commitment to
     technical staff. The University has been a signatory to the Technician’s
     Commitment since 2018 and has developed a two year action plan outlining the
     actions we will take the address the four key areas of the Commitment.

4.8. Our facilities are a means to engage with industry partners and we actively
     promote them. Over the REF period this has generated £14m of income.

4.9.   We work with our GW4 partners on more ambitious research infrastructure and
       equipment projects at a regional level. Examples include the shared GW4
       facility for cryo-microscopy opened in 2017 at the University of Bristol, and a new
       Tier 2 high performance computing (HPC) service (“Isambard”) joint with the Met
       Office and Cray Inc.
