Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Goldsmiths, University of London

 1. Context and mission

Goldsmiths’ mission is to stimulate creative, radical and intellectually rigorous thinking and
practice. Goldsmiths attracts talented, insightful and diverse researchers and provides a rich
environment that nurtures the next generation. Knowledge creation and exchange – from curiosity-
driven research to real-world problem-solving – underpins the intellectual and creative culture of
the entire Goldsmiths’ community. We are committed to building and sustaining our research
capacity, addressing challenges that face humanity and laying the foundations for societal,
economic and cultural benefit.

Goldsmiths was founded in 1891 in New Cross, Lewisham, as a Technical College for local
working classes. A member of the University of London since 1904, the College grew in size and
extended its range of disciplines from teacher training and a School of Art to its current eighteen
academic departments, across the arts, humanities, social sciences and computing. The nature of
our disciplines, the mix of theory and practice, and our compactness on a single campus combine
to create an academic culture that is widely known for its innovative degree programmes and
imaginative approaches to research. Our interdisciplinary ethos has helped Goldsmiths to
develop a reputation in fields, certainly novel at their point of origin, such as creative computing,
practice research, popular music, media studies, cultural studies, sensory sociology and forensic
architecture, among others.

The College sits on the same site in South East London - a community with 46% BAME residents
and 76% of school children BAME. Throughout this community there is a rich history of overlapping
diasporic settling and settled cultures and much of Goldsmiths’ work in the local area actively
engages with and celebrates this diversity.

Lewisham is one of the poorest boroughs in the UK. Goldsmiths academics engage widely with
local government, civic institutions and residents seeking innovative ways to address local
challenges. Through our MoU with the London Borough of Lewisham and our Civic University
Agreement with local stakeholders, we are taking a lead in regional enterprise development,
supporting start-ups and knowledge exchange across the creative sector.

Goldsmiths built its art gallery, the Centre for Contemporary Art (2019), renovated its George
Wood Theatre (2019), and continues to run a cinema with Curzon (2016). Added to the daily
academic and public talks, short courses and performances, Goldsmiths presents a vibrant locus
for creative production. Much of our work on the creative, cultural and digital connects Goldsmiths
and New Cross more widely across a Thames Gateway Creative Production Corridor spreading
east along the Thames. Our research is at its heart international, developed across multiple and
sustained relations with partners in South America, North America, Africa, Asia, Australasia and
Europe. Goldsmiths has a commitment to building up and leveraging our research base and skills
development to contribute fully to London as a major global city.

Since 2015, Goldsmiths’ academic departments have rested within three schools: Arts and
Humanities (Art; Design; English and Creative Writing; History; Music; Theatre and Performance),
Culture and Society (Anthropology; Law; Media, Communications and Cultural Studies; Politics
and International Relations; Sociology; Visual Cultures) and Professional Studies, Science and

                                                                                               Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Technology (Computing; Educational Studies; Institute of Creative and Cultural Entrepreneurship;
Institute of Management Studies; Psychology; Social, Therapeutic and Community Studies). Media
Studies was taught through a single department in 1978; the Institute for Cultural and Creative
Entrepreneurship was established in 2009 (originally addressing postgraduate students, but
focused on research from 2016), the Department of Social, Therapeutic and Community Studies in
2012, the Institute of Management Studies in 2011 (focusing on undergraduate degrees, but from
2017 building up its research base), and the Department of Law in 2019 (which brought to
Goldsmiths the Britain in Europe research centre).

Over this REF period we have increased our UG student numbers from 4,860 to 6,290, our
postgraduate students from 2,420 to 2,850; our teaching-only staff (FTE) have decreased from 255
to 223 and our research-active staff (FTE) have increased substantially from 280 to 459.

 2. Strategy

Goldsmiths’ research strategy has been developed over various documents with three core
strategic priorities:
     • Supporting and enabling research innovation and leadership locally, nationally and
         internationally;
     • Facilitating research that crosses and breaks boundaries, leading to novel
         methodologies, new sites of investigation and ground-breaking insight;
     • Collaborating with, but also reaching out to, partners, communities and publics in the
         mutual creation of beneficial, impactful and transformative knowledge.

At the heart of our strategy is the vibrancy and inventiveness of our academic research community.
At an institutional level, the work is led by the Pro-Warden for Research, Enterprise and
Knowledge Exchange (PWR), but it is embedded in, coordinated and shaped through key
structures and responsibilities, including Academic Board, Research and Enterprise Committee
(REC), Research Ethics and Integrity Sub-Committee, Human Resources and Equalities
Committee (HREC), External Relations Committee and the Public Engagement Advisory
Committee. From 2019, the roles of Academic Lead in Research, in Enterprise, and in Knowledge
Exchange were established to develop that work across the College. Our academic departments,
each with a Director of Research (DoR), construct discipline-specific research strategies, which are
reported to REC and understood with regard to institutional priorities. Annual planning rounds with
academic departments and central teams provide points of operational and strategic deliberation
and change.

Goldsmiths Graduate School was established in 2006 to coordinate PGR training and career
development, strategic direction and oversight of academic department supervision and discipline-
specific training.

Goldsmiths has operated a highly devolved academic structure. QR income is distributed to
academic departments and strategic research and investment decisions are made locally. Cross-
departmental and interdisciplinary collaboration is facilitated through Research Themes,
research groupings into Centres and Units, and networks and collaborations within and across
academic schools.

Goldsmiths Research Themes were established in December 2016 to strengthen and narrativise

                                                                                             Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
our existing research activity across disciplines. They are:
     • Bodies, Minds, Society – addressing health and wellbeing;
     • Invention, Creativity and Experience – addressing creative production and immersive
         technology and experience;
     • Social and Economic Justice – addressing urban living, inequalities, displacement and
         migration;
     • Technologies, Worlds, Politics – addressing digital and environmental futures and
         human rights.

The Themes – established through consultation with academic colleagues – are dynamic and
changing programmes, framing research groupings, supporting fundamental insight and impact,
and aligning Goldsmiths’ research with core societal challenges. Recent achievements include:
    • The development of a new field of research on the racialisation of climate change and the
        ground-breaking work of PGR students in leading workshops and public fora on Critical
        Ecologies;
    • The ERC award (€2M) for Professor Henriques on sonic street technologies and
        establishing the Centre for Sound, Technology and Culture (2020), with Professor Tanaka
        and colleagues from Computing, Media, Communications and Cultural Studies, and Music;
    • Professor Clayton’s collaboration with colleagues from the University of London in Paris,
        on new forms of activism and her associated book on The New Internationalists: Activist
        Volunteers in the European Refugee Crisis (Goldsmiths Press, 2020);
    • ESRC/GCRF Award (£555K) for Dr Philogene Heron (Anthropology) on Caribbean
        Cyclone Cartography.

Goldsmiths’ 16 Research Units were developed to frame emergent or small-scale research
clusters housed within academic departments. Goldsmiths’ 23 Research Centres are larger,
primarily multidisciplinary, propositions sitting across academic departments. Centres set up since
2014 include the Centre for Feminist Research (2014), the Centre for Queer History (2019) and the
Decadence Research Centre (2020). PGR and postdoctoral members of the Centre for Feminist
Research exposed internal concerns and established the 1752 Group that campaigns and
engages in policy work regarding gender inequalities and violence in the higher education sector.
Over the next year we intend to launch Goldsmiths’ Race Critical Research Centre, bringing
significant investment from the College, drawing on major philanthropic donations, collaborating
with third sector and social enterprise partners, and addressing racial inequalities in social care,
media, education and public heritage.

Centres provide the ground for research leadership. Professor Knowles, a previous Director of the
Centre for Urban and Community Research, was appointed as Director for the Cities and
Infrastructure Programme (British Academy in 2017) and as Director for the Urban Infrastructures
of Well-Being Programme (in 2019; funded by BEIS and delivered through the British Academy).
Centres are important for our international strategy, developing researcher-led collaborations with
other research and non-academic partners. Forensic Architecture has partners on the ground in
Argentina, Cameroon, Lebanon, Mexico, Pakistan and the USA, among many others. Research
centres are enablers of research grant awards, notably from the European Research Council and
Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowships.

The strategies and achievements of the research centres are reviewed annually by REC, and
research units bi-annually. Both underwent strategic review in 2015-16 and will be strategically

                                                                                             Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
reviewed again in 2021-22. In 2019-20 the Research Themes underwent a major review and work
is underway to ensure that Goldsmiths’ core research strengths continue to address major societal
challenges, but also to ensure that the management and governance of the Themes are more
closely articulated with that of academic departments, academic schools and research centres.

Academic schools provide a home for cognate disciplines and have established regular research
fora across departments and strategies to align with institutional priorities. Over the next five years
we intend to position the schools as key enablers of cross-disciplinary collaboration and innovation,
grant funding proposals, research support and mentoring, and generation of knowledge exchange
and research commercialisation.

Through Goldsmiths’ Civic Strategy we have worked closely with the London Borough of
Lewisham to win the Mayor of London’s award in 2018 for a flagship economic development
project, establishing New Cross and Deptford as a Creative Enterprise Zone. Further
collaboration with Lewisham has led to awards in 2019 to become London’s 2022 Borough of
Culture and to establish an enterprise hub centred on Goldsmiths creative and digital
research. The outward translation of Goldsmiths’ research has been pivotal in developing
relationships, among others, with the Greater London Authority, CBI, the Creative Industries
Federation, the British Film Institute, and the Design Council and leveraging that work through
involvement and leadership in strategic initiatives (through, for example, UKRI London
Entrepreneurial Ecosystems, the University of London and London Higher).

Global Challenge Research Fund (GCRF) initiatives are a vehicle for investment and
international collaboration. From 2018 to 2020, Goldsmiths has funded twelve projects (from
Anthropology, Sociology, Psychology, and Politics) across India, Pakistan, South Sudan, Senegal,
Rwanda, Gambia, and Myanmar working with local people, co-creating knowledge and
producing fit-for-purpose local, but scalable, solutions. Notable achievements have been: the
AHRC/GCRF GlobalGRACE project developing creative arts and performance therapies for those
suffering gendered violence and trauma in Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, the Philippines, and
Bangladesh; and the innovative psychological AHRC/MRC/GRCF project on the impact of music
on perinatal health in The Gambia.

In the context of climate crisis, Goldsmiths has been developing novel research programmes and
public engagement. In 2019 we established the Goldsmiths’ Green New Deal to focus
investment, research and teaching. Over the coming year the UN Sustainable Development Goals
will become more visible across our College KPIs, including research.

Through the leadership of the Research Ethics and Integrity Sub-Committee, working with
academic department Research Ethics Committees and the Graduate School, we have raised
awareness, changed practice and adapted policy. We work closely with UKRIO, reforming our
procedures for ethical approval and investigating research misconduct, but also informing sector
awareness and practice through particular issues raised by our arts and humanities
disciplines and practice research. We are a signatory to DORA and their principles inform our
policy and practice (e.g. regarding recruitment and promotion).

Open access, but also public understanding and engagement, lie at the heart of our research
practice. We argue for a mature and sophisticated formulation of open access and influence policy
and practice through national and international arenas. Our approach draws on a deep-rooted

                                                                                               Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
sense of the need to understand different publishing and research output profiles for people at
different stages of their career, but also on the particularities that emerge from our mix of
disciplines and practice research.

Goldsmiths’ landmark events on Open Access Monographs and Publishing Models:
Collaborative Ways Forward (2015) and Critical Issues in Open Access and Scholarly
Communication (2019) have shaped thinking and sector agendas through bringing together
representatives from research funding bodies, learned societies, publishers, and academics.
Professor Kember, Director of Goldsmiths Press, is a leading figure on open access publishing
and digital media.

Professors McVeigh (Music) and d’Inverno (Computing) are founder members of the UK’s
Practice Research Advisory Group (PRAG), which has been central to developments on Open
Access Practice Research and has been transforming sector thinking. Goldsmiths was awarded
£30K (2018, Research England) for A New Visibility for Practice Research: Towards a Web of Arts.
Goldsmiths Research Online is a model for the sector in its curation and presentation of practice
research.

 3. People

Goldsmiths’ Staffing Strategy – delivered through institutional policy, devolved responsibility and
informed by best practice – is defined through three priorities:
     • To recruit and retain talented staff;
     • To ensure that staff across levels and areas are supported to achieve their best and to
        assist them in their career development;
     • To provide a working environment that is inclusive, respects people, values talent, has no
        tolerance for prejudice, discrimination, unfairness or misuse of power, and is supportive of
        staff health and wellbeing.

In 2020 Goldsmiths appointed senior leaders as equality champions for gender, race, LGBTQ+
and disability to support staff in driving change across the College. Goldsmiths’ institutional
approach to equality and diversity, framed in its Equality Objectives 2017- 21 and Action Plan,
resulted from extensive collaboration with staff and the Students’ Union. Policy and practice are
constantly questioned and confronted by our communities, keeping our commitment live and
relevant. The 2019 student occupation, led by Goldsmiths Anti-Racist Action, resulted in a
programme of measures for racial equality and justice, including mandatory anti-racism training for
all staff.

A Race Justice Strategy Board was established, chaired by the Warden and including staff and
student representatives from across the College. Goldsmiths is currently working toward the Race
Equality Charter and has employed dedicated staff to support that work. New initiatives include:
bespoke training and mentoring offered to BAME and women research-active staff at Senior
Lecturer and Reader levels to support promotion to Professorship; and a new scheme providing
short-term buy-out, training, networking and mentoring support for ECR BAME and women
research-active staff.




                                                                                             Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Our LGBTQ+ support and training has been acknowledged through our improved rankings in the
Stonewall Equality Index and a special commendation for promoting trans equality via our
Transitioning at Work guidance and Trans Awareness Training programme.

Since 2016 Goldsmiths has been part of the Disability Confident scheme and is accredited as a
Disability Confident Employer (inter alia, offering Disability Equality in the Workplace training).
An Accessibility and Inclusion Working Group was formed in 2016 and a Disability Equality
Steering Group (including academic and PGR representation) co-ordinates progress on disability
and equality objectives.

Improved EDI data management led to our Athena SWAN Bronze Award (2019). Priorities
include supporting BAME women to progress to senior academic leadership and professorial
positions; ensuring women are represented fully as heads of academic departments; ensuring
robust and consistently applied guidance on equality in recruitment. Dedicated leadership
programmes and bespoke mentoring and coaching are offered to women and BAME staff.
Women-only and BAME academic promotion briefings are offered by the Deputy Warden. The
Athena SWAN Action Plan lays out steps to progress gender equality over the next three years. A
Gender Equality Steering Group was established, chaired by the PWR to ensure senior
responsibility across the institution.

Sector-leading policies and procedures were developed with senior leadership, staff and
student’s unions and external stakeholders in 2018 to tackle sexual harassment and
violence, including establishing a new online reporting system, enhanced support and training for
staff and students.

Goldsmiths’ Staff Networks positively contribute to policy and best practice, including the
Goldsmiths Race Equality Group, the LGBTQ+ Staff Network, the Disabled Staff Network, the
Menopause Support Group, the Parents and Carers Network, and the Women’s Leadership
Network. The networks, vital in promoting equalities work, help inform the development of policy
and online resources, including our EDI Hub and dedicated information pages.

All chairs of recruitment panels are trained in equality and diversity to ensure that shortlisting and
interview panels have a gender and ethnicity balance and involve panellists from outside their
department to draw on diverse perspectives. A policy on Positive Action on Recruitment and
Selection is in development and will be approved for implementation by 2022.

We are a signatory to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and
have retained the HR Excellence in Research Award. The key principles of the Concordat are
applied for all research-active staff across their research career and not simply for those on
research-only contracts. Responsibility for research career development sits within academic
departments supported by HR, the Graduate School, and the Research and Enterprise team. A
dedicated post in Research and Enterprise was established to support this work across the
College. REC (whose composition is diverse and includes ECRs, senior professors and support
staff) has governance responsibility for researcher development at a strategic level (including
training and research leave). Research leave is available to all research-active academic staff and,
at an operational level, is managed by academic departments (often on a one-term-in-seven
policy).



                                                                                                 Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Extensive engagement with ECRs and with researchers who may fall outside of standard
definitions of a ‘researcher’ (including technicians and administrators) took place from 2014 to
2016. An Academic Lead for Early Career Researchers was established and an ECR and
researcher network was set up to facilitate an institutional voice for these constituencies. The
researcher network continues. In 2018 a Concordat Working Group (including ECRs, the Dean of
the Graduate School, and the PWR) was established in order to represent and report on ECR and
research career issues within the formal governance structure of the College. A review of
governance took place and a set of guiding principles were adopted across the College. REC has
formal oversight of ECR and researcher support (along with HREC) and policy change is aligned
with reporting for the Concordat and the HR Excellence in Research Award.

All newly appointed researchers receive information about the Concordat with their contracts,
ensuring that they are aware of their entitlement to career development support. For every newly
awarded research project, the Concordat forms part of the set-up pack and is discussed at the
initial project meeting.

Responsibility for doctoral studies sits with the Graduate School and governed through the
Postgraduate Research Board. Each academic department has a Director of PGR, a PGR
committee, and supervisory arrangements and concerns are in the first instance managed locally
within the department. The Graduate School has a physical home, but also a central virtual hub. It
provides skills training (including core research and academic practice modules) and development
opportunities to equip students for their doctorate and future careers, as well as training and
support for supervisors. PGR students and postdoctoral fellows have access to Graduate School
funding and support for conference attendance, event and workshop organisation, and research
projects. Mentoring is offered in addition to supervision. Academic departments provide dedicated
facilities and spaces (physical and virtual) for PGR students. PGR students have central research
support through the Library and the Centre for Academic Language and Literacies.

Goldsmiths’ membership of four Doctoral Training Partnerships – CHASE, SeNSS, IGGI and
Design Star, funded through the AHRC, ESRC and EPSRC – has been a major means of
recruiting and offering research studentships. These partnerships ensure that doctoral provision is
informed by national developments and they enable direct engagement with communities of
scholars across the partners, as well as offering bespoke training and networking opportunity.
From 2014, we have supported 155 UKRI-funded studentships and awarded 681 doctorates.


 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Goldsmiths’ total annual research spend has remained stable over the REF period averaging
£5.1M per annum. Our significant funders are UKRI (£1.8M pa) and EU (£2.1M pa). We have a
strong track record in winning prestigious European grants, particularly from the ERC, including
Professor Ruppert’s (Sociology) Peopling Europe: How Data Make a People and Dr West’s
(Psychology) What does it mean to be Heterosexual? The award averages hide an increase in
UKRI and charitable awards over the last three years (£2.5M), including Dr Benson’s (Sociology)
ESRC research on British citizens living in the EU during Brexit, Dr Pan’s (Computing) AHRC UK-
China Creative Partnership (aligning with Goldsmiths’ i2 Media Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund
UKRI Audience of the Future research on immersive technology), Professor Soldatova’s



                                                                                             Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
(Computing) EPSRC Action on Cancer and the significant charitable, arts and human rights
organisations funding for Forensic Architecture.

Colleagues from Visual Cultures, Media, Communications and Cultural Studies, Psychology,
Computing, Anthropology, Music and History have also had significant success with Leverhulme
Fellowship awards. Professor Djokic (History) was awarded both a British Academy and a
Leverhulme Fellowship to run sequentially for his work on The End of Yugoslavia, 1990-91.

Goldsmiths’ high proportion of creative practice-based researchers often obtain funding from non-
traditional sources (including commissions, exhibitions and Arts Council funding), meaning that the
annual HESA spend data only tells part of our research funding story.

In 2019, Goldsmiths’ Research Office was restructured as an integrated Research and Enterprise
Office, under new leadership, with an increase in staff to 21, significant investment in a new
research management system, and a renewed focus and strategic approach to research
development. This central team work with departmental research administrators to support
academic colleagues (i.e. through disseminating funding opportunities, supporting development
programmes, developing bids, and monitoring research expenditure).

A small percentage of QR funding is retained centrally to support new ideas and incentivise
interdisciplinary working and impact. Funds are awarded to advance our Research Themes (£60K
pa), research seed-corn and development projects (£25K pa), and in-country partnerships and
projects using Goldsmiths QR GCRF (£255K pa).

Reflecting our strategy to increase commercial income for R&D, Goldsmiths has grown its
engagements with businesses, particularly local SMEs. Goldsmiths’ research in Creative and
Cultural Entrepreneurship, Psychology, Design, Computing, Management and Law underpin
multiple local partnerships. Goldsmiths has engaged with over 300 local SMEs through its DeK
programme (in partnership with Lewisham and Southwark Councils and London South Bank
University). These engagements generate concrete impacts. Each DeK partnership was funded to
provide new products, services and employment opportunities. Beneficiary SMEs are active in
domains including fashion, healthcare, digital, circular economy, and sustainability. As evidence of
the value the SMEs derived from partnering with us, several are applying alongside Goldsmiths for
further innovation and R&D funding.

The 2018 award for the Creative Enterprise Zone brings together Goldsmiths’ research and
thriving local creative activity. Goldsmiths has continued to build on its success in R&D for the
creative industries. Notable highlights include partnerships with the Royal Shakespeare Company,
Manchester International Festival, Nesta, Punchdrunk, Philharmonia and Marshmallow Laser
Feast.

Researchers are supported by campus-based library services, dedicated subject librarians
and access to Senate House Library. Goldsmiths library is home to over 300,000 books and
7,000 print and electronic titles supporting our disciplinary range. The library is responsible for
Goldsmiths’ open access support infrastructure and repository - Goldsmiths Research Online
(GRO), including bespoke training and support for researchers. Goldsmiths’ Special Collections
include the Women’s Art Library, the Daphne Oram Archive, and Future Histories - an
inclusive collection of a black theatre and carnival archive. The Constance Howard Gallery,

                                                                                             Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
an AHRC centre dedicated to multidisciplinary textiles research, holds a specialist reference library
plus the Goldsmiths’ Textile Collection (including historical and anthropological resources on
textiles and dress), and hosts events and exhibitions attracting international audiences.

Goldsmiths Press, launched in 2016, continues its distinctive mission across national and
international publishing agendas, notably partnering with The MIT Press for global distribution.

Informed by UKRI and National Coordinating Centre for Public Engagement definitions, public
engagement (PE) at Goldsmiths encompasses the different ways specific publics are
engaged in a dialogue with the design, process and outcomes of our research, scholarship
and practice. A dedicated PE manager working with the PE Strategy Group and a wider
institutional PE forum, manages the delivery of the 2018 – 2023 Public Engagement Strategy.
Each year, researchers apply for seed funding for projects to inspire the public. For the 40th
anniversary of the New Cross Fire and Black People's Day of Action, the 2020/21 PE grants were
dedicated to Black voices. Many of the projects funded in previous years go on to be celebrated in
the Warden’s Annual Public Engagement Awards. The PE team, working with researchers and
external partners, has seeded impact case studies for our REF submission. Recent projects have
drawn additional success. In the 2019 Windrush: Arrival 1948 exhibition at the V&A (based on the
research of Dr Sinclair (Design) and Dr Price (History)) visitors explored Windrush journeys. The
MoU signed with the Horniman Museum followed the success of the Horniman X Goldsmiths Late
event, with over 1,000 spectators, which included immersive installations and activities (created by
researchers and students from Computing, Music, Anthropology and Art) that interacted with the
museum space and its artefacts.

Major aspects of Goldsmiths’ research are performative and exhibitionary and our campus is a
platform not just for researchers, but also local, national and international publics, and partners.
Highlights include:
     • Goldsmiths Centre for Contemporary Art, widely cited as a major intervention in the
        London and international art world, opened in September 2018 after a six-year capital
        project (£4.6M) and was built with the help of donations from alumni (including Bridget
        Riley, Damian Hirst, Sarah Lucas and Yinka Shonibare), philanthropists, and trusts and
        foundations. In doing this work, important partnerships and audiences have been
        developed beyond the gifts;
     • The George Wood Theatre reopened in 2018 following a £3.2m rebuild and contributes
        invaluably to research and impact for our Theatre and Performance researchers and
        performance-based PGR students;
     • The Sonics Immersive Media Labs (SIML) is a world-class multi-media facility housing
        researchers from across the College, enabling investigation into the theories, practices,
        and techniques of sound and image as media. As a trans-disciplinary facility, SIML
        facilitates conceptual as well as technological advances through the triangulation of the
        creative, critical and technological;
     • The Interaction Research Studio explores the design of computational systems for
        everyday life, integrating design-led research methods with work on embedded and
        ubiquitous technologies to produce prototype products embodying new concepts for
        interaction, and designing products to create situations that encourage playfulness,
        exploration and insight. Their work is inherently interdisciplinary with colleagues in
        Sociology, Media, Communications and Cultural Studies, Music and Computing
        complementing their expertise in critical design, sustainability and design learning;

                                                                                               Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    •   Goldsmiths Music Studio, with state-of-the-art recording facilities, opened in 2014 and
        facilitates industry collaborations, research and NX Records;
    •   The Art Research Garden is a new initiative that operates as a micro-context to observe
        change in our natural environment and facilitate artistic research into organic systems,
        cultivation and processing. The Art Research Garden supports ecological artistic research
        and teaching, knowledge transfer and public engagement, including outdoor and indoor
        growing, cooking facilities and a teaching space.

Goldsmiths supports a huge array of vibrant research and knowledge exchange, much of which
has not been represented in this text. We have been a beacon of imagination and creative practice
over many years, but also at heart committed to reaching out to assist others who might benefit
from our labours.




                                                                                         Page 10
