Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine (LSTM)

 1. Context and mission

 Research mission
 LSTM was the first European research institute dedicated to tropical medicine but only became
 an independent HEI in 2014. REF2021 is LSTM’s first independent REF submission; in
 REF2014 our staff were included in submissions from the Universities of Liverpool (UoL; UOA1)
 or University of Warwick (UoW; UOA2). Our links with both institutions remain very strong (as
 described in Unit level narratives).

 LSTM creates knowledge aimed to control or eliminate diseases afflicting the world’s poorest
 populations. We are a Global organisation with active research projects in 68 countries in 6
 continents (Figure 1) and 24% of LSTM staff submitted to UOA1 and UOA2 (20 of 85) are based
 long-term in Low/Middle Income Countries (LMICs). Similarly, 34% of LSTM-registered PhD
 students are resident in LMICs (this disqualifies them from inclusion in the present REF
 submission).




 Figure 1: Locations of research collaborations during census period.

 All four LSTM Departments collaborate with industry and delivery partners such as Ministries of
 Health and national and international Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs). LSTM’s close
 relationship with industry is exemplified by our hosting of the only product development
 partnership (PDP) working on vector control (IVCC – see UOA1). Broader industry links have
 been further enhanced by a Strength in Places Award (£18.6M) which, by leverage of additional
 funding (totalling £120M), has allowed establishment of the Infection Innovation Consortium
 (iiCON – see UOA1). iiCON’s collaborative effort is to develop new products that can directly
 reduce the burden of infectious diseases in the UK and around the world.

 The strong functional links between staff in Liverpool, staff based in LMICs and research users
 allow effective translation of research from bench-to-implementation. The same linkages ensure
 that research questions relevant to LMICs are at the centre of investigation. A commitment to
 capacity strengthening via equitable partnerships underpins all the work of LSTM.

 Educational mission
 LSTM’s current teaching portfolio comprises 10 Masters programmes, 3 professional Diplomas
 and a number of short professional development courses. However, with the granting of degree
 awarding powers (2017) and appointment of its first Dean of Education in 2018, LSTM is in the
 midst of an ambitious plan to expand its education portfolio. The pedagogical philosophy will
 focus on developing students’ intellectual curiosity and provide transferable skills for lifelong
 learning. Learning and teaching will be a collaborative ‘knowledge construction’ process that


                                                                                             Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 recognises the contribution of all stakeholders (academics, employers, service users and
 students).

 Over the next 3years, LSTM plans to introduce programmes that will align with and draw on
 LSTM’s research strengths and include an MRes, an ‘MSc in Innovation and Enterprise for
 Global Health’ and an ‘MSc in Implementation Research for LMICs’. The new programmes will
 be student centred and delivered through a blended learning approach. These elements will be
 delivered by researchers (both non-medical and medical) and non-academic healthcare workers,
 based in Liverpool and overseas. These new programmes are expected to double the numbers
 of Masters student to approximately 700 and likely result in a subsequent increase in PhD
 numbers.

 Size and structure
 LSTM is a small, focused, research-intensive HEI; in 2021, 601 staff were employed by LSTM
 on the census date, 393 of these in our 4 academic departments. All staff with Teaching and
 Research contracts (above 0.2 FTE) (79 staff) and 6 out of 143 with Research-Only contracts
 are included in our REF submission (the others having not met the REF2021 criteria of
 significant responsibility for research). The present UOA1 submission contains 54.1 FTE
 (compared to 31 FTE from LSTM in our REF2014 joint submission with UoL– 75% increase)
 while the UOA2 submission contains 27.7 FTE (compared with 4.2 FTE LSTM staff in our
 REF2014 joint submission with UoW – more than a 6-fold increase), partly driven by 28 new
 external academic appointments and a further 14 internal academics moving onto substantive
 positions during the Census Period.

 2. Strategy

 Achievements against REF2014 strategy

 Examples of progress against our strategic aims, as stated in REF2014 UOA1 and UOA2 joint
 submissions, that span the translational pipeline, are presented below.

 ‘To advocate selectively’. Development of intervention tools requires the understanding, both
 among funders and in Ministries of Health (MoH), that such tools are needed. TROPICAL
 SNAKEBITE (described in UOA1) is offered as an example of LSTM’s work in this field.
 Snakebite has historically been perhaps the most under-researched, under-resourced high
 mortality (138,000 deaths annually) and high morbidity (400,000 disabilities annually) Neglected
 Tropical Disease (NTD). Since 2014, LSTM staff have led international meetings, documentary
 films, and launched the ‘International Snakebite Awareness Day’ to enhance the visibility of
 snakebite leading to the World Health Organization (WHO) formally classifying snakebite as a
 priority NTD in 2017. WHO has also established a ‘prequalification’ programme for ensuring the
 quality of snakebite therapeutics and a strategy (co-written by LSTM scientists) to halve the
 global snakebite mortality and morbidity by 2030. Impact Case Study LSTM103 sets out the
 work done by LSTM, within this framework, to design, develop and deliver improved antivenoms,
 resulting in new, cost-effective, life-saving treatments.

 ‘To undertake research that supports product development pipelines’ Multiple examples
 are provided in our UOA1 narrative and we present just two examples here. (a) DRUG
 DEVELOPMENT FOR NTDs. Wolbachia is a bacterial endosymbiont of filarial worms and a
 target for drug therapy. The Anti-Wolbachia (AWOL) Consortium has established a preclinical
 platform to assess candidate cures for filariasis. Resulting drug candidates include: the AbbVie
 molecule ABBV-4083 (which has reached clinical Phase-II and is the subject of an
 ‘investigational new drug’ submission to the US FDA) and the Eisai molecule AWZ1066
 (toxicology profiling completed and first-in human testing will start August 2021). In addition,
 AWOL work on doxycycline has led to WHO approval of this treatment for treatment of filarial
 diseases. (b) DRUG DEVELOPMENT FOR MALARIA. Industry-standard pathways are followed
 (in formal product-development-partnerships with the Medicines for Malaria Venture (MMV))
 extending from pre-clinical discovery to clinical stages of development. One such collaboration

                                                                                            Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 has resulted in the synthetic tetroxane E209 which is being assessed for clinical development.
 LSTM’s successes in such T1 translational research were the basis for a recent STRENGTH IN
 PLACES FUND AWARD (iiCON), described in unit narratives.

 ‘To develop Monitoring and Evaluation methodologies and systems to measure Impact’
 Examples of activity can be found in UOA1 and UOA2 including (a) An evidence-based
 intervention package for OBSTETRIC EMERGENCIES (EmOC) was developed by LSTM staff
 who demonstrated its effectiveness. LSTM then led ‘Making It Happen’ (MiH), a 7year (2009-
 2016) multicounty implementation programme to improve the availability and quality of EmOC.
 (b) REACHOUT which has assessed and developed the role of close-to-community providers of
 health care in managing major illnesses in Africa and Asia. (c) AMETHIST is currently exploring
 whether a sex work programme, tailored for Africa, can raise uptake and adherence to HIV
 prevention and treatment among female sex workers

 ‘To operate as a Centre of Excellence for Evidence-based Research Synthesis across a
 range of disciplines’ (described in UOA2). Public health policy makers in LMICs can face
 challenges when presented with a wide range of, often conflicting, evidence and draw on
 evidence synthesis methods to support decision making. LSTM houses the Centre for Evidence
 Synthesis in Global Health, a WHO Collaborating centre, which conducts systematic reviews
 and has published evidence in areas including COVID-19 interventions, hand washing for
 prevention of diarrhoea, malaria diagnosis and treatments and contact tracing strategies in TB.

 ‘To assist Disease Endemic Country partners to optimise intervention strategies and
 implementation’ (described in UOA2). Examples include: (a) REDRESS is using a person-
 centred approach to evaluate, develop, and adapt health systems interventions for the
 management of stigmatizing skins diseases in Africa. (b) LIGHT aims to transform gendered
 pathways to health for those with tuberculosis in urban, HIV-prevalent settings and to stop the
 spread of TB. (c) The MENSTRUAL HEALTH CONSORTIUM is addressing the menstrual health
 needs of girls in rural Kenyan schools contributing to national policy, global discourse and
 strategy and training guidelines.

 ‘To provide leadership in defining methodologies to monitor and evaluate the
 effectiveness of external and internal Capacity Strengthening programmes’. The Centre
 for Capacity Research (CCR, described in UOA2) works to strengthen the ability of individuals,
 institutions, and systems to generate the knowledge needed to address a population’s health
 and development needs. CCR collaborates with leading funding/implementing partners
 (including DFID/FCDO, the Royal Society, the Wellcome Trust, the UK Collaborative on
 Development Sciences, WHO and UKRI) who use CCR’s evidence to underpin major UK
 research capacity strengthening investments.

 Forward strategy

 Changes in our research culture
 LSTM is a signatory to the:
    • Vitae Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and its
       implementation is extending our vibrant youthful research culture because the
       organization is now influenced by participation of Early Career Researchers (ECRs) in
       decision-making to a greater degree than before;
    • San Francisco Declaration on Researcher Assessment (DORA) where our ‘action plan’
       to improve compliance is now at an advanced stage. Scientific outputs are judged on
       their originality, rigor and significance and we have set out our approach to judging wider
       research contributions. Academic research performance expectations are now explicit,
       and widely disseminated;
    • UUK Consortium on Research Integrity where our ‘action plan’ (which sees us move to a
       pro-active approach to standards in the laboratory, in research on human subjects and in
       systematic review-based research) is now at an advanced stage;


                                                                                            Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    •   Technicians Commitment which is increasing the visibility and improving career
        structures for our technicians;
    •   Knowledge Exchange Concordat which is equipping staff and students with skills to
        thrive in an open research environment.

 LSTM will shortly appoint a Dean of Research Culture and Integrity to ensure these
 commitments are embedded in policy and practice.

 Our research data management policy recognises the long term value of research data and is
 designed to aid researchers in maximising the public visibility and thereby facilitating the reuse
 of data, minimising the risk of data loss, and ensuring compliance with funders’ policies. All
 researchers undertake mandatory training in Data Protection and Research Integrity. LSTM’s
 Centre for Data acts as a central resource for support in data management.

 Safeguarding of research participants, communities with whom we work, and vulnerable children
 and adults is taken very seriously at LSTM. A dedicated safeguarding officer conducts
 workshops for staff and students and is the key point of contact for any concerns and a Strategic
 Safeguarding Oversight Committee meets bi-monthly to monitor the organisation’s progress
 against our organisational safeguarding action plan.

 Open Access (OA)
 LSTM OA-compliance is high: UOA1 - 100% and UOA2 - 98.5%. The Library allocates funds for
 article processing charges that enable articles to be OA on the publishers' own websites. We are
 entering into an increasing number of agreements with publishers, which offer cost effective
 routes to fully OA publishing. The Library manages LSTM’s institutional repository, an online OA
 archive of all LSTM publications.

 Public and community engagement
 LSTM is committed to engaging the public about its world-class research, locally, nationally, and
 internationally. LSTM seeks to listen to the public, and other key stakeholders, both in the UK
 and in LMICs, and to discuss the challenges faced by communities to set the agenda for its
 research. LSTM staff have been working very actively with local communities during the COVID-
 19 pandemic. For example, 27 staff have collectively contributed to 98 Radio Merseyside
 programmes in the past year to provide updates and explanations during the pandemic.

 Promoting interdisciplinarity
 Interdisciplinarity is facilitated by 9 cross-cutting Research Centres, externally funded
 interdisciplinary awards, and cross departmental appointments, all of which are described in
 Unit-level statements.

 International partnerships
 LSTM’s major externally funded research programmes are set out in UOA1 and UOA2. Most of
 these are in close collaboration with established independent research organisations in LMICs.
 In addition, the work of LSTM staff in both UOAs sometimes requires long-term presence
 overseas and examples of locations of these staff include:
     • The Malawi-Liverpool-Wellcome Programme (MLW). MLW employs 648 staff and is the
         long-term base of 10 LSTM academics (all of whom are included in Unit level
         submissions). MLW undertakes clinical-laboratory study of human diseases, vector
         biology, public health research, epidemiology, and health-behaviour research. MLW is
         currently building Malawi’s first specialist postgraduate medical training centre (the
         ‘CREATOR building’) financed by Wellcome, LSTM and the UoL.
     • KEMRI-CDC in western Kenya. This health and demographic surveillance system
         provide a platform for population-based studies. LSTM staff are working on malaria, HIV,
         rapid diagnostic tests, paediatric gut health and reproductive health.
     • The Centre for Research in Infectious Diseases (CRID), Cameroon. Research activities
         focus on vector control including of malaria, arbovirus diseases and sleeping sickness
         using genetics, genomics, and ecological approaches.

                                                                                               Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    •   The Centre for Sexual Health and HIV/AIDS Research (CeSHHAR), Zimbabwe.
        CeSHHAR conducts implementation research related to HIV and sexual and
        reproductive health, including evaluation of several national programmes, and runs
        Zimbabwe’s national program for sex workers.

 Achieving research impact
 All of LSTM’s research, whether single-discipline or interdisciplinary, aims to achieve impact for
 the world’s poorest people through translation and implementation. To facilitate this, LSTM
 systematically collects impact data annually, collates this information and celebrates case
 studies in the school-wide seminar series. Although no incentive is necessary to encourage
 development of impact in LSTM, outstanding Impact Case Studies are presented annually to the
 Board of Trustees.

 Knowledge Exchange
 Over the past two decades Liverpool City Region (LCR) has undergone an economic
 renaissance and now has a diversifying economy that facilitates innovation and future economic
 growth, and LSTM is a core partner. The BEIS ‘Science & Innovation Audit’ from LCR lists
 ‘infection research’ as one of its 3 strategic areas for growth and LSTM has worked within this
 framework to benefit the health of the UK through local partnerships. LSTM is a member of both
 the Health & Life Science Board of the LCR and the local ‘Academic Health Science System’
 Liverpool Health Partners. LCR, Cheshire and Warrington have the largest concentration of
 infectious diseases research in the UK as illustrated by the speed and efficiency by which the
 region mobilised resources to address the COVID-19 crisis with active research programmes in
 diagnostics, therapeutics, and vaccines. Diagnostic technologies at LSTM have been rapidly
 adapted to address COVID-19 and LSTM has become a test bed for new technology
 development with multiple commercial and academic partners. LSTM’s Hazard Grade-3
 facilities, essential for the handling of COVID-19, have supported studies into novel therapeutic
 interventions. This has brought together a Liverpool consortium of some 40 scientists who have
 established a COVID-19 pre-clinical pipeline to identify, prioritise and validate candidate
 molecules suitable for clinical Phase I and Phase II studies.

 LSTM’s largest PDP collaborator has been the Innovative Vector Control Consortium (IVCC)
 which is the only PDP working in vector control anywhere in the world. Established in 2005
 (through a grant from the Gates Foundation), IVCC works with stakeholders to facilitate the
 development of novel interventions and brings together partners from industry, the public sector
 and academia. Interactions with industry are further supported through the MRC Confidence in
 Concept programme which has involved over 46 different industry partners in the 7years since
 establishment.

 Ongoing aims
 LSTM is currently working to its 2017-2023 Strategic Plan. The major research activities planned
 for the next 6 years will continue in line with that plan, particularly concentrating on translational
 research, that addresses global infection priorities and is focused on health impact in the poorest
 areas of the world.
 Activities will include:
      • Building on the success of our work in COVID-19 to increase our investment in emerging
          infectious diseases
      • Strengthening the laboratory base in Liverpool and overseas to address therapeutic and
          diagnostic challenges related to infectious diseases
      • Developing greater capacity to undertake interdisciplinary work on health systems
      • Developing closer relationships with industry through our translational platforms and
          iiCON
      • Working more closely within the Liverpool region to apply LSTM’s global expertise to
          some of the problems affecting our local population
      • Developing stronger partnerships with organizations in the countries of Asia and Africa
          where we work with a continued focus on equity and breaking the cycle of ill health and
          poverty

                                                                                                Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
    •   Supporting the development of young career researchers and attracting new talent to
        LSTM, including employment of larger numbers of researchers in LMICs.
    •   Strengthening the profile of LSTM with external stakeholders as part of the initiatives to
        celebrate LSTM’s 125th anniversary in 2023

 Sustainability

 Leadership. The Director, Deputy Director and Deans of Biological Sciences and Clinical
 Science & International Public Health are all research active and submitted to either UOA1 or
 UOA2, as are all four Heads of Department. Since REF2014 LSTM has created Deputies to
 Heads of Department thereby strengthening succession planning.

 New appointments since REF2014. The rise in numbers of staff submitted to UOA1 and UOA2
 include 28 external academic appointments made since January 2014. These new appointments
 have enabled expansion in of research topics and we now have increased breadth and depth
 across the translational pipeline from bench to implementation.

 Equitable engagement with the global south. This remains one of LSTM’s core values and
 strategic goals and is key to the long-term sustainability of our work. LSTM has approved an
 increasing number of joint and honorary appointments and secondments between LSTM and
 partner organisations in LMICs as part of this global engagement.

 Sustainability and Environmental Impact. Environmental, Social and Governance issues are
 at the forefront of all that we do. Staff led Environmental Working Groups propose measures to
 reduce the environmental impact of our different activities (e.g. laboratory work, international
 travel) and their recommendations are consolidated into an action plan that is monitored by the
 Sustainability and Environment Committee. Due diligence carried out on our research partners
 and suppliers considers social and governance aspects as part of partnering considerations and
 are linked to ongoing capacity building activities.

 3. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Career pathways for part-time and fixed-term staff. Since 2019, and responding to a call from
 staff, a concerted effort has been made to reduce the use of fixed-term contracts for ‘R-only’
 staff by engagement with line managers (to identify upcoming vacancies) and with staff (to
 explore their career plans). Staff eligible for redeployment are prioritised for consideration for
 roles ahead of other applicants. A working group has been established to improve the career
 and development of researchers; senior managers, HR professionals and ECRs are working
 together to co-create and implement an action plan that recognises and rewards the
 contributions of grant funded researchers and highlights and celebrates alternative career
 pathways within and out of academia. Requests for flexible working are welcome and, learning
 from the changes in working practices necessitated by COVID-19, we are adapting our approach
 to flexible and ad-hoc agile working, giving our colleagues greater opportunity to vary their hours
 of work and location to balance their responsibilities at work and home on a day-to-day basis.

 Supporting staff wellbeing. Our Dignity at Work policy describes our commitment to
 maintaining a prevailing culture of fairness and mutual respect. LSTM has an online reporting
 platform, Freedom to Speak Up, where people can raise issues relating to safeguarding, staff
 and student conduct (including allegations relating to research integrity and DORA) and
 wellbeing. 2019-20 has seen the creation of two staff-led networks; the LGBTQ+ Network and
 BAME Staff Network. Events of May 2020 highlighted ongoing inequality across the globe:
 LSTM was challenged by staff on adequacy of its focus on internal race equality. A Race
 Equality Action Panel has been established to consult, develop and implement an action plan.
 This will feed into the new 2021-2024 Equality Diversity and Inclusion Strategy, strengthening
 our commitment to becoming an actively anti-racist Institution.

                                                                                              Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Early Career Researchers (ECRs). 21% of submitted staff FTE in REF2021 are defined as
 ECRs. Support for ECRs is described in Unit level statements and includes:
    • MRC Skills Development Fellowship Programme in Translational and Quantitative Skills
        for Global Health (4 Awards) which aims to develop a cadre of talented researchers who
        demonstrate leadership in translational research and can work across the traditional
        phases of translational research.
    • The Wellcome Trust Institutional Translational Partnership Award (iTPA) which will allow
        LSTM to overcome barriers experienced by staff that limit their ability to progress
        translational research.
    • Internally funded schemes including the Director’s Catalyst Fund (21 Awards) and seed
        funding to support innovation and proof-of-concept.
    • Career Track which underwrites salary support for promising researchers and provides
        mentorship, and reduced teaching and administrative expectations, to help them
        transition to substantive positions; 14 ECRs have successfully completed the career
        track scheme in the current census period and 13 of these have subsequently been
        promoted.
    • Seminars and training workshops in areas such as grant writing and publication strategy
        and a supportive system of peer review of grants and publications pre submission

 Support for overseas based staff. 45 of total staff (7.5%) are based overseas in Botswana,
 Cameroon, Kenya, Malawi, Nepal, Uganda and Zimbabwe – despite the geography, overseas-
 based people serve remotely on LSTM committees. We support these staff by maintaining high-
 specification research environments, by facilitating integration with UK-based colleagues and by
 provision of overseas allowances.

 Research students. Research students are fully integrated into research groups. An annual
 postgraduate symposium provides an opportunity for all students to present their work. Students
 undertake an appraisal of their professional and personal training needs upon registration and
 annually thereafter using the ‘Development Needs Analysis’ (DNA) tool and engage with training
 opportunities via the PGR Skills Development Programme, MSc modules, and external courses
 to bridge their knowledge gaps. The DNA and Skills Development Programme are both built
 around the four primary domains of the VITAE Researcher Development Framework, and
 training sessions are tailored to be suitable for participants to join on-site as well as off-site.
 LSTM consistently achieves approval scores from student participants of above 80% in the
 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) in relation to Professional Development and
 Research Skills.

 Equality and diversity. Our Inclusion, Diversity & Engagement Manager is leading on initiatives
 to increase inclusivity across all areas of LSTM and is working closely with staff networks to
 implement and monitor ‘bottom up’ approaches. All new policies undergo Equality Impact
 Assessments and staff undertake mandatory training in diversity and inclusion.

 LSTM has greater number of female than male staff in all grades except NHS and Professorial
 and Corporate Leaders (31% female) and yet only 36% of REF submitted staff are female. In
 2020 we had a 11.1% median hourly pay gap in favour of men. We are investigating reasons for
 this gap (for example undertaking a pay audit introducing a talent management approach to
 succession planning) and have set a target to reduce the GPG to 5.5% by 2026.

 81% of staff who declared their ethnicity identify as white (72% of Professorial and Corporate
 Leaders) and 59% of our REF submitted staff are white. We have an inverse ethnicity pay gap
 with median hourly pay rates being lower for white staff than any other ethnic group (difference
 ranges from <1% to <16%).


 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities


                                                                                              Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 The number of staff employed by LSTM has increased by 47% over the census period. This has
 been accommodated by investment in two new buildings (the Wolfson Building and Liverpool
 Life Sciences Accelerator Building). Our research office has overseen a 95% increase in our
 research income over the census period, facilitated by providing academics with updates on
 funding opportunities, training workshops and support on budget preparations. Research
 Committee coordinates the award of our multiple internal funding schemes and also oversees
 the peer review process for external funding applications with restricted numbers of
 applicants/institute. We support collaborations via our very successful ‘speed networking’ events
 and by providing funding for workshops with potential external partners early in the bid writing
 process.

 Our laboratory scientists work in shared well-equipped open plan facilities, which have recently
 benefited from a £1.3M investment to upgrade equipment. All equipment is shared between
 research groups to remove barriers to new principal investigators and ensuring equitable access
 regardless of group size or seniority. The provision of specialist laboratories such as Hazard
 Grade 3 microbiology, parasitology and insectary suites, and a Human Challenge Facility
 attracts investment and collaboration from local SME, pharmaceutical and agrochemical
 industries and with NHS Trusts.




                                                                                            Page 8
