Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Institution: 10007140 Birmingham City University (BCU)

1. Context and mission

BCU has a 178-year heritage of creative, professional, and practice-based education, founded in
the Birmingham Schools of Art (1843), Music (1886) and Jewellery (1890). Now, as the self-styled
University for Birmingham, we serve as regional anchor and civic university for the benefit of
students, citizens, businesses, public bodies and third sectors alike.
Our core mission to transform students’ lives is underwritten by a commitment to foster economic
growth, social innovation and cultural vitality in our region, our nation, and far beyond. Through
blue-sky and applied research, we create and disseminate new knowledge, developing forward-
thinking graduates and catalysing innovation. Our new trans-disciplinary STEAM project harnesses
our arts heritage with STEM subjects to fuel innovation in research, teaching and partnerships.
Following the launch of STEAMhouse Phase 2 later in 2021, we are set to establish a partner
STEAMhouse in India.
Our academic portfolio spans nearly half the REF2021 Units of Assessment, with fourteen UoAs
returned and two under development. They are spread across all four of our Faculties:
   •   Arts, Design and Media (ADM), incorporating the Royal Birmingham Conservatoire: UoAs
       27, 32, 33, 34
   •   Business, Law and Social Sciences (BLSS): UoAs 4,17, 18, 20, 21
   •   Computing, Engineering, and the Built Environment (CEBE): UoAs 11, 12, 13
   •   Health, Education and Life Sciences (HELS): UoAs 3, 23 (5 and 24 under development)
Each Faculty is led by a Pro-Vice Chancellor/Executive Dean (PVCExD) and comprises subject-
based Schools/Departments, complemented by research centres and clusters. At the census date
our academic workforce comprised 1,458FPE/1,187FTE (91.6% teaching and research, 3.5%
research-only, 4.9% teaching-only). Additional visiting lecturers provide specialist subject tuition.
Our staff population includes career academics and those with other professional backgrounds; job
descriptions reference research, enterprise, scholarship and teaching responsibilities. We do not
expect all staff to conduct REF-returnable research; many engage instead in nationally recognised
Knowledge Transfer/Knowledge Exchange (KT/KE) and innovation. Our REF2021 Code of
Practice (CoP) defines Category-A staff with significant responsibility for research (SIGRES),
linked to explicit workload tariffs and totalling c.25% of all academic staff (314FPE/295.6FTE) on
31/7/2020.

Research Accountability
The Deputy Vice Chancellor for Research, Innovation and Enterprise (DVCRIE) is responsible to
the Vice-Chancellor, supported by a PVCExD with oversight of the REF2021 submission. In each
Faculty, an Associate Dean for Research (ADR) reports to the PVCExD; individual UoAs house
research clusters, as described in their REF5bs. Clusters are typically led by research professors,
and support research careers, doctoral and postdoctoral education, and research partnerships.
Research Governance
Our research infrastructure brings together academics and professional services to increase
research capacity and excellence, foster cross-disciplinary collaboration, ensure research
underpins our teaching, and translate research into KT, innovation and enterprise activities. The
infrastructure is designed to exceed the expectations of research funders, UUK and UKRI
concordats, and the QAA quality code for doctoral training. Figure 1 shows the relationship


                                                                                              Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
between University and Faculty research governance:




Figure 1: Research Governance Committee Structure

Research Committee (URC) is chaired by the DVCRIE and reports to the University’s Academic
Board. URC determines institutional research strategy and policy. Its membership includes the four
Faculty ADRs, key professional services directors, and research community representatives.
URC has two sub-committees: Research Environment and Training Committee (RETC), and
Research Ethics, Governance and Compliance Committee (REGCC).
RETC maintains oversight of doctoral education and researcher development. Membership
includes the Director of Research Excellence (Chair), the four ADRs, senior staff of the DRC,
Faculty Research Degree co-ordinators, the Course Director for the PGCert Research Practice,
with Library and Learning Resources representation. REGCC is responsible for policies and
processes in research integrity and ethics, including data management and researcher training.
Faculty committees for Research (FRC), Ethics (FAEC) and Research/Doctoral Education
(FRDEC), shown in Figure 1, consider issues within their local populations.
We believe our arrangements have improved support for staff and PGRs, increasing the quality,
volume and subject coverage of research submitted to REF2021.


2. Strategy

Internationally recognised research sits at the heart of our academic portfolio and yields impact via
innovation and enterprise initiatives. Following RAE2008, we invested to protect historic excellence
in Panel D subjects whilst accelerating growth in high-quality research for Panels A, B and C. Our
REF2014 submission and outcomes improved significantly:

                                           Doctoral    Research             Overall
                        FTE      FPE
                UoAs                       Awards      Income               GPA
 RAE-2008       7       87.0     103       78          £11.32 M             2.31
 REF-2014       11      122.0    151       85          £13.24 M             2.64
Table 1: Comparison of RAE2008 and REF2014 Submissions

Furthermore, research power increased by 60%, while five UoAs averaged more than 3.2 for
Impact.




                                                                                             Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Strategy 2014-2021

Building on REF2014, we have invested significantly in academic staffing, doctoral student funding,
professional services support, and research facilities. Our five-year REF2021 strategy was
developed in 2015-16 with input from Professor Sir Graeme Davies (previously VC of Liverpool,
Glasgow and London Universities and HEFCE CEO). We aimed to broaden disciplinary coverage
to 13 or 14 UoAs (adding Psychology, Engineering and Sociology) and increase submitted FTE to
250+, thereby boosting research capacity and with it research-informed teaching and KT/enterprise
activities.
Impact of the Stern review
The requirement to submit all Category-A SIGRES staff to REF2021 for assessment had little
impact on our strategy. Our CoP articulates the academic workload/resource allocations that define
SIGRES, grounded in established University policies.
Strategic Growth of Research Capacity
Outside the National Bargaining Framework, we have additional freedom to define contractual and
operational relationships with staff. In 2015/16 academic job descriptions were reviewed and
graded. In 2016/17 we implemented an Academic Workload Planning Framework so that: (i)
academic staff assume a portfolio of activities suited to their development and career aspirations,
and (ii) research and enterprise activity, outputs and outcomes can be resourced effectively.
All staff are encouraged to pursue scholarship, independent research, innovation, KE and
enterprise activities, according to career stage. To HESA we therefore return most as ‘teaching
and research’, with minimal teaching-only contracts. A proportion (c.25%) receive a research
allowance to create outputs likely to be internationally recognised for originality, significance and
rigour, under a common framework developed for URC by our Faculties; allowances are
dependent on band, seniority and performance. Those c.25% of staff are submitted to REF2021
and reported to HESA.


Table 2 compares the scale of our REF2021 and REF2014 submissions, showing marked growth
in all areas:

                                             Doctoral   Research
                           FTE        FPE
                UoAs                         Awards     Income
 REF-2014       11       122.0    151        85         £13.24 M
 REF-2021       14       291.0    311        263        £16.42 M
Table 2: Comparison of submissions to REF2014 and REF2021


Research Support Infrastructure Improvements
Investment in our research environment and professional services infrastructure has been key to
our REF2021 strategy. We have diversified income sources, identified new innovation projects,
won and invested more funding for doctoral students, and created a new cross-institution doctoral
training programme.
In 2015 we established a new Research Innovation, Enterprise & Employability (RIEE) service
department, home to our Research Office of 48 staff. There are three specialist teams, each led by
an experienced Director. Details of their activities are given in Section 4 but in outline they are:


                                                                                                Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
•   Research and Innovation Gateway (RIG) team: supporting academic staff with pre- and post-
    award functions for funded research and innovation; ensuring compliance with UKRI Terms
    and Conditions.
•   Research Excellence (RX) team: coordinating support for ethical review of research (staff and
    PGR); impact; research integrity; open access; research information systems; web/social
    media presence.
•   Doctoral Research College (DRC) team: managing the PGR lifecycle from application to
    award; providing registry functions for PGRs; coordinating the PGCert Research Practice;
    overseeing training and development for PGRs, supervisors, examiners, and viva chairs.

RIG has been pivotal in increasing the volume, quality and success of funding applications, its
compliance function significantly boosted by recent investment. Currently we have 217 externally
funded projects. Of those, 168 are research projects with a total value of £27.8m, yielding £18.0m
research income to BCU but predominantly in the next REF cycle.
The DRC has overseen growth in PGR numbers and accelerated completions. In July 2014 we
had 300 PGRs; in July 2020, more than 500. Completions have, as Table 2 shows, tripled during
the REF2021 cycle to 263 (excluding 5 PhDs by Published Works). We have invested more than
£5m in UKRI-level bursaries for more than 100 PGRs, including matching of bursaries from the
AHRC M3C/M4C Doctoral Training Partnership. Our PGCert Research Practice, focusing on core
skills, is now mandatory for new PGR students.
Strengthened Open Access (OA) Support
The RX team supports academic staff and PGRs with all aspects of OA. Our new research
repository was implemented in December 2016 based on ePrints, supported by a specialist Open
Access Officer and registered with openDOAR. Our ‘Open by Default’ policy for research outputs
encompasses all output types, exceeding the OA requirements of UKRI and REF2021 and
boosting access to new knowledge and its impact. The RX team supports our research information
systems; currently we are finalising implementation of a CRIS system using Pure from Elsevier.
Strengthened Impact Support
Three permanent appointments as Impact Officers are based in RX and work with academics and
professional services staff to accelerate and articulate the multiple impacts of our research
expertise, and to connect with external organisations.
Strengthened Research Integrity Support
Two permanent appointments as Research Integrity Officers ensure our research environment
exceeds the expectations of the UUK Concordats of Research Integrity and the growing
expectations of funders and public accountability. Through REGCC we undertook a
comprehensive review of our Good Research Practice guidelines, creating new policies on
research misconduct (staff and PGRs) and new guidance on the storage and disposal of research
data. The appointment of two Research Ethics Officers underpins the review of research ethics
applications by staff and PGRs by Faculty Academic Ethics Committees (FAECs). Working with
FAEC chairs, those officers support our electronic research ethics application system (Infonetica’s
Ethics Review Manager platform).




Strategy After REF2021

                                                                                             Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
A cornerstone of our future research strategy is investment in the physical and intellectual
infrastructure of STEAMhouse 2 (c.£70m, including substantial LEP funding); its projects in
research, innovation and doctoral education will increasingly have a cross-disciplinary and
international flavour, with STEAMhouse India a significant partner.
We will develop new research clusters in Biosciences (UoA5) and Sports and Exercise Science
(UoA24, subject of a REF2021 small unit exemption), the latter enriched by the Commonwealth
Games 2022 legacy project. Diversifying the reach of research into our academic and student
populations entail measured growth in the number of staff with SIGRES. However, quality and
impact among existing and emerging centres will be paramount, as reflected in individual UoA and
Faculty plans for the next research cycle.
Younger staff feature heavily in recent recruitment: 30% of Category-A (28% SIGRES) staff are 35
or younger. Because 20% of our Category-A staff are 55 or older, succession planning in key
research areas has begun. Future recruitment will focus on achieving a balance of teaching,
research and innovation ambitions, taking account of diversity imperatives.
Our PGR community will grow to 800-1,000 by 2027, with action to remove barriers to Level 8
study for hitherto marginalized groups. Building on the success of the AHRC Midlands 3/4 Cities
DTP and participation in University Alliance DTPs, we will increase pooled training, networking and
sharing of best practice for PGRs. We will secure new funding for full-time study via collaboration
and investment from QR and institutional funds. Part-time PGR study – currently 54% of our PGR
population – will grow. We will also offer more HESA D00 professional doctorates by part-
time/distance learning for those in the professions.
We will continue to invest in our research environment to support the development of our staff and
PGR students, and ensure we meet the increasing expectations of Concordats, funders and the
QAA. Investment in research information systems will be leveraged to enable our research
decision-making to be robustly evidenced and benchmarked.
Inevitably, some KPIs will be determined by our performance in REF2021. Fundamental, however,
will be the work of seizing the innovation and enterprise opportunities created by our research. The
interdependencies of research, innovation and impact call for a holistic approach based on
realising the potential of all our staff and students, whatever their specific responsibilities.


3. People

As noted in Section 1, some of our staff engage in curiosity-driven research while others focus on
demand-led and partnership objectives. Both models meet the Frascati definition of research and
may deliver outcomes internationally recognised for originality, significance and rigour. Other staff
engage in the transfer of new knowledge, pursuing KT/KE and other innovation activities with the
private, public and third sectors. Such activities more commonly lead to national rather than
international recognition. Our academic staff follow one of three parallel career development
pathways, as shown in Table 3:




                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Level        Teaching Focused            Teaching and Research         Research Focused
 1            Assistant Lecturer          Assistant Lecturer            Research Assistant
 2            Teaching Fellow             Lecturer                      Research Fellow
 3            Senior Teaching Fellow      Senior Lecturer               Senior Research Fellow
 4            Associate Professor         Associate Professor           Reader
 5            Professor                   Professor                     Professor
Table 3: Academic Pathways and Levels

Staff can switch pathways as they progress, subject to strategic resourcing. If the relevant criteria
are met, professorial recognition is available to all staff via the conferment process, regardless of
pathway.
As noted in Section 1, our CoP defines which staff have SIGRES and are returned to REF2021.
Our definition of SIGRES is linked to individual workload allocations of specific research allowance
(RA) tariffs from Band 1 to Band 3 researcher. Staff with SIGRES have objectives to deliver
research of REF-able quality, as detailed in our Guidance on Applying Research Allowance in
WAMS document. Band 1 researchers demonstrating excellent performance through our annual
individual performance review (IPR) may progress to Band 2 and ultimately to Band 3, which is
normally associated with professorial status.
Development of Researcher Capability
The staff profile described in Section 1 means colleagues entering from non-HE professions may
require particular support in developing research capability – typically, in undertaking a doctorate.
Following completion, research independence may be established through allocation of post-
doctoral workload tariffs. After becoming independent researchers, staff can progress to early-
career researcher status; a Band 1 allowance in their workload indicates they have SIGRES.

Our staff development framework provides opportunities for all staff to enhance their research
skills. Workshops and community events focus on writing for publication, developing grant
applications, applying for fellowships, project leadership, dissemination, and impact. Training is
small-group based and designed to be interactive and challenging, so supporting researchers to
network and create communities of research practice. The wider programme includes mentoring,
peer writing support, small grants schemes, and school and centre-focused research seminar
series, often with cross-disciplinary contributions. Sessions are open to all staff across the
University. On average, more than 200 academic staff engage with the programme every year.

Academic Conferment Process
The University’s Academic Board confers the titles of Professor, Associate Professor and Reader,
following a process accessible to all academic staff, whether full- or part-time. Titles are awarded in
recognition of individual distinction, in accordance with established criteria and informed by internal
and external peer judgement.
Professorial candidates must be able to demonstrate international reach and recognition in one of
the following three categories, and either outstanding achievement or a very high level of
achievement in one of the other two:
     •   Research, creative work, consultancy, professional practice or performance to the
         furtherance of a subject

                                                                                               Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
   •    Learning and teaching
   •    Academic leadership
Most Professorships are remunerated according to a three-stage professorial grade. Associate
Professor and Reader titles are pathways to a professorial title. The Reader title recognizes
research, while an Associate Professorship may recognize research among other achievements.
Recipients of both titles are mentored as to the steps and timescale required to achieve a
Professorship. There is an established pay scale for Associate Professors and Readers.
Conferment numbers since 2017-18 for the titles of Professor and Reader are shown in Table 4
(for the reason given above, Associate Professorships are not included):


 Year            Reader           Reader           Professorial    Professorial
                 Applications     Conferments      Applications    Conferments
 2017-18         8                6                15              7
 2018-19         7                5                7               5
 2019-20         12               9                17              5
Table 4: Professor and Reader: Applications and Conferments 17/18 to 19/20

Support and Training of Postgraduate Research Students
Our PGR community has grown by nearly 70% since 2014, with Doctor of Business Administration
(DBA) and Doctor of Education (EdD) programmes complementing growth in traditional PhDs.
Membership of the AHRC Midlands 3/4 Cities DTP secured doctoral bursaries for 47 students
between 2014/15 and 2019/20. Institutional investment has funded 65 STEAM scholars on doctoral
programmes, complemented by Faculty investment and enhanced support from charities and
businesses. In the same year we developed a 4-year Graduate Research and Teaching Assistant
(GRTA) model for PhD study, combining doctoral stipends with 0.25 FTE Assistant Lecturer
contracts: a particular success among more mature PGRs in our Faculty of Health, Education and
Life Sciences, where a number of GRTA graduates have subsequently been recruited as academic
staff.
We have invested in designated PGR study spaces on both our principal campuses. Enhanced
student representation on our research committees has grown partly through PGR-net, an inter-
disciplinary network of PGRs. The brief of PGR-net is to provide representation on key research
governance committees, and to facilitate our annual PGR student conference, RESCON. PGR-net
is complemented by discipline-specific networks such as PGR Studio in ADM and the Doc Skills
Hub in HELS, which provide training, networking and dissemination opportunities.
The improvement in PGR performance noted in Table 2, above, is partly the result of investment in
supervisor capacity and capability. All new supervisors must undertake a dedicated training
programme, while the unique SEDA-accredited Community of Practice programme, developed and
delivered by the supervision community, prioritises the pedagogy of supervision. Since its launch in
2015, almost 200 supervisors have completed the programme, which in 2020 was revalidated by
SEDA for a further 5 years.
BCU participates in the Advance HE Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) using the
outcomes to benchmark against sector comparators and improve the quality of our provision. The
survey has provided part of the impetus for the development of dedicated space for PGRs.



                                                                                            Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
The University has a comprehensive set of commitments and policies that encompass multiple
aspects of equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI), from initial recruitment to dignity at work,
workload allocation and academic progression. Flexible and family-friendly working is fully
supported, including career breaks.
EDI policies and practice are coordinated and monitored by our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
Committee, reporting to the University Executive Group. The committee includes DVC, Executive
Dean and Faculty EDI Committee representatives, together with key EDI professional services
team members, EDI charter leads, and both staff and student union members. Its purpose is to
identify key challenges, drive change, and hold the University to account. Informed by reports from
each Faculty, professional service and BCUSU’s EDI Committee, as well as the Stonewall and
Athena Swan steering groups, the committee presents an annual report to the Board of Governors
against the University’s strategic EDI objectives.
In order to address the well-documented disparities that Black students and staff face in the HE
sector and, we know, in our own University, research academics and students have taken a key
role in developing our Anti-Racist Commitment plan.
Our approach to inclusion and equality for research careers is set out in our REF Code of Practice,
which details the underpinning policies and procedures that ensure all staff can access
opportunities to undertake research. Cross-university initiatives include the xCHANGE festival and
our LGBT+ staff network; Faculty-led initiatives are ADM’s Women’s Researcher Network and
BLSS’s leadership of our Athena SWAN strategy, as well as shared support for the Aurora
scheme.

Snapshot of Academic Staff Population
As noted in Section 1, our academic staff population of 1,458FPE/1,187FTE staff with teaching
and/or research duties excludes staff on Visiting Lecturer contracts. Category-A eligible staff total
1,254FPE / 1,131.5FTE, with a breakdown by Faculty shown in Table 5:


 Faculty     FPE         FTE
 ADM         376         329.0
 BLSS        259         246.3
 CEBE        161         146.6
 HELS        458         409.6
 ALL         1254        1131.5
Table 5: Category A staff by Faculty

A breakdown by Gender is shown in Table 6. Variation between Faculties is driven partly by the
historic predominance of (e.g.) male staff in Engineering subjects or female staff in subjects allied
to medicine:




                                                                                               Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

 Faculty    Female FPE Female % Male FPE             Male %             Other FPE       Other %
 ADM        177              47.1%      198          52.7%              1               0.3%
 BLSS       124              47.9%      135          52.1%              0               0.0%
 CEBE       39               24.2%      122          75.8%              0               0.0%
 HELS       314              68.6%      144          31.4%              0               0.0%
 ALL        654              52.2%      599          47.8%              1               0.1%
Table 6: Category-A staff Breakdown by Faculty and Gender

Table 7, below, analyses our Category-A workforce by ethnicity; as Section 2 explains, future
recruitment strategy aims to improve the representation of non-white staff.

 Ethnicity (6-way)    Cat-A FPE      % FPE
 Asian                105            8.4%
 Black                50             4.0%
 Mixed                31             2.5%
 Other                61             4.9%
 White                946            75.4%
 Unknown              61             4.9%
 Total                1254           100%
Table 7: Category-A Academic workforce by 6-Way Ethnicity

Snapshot of PGR Population

A breakdown of our PGR population by gender is shown in Table 8. Whilst overall our PGR population
is 55% female, there is considerable difference between Faculties, attributable primarily to the subject
mixes noted above.

 Faculty      %Female      %Male       %Other
 ADM          47.9%        52.1%       0.0%
 BLSS         53.3%        46.7%       0.0%
 CEBE         36.1%        63.9%       0.0%
 HELS         72.8%        26.5%       0.7%
 BCU          55.2%        44.6%       0.2%
Table 8: Enrolled PGR Population by Faculty and Gender

A breakdown of our overall PGR population by 6-way ethnicity is shown in Table 9. It shows the benefit
of our Our Time initiative, whereby doctoral students and postdoctoral fellows lead change in how
we recruit, supervise and support PGRs from Black, Asian and other minority ethnic backgrounds.

 Ethnicity    %FPE
 Asian        18.3%
 Black        11.6%
 Mixed        2.5%
 Other        4.2%
 White        61.5%
 Unknown      1.9%
 All          100%
Table 9: PGR Population Breakdown by 6-Way Ethnicity


                                                                                                  Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Our Research Office is the principal service provider to Faculties for research support. Investment
in its three teams, identified in Section 2, was £1.9m per year as of July 2020. All its staff have the
opportunity to undertake continuing professional development.
RIG and DRC staff are embedded in Faculties, forming dedicated, local sub-teams and working
closely with academic research leaders to support research funding and PGRs, as outlined in
Section 2. Specifically, they service Faculty research-related committees, participate in research
group meetings, maintain research information, administer small grants schemes, and support
visiting professorships and seminar series. A key task is to foster researcher career development
by organising events such as writing retreats and workshops.

Academics also benefit from the RIEE Compliance team. Its four staff provide expertise in quality
assurance, risk assessment, due diligence and internal and external reporting. The RIEE Contracts
team of two negotiates, advises on, drafts and reviews all research-related agreements, while the
RIEE Knowledge Transfer team of six brings together academics, graduates, and businesses on
innovative projects. Two Commercialisation Officers focus on the commercial exchange of
research outputs and knowledge to the business community. Partnership activity in the UK and
beyond is coordinated by a further team of six.

Our teams for supporting Impact, Research Integrity, and Open Access are outlined in Section 2.
Investment in research systems includes our ePrints repository; Infonetica ERM for ethical review;
Elsevier Scopus, for journal articles and metrics; Elsevier SciVal, for expertise, collaboration and
benchmarking; Elsevier Pure, for research information management; Elsevier PlumX, for alt-
metrics; Epigeum, for ethics and integrity training and ResearchConnect for funding opportunities.
We also invest in membership of research-related organisations, including ARMA, Brilliant Club,
EARMA, JISC, PRAXIS AURIL, UKCGE, UKRO, VITAE/CRAC, and Voice of Young Science. The
total cost of systems and memberships exceeds £200k per annum.

Income
Our objective in this REF cycle has been to develop a diverse and sustainable stream of research
income by securing challenge-led and enquiry-driven research grants. Supported by a robust
infrastructure and the RIG team, external research income has increased in both value and
diversity over this REF period. BCU staff participated in 263 externally funded projects with a total
value of £72m and research income to BCU of £16.42m reported in REF4b.
In accordance with our mission and staff profile, we have pursued traditional sources of research
funding as well as alternatives such as European structural funds and regional innovation grants,
only a fraction of which are captured as research income. As noted in Section 2, there is a healthy
research grant pipeline for the next REF cycle, currently set to deliver £18.0m of REF4b income
from 2020-21 onwards.


Research Council funding
We have an established track record of securing AHRC funding. Our Music UoA has won
significant awards: Dean (£683k), Coccioli (£383k) and Mawer (£369k). Researchers in Media
have been partners in AHRC flagship programmes such as the Open World Research Initiative

                                                                                               Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
(project value £3.3m) and WW1 Engagement Centre (project value £616k). We have also secured
funding from the EPSRC and ESRC during the current cycle for research in Computing and Social
Sciences. Under the recent UKRI Covid-19 highlight notice we have been awarded funding for
projects focused on the challenges faced by BAME communities, an expanding area of research at
BCU.
Industry-led funding & KTPs
Our alignment of support for research, innovation and enterprise activities has enabled us to join
large, industry-led Innovate UK projects in STEM subjects. Grants have been won by Ward (project
value £1.6m), Cheung, (project value £727k) and Lee (project total £352k). KTPs represent a
significant area of growth in Innovation activity: 27 UKRI projects have been funded over the
REF2021 period with a total income of £4.1m.
Fellowships
Investment in the mentoring of researchers has resulted in early career fellowships funded by the
AHRC and The Leverhulme Trust, in addition to fellowships awarded with a focus on dissemination
and impact, such as BBC New Generation Thinkers and HERA KT & Impact Fellowship, and those
focused on archival work, such as the Bodleian Library and Huntington Library.
International funding
Building international research partnerships is key to our strategy. Over the REF2021 period we
secured funding for and delivered a number of impactful research programmes in developing
countries aligned to UN goals, e.g. bioenergy (Melville), citizen voice (Saber), access to education
(Kendall) and nursing and healthcare (Notter). International funding is supported by a specialist
Research Development Manager.

Through extensive partnership building, pump-primed in part by QR GCRF funding, our
STEAMhouse India initiative brings together industrial, academic and third sector partners. This
groundbreaking project will provide a unique platform to undertake collaborative research and
knowledge transfer activities in India, enabling both regional and national engagement on the sub-
continent while supporting trade and investment.

Investment in Laboratories and Research Equipment

Investment in research facilities happens on an annual cycle through Faculty capital investment
plans and centrally coordinated university investment in research. Faculty investment generally
requires that new facilities benefit both teaching and research. In 2016/17 and 2017/18 we ran two
competitive research equipment investment schemes using retained QR funding totalling £750k.
The scheme addressed equipment and software requirements for priority research that could not
be met from Faculty resources. We also have a centrally held budget for strategic research
projects such as the West Midlands National Park.




                                                                                            Page 11
