Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: University of Lincoln

 1. Context and mission

 The University of Lincoln, named the Time’s Modern University of the Year, 2021, was
 established in 2001 on a new campus at the heart of an historic city. Dynamic and rapidly
 evolving, it has 17,876 students and has grown from £119m income in 2013/14 to £174m in
 2019/20. Conceived at the outset as a civic institution, our long-term mission is to be an
 outstanding small-city anchor institution, equally committed to excellence in teaching, research
 and knowledge exchange, with deep regional and international engagement. We are committed
 to broad civic engagement, exemplified by our role as a founding partner of the Greater
 Lincolnshire LEP, our contribution to the Local Industrial Strategy, our work with local and global
 employers and with voluntary and public sector bodies. We are the fifth largest revenue
 generator in the City and one of the largest organisations in the county. Lincolnshire contains
 deprived rural, industrial and coastal regions, which has shaped our “local to global” research
 themes, most notably, a particular focus on global rural challenges.

 We have a broad academic portfolio, organised into four Colleges (Arts, Business, Science,
 Social Sciences); in the last six years Science has expanded significantly with the opening of
 new Schools in Chemistry, Mathematics and Physics, Geography and (jointly with Nottingham
 University, 2019) a new Medical School. Reflecting our civic mission, the professions and
 practice-based subjects are strongly represented across the board. In the census period we
 have introduced two substantial research Institutes that are structurally distinct from the
 academic schools.

 Our research is highly diverse, encompassing disciplines across the arts, humanities, sciences
 and social sciences, with a strong (but not exclusive) emphasis on collaborative, interdisciplinary
 and co-created research.

 2. Strategy

 The University’s strategy (“Thinking Ahead”, 2016-2021) has initiated a process of rapid growth
 in the scale, breadth and intensity of our research. This is reflected in the increase in category A
 staff from 177.3 to 383.27 FTE, of whom 51.4 FTE are submitted in five new UoAs (Chemistry,
 Physics, Mathematical Sciences, Geography and Archaeology). We emphasise a commitment to
 producing “purposeful research with impact” that is simultaneously relevant to our place and has
 global significance (“local to global”). We seek to drive economic development and enhance
 social and cultural life, working with our region as a “living laboratory” to undertake and co-create
 research. We uphold the academic freedom to pursue curiosity-driven research, including within
 the “lone scholar” tradition, while facilitating concentration of research around particular themes
 (Rurality, Health and Well-Being, Sustainability, Digitalisation, Communities, Heritage) and
 cultivating research focus at various scales, from the broadest to the most specialist. We
 strongly encourage interdisciplinary and collaborative research, and co-creation with
 stakeholders, in particular through challenge-led and sector-facing research.

 Research Growth

 We have prioritised research growth in areas that demonstrate alignment between the strengths
 and capabilities of the institution, regional needs and priorities, global challenges and societal
 needs, and government funding and strategy. Channels have included pump-priming,
 establishing new research units, prioritisation of academic recruitment, encouraging existing
 academic staff to redirect research activity, and investment in the necessary specialist facilities
 and infrastructure.




                                                                                               Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Our new Schools have therefore been established around new research units (e.g.
 computational physics, functional materials, water and planetary health), which interlock with
 existing units and reinforce our local to global mission, and around traditional theoretic
 disciplines where appropriate (e.g. algebra).

 Our significant investments in staff and facilities are described in the relevant sections below.

 To sustain growth we have targeted increased research income, through selective recruitment of
 experienced staff, development of ECRs and collaboration, increasing our external research
 income from £4.2m in 2013/14 to £9.7m in 2019/20 (130% increase; current estimate is £13m
 for 2020/21 – 209% increase). To enrich the research environment we have also targeted
 growth in PGR numbers, primarily through attracting external funding and building pipelines
 through our own PGT programmes or partnerships, plus a small number of University funded
 scholarships (32), increasing our registered PGR numbers from 414 in 2013/14 to 601 in
 2019/20 (45% increase).

 Through our IRP system (described below), we encourage staff to focus on the production of
 high quality outputs. As broad indicators of success, our Scival citation count increased to 1465
 in 2020, and our FWCI from 1.18 to 1.44. We have submitted 94 monographs to REF 2020, up
 from 48 in 2014.

 Local to Global

 To encourage embedding of the “local to global” principle, all our research units explicitly identify
 alignment with UN sustainability goals and Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP) priorities.

 Our new schools have been co-created with major regional stakeholders, in the health,
 chemical, industrial and educational sectors, providing a rich set of long-term partnerships that
 sustain collaborative research. We have also reoriented existing and introduced new specialist
 units that provide a focus for interdisciplinary local engagement. For example, the National
 Centre for Food Manufacturing (NCFM), based at the heart of the food manufacturing industry in
 South Lincolnshire, has increased collaborative industrial research from £0.3m in 2014 to £1.2m
 in 2019 by working with researchers across the Colleges. The majority of LIAT’s £25m+
 research portfolio engages regional partners. The Centre for Culture and Creativity, established
 2016, underpins regional arts-based engagement, including support for the biennial Frequency
 festival (40,000 attendees across 2017-19), and Lincoln One Venues and Transported (an artist
 practitioner led project focussing on migrations, 34,000 participants 2018-2020).

 To develop our global links, we have prioritised recruitment of academic staff with existing
 international collaborations and supported fractional appointments for professorial staff
 maintaining major partnerships. Key relationships developed in the census period include the
 Centre for Water and Planetary Health with Massey University, New Zealand; LIAT with NMBU,
 Norway; LIIRH with La Trobe, Australia. In 2018 we established the Lincoln Institute of
 Advanced Studies, which supports internationalisation using thematically-linked visiting
 fellowships and sandpits (see below). Our level of international collaboration has increased
 markedly, as demonstrated (in relevant subject areas) by the rise in the proportion of SciVal
 outputs with international co-authors from 35% in 2014 to 54.8% in 2020.

 To intensify focus on key local to global issues we have established two independent institutes,
 which facilitate University-wide sector-facing interdisciplinary research. The Lincoln Institute for
 Agrifood Technology (LIAT), established in 2015, building upon the track record of the Lincoln
 Centre for Adaptive Systems (L-CAS), has secured in excess of £25m in external research
 funding to date, including £6.4m from Research England’s Expanding Excellence in England
 (E3) scheme to establish the UK's first global centre of excellence in agri-robotics, and is home
 to the new EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Agri-Food Robotics. The recently-founded
 (2019) Lincoln International Institute for Rural Health (LIIRH) has a core team of two professorial
 directors and seven researchers, extensive links to international partners and local stakeholders,

                                                                                                Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 and new purpose-built headquarters under construction in the Medical School Building,
 supported by a £1m grant from the Wolfson Foundation (2021).

 Impact

 Our approach to impact is integrated with our “local to global” strategy by embedding impact
 development in research units and maintaining widespread local engagement, supplemented by
 individual staff development and activity.

 Our sector-facing research units have impact “designed in.” For example, LIAT develops IP with
 commercial research partners (e.g. Saga Robotics), and recently established the Barclay’s
 Eagle Farm Lab, co-located on our Riseholme Campus; NCFM provides collaborative links
 through to 250 food industry partners; the Community and Health Research Unit (CaHRU)
 pursues research focused around community health service provision; Lincoln Conservation
 provides specialist consultancy to the heritage sector.

 Our regional engagement includes academic membership of many county organisations’ boards,
 and stakeholder representation in the University. For example, liaison via the University Court
 initiated our participation in the creation of the International Bomber Command Centre (opened
 2018, supported by a £3.1m Heritage Lottery Fund grant). We designed the permanent
 exhibition and digital archive; the latter has >10,000 items, over 35,000 users and 180,000+
 page views to date. Our close collaboration helped to ensure that the IBCC has been
 enormously successful in addressing issues of great sensitivity; it is identified on TripAdvisor as
 the number one “visitor attraction” in Lincoln.

 We have enhanced individual academic impact activity by providing targeted support through
 new central units: PEARL for public engagement (2017), and the Lincoln Impact Literacy
 Institute (LILI, 2018) for impact literacy. We have also enhanced our translational support to
 inventors including external specialist advice for IP protection and contracts, and providing
 pump-priming for impact development projects. To enrich the knowledge exchange environment,
 in 2017 we expanded the Lincoln Science and Innovation Park with the addition of the Boole
 Building, establishing multiple new collaborative links. These new support units are described
 under “infrastructure” below.

 Research integrity

 To enhance research integrity, in 2017 we appointed a specialist Research Governance
 Manager. In 2018 we introduced a new on-line research ethics system, which provides efficient,
 supportive centralised review and monitoring of ethics applications. In 2019 we secured a
 Human Tissue Act license, to support bioscience research, and our Open Data Working Group
 introduced new policies and procedures to support reproducibility of research including data
 management plans, training, and a Responsible Metrics policy. We also signed the Concordat to
 Support Research Integrity and the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment
 (DORA), revising our Code of Practice for Research in 2020 to fully embed their principles. We
 have upgraded our Institutional Repository system to ensure that research outputs are uploaded
 in compliance with UKRI requirements, and that research data can be securely preserved, and
 made externally accessible with a citeable DOI.


 Future Strategy

 Our strategy for the next five years is a logical continuation of the above: we will continue on a
 growth trajectory (to approximately 500 FTE category A staff), guided by “local to global”
 principles, while increasing research intensity and focus. However, the emphasis of the strategy
 will shift, given our evolving research profile. Growth will be largely within existing disciplines,
 although we will establish clinical research within the new Medical School.


                                                                                                Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 As we grow, sustainability becomes a bigger issue. We will significantly increase external
 research income (to £22m), by leveraging our stronger international and regional collaborations,
 increasing alignment with emerging national funding priorities, and developing staff. Having
 successfully recruited a strong cohort of ECRs, we will actively support them in developing their
 funding portfolios, augmented by targeted recruitment at Chair level. Increasing intensity also
 demands investment in facilities, and we will target external capital funding to support this.

 To strengthen the global embedding of our research, we will develop strategic, multi-faceted
 long-term relationships with key partners, building on existing successful models (e.g. La Trobe),
 and increase investment in LIAS’s fellowship programmes.

 Recognising the need to strengthen PGR provision, we will grow registrations from 652 to 950,
 particularly targeting growth in structured provision including CDTs, DTPs, BGPs, and
 partnership-based schemes (including with international academic and national industrial
 partners). We will invest in expanding the Doctoral School.

 We aim to deepen a culture of pervasive impact, where impact is a “designed in” aspect of the
 majority of our purposeful research. We will pursue this aim by a twin path strategy: developing
 individual academic capacity, and building ‘natural’ pathways to impact. Capacity will be
 developed by expanding LILI, with a specific mandate focused around impact literacy, organising
 a structured programme of training, individual mentoring, and pump-priming of signature
 projects, to enhance and embed understanding. Utilising our researcher/practitioner staffing
 model, we will build collaborative co-creation models with researchers working with practitioners
 for knowledge exchange. In parallel, we will establish additional sector-oriented units to mediate
 external collaborative relationships, across the spectrum of disciplines. Currently active
 developments include the £5.2m Bridge Lab for advanced materials research and development,
 adjacent to LSIP and with significant involvement from the Schools of Engineering, Mathematics
 and Physics, and Chemistry (completion 2021); the £6.6m NCFM Centre of Excellence as the
 anchor building of the new Holbeach Food Enterprise Zone (completion 2021); and the co-
 location of the stakeholder organisation the National Centre for Rural Health and Care with
 LIIRH in our new Medical School Building (completion 2021). Our future plans include Green
 Energy and Heritage.


 3. People

 Staffing Strategy

 Over the census period our core staffing strategy has been to: a) recruit excellent ECRs and
 develop their careers; b) expand the professoriate by recruitment and promotion; c) build strong
 teams around research themes; d) support independent and curiosity driven research.

 Major investments include 332 academic staff recruits (including 42 professors) submitted in this
 exercise. In 2019, for example, we recruited eight “global” professors with interlocking
 specialisms in robotics, machine learning, rural health, water and global health, green supply
 chains, and ecological justice, to strengthen specific research units, promote integration across
 the themes and increase global partnerships.

 The University has a distinctive system with two major academic role profiles – teaching and
 research (TR), and teaching, scholarship and professional practice (TSPP). The latter supports
 our emphasis on the professions and practice-based disciplines.

 All TR staff have clearly identified substantive research duties (therefore submitted as Category
 A) and are provided with personalised career support. They complete an annual Individual
 Research Plan (IRP) in discussion with a senior academic mentor, in additional to annual
 appraisal. This details outputs, grant income, impact and research supervision for the past year,
 outlines plans for the next, and includes mentoring for career development. IRPs are integrated

                                                                                             Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 into University, College and School planning cycles, to inform research development and staff
 support/development plans.

 Annual promotion rounds include workshops by senior academic staff offering advice on the
 promotions process, while IRP mentors can assist with drafting applications. During the census
 period 14 researchers have been promoted to Professor (50% female; 29% BME− cf. staff
 population: 44% female; 15% BME) and 24 to Associate Professor (54% female; 13% BME).
 The University’s workload model guarantees all TR staff the equivalent of at least one day per
 week for research; significant further allocations (typically an extra day per week) are provided
 against specific research objectives (e.g. completion of manuscripts, impact activities,
 undertaking funded projects or early career activity).
 We have achieved the HR Excellence in Research Award and are signatories to the Concordat
 to Support the Career Development of Researchers. We aim to create a supportive culture and
 environment that encourages creativity, interaction and collaboration; researchers are integrated
 into consultation groups to support implementation of the Concordat.
 The University’s research leave scheme is devolved operationally to College level, providing
 substantial periods of leave (typically one semester) against identified research objectives.
 Support for reactive, ‘bottom up’ research projects includes the centrally-allocated Research
 Investment Fund (RIF) which has supported 32 PhD studentships (50% female; 28% BAME)
 and allocated £1.6m to pump prime 63 research projects across the University during the census
 period (PIs: 44% female; 17% BAME).

 Equality and Diversity
 Our approach to Equality and Diversity derives from our One Community ethos, intended “to
 ensure that respectful and inclusive behaviours” are “at the heart of all we do.” Since 2014 the
 University has adopted a new structural and strategic framework to embed this ethos within an
 inclusive research environment. The Eleanor Glanville Centre (EGC, inaugurated 2017) a
 unique central department for diversity and inclusion, co-ordinates the Joint EDI (JEDI)
 partnership which drives, implements and communicates our One Community values. All
 Schools and Colleges have EDI committees with representatives on JEDI’s central forum
 reporting into the University Inclusion Committee. A number of special interest support
 networks, developed organically to meet the needs of groups with protected characteristics
 and/or life challenges (e.g. the Disabilities Staff Network; LGBTQ+ Staff Network; Carers &
 Parents Club) also feed into the central forum; an annual Inclusion and Diversity Conference
 offers a further platform for open discussion. These discussions have informed initiatives and
 policies designed to deliver a more diverse research community. Our recruitment strives to
 positively encourage candidates from underrepresented groups. Initiatives have included
 trialling blind selection and diverse interview panels and employing gender-neutral language tool
 to increase the number of female applicants in STEM. Training is mandatory on matters such as
 unconscious bias and EDI in Practice and available for issues such as disability and trans
 awareness. Other relevant policies include phased retirement (enabling our research
 community to continue to benefit from the input of older colleagues) enhanced maternity leave
 for all pregnant persons, adoption leave, and flexible working including the right to request
 reduced FTE due to caring commitments, or time to accommodate religious commitments.
 We promote a number of positive actions to ensure that researchers with protected
 characteristics enjoy equal opportunities for career development. The Academic Returners’
 Research Fund (AR2F) allows STEMM staff to sustain research during and after leave of
 absence including maternity (11 individuals supported since 2014); the Back2Science
 programme supports researchers returning from longer career breaks (5 Fellowships awarded
 2014-15). The Pipeline Inclusive Mentoring Scheme (PIMS), open to all staff, includes
 ‘maternity/long-term leave mentoring’, ‘cultural challenges’ and ‘work-life balance’ support
 pathways alongside the more usual career progression tracks (59 female and 2 male staff
 mentored since 2014). Through these, and our use of management training and leadership
 programmes for women (Aurora through Advanced HE) and BAME (Inspire) staff, we have
 achieved a professoriate that is more diverse than the national average (30% female/15%BME
 as against UK HEI mean of 25%/10%) providing inspirational role models for ECRs. We are
 committed to inclusive research environments. 93% of our campus facilities are fully accessible

                                                                                            Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 (7%, at Riseholme, comprises the upper floors of Grade II listed buildings). Other initiatives
 include provision of breast feeding rooms and gender neutral toilets (35% on our main campus).
 Our multi-faith chaplaincy provides prayer and ablution facilities.
 We actively promote interdisciplinary research into EDI issues through programmes to mark
 events such as Black and LGBT+ History Months and our Reimagining Lincoln initiative
 developed as a response to BLM. We continue to engage with external bodies promoting EDI.
 Since 2014 we have renewed our Athena Swan Bronze award and achieved 1 silver and 6 gold
 awards and signed up to the Race Equality Charter. EGC completed an equalities impact
 assessment on the REF CoP to guarantee it ensures appropriate representation in decision-
 making bodies, and utilises a clear, objective process of (multiple) output evaluation, scoring and
 selection to prevent bias.

 Research Students
 All PGR students undergo a University induction led by the Doctoral School, which co-ordinates
 a Researcher Development Programme covering research skills, communication, writing and
 publishing, and career enhancement. The Library offers one-to-one support in academic writing
 skills, mathematics, statistics and use of digital technology. PGRs enjoy 24/7 access to study
 spaces, and unlimited usage of Inter-Library Loans. The Doctoral School works with the
 Students Union to promote its programme of PGR-led research groups, societies, conferences
 and symposia. The annual PGR Showcase celebrates PGR achievements across the University.
 PGR students complete an annual Research Development Needs Analysis and develop an
 individual Research Development Plan. Supervisory team of at least two academics provide
 individual meetings at least monthly to advise on projects, professional development and ethical
 approval. Written records and action points are agreed and feed into annual monitoring of
 progression through College Research Degree Boards. Supervisors undergo mandatory training.
 We have introduced several structured programmes for PGR students. Seven PGR students
 have studied through the University Alliance Collaborative Doctoral Training Centre in
 Biomedicine. Our new £6.6 million EPSRC CDT in Agri-Food Robotics (in partnership with the
 Universities of East Anglia and Cambridge) will deliver 50 students over eight years (10 at
 Lincoln), and shares training programme opportunities with 8 – 10 EPSRC DTP studentships.

 For PGRs undertaking teaching support, our Graduate Teaching Programme provides
 experienced teaching mentors to enhance teaching skills. Advanced skills development is
 optionally available through the Lincoln Academy of Learning and Teaching to achieve Associate
 Fellowship (D1) of Advance HE (24 students since 2014).
 Data from PRES2018 indicates that PGR students are satisfied with their support at Lincoln
 (2018: 82.2% overall satisfaction compared to sector average 80.4%) with good ratings for
 supervisory support, research skills and personnel development. Timely completion rates (four
 years for full time PhD) have increased from 20% in 2014 to approaching 71% in 2019.


 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Underpinning Infrastructure

 The University Library provides access to more than 650,000 electronic books, journals
 databases and specialist collections, with unlimited inter-library loans for all research staff. The
 main library provides 1126 study spaces and is open 24/7. In the census period six “Library
 Learning Lounges” have been opened in buildings across campus, plus specialist satellite
 libraries at NCFM and our new Medical School. Specialist Academic Subject Librarians offer
 researchers personalised induction and support.
 Archives. A partnership with Lincoln Cathedral Library provides access to its unique collections
 of rare books and manuscripts, supported by a dedicated Special Collections Librarian. The
 University also hosts the Media Archive for Central England (MACE) a specialist film archive
 with over 70,000 moving image records of the region. Both have facilitated outputs in UoAs 27 &
 28.


                                                                                               Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 The Lincoln Institute for Advanced Studies (LIAS), introduced in 2018, enhances the
 research environment and culture by promoting thematic interdisciplinarity, developing
 international research links and showcasing researchers’ achievements. Its international
 fellowship scheme has brought eight prestigious international visitors to the University since
 2019. Outcomes include establishing collaborations with Hong Kong Baptist University around
 Migration and the Arts (subsequently leading to an ICS in UoA 33), and with La Trobe University
 (Australia) in Rural Health. Its outgoing mobility award scheme has supported 38 visits, resulting
 in 13 grant applications (totalling £850k) and 16 outputs published or 'in press,' 15 submitted or
 in preparation. It runs workshops and sandpits to stimulate interdisciplinary research; the three
 major events in 2019-20 (Harnessing Digital Futures, Environmental Justice, Health and
 Wellbeing) resulted in several interdisciplinary research networks, and seven funding
 applications (£1.7m). It also hosts monthly inaugural professorial lectures open to members of
 both the University and the local community.

 The Research & Enterprise Office provides integrated expert support for all aspects of
 research development. It supports the Doctoral School and LIAS, coordinating academic
 training and development with both. Intellectual Property protection is provided by a dedicated
 internal team and external consultancy (Prospect IP), and supports governance including ethics.
 The research and industrial partnerships team assists with costing, awareness-raising,
 workshops with funding bodies, grant authoring and horizon scanning, and provides writing
 workshops and sandpits. It organises ‘Research FIRST,’ a tri-annual week-long event aimed at
 ECRs with advice from external speakers and peer-review college members to demystify the
 bidding process. It also manages Knowledge Exchange activities, brokering links into regional
 stakeholders, and supporting impact development, including through funded KE schemes and
 enterprise support packages.

 The Eleanor Glanville Centre undertakes and supports EDI research. Research outcomes
 inform and influence evidence-based policy and best-practice both within and beyond the
 University. It houses ‘Inclusion Matters’, a £510k EPSRC ASPIRE (Advanced Strategic Platform
 for Inclusive Research Environments) project to develop nationally-available toolkits to guide and
 evaluate initiatives and meaningful indicators of impact. During the census period researchers
 associated with the Centre have inter alia organised the Transitional States exhibition which
 opened in Lincoln before touring internationally, worked with UK Government’s Equali-teas
 initiative to address gender inequalities in politics, and organised the Interdisciplinary
 Perspectives on Intersex (IPI2019) international conference. Its PMS, AR2F and back2science
 schemes help support protected groups in developing research funding.

 PEARL (Public engagement for all in research at Lincoln) was established in 2017. Led by
 the University’s Chair in Public Engagement, PEARL supports broad academic engagement with
 the public through small project grants (31), an annual conference, resources, guidance and
 training. It supports national initiatives such as Pint of Science, Being Human and Café
 Scientifique. Pearl’s activities also underpin ICS submitted in UoA 15 and UoA 32.

 The Lincoln Centre for Culture and Creativity, established in 2016, is at the heart of publicly
 engaged cultural activities in regional, national and international communities, underpinned by
 our research, with impact on places, people, policy and practice. The centre fosters collaboration
 between researchers, artists, community participants, and creative entrepreneurs. It has enabled
 arts-led interventions including Transported, and Lincolnshire One Venues and Mansions of the
 Future (external funding £2m).

 The Lincoln Impact Literacy Institute, established 2018, provides external impact consultancy
 and horizon-scanning, impact literacy training and ICS development support. As described in
 “future strategy” above, we plan to expand it with ambitious targets to deepen the development
 of a pervasive impact culture.




                                                                                             Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Research investment schemes
 The University makes strategic investments to support specific research initiatives, matched
 against external funding, provides core resources for the research institutes, pump-primes
 funding into new areas (including for academic staff recruitment), purchases research equipment
 and supports PhD studentships. The total investment is approximately £9m during the census
 period. Examples include £300k of equipment match-funding to the EPSRC Centre for Doctoral
 Training in Agri-Food Robotics, 32 centrally funded PhD studentships, £500k in matched capital
 refurbishment costs for the Research England “E3” funded Lincoln Agri-Food Robotics Centre,
 and £1.6m through the “RIF” small project pump-priming scheme.

 Specialist facilities development
 Since 2014 we have made significant investments (internally and externally funded) in high-
 quality research facilities. Notable developments include:

 The £12.7m Joseph Banks Laboratories (2015) include 1500m2 of laboratory facilities for
 molecular biology, tissue culture, CAT22 microbiology and chemistry. The £4m equipment
 investment included a 500 MHz NMR, X-ray diffractometers, microscopy and imaging,
 spectroscopy and flow cytometry. The adjacent Minster House has 630m2 of animal cognition
 and welfare research laboratories including behaviour clinic, cold-blooded vertebrate,
 invertebrate and fish facilities. These facilities support 220+ researchers.

 The £30m Isaac Newton Building, (2017) includes computational and engineering laboratories,
 including a vehicle controls laboratory, biofuels, robotics and automation, laser technology,
 simulation, EMC pre-compliance testing, vibration analysis, semi-anechoic chamber, extensive
 computer laboratories including HPC, and a 100m2 mechanical workshop. There is also access
 to Siemens industrial turbomachinery training and simulation facilities.

 The £18.5m Sarah Swift Building (2017), includes research facilities for Health & Social Care
 and Psychology. The 22 specialised research labs include body imaging, VR, functional imaging,
 Baby lab, human tissue processing and sleep lab.

 The Lincoln Institute for Agrifood Technology (2020), has a 200 hectare farm, office
 accommodation for 23 researchers, agroforestry and water catchment analysis, robotics
 laboratories, glass-houses including automated fruit farm, refrigerated storage simulation,
 phenotyping, HPC, 5G outdoor test bed, and co-located Barclays Eagle Farm Lab.

 The Lincoln Science and Innovation Park (LSIP), a joint venture between the University and
 the Lincolnshire Cooperative, opened its new Boole Building (2908m2) in 2017, providing
 technical and laboratory space to fourteen companies (full capacity), including nine start-ups. It
 has created 100+ jobs, and supported tenants to raise over £10m in external finance. All
 established tenants have some collaborative relationship with the University, including graduate
 employment, internships, business support and collaborative research programmes.

 EDI and Accessibility
 Accessibility is a key principle in the design of our new research facilities, all of which at least
 meet DDA compliance levels. In the census period we secured £125k in grants from the South
 Nottingham Centre Fund to exceed DDA compliance levels in the new Joseph Banks
 Laboratories and Isaac Newton Building, including enhanced accessibility, safety equipment and
 specialised laboratory furniture and workstations.




                                                                                               Page 8
