Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: University of the West of Scotland

 1. Context and mission
 1.1 Institutional context
                                                           University of the West of Scotland (UWS)
                                                           has demonstrated a rapidly increasing
                                                           Research and Innovation (R&I) activity in
                                                           this REF period. The annual UWS share
                                                           of externally funded R&I awards has in-
                                                           creased from GBP4,300,000 in 2013/14
                                                           to GBP15,000,000 in 2019/20, an in-
                                                           crease of 350%. Whilst a total income of
                                                           GBP122,000,000 (2019/20 Financial
                                                           Statements) means UWS’ income arises
                                                           predominantly from teaching activities,
                                                           we have led or been involved in world-
                                                           class research across all 10 Units of As-
                                                           sessment (UOA). These successes are
 even more significant when taken in the context of our rapid evolution. Historically, the institution
 has been delivering higher education in Paisley since 1897 as Paisley Technical School, becoming
 the Central Institution (Paisley College of Technology) in 1950. In 1992, it was granted University
 of Paisley status with a Royal Charter and degree awarding powers through the Further and Higher
 Education Act 1992. The following year it merged with Craigie College of Education in Ayr and
 after the merger with Bell College the Privy Council approved the name University of the West of
 Scotland for the institution in 2007. Today, UWS is a significant force in global knowledge creation,
 innovation and a leading provider of undergraduate, postgraduate and research degree education.
 UWS has four academic Schools (Business and Creative Industries; Computing, Engineering and
 Physical Sciences; Education and Social Sciences; and Health and Life Sciences), and we are a
 member of the association for modern Universities (MillionPlus).

 1.2 Research focus
 We are committed to undertaking world-class applied research that benefits the economy, society
 and the environment, aligned to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). UWS main-
 tains focused academic activity across all four main panels, demonstrating research excellence in
 10 UOAs [Panel A (UOA 3; 1 of 6 UOAs); Panel B (UOA 7, 9, 11, 12; 4 of 6 UOAs); Panel C (UOA
 17, 20, 23, 24; 4 of 12 UOAs) and Panel D (UOA 34; 1 of 10 UOAs)]. Within the Main Panel A, our
 focus on UOA3 reflects our status as the largest provider of nursing education in Scotland, while
 UWS’ STEM legacy is clearly seen within the Main Panel B and activity across most UOAs. In
 Social Sciences as well as Arts and Humanities, UWS research focuses on areas that are of stra-
 tegic significance to addressing social and economic exclusion, knowledge exchange and busi-
 ness innovation.

 1.3 Achievement of Research and Impact Objectives
 We set out to substantially expand our research footprint during this REF period. In addition to
 increases across all R&I activities, the average value has reached GBP149,000, up from
 GBP28,000 at the beginning of this REF period. UWS has developed its most robust pipeline of
 commercialisation and spin-outs ever, including two finalists and a winner in 2017 (Novosound,
 attracting GBP3,500,000 additional investment), and two further finalists in the Converge Chal-
 lenge 2020. Building on our reputation of working closely with business, UWS has predominantly
 focused on high-impact areas and the 28 Impact Case Studies (ICS) in contrast to 19 in the pre-
 vious REF period (47% increase) is a testament to our impact-focus. For the first time, in 2020,
 UWS won the Times Higher Education (THE) knowledge exchange/transfer initiative of the year
 award for a pioneering artificial intelligence (AI) drone collaboration with Thales and the CENSIS
 innovation centre, with numerous other awards exemplified in REF5b statements and Impact Case
 Studies (ICS).

 1.4 Strategic Aims

                                                                                               Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Our current key strategic aims are to: (1) create new knowledge and relevant skills; (2) create
 exemplary business-to-university interaction; and (3) world-class research developments, innova-
 tion, spin-outs and knowledge exchange.

 1.4.1 Review of Institutional Plans
 We have exceeded expectations in our original plans. Since REF2014, UWS has been focusing
 on creating new knowledge with the motivation to (1) provide opportunities for business-to-univer-
 sity interaction, (2) be an anchor institution within the communities in which it is based, (3) achieve
 regional and international impact, resulting in world-leading research developments, innovation,
 spin-out and knowledge exchange. With our focus on UN SDGs, the key target communities in-
 clude UK and global businesses, NHS and civic society. We have since developed the R&I The-
 matic Plan, which succeeds the previous Research and Enterprise Enabling Plan, setting out the
 route map to delivering the desired strategic aims. Priority areas have focused on local needs that
 can be applied globally, including ageing, sport, health, economics and the future of work and
 care. We have exceeded our objectives through continuous support for and investment in signa-
 ture research capabilities across the 10 UOAs. These clear ambitions and plans build on the key
 focus of the Corporate Strategy 2014 to 2020 for all academic staff to contribute to peer-reviewed
 outputs and thus to increase their total number, and to create 15 UWS start-up and spin-out busi-
 nesses by the academic year 2019/20. The Corporate Strategy Refresh 2017 to 2020 realigned
 the focus to increasing research and enterprise activities to achieve the UWS share of awards of
 at least GBP11,000,000, developing at least 50 industrial partnerships and increasing the number
 of research students by 10% annually.

 2. Strategy
 2.1 Vision
 The UWS Strategy 2025 published in 2020 has set a vision for the institution to be recognised as
 a world-leading university ranked inside the top 200 by 2050. As a signatory to the UN SDG Ac-
 cord, we believe in excellent, relevant and purposeful research, which underpins our strategic
 growth in support of UN SDGs. We have developed an international reputation for seamlessly
 bringing together industry, academics and students to resolve global challenges. During this REF
 period, UWS has been transformed, simultaneously increasing commercialisation of research,
 knowledge exchange and serving our communities. We will continue investing in R&I to further
 increase external funding, to develop global, national and regional impact through highly impactful
 collaboration, and to attract diverse groups of world-leading and early career researchers.

 2.2 Research Impact
 Sustaining investment in exceptional R&I across all academic Schools in areas of strength as
 identified in REF2014 has been the main mechanism in support of our drive to achieve global
 impact. In the second half of 2016, UWS introduced a new Vice Principal Fund to support Re-
 search and Enterprise Excellence projects that are (1) aligned with our strategic themes; (2) inclu-
 sive of our Early Career Researchers (ECR); (3) multi-disciplinary by nature; (4) aligned with ex-
 ternal funding bodies; (5) tangibly supported by external organisations nationally and internation-
 ally and (6) enhancing existing or creating emerging areas of strength with a significant potential
 for developing signature research. The projects have received an investment of GBP1,000,000
 per year for a period of four years and from 2017 onwards included a combined total of 57 funded
 PhD studentships. In addition, significant reinvestment (approximately GBP1,000,000) has been
 implemented to provide match funding for large grant applications and support strategic initiatives.

 2.3 Interdisciplinary Research
 Beyond the requirements of the external funding bodies, formation of interdisciplinary teams is a
 condition for all institutionally supported projects. Interdisciplinarity in the predominantly applied
 research that we are internationally recognised for is inherent to the nature of the challenges we
 are addressing. UWS’ strategic direction is to maintain research and innovation activities that ad-
 dress UN SDGs and through multi-disciplinary teams we deliver at a scale and intensity that en-
 sures sustainable impact.

 2.4 Research Integrity and Ethics

                                                                                                 Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 In this REF period, we had 4 complaints, representing about 0.001% of the volume of active pro-
 jects and all were investigated in line with UWS University Ethics Committee policy and Code of
 Ethics (CoE). None of the complaints were upheld. Our CoE establishes the University’s approach
 to raising the ethical awareness of staff and students, and ensuring that all that we do is under-
 pinned by global and future-focussed principles of fairness and openness. CoE includes refer-
 ences to our policies and guidelines that implement our commitment to these principles. It also
 sets out the mechanisms for ethical monitoring and review of all our activities. UWS research
 governance and ethics procedures recognise the importance of addressing ethics (including pub-
 lication ethics, general principles of data confidentiality and access), while supporting the achieve-
 ment of responsible authorship. We adhere to a number of external concordats to ensure an en-
 vironment of research excellence (Governance of Good Research Conduct; Research Integrity;
 Open Research Data; Openness on Animal Research in the UK; Engaging the Public on Re-
 search; Career Development of Researchers; European Charter for Researchers and a Code of
 Conduct for the Recruitment of Researchers through the HR Excellence in Research Award; Nolan
 Principles; UKRI Statement of Expectations for Equality and Diversity).

 2.5 Open Research Environment
 The implementation of our institutional strategy to support the open research agenda and ensure
 compliance with the REF open access (OA) policy began in 2016 with the purchase of PURE
 (Elsevier), our Current Research Information System (CRIS), aiming for 100% compliance primar-
 ily through the Green OA route. The system is also available as a research data repository to
 share open research data, in line with funders’ requirements.

 Of the 2,853 research outputs in scope of the REF open access policy and deposited by UWS
 authors in PURE, 2297 have open access versions available for download through the UWS Ac-
 ademic Portal, against 655 needed for REF2021 submission. This equates to 80% of in-scope
 outputs made openly available. Open access versions of an additional 520 non in-scope outputs
 can be downloaded from our portal and this number is steadily increasing, as the Library are ad-
 vocating and implementing the best practice of making research as open as possible beyond fun-
 ders’ requirements. UWS has been signing transformative agreements with publishers to allow
 researchers to publish Gold Open Access in thousands of journals. Altmetric and PlumX are avail-
 able to allow researchers to evaluate the impact of their work beyond the more traditional metrics.
 A series of REF newsletters was issued to raise awareness of the REF OA requirements and a
 programme of masterclasses was delivered to all academics to ensure familiarity with the PURE
 research management system. Training is available to all researchers, in person and via online
 resources, and support for all PURE users is offered by a dedicated team.

 2.6 External Engagement, Collaboration and Societal Benefits
 With four campuses in west and south-west Scotland and a campus in London, 8 PGR partner
 institutions across Europe, and membership of several major international networks, UWS en-
 gages with a broad range of regional, national and international communities, partners and stake-
 holders.

 2.6.1 Regional and National Research Priorities
 Since REF2014, our key themes of Health, Society and Sustainability and now alignment with UN
 SDGs emerged from our embeddedness in and contribution to Universities Scotland and Univer-
 sities UK. Internally, the Vice-Chancellor’s Executive Group (VCEG), Senate, University Re-
 search and Enterprise Advisory Committee (REAC), University Ethics Committee (UEC), and Doc-
 toral College Board are the key formal vehicles for engagement with and responding to regional
 and national research priorities. The Professoriate group established by the Vice-Chancellor in
 2014 and Early Career Researchers Forum, renamed Staff Forum for Research in 2020, represent
 further consultation mechanisms outside the formal research governance to identify and address
 key research priorities. Externally, UWS co-creates the regional research culture in Scotland
 through its membership in Scottish Research Pools: Energy technology Partnership (ETP), Marine
 Alliance for Science & Technology for Scotland (MASTS), Scottish Alliance for Geoscience, Envi-
 ronment and Society (SAGES), Scottish Informatics and Computer Science Alliance (SICSA),
 Scottish Research Partnership in Engineering (SRPe), Scottish Universities Life Sciences Alliance

                                                                                                Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 (SULSA), Scottish Universities Physics Alliance (SUPA). The university was a founding member
 of many of the research pools and is a member of the first national graduate school, the Scottish
 Graduate School for Arts and Humanities and the Scottish Graduate School for Social Science,
 the largest facilitator of funding, training and support of doctoral students in social science. UWS
 is also a partner in the Scottish Police and Research Exchange (SPRE) and the Scottish Dementia
 Research Consortium.

 2.6.2 Research Collaboration, Networks and Partnerships
 Scottish research pools and membership in international networks including Scotland Europa and
 the Consortium of Applied Research and Professional Education (CARPE), a strategic alliance of
 European Universities of Applied Sciences, have been the main strategic enablers of research
 collaborations with other academic partners. Academia-industry research collaboration has been
 supported through our involvement in Scottish Innovation Centres (18 projects to the value of
 GBP911,512), which involves introducing a ‘Gold-Silver-Bronze’ approach to forming collabora-
 tions across 8 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) with evaluation providing the basis for growth
 and expansion. Our strategic partnerships include 10 companies at Gold level (i.e., engagement
 across all KPIs), 7 companies at Silver level (i.e., engagement across two or more KPIs) and 33
 companies at Bronze level (i.e., engagement in one KPI).

 2.6.3 Institutional Contribution: Economy, Society and Communities
 UWS added GBP955,000,000 to the Scottish economy in 2017/18 (Biggar Economics Report) -
 an increase from GBP576,000,000 in 2014 - a major achievement in a challenging political, social
 and economic environment. UWS’ societal contribution is immense also due to being recognised
 as one of the UK’s leading institutions in widening participation in higher education with around a
 quarter of all Scottish-domiciled undergraduate entrants to UWS from SIMD20 areas (Scottish
 Index of Multiple Deprivation). In Scotland, with campuses in Renfrewshire (Paisley campus), Ayr-
 shire (Ayr campus) and Dumfries and Galloway (Dumfries campus), UWS is an anchor Higher
 Education Institution (HEI) in Ayrshire Economic Partnership, Lanarkshire Economic Forum and
 the Crichton Trust in Dumfries. We treat research as a basis for engagement with the communities
 we serve and the general public globally. Research Services, Corporate Communications and the
 UWS Events team provide researchers with resources, inspiration and support to help them de-
 velop new and exciting ways of engaging the public in their research. We offer support for all
 aspects of public engagement from outreach to collaborative research projects, including event
 management, training on grant application writing and funding, evidence and evaluation tools. The
                                                                institutional support for dissemina-
                                                                tion and profiling of our research
                                                                through PURE, The Conversation,
                                                                EurekAlert and AlphaGalileo is fur-
                                                                ther enhanced through our engage-
                                                                ment with community groups region-
                                                                ally, nationally and internationally (in-
                                                                cluding governmental Cross-Party
                                                                Groups, industry boards, national
                                                                and international advisory boards –
                                                                as exemplified in REF5b state-
                                                                ments).
 Figure 1: UWS' rapidly increasing KTP portfolio.
 Strategy: Examples of Success

       Parasport research (UOA24): Winning the Gold Research Impact Award at the Herald
        Commonwealth Games Awards 2014.
       UNESCO World Heritage status application (UOA34): Our research and campaigns for
        heritage protection of the Gdansk shipyard area have made a significant contribution to
        the Polish Government’s application for UNESCO World Heritage status.
       Sector-leading Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP) centre (UOA17 and others):
        According to Innovate UK, KTPs generate GBP7.5 of economic value for every GBP1 of

                                                                                                  Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
        investment. Since then, our total number of KTPs has grown to the current 35, the UK’s
        fastest growing portfolio and the largest in terms of Management KTPs
       International Continuous Professional Development (CPD) centre (a): UWS delivered
        23 courses within the Chinese government’s State Administration for Foreign Experts Af-
        fairs (SAFEA) scheme - fastest-growing in the UK and among the greatest-ever annual
        increases by any HEI provider.

 3. People
 3.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 We are submitting 279 staff in REF2021 against 122 in REF2014. To achieve this, we have de-
 veloped a range of mechanisms. Additionally, these have helped us to ensure that our people are
 engaged in the UWS vision, ambitions and truths. The University recognises that the recruitment
 of high-quality staff is critical to its continued growth and success and places a high value on the
 benefits of a diverse and multicultural community. All Category A eligible staff are on Teaching
 and Research contracts and a research mentoring Scheme has been introduced following
 REF2014 with self-nominated mentors and mentees matched according to individual needs and
 aspirations, benefitting 92 staff. Additional mentoring within research groupings is available to all
 members with a particular focus on newly recruited staff and ECRs. MyContribution, preceded by
 Professional Development Review process, is the main appraisal mechanism for all staff. It in-
 cludes setting academic objectives annually with a minimum 6-month review and research objec-
 tives are among key categories. Several frameworks for incentives and rewards are in place to
 support the development of research including: (1) Salary recognition and reward procedure (104
 approvals in this REF period, including 43 ex-gratia, 35 acceleration increments and 26 contribu-
 tion increment); (2) Staff Appreciation and Recognition (STARS) Award (20 staff since REF2014,
 including 7 winners within Research and Knowledge Exchange category); (3) Additional annual
 leave purchase procedure from 2018 onwards (1 member of staff in 2020/21); (4) UWS reinvest-
 ment in research excellence through Vice-Principal’s Research Fund (66 staff in project teams).
 Several other mechanisms support our staff, including: (1) Returners Scheme to complement the
 UWS family-friendly procedures (i.e., minimising the impact of extended leave on work activities);
 (2) Maternity, paternity and adoption pay and leave above the statutory level; (3) Childcare
 voucher scheme run by Sodexho; (4) Carer’s fund providing caring support for staff; (5) Flexible
 working schemes (e.g., part-time working, job sharing and the opportunity to apply for flexible
 working hours).

 3.2 Early Career Researchers
                                                            In the current submission, 18.54% of
                                                            FTE Category A eligible staff are
                                                            ECRs, recognising their significant
                                                            contribution to UWS research.
                                                            Throughout the REF period, a highly
                                                            inclusive approach has led to 24 tak-
                                                            ing up Lecturing posts at UWS, 48
                                                            promotions to Senior Lecturer, 14
                                                            promotions to Reader and 14 promo-
                                                            tions to Professor. UWS’ approach to
                                                            supporting Early Career Research-
                                                            ers (ECR) includes: (1) ensuring
 Figure 2: Dr Dave Hughes (CEO Novosound Ltd.; from         ECR representation on main re-
 ECR to multi-award-winning Executive).                     search committees; (2) establishing
                                                            and funding an Early Career Re-
 searchers’ Forum in 2018 (150 members, hosting regular events throughout the year); (3) dedi-
 cated professional development opportunities (e.g., UWS CRUCIBLE organised during the pan-
 demic virtually) and (4) requiring ECR involvement as standard for all UWS-supported research
 projects.

 3.3 Postgraduate Research Students (PGRS)


                                                                                               Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 During the current REF period, at any given time, approximately 90% of all UWS PGRS have
 completed within the maximum period of registration. Since REF2014 when UWS completion rate
 was around 47%, this sector-leading position has been achieved through the development of a
 centrally managed and systematic approach to monitoring progression. The progress began with
 the establishment of the UWS Graduate School in 2014, which in 2018 became Doctoral College
 (DC) to foster the collegial research environment across the University, with “Behaviours, Interac-
 tions and Wellbeing” representing its three key pillars. Support mechanisms like the flagship “3-
 minute Thesis Competition”, Vitae-aligned training programmes with UWS Academy and MyPGR
 Platform, an online progress monitoring platform, have been pivotal in achieving success (i.e.,
 from 97 doctoral completions in REF2014 to 370 in REF2021). In this period, we have hosted
 UWS PGRS from >70 countries and currently this diverse population includes a cohort from the
 multi-million five-year doctoral scholarship scheme with the Algerian government designed to im-
 prove the teaching, learning and research of Algerian universities.

 3.4 Equality and diversity
 One of the UWS seven core values is ‘shaping society’. The Strategy 2025 confirms ‘we remain
 committed to widening access, equality, diversity and inclusion.’ and our REF Code of Practice
 has been designed with equality, diversity and inclusion at its heart. This has contributed to an
 improved gender balance. The imbalance in RAE2008 (73% male and 27% female) and REF2014
 (71% male and 29% female) submissions was substantial. Submitting 40.3% females and 59.3%
 males, 0.4% unknown to REF 2021 resulted in a significantly reduced imbalance. The analysis of
 the participation levels of staff with a disability shows an increase from 1.1% eligible staff and 1.6%
 submitted staff in REF2014 to 4.6% eligible staff and 5.7% submitted in REF 2021. The percent-
 age of submitted ECR staff with a declared disability has increased from 3.6% in 2014 to 7.9% in
 2021. For submitted staff 18.8% are from ethnic minorities, an increase since REF2014 when
 14.2% were known to be from ethnic minorities. ECR ethnic minority participation levels for sub-
 mitted staff is 21.8% while 100% of the ECRs submitted for REF2014 were white. Research and
 Business Innovation teams within Academic Life have, since REF2014, developed robust support
 mechanisms targeting under-represented groups, as defined by the Equality Act, within the Uni-
 versity. These include PROPEL, Grant Accelerator, REF Accelerator, UWS Crucible, Master-
 classes to name but a few. UWS has further demonstrated its commitment to equality and diversity
 through attainment of: (1) Athena SWAN Bronze award; (2) HR Excellence in Research award;
 (3) Disability Confident Accreditation; and (4) Stonewall Diversity Champions Scheme. Staff Net-
 work for ethnic minority staff (BME Staff Network), LGBT Staff Network (UWS Liberty), Women’s
 network (UWS HigHER) are the existing major staff networks to offer peer support, with Men’s
 Network and Disability Staff Network in development. UWS EDI Leadership and Governance
 model was reviewed during 2020, refocusing EDI, enhancing visibility, delivery and communica-
 tion.

 People: Examples of Success
     Rapid development of award-winning spin-outs (UOA 7, 9, 12): Novosound, Fish di-
       agnostics and Albasense – all shortlisted for the Converge Award with Novosound winning
       in 2017. During this time UWS has twice had the largest number of shortlisted spin-outs
       for the main award category.
     ‘Oscar of Higher Education’ (UOA11): A partnership between UWS; Thales, and Scot-
       tish sensors and imaging innovation centre, CENSIS – scooped the prize in the highly-
       competitive ‘knowledge exchange / transfer initiative of the year’ category (Times Higher
       Education (THE) Award 2020).
     The United Nations in Geneva (UOA34): Showcases an award-winning documentary
       “Colours of the Alphabet” produced through a unique collaboration between academics at
       the University of the West of Scotland (UWS) and Newcastle University.
     Doctoral alumni success (across UOAs): Doctoral graduates are our ambassadors
       worldwide and some of the most recent graduates include: BAFTA Scotland winning Doc-
       umentary Filmmaker and Managing Director, Blackwatch Media; Award Winning
       Filmmaker Producer / Director / Photographer and Executive Producer of BBC Scotland
       series "The Logans: Band of Sisters" (2019-2020) and "Meet The Logans" (2020); Senior


                                                                                                 Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
        Scientist and Group Manager at Fraunhofer IPA, and Director of Smart Cities, Robert
        Bosch GmBH.

 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 4.1 Income Strategy
 Focusing on large interdisciplinary grants has been at the heart of our income strategy and in
 relation to research income, our R&E Enabling Plan has set out our strategic position to increase
 large interdisciplinary grant applications with significant consortia nationally and internationally and
 diversify research funding sources. Through the VP Research Excellence Fund, we have invested
 GBP3,000,000 in key areas of research strength across UOAs. In addition, several funding sup-
 port programmes have specifically been designed to increase research income through interdis-
 ciplinary collaboration across all academic Schools.

 4.2 Funding Support Equality and Diversity
 The support mechanisms (i.e., UWS Academy, Doctoral College, Grant Accelerator, REF Accel-
 erator and UWS Crucible) have been specifically designed to target key challenges in relation to
 equality and diversity and acquiring research funding. All of our HR procedures are reviewed
 through an Equality Impact Assessment (EIA) process to ensure appropriate support mechanisms
 are in place where there is any risk of disadvantage to those employees with a specific protected
 characteristic.

 4.3 Operational and Scholarly infrastructure
 In 2019, the new GBP110,000,000 UWS Lanarkshire campus was named as the most sustainable
 and inspiring higher education building in the UK at the Guardian University Awards and in the
 same year, won Campus of the Future at the annual Green Gown awards ceremony.

 4.3.1 Estates, Physical and Specialist Research Infrastructure
                                                                          The Lanarkshire campus
                                                                          investment was specifically
                                                                          made to create a truly dy-
                                                                          namic and collaborative en-
                                                                          vironment and includes
                                                                          Scotland’s highest specifi-
                                                                          cation environmental cham-
                                                                          ber to replicate environ-
 Figure 3: Sport science lab at our new Lanarkshire campus.               ment extremes for athletes.
 UWS is continually developing and investing in technology and equipment to maintain a leading
 position in areas of research strength. We see ourselves rooted in the local, national and global
 economies and are delighted to make our staff, facilities and equipment available to partners from
 business, industry and the public sectors for mutual advantage. All academic Schools maintain a
 portfolio of facilities and infrastructure supporting research and impact. We have heavily invested
 in research laboratories on the new Lanarkshire campus, including sports, biotechnology and dig-
 ital engineering, and more than GBP250,000 in the development of the Beyond 5G Hub as well
 as GBP180,000 in the development of new spaces for PGR students to address their wellbeing
 and interdisciplinary interactions. Creating world-class signature capabilities by design has been
 central to the investment in functional thin films (Institute of Thin Films, Sensors and Imaging -
 ITFSI). The new GBP12,000,000 laboratories include a unique suite of 9 thin film deposition meth-
 ods using specialist and tailor-made equipment. More than GBP1,000,000 investment in the UWS
 Immersive initiative and Advanced Laboratory for Manufacturing and Autonomous Digital Applica-
 tions (ALMADA) has led to the development of specialist digital facilities. They were pivotal in
 UWS’ contribution to the Horizon 2020-funded project (RAPID) and the Digital Dairy Value chain
 bid led by SRUC (i.e., among 17 successful Wave 2 bids to progress to Stage 2 of the Strength in
 Places Fund).

 4.3.2 Technical and support staff
 All of our laboratories are deployed for research and impact purposes with the help of technical
 and support staff who are often recruited from industry with regular training to ensure professional

                                                                                                  Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 standards. Across the institution, we have 34 technicians who maintain research infrastructure. In
 many areas, the need for highly qualified technical and support staff has been met by recruiting
 or retaining former students who are skilled in the techniques, tools and technologies of the spe-
 cialist research area.

 4.3.3 Shared Infrastructure
 UWS participates in high-profile consortia to utilise shared facilities and infrastructure, including
 Scottish research pools, and we have signed agreements with other HEIs and industry partners
 to co-locate and share infrastructure for mutual and impact-focused benefits. Our Creative Media
 Academy has a teaching and research space at Film City Glasgow where UWS co-locate in a
 leading film and television production hub alongside the BBC and STV at Pacific Quay.

 4.4 Research Infrastructure and Impact
 Production-ready research infrastructure development has been at the heart of our efforts to de-
 ploy for impact. Due to specific requirements in STEM areas, the sector-leading growth of KTPs
 and a significant increase in commercialisation activities have thus been largely due to our ap-
 proach to developing production-ready research infrastructure capabilities. In total, more than
 GBP10,000,000 has been invested in infrastructure to support our world-class research.

 4.5 In-kind contributions
 Working with our communities daily, we receive countless in-kind contributions but we are proud
 to have received 48 donations worth GBP521,434, enabling us to boost our research capabilities.

 Income, Infrastructure and Facilities: Examples of success
     Acanthamoeba keratitis (UOA3): laboratory refurbishment and equipment is supporting
       UWS academics to commercialise the discovery of the world's first effective preventive
       treatment against both Acanthamoeba forma that cause serious debilitating infection of the
       cornea.
     Toyota Mobility Foundation Challenge (UOA12): KTP Project Wins USD1,000,000 Mo-
       bility Unlimited Challenge for Ultra-lightweight Intelligent Wheelchair with Phoenix Instinct
       Ltd.
     Gravitational waves detection (UOA9): UWS has been involved in supplying mirror sus-
       pension technology for the Advanced Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observa-
       tory (aLIGO) interferometer’s mirrors. Our NEXUS® Ion Beam Deposition (IBD) System,
       the key equipment for this development, is now hosted at the University of Strathclyde and
       shared between the two institutions.
     Major donation (UOA12): Alumnus of Bell College (UWS Lanarkshire) donated
       GBP200,000 to enable the University to buy state-of-the-art equipment.




                                                                                               Page 8
