Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: University of Leicester

 1. Context and mission


  1.1 Mission

  The University of Leicester is a comprehensive, research-intensive higher education
  institution. It was founded in the aftermath of World War One as a beacon of hope for a
  future in which education and research would change the world for the better.

  Since 2014 we have consolidated our world leading position in earth observation and space
  science, grown our biomedical and clinical research (the latter ranked 20th in the world
  according to the Shanghai Global rankings), led the global shift to socially transformative
  museums and heritage, and further strengthened our international reputation for research
  leading to the protection and preservation of archaeological heritage.

  Our mission is to create a culture of equality and diversity and to change lives for the better
  through transformative research and education. Our core objective is to provide a vibrant,
  robust, and inclusive research environment that enables high-quality research, delivering
  cultural, health, economic and social benefits locally and globally. Innovation, enterprise,
  and knowledge exchange are central to this activity.

  We are committed to tackling significant global issues and improving the lives of the world’s
  most disadvantaged people. We rank in the top 3% in the Times Higher Education (THE)
  World Impact Rankings 2020 and first for our work on the UN’s Sustainable Development
  Goal of ‘Life on Land’. Our citations per publication are 9th in the UK and 59th in the world
  (THE World University Rankings 2021). Our Global Challenges Research Fund strategy
  was one of three highly commended by Research England (2018).

  Nationally, our health-related research is embedded in the NHS through our partnerships
  with Leicestershire NHS Trusts. With the UK’s biggest respiratory health department and
  world-leading research on ethnic health, we are leading one of the world’s largest studies
  into the long-term health impacts of COVID-19 (Brightling, UoA1).

  Regionally, we play a major role in the Midlands economy and culture via our membership
  of Midlands Innovation, by driving space technology and enterprise, and through the impact
  of the landmark discovery of Richard III—one of the decade’s ‘extraordinary archaeological
  discoveries’ (Historic England, 2019).

  1.2 Context
  Our academics sit within three Colleges: Life Sciences (CLS); Science and Engineering
  (CSE); and Social Sciences, Arts and Humanities (CSSAH), incorporating 21 schools and
  departments, 20 subject-focused research centres, and five research institutes. We are
  returning submissions to 22 UoAs in REF2021:




                                                                                               Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


  Life Sciences                   Science &                   Social Sciences, Arts &
                                  Engineering                 Humanities
  1. Clinical Medicine            7. Earth Systems &          15. Archeology
  2. Public Health                    Environmental           17. Business & Management
  4. Psychology &                     Sciences                18. Law
      Neuroscience                8. Chemistry                19. Politics & International Studies
  5. Biological Sciences          9. Physics                  20. Social Policy
  24. Sport & Exercise            10. Mathematics             21. Sociology
      Sciences                    11. Computer Science &      27. English
                                      Informatics             28. History
                                  12. Engineering             34a. Media & Communication
                                  14. Geography               34b. Museum Studies




  Our total student population is 23,835 (2019/20: 60% UG; 31% PGT; 9% PGR). Leicester
  employs 1188.6 FTE permanent academic staff consisting of 674.2 FTE Teaching and
  Research, 253.9 FTE Teaching-focused, and 465.5 FTE Research-focused. We are
  submitting all eligible staff to our REF2021 submission:




                        Figure 1: REF2021 submitted staff FTE per panel


  The city of Leicester is one of the most culturally diverse in the UK, with around half the
  population identifying as BAME. Many of our leading research initiatives are underpinned by
  this diversity. From the Centre for BAME Health to the Centre for Hate Studies, much of our
  research activity engages with our context—a multi-ethnic, multicultural society spanning
  generations.




                                                                                                Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2. Strategy

 Our Strategic Plan (2015-20) was to drive discovery-led research that saves, improves, and
 enriches lives. Four strategic objectives underpinned our activities and achievements:

   (1) to enhance our national and international position by engaging with
       emergent priorities and challenges;
   (2) to promote and support interdisciplinarity by launching a suite of research institutes and
       networks;
   (3) to increase the reach and significance of our research through strategic
       impact planning, collaboration, and evaluation; and
   (4) to enhance our enterprise culture through knowledge exchange and by developing
       partnerships to drive innovation and impact.


  2.1 International challenges and engagement

  We rank in the first quartile of UK universities (THE World University Rankings, 2021) and
  collaborate with world-leading researchers and professionals. Amongst our top 10 most
  frequent university co-authors are Harvard, Oxford, Cambridge, UCL, and Imperial. Our top
  10 corporate co-authors include Airbus, AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, Nordisk, and Pfizer
  (Scival). Over 50% of our outputs have an international co-author.

  We address global challenges by driving development-related challenge-led research: for
  example, fighting tuberculosis in South Africa (Barer, UoA1), understanding mental health
  issues in Guyana’s jails (Anderson, UoA28), and protecting Mongolian rangelands (Upton,
  UoA14). With over £8M GCRF QR, our collaborative research is improving the lives of
  people living in chronic disadvantage across the world.

  We develop international partnerships to achieve a better future for all; for instance, the
  Nairobi Alliance—our partnership with the universities of Nairobi, Malawi, Rwanda, and the
  Witwatersrand—was launched in 2017 as a key enabler for our GCRF strategy. Together,
  we provide governments and intergovernmental institutions with research on key
  challenges, such as plastic pollution in Malawi (Gabbott, UoA7). In China, we have several
  longstanding partnerships which have resulted in collaborative research centres, including
  manufacturing and materials (NISCO, Dong, UoA12) and pregnancy research (Chongqing
  University, Baker, UoA1).


  2.2 Interdisciplinary research

  We have made significant investments in interdisciplinary working, the success of which is
  evident in many of our Unit returns. In 2016, we established five interdisciplinary Research
  Institutes centred on areas of key strength: Cultural & Media Economies (CAMEo),
  Leicester Precision Medicine (LPMI; joint with the NHS), Space and Earth Observation
  (LISEO), Structural and Chemical Biology (LISCB), and Leicester Institute for Advanced
  Studies (LIAS).

  Over this REF period we have invested over £5M of internal funding into these institutes
  which have in turn attracted £82M to fund research and impact. For instance, LPMI has
  supported the development of a new clinical assessment tool for detecting risk of sudden
  cardiac death (Ng, UoA1, MRC, £0.81M), which won the European Heart Rhythm


                                                                                              Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
  Association Inventors Award 2016, while CAMEo contributes to the DigiGen project
  (Horizon 2020 RIA, €3M), researching how young people are affected by technological
  transformation (Karatzogianni, UoA34a).

  LIAS was established to pioneer new ways of modelling and translating interdisciplinary
  research. Since its launch in 2017, LIAS has secured £4.5M of external funding, hosted 21
  fellows from 17 countries, and funded 21 projects, such as transforming the way digital
  technology is harnessed for maternity care in the UK, India, Peru, and South Africa
  (Mackintosh, UoA2). In 2020, LIAS became Chair of the UK-wide Consortium of Institutes of
  Advanced Studies in recognition of its dynamism and success.

  We have won significant external support to enable our interdisciplinary research. We are
  one of six UK institutions awarded a BHF Accelerator Award (£1M, matched by UoL and
  UHL) to fund ECRs working on novel crosscutting research in cardiovascular disease. We
  hold a Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund (WTISSF) award (£1.5M,
  matched by UoL), commended by the WT as ‘one of the best in our ISSF scheme’. This
  Fund facilitates collaboration between health sciences and humanities and social sciences,
  resulting in novel and impactful research such as ‘Virus Fear: Cultural Resistance to
  Biophage Therapy’ (Clokie, UoA5 and Jones, UoA27).


  2.3 Research Impact

  Over this REF period, we secured ~£4.2M in external funding to support impact development:




          Figure 2: Total external funding for impact development over the REF period

  We have invested significantly in impact development via an Impact Development Fund
  (~£0.5M) and expansion of our Impact Team (1 FTE in 2014 to 8.4 FTE in 2020). This
  support has enabled us to develop high-impact research, including protecting endangered
  heritage in the Middle East and North Africa (Mattingly, UoA15, ~£2.6M Arcadia/British
  Council/AHRC); advancing understanding and representation of BAME and LGBTQ+ history
  (Fowler & Parker, UoA27; Sandell, UoA34b); and transforming UK hate crime policy
  (Chakraborti, UoA20).


                                                                                          Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

  We support one of the top 20 Clinical Medicine groups in the world (5th in the UK, Shanghai
  Global rankings 2020). Fundamental to this success is our research at Glenfield Hospital,
  which ranks 29th in the world and 2nd in the UK (THE Institutes and Hospitals Rankings
  2018). Our clinical research has improved the treatment and quality of life of patients both
  locally and globally with conditions including respiratory diseases (Brightling, UoA1),
  cardiovascular diseases (Gershlick, Samani, Robinson UoA1), and diabetes (Davies UoA1,
  Khunti UoA2, Yates UoA24).

  Our ranking as first in the world for research on ‘Life on Land’ (THE World Impact Rankings
  2020) is underpinned by our commitment to tackling today’s greatest environmental
  challenges, including preventing the destruction of peatlands (Page, UoA7). We host the
  NERC National Centre for Earth Observation and are leaders in satellite observations of
  climate, remote sensing of changing land surface, and atmospheric composition.


  2.4 Local, regional, and national priorities

  The University contributes £360M annually to Leicester and Leicestershire’s economy and
  £600M annually to the UK, supporting one in every 23 jobs in the city and ~10,000 jobs
  nationally.

  We have worked closely with the city to create the National Space and Richard III Visitor
  Centres, with the economic impact of the discovery of Richard III assessed as ~£59M
  (Focus Consultants, 2015). Membership of Midlands Engine, a public and private sector
  partnership focused on regional economic growth, enables our contribution to the growth of
  a high-skill, high-tech Midlands economy.

  We play a key role in the Leicester and Leicestershire Enterprise Partnership (LLEP),
  contributing to its Local Industrial Strategy by involvement in two Enterprise Zones. With the
  LLEP, we launched the UK’s first Life Sciences Opportunity Zone (2019, £1.4M ERDF/UoL)
  to enhance regional Life Science SME growth, activity greatly enhanced by the
  establishment of the Leicester Academic Health Partnership.

  In 2021, we are opening our new £100M+ Space Park Leicester (SPL). SPL will enable
  cutting-edge end-to-end R&D, skills capability in space, and low-cost satellite manufacturing
  facilities for space sector leaders and SMEs. The Department of International Trade has
  designated it a High Potential Opportunity Zone and it will house the European Space
  Agency’s Business Incubation Programme. Once open, SPL will provide a £700M uplift to
  local GVA (KPMG, 2017).




                                                                                              Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

  2.5 Research Enterprise

  To optimise the impact of our research, we have developed and strengthened our
  partnerships. These include: the NHS, the National Trust (one of only two UK universities to
  have a formal partnership, alongside Oxford), and NTT DATA—a partnering agreement to
  accelerate the delivery of data, AI insights, and clinical research. Collaborative Research
  Centres include the NISCO UK Research Centre (with Fosun International and Nanjing Iron
  and Steel Group) and MatIC Innovation Centre (with The Welding Institute).

  Our Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) allocation has more than doubled from
  ~£1.41M per year during REF2014 to ~£3.14M per year during REF2021:




                   Figure 3: HEIF Allocation for REF2014 (faded) and REF2021

  The ~£22M received through HEIF during this REF period was used to pump-prime
  enterprising and impactful research. The Knowledge Exchange and Enterprise Fund—
  designed to create and deepen relationships with non-academic partners—has supported
  70 projects, including the development of a forensic DNA testing kit used to bring justice for
  sexual abuse victims in Kenya (Smith UoA20, Jobling UoA5). This project was THE HASS
  Research Project of the Year 2018.

  Our Proof of Concept Fund has supported 75 projects to technological maturation and
  commercialisation for our intellectual property, including the successful spinout company,
  EarthSense, which is spearheading innovations in air quality monitoring (Monks UoA8,
  Leigh UoA9). Our Leicester Innovation Hub, launched in 2017 (£6.5M, ERDF/UoL),
  supports business incubation through access to facilities, funding, and academic expertise.


  2.6 Open Research

  Embedding a culture of open research is a strategic priority as we seek to increase global
  engagement with our research. The Open Research Group, formed in 2017, has driven our
  open research policies, practices, and services. To support GOLD OA publishing, we

                                                                                              Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
  administered ~£1.71M in OA block grants (UKRI and WT/COAF) during the REF period.
  Our OA Policy requires all academics to deposit their research outputs into our public
  available Leicester Research Archive (LRA) within three months of acceptance for
  publication. This platform provides free access to our scholarly outputs and research data,
  including PhD theses. During the REF period, research outputs in LRA have had 4,874,007
  views and outputs have been downloaded in 181 countries.



  2.7 Research integrity

  We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of rigour and integrity in all aspects
  of our research, adhering to the requirements of the Concordat to Support Research
  Integrity. We expect all researchers to observe these standards, promote an ethos of
  professionalism, and embed good practice in all aspects of their work. Implementation of
  DORA principles has involved review and modification of policies and procedures for
  research assessment when hiring and promoting, in accordance with our public Statement
  of Principles for the Responsible use of Bibliometrics. Our institutional policy for ongoing
  evaluation of research output quality ensures that peer review underpins research
  assessment.


  2.8 Citizens of Change

  Launched in 2020, our new institutional strategy centres on being Citizens of Change. Our
  mission is to be diverse in our make-up and united in our ambition to change lives through
  education and research. By providing an ambitious and inclusive research environment, we
  will deliver world- leading research that transforms lives through our key strengths:

   • Space, Earth and Environment;
   • Common Diseases and Multimorbidity;
   • Social Justice, Diversity and Inclusion;
   • Culture and Heritage;
   • Structure, Chemistry and Biology of Materials;
   • Data Science, Analytics and Modelling.


  Our 5 strategic aims over the next decade are to:

   (1) foster disciplinary and interdisciplinary research excellence;
   (2) optimise the impact of our research;
   (3) forge vibrant partnerships and networks of excellence to
        address complex contemporary challenges;
   (4) drive ambitious innovation and enterprise;
   (5) nurture the next generation of researchers to become world-leaders in their field.


 3. People

  In 2014, we committed to Discovering People, a major strategic initiative with six
  components that ensured that all staff and research students flourished in an inclusive and
  supportive environment:

                                                                                            Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


   (1) attracting the best people at all career stages;
   (2) valuing equality and advancing diversity;
   (3) nurturing and developing people;
   (4) delivering our health and wellbeing programme;
   (5) embracing change, innovation, and learning;
   (6) celebrating and recognising success.


   Our T&R and R-only staff (permanent and contract) have the following characteristics:




                            Figure 4: Staff characteristics by College




                 Figure 5: Age distribution of REF-eligible staff in each College



                                                                                           Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

  3.1 Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI)

  EDI is fundamental to innovation and high-quality research. In 2017, we launched an EDI
  strategy outlining our commitment to valuing equality and advancing diversity, in all aspects
  of our University life. We use EDI data to target activities, recruit and retain an increasingly
  diverse staff population, and engage with relevant equality charters. Our REF Code of
  Practice specifies how our return has been compiled with due regard for EDI. Our
  supportive structures have enabled all staff to produce outputs for REF2021.

  To advance gender equality we apply Athena SWAN principles across the University,
  recognised by our institutional Silver Award (2018), a College-level Silver Award for Life
  Sciences (2020), and 8 departmental awards (1 Silver, 7 Bronze). We are the only UK
  university partner in the United Nations’ HeForShe global solidarity movement and the first
  to launch a menopause policy, informed by our research on menopause and the workplace
  (Davies, UoA17). Since 2017, we have reduced the median gender pay gap by 4.3%. Life
  Sciences have significantly increased the proportion of female professors to 28% (19% in
  2015).

  The total number of BAME staff has increased by 19% since 2016 and BAME staff now
  represent 17% of the University's T&R and R-only population. 16% of our T&R/R-only
  female staff identify as BAME compared to 7% for the Russell Group and 6.7% for the
  sector (HESA). As members of the Race Equality Charter we are driving forward race
  equality initiatives, including a Positive Action in Recruitment Initiative to increase the ethnic
  diversity of staff and launching BAME PhD scholarships. In 2020, Vice Chancellor Professor
  Nishan Canagarajah pledged ‘to set the standard for diversity and inclusion in higher
  education…to address the chronic absence of black higher education academic staff’.

  We have been a Stonewall Diversity Champion since 2013 and a Stonewall Top 100
  Employer (2018 and 2019). In 2020, the University was recognised for advancing disability
  equality by progressing to Level 2 of the Disability Confident Scheme and attaining Disability
  Confident Employer status.

  3.2 Staff recruitment, development, and support

  Our recruitment processes attract a diverse pool of outstanding candidates at all career
  stages and assessment is undertaken by diverse selection panels adhering to DORA-
  compliant principles. T&R staff have a workload allocation that recognises a minimum of
  40% for research. During this REF period, 62% (448) of REF-eligible staff, including ECRs,
  have benefitted from research leave. ECRs on T&R contracts receive a lighter teaching load
  while on probation.

  We promote a healthy work-life balance through our Flexible Working and Special Leave
  Policies and Annual Leave Purchase Scheme. We offer enhanced schemes for maternity,
  paternity, adoption, parental and compassionate leave. We have a comprehensive Health
  and Wellbeing programme and, in recognition of the quality of our staff support, we
  achieved an Armed Forces Covenant Gold Award (2020).

  We have held a HR Excellence in Research Award since 2011 (amongst 13 institutions to
  receive this award in 2016), in recognition of our commitment to implement the principles of
  the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. During this REF period,
  we have promoted 261 REF-eligible staff (41% female), including 168 promotions to
  Associate Professor (45% female) and 93 promotions to Professor (34% female).

                                                                                                 Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
  In 2017, we launched a Coaching and Mentoring Academy and a new Academic Career
  Map promoting diversity in academia by valuing breadth and specialisation across a range
  of activities, including impact and knowledge exchange. Additionally, we provide our ~456
  fixed-term research staff with targeted support, including access to Bridging Funding. Our
  Fixed-Term Contracts Policy ensures that such staff are treated fairly and, where possible,
  transferred to open-ended contracts.

  In 2017, we launched our Doctoral College (DC) as part of a radical overhaul of the
  institutional structures to support all research active staff and students. As a result, in this
  REF period, we have increased our ERC Fellowships by 234% (€17.9M), doubled our ESRC
  Fellowships (£1.2M), increased Leverhulme Trust Fellowships by 29% (£1.9M), and funded
  35 ECR Fellowships through our WTISSF and BHF Accelerator Award.


  3.3 Research Students

  The initiation of the DC has enhanced the importance of, and support for, PGRs in our
  research culture. With 2124 doctoral completions, we have had an 84% uplift compared to
  REF2014—the 9th highest increase for PGR awards amongst Pre-92 HEIs. Of our PGR
  community ~17% are distance-learners—three times larger than the sector mean—including
  many located internationally (not captured in HESA data). Over the REF period, 60% of our
  PGR community were home/EU and 40% were international. Our annual UK BAME
  population of PGR students has more than doubled since the beginning of REF2014,
  significantly above the Russell Group mean:




  Figure 6: Increase of our UK BAME research students compared to sector

  We have been awarded a number of UKRI Doctoral Training Programmes (DTPs). We are
  leading members of the AHRC Midlands4Cities DTP—the top ranked AHRC DTP bid
  nationally. This has led to a 97% increase in our AHRC PhD studentships compared to
  REF2014. Our 2018 NERC- funded DTP was the strongest bid in the UK; we lead an
  EPSRC IMPACT CDT and are a partner in the ESRC Midlands Graduate School. These
  have contributed to our UKRI-funded doctoral completions in this REF period: AHRC (69),
  MRC (62), ESPRC (55), STFC (52), NERC (45), BBSRC (43), and ESRC (7). Since 2014,
  we have also led Marie Skłodowska-Curie Innovative Training Networks worth €17.1M,
  awarded 145 institutionally-funded studentships, and increased our industrial/commercial
  PGR funding by 20% (HESA).

                                                                                              Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)


  In the 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey, we scored higher than the sector
  and Russell Group averages in almost all sections, performing particularly well in
  supervision (89%) and research skills (88%). This success is a result of our excellent
  departmental provision for PGRs and the DC. The DC is responsible for providing research
  skills training and support, facilitating initiatives such as doctoral inaugural lectures, careers
  symposia, and thesis boot camps to support timely submission.

  Our thesis completion rate has been consistently above 80% for this REF period and was
  94% in 2019/20 for our UKRI funded students, compared to a timely completion rate of 61%
  for the sector. Since 2014, BAME students’ completion rates have increased by 29%, to a
  percentage close to their white counterparts:




                     Figure 7: % doctoral completions per year by gender/race




                                                                                                 Page 11
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities


  4.1 Research Income

  During this REF period, our research income totaled £384.5M, representing a 57% increase
  on REF2014 (Fig.8), with increases in all three Colleges (CLS 49%, CSE 37%, CSSAH
  139%). Institutionally, we have consistently ranked in the top 30 amongst UK HEIs for total
  research income (HESA).




              Figure 8: Increase in our research income by source since REF2014

  We have been awarded ~£427M in external research funding over the REF period, securing
  ~£77M in 2019-20, the highest on record at UoL and the third year in a row that we have
  achieved £70M+ (Fig.9). This increase ensures that we will sustain our income over the next
  five years.




         Figure 9: Externally funded research grants awarded in the REF2021 period




                                                                                         Page 12
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)

  We have diversified our funding portfolio, making notable gains in UKRI, health, EU, and
  industry funding. We received ~£52M of in-kind research income through our extensive use
  of UK and international facilities, increased our intellectual property income by 539%, and
  rank 9th nationally for regeneration income (HEBCI 2018/19).

  Our Research and Enterprise Division (RED) and Research Institutes provide support for
  capturing external research awards, from identifying new research initiatives to the
  preparation of grant applications. We have significantly invested in research support during
  this period, including increasing RED staff from 30 FTE in 2014 to 85 FTE in 2020.

  Our research grant success has led to a 53% increase in research overhead compared to
  REF2014 (Fig.10). QR is returned directly to Schools and, alongside research overhead, is
  used to pump-prime research activity. We use research overhead, QR, and HEIF funding to
  support strategic research and impact priorities, including: our research institutes,
  investment in new academic positions, building capacity for interdisciplinarity, matched
  funding for major programmes, and PhD scholarships and fellowships.




                    Figure 10: External research allocation 2014 – 2021 (£M)

  4.1 Local Infrastructure and Facilities

  As a top quartile research-intensive University, our physical and digital infrastructure is
  fundamental to our research environment. Investment focuses on enabling our research
  ambitions, delivering capability in areas of existing strength and emergent fields where we
  have clear potential to make a unique and transformative contribution.

  Our infrastructure and facilities are developed and maintained through external research
  awards and ~£15M of internal investment. Our facilities are supported by 243 FTE
  technicians, many of whom make substantial contributions to income and output. We were
  one of the first institutions to sign up to the Science Council Technician’s Commitment in
  2017, ensuring greater recognition and career development for all technicians.

  Opened in 2016, the £42M George Davies Centre for Medicine is the largest investment
  in Applied Health Research and Medical Training in the UK in the last decade. It has


                                                                                           Page 13
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
  facilitated the co-location and collaboration of Health Science and Psychology researchers,
  housing applied research at the forefront of improved patient safety and the fight against
  chronic disease. Recent developments include the establishment of the Centre for
  Environment, Health and Sustainability (~£10M UoL/ NIHR).

  The Advanced Microscopy Facility (AMF) supports major analytical research activities
  across Chemistry, Earth and Environmental Science, Engineering, and Physics. Since
  2014, we have invested >£1M in our suite of electron microscopes (EM), valued at ~£4M,
  providing workhorse and cutting-edge capability across the spectrum of EM imaging and
  analysis. Our EM capability was essential to our study of material returned from Comet
  Wild2 and asteroid Itokawa (Stardust and Hayabusa missions) and facilitated our
  involvement in upcoming sample return missions, including Hayabusa 2 (UoA9).

  Our award-winning David Wilson Library provides a dedicated space for researchers to
  study and network. Since 2014, we have invested ~£28M to grow our primary source
  collections, databases, and e-journals. Archives and Special Collections have supported
  collaborative research projects, including ‘Unlocking our Sound Heritage’ with the British
  Library (Horrocks, UoA28, £0.5M Heritage Lottery Fund). Our nationally-significant Joe
  Orton Archive has supported a range of publications and public activities, including the 2018
  Saboteur Award for a short animation tribute to Orton (Parker, UoA27). The Evelyn Waugh
  Studies Collection is openly accessible as part of the AHRC ‘Complete Works of Evelyn
  Waugh’ project (Stannard, UoA27), which has been described as ‘one of the great
  monuments of twenty-first century literary scholarship’ (TLS, 2018).

  4.2 Regional and National Research Infrastructure and Facilities

  Reflecting the interdisciplinarity and collaboration at the heart of our research strategy, we
  have delivered substantial investment in regionally- and nationally-significant research
  infrastructure.

  The Leicester NIHR Biomedical Research Centre (BRC) is a £11.6M investment
  (NIHR)—one of only 20 nationally—that enables pioneering medical research (partners are
  UHL and Loughborough University) providing collaborative clinical research facilities and
  funding research projects, fellowships, and studentships. Our BRC researchers have led
  some of the largest international studies identifying the genetic risks of cardiovascular and
  respiratory diseases (Samani & Tobin, UoA1), developing novel treatments for asthma and
  stroke (Wardlaw, UoA5), and a range of lifestyle interventions to prevent early stage
  diabetes (Edwardson & Yates, UoA24; Wain, UoA2). Since 2014, our BRC has recruited
  88,337 patients in 901 studies and secured £104M of additional income.

  Our Preclinical Research Facility is integrated into a regional network of complementary
  animal facilities. It provides a unique capability to perform Category 3 containment and
  aerosol delivery capacity, which is fundamental to our respiratory science (Barer, UoA1) and
  provides state-of-the-art in vivo imaging that underpins our cancer (Pritchard, UoA1; Fry,
  UoA5) cardiovascular (Samani, UoA1; Webb, UoA5) and neuroscience (Rodrigo, UoA4)
  research.

  We host the NERC National Centre for Earth Observation (NCEO), which leads national
  research capability in Earth Observation using international satellite systems in space
  (partnerships with 12 HEIs and 3 research laboratories). In addition to a £12.6M investment
  (NERC), NCEO has attracted £35M in external awards over the census period, enabling
  novel satellites to be utilised in the most pressing environmental science challenges

                                                                                              Page 14
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
  including data for climate, next generation Earth system models, and environmental
  forecasting systems. We undertake research into measurement of carbon dioxide and
  methane concentrations in complex regimes, such as wetlands, and drive new satellite
  systems for the global stock take mandated in the Paris agreement (Boesch, UoA7). Our
  contributions to the Copernicus land surface temperature monitoring mission are globally
  significant (Ghent/Remedios, UoA7&9).

  We are renowned for the provision of high-quality High Performance Computing (HPC). In
  addition to two local HPC clusters, provision of HPC has been significantly enhanced by
  STFC funding (£9M) for the Distributed Research Utilising Advanced Computing (DiRAC)
  Facility. DiRAC provides essential support for the delivery of STFC research programmes
  via services at four host universities, of which Leicester is the leading member. Our HPC is
  an essential tool for the interpretation and exploitation of observational and experimental
  data. This includes building and testing detailed computational models to understand the
  processes that shape planetary systems (Alexander, UoA9) and performing calculations of
  planetary spectra to match ground- and space-based observations of planet atmospheres in
  our Solar System (Fletcher, UoA9).

  LISCB leads the Midlands Cryo-Electron Microscopy Facility (£3.7M MRC, Leicester
  £1.8M). The facility generates 3D structures of biomolecules in exquisite detail, revealing
  the mechanisms through which molecular machines in our cells perform the key functions of
  life. We are one of six organisations in the UK to have this capability. The facility has
  attracted international researchers and industrial users, including UCB, Sanofi, Evotec, and
  Emphasis. CryoEM has significantly advanced understanding of the regulation of embryonic
  development (Schwabe, UoA5).

  4.3 Current Investment in Future Infrastructure

  Investment in Space Park, Leicester (SPL) of £13.8M through the UK Research
  Partnership Investment Fund has leveraged an additional £50M from the University and
  business to support the Manufacturing, Engineering, Technology and Earth Observation
  Research Centre (METEOR). METEOR will revolutionise the design, operation, and
  production of satellites. We have secured £2.3M from the LLEP, combined with £2.4M of
  institutional support, to establish the Space Technology Applications for Research
  Accelerator, which will provide support to SMEs designing and developing products. A
  further £0.5M investment (Wolfson) in a new Deep Space Centre will enable the
  development of smaller lower cost spacecraft, as part of a new generation of space
  exploration. Industry partners with a presence at SPL will include space sector leaders
  (Thales Alenia Space, Lockheed Martin, Airbus), computing giants (HPE and AWS), as well
  as a range of SMEs.

  In 2019, we allocated £632k to develop the Forensic and Ancient Biomolecules clean
  laboratory to advance the institution as an international leader in forensic and ancient
  biomolecule research. The facility will build on discoveries such as the identification of
  Richard III (UoA5, UoA15, UoA28), forensic DNA research (Jobling, UoA5), and further
  understanding of the health impact of tobacco consumption in post-medieval Europe (Inskip,
  UoA15, UKRI FLF, £1.2M).




                                                                                          Page 15
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
  4.4 A University of Change

  Over the REF period, we have created a vibrant and sustainable environment that allows
  our staff and research students to flourish. We have increased research income by 57% and
  doctoral completions by 83%, secured investment for nationally-significant infrastructure and
  facilities, and enhanced our national and international position by driving research that
  addresses emergent priorities and challenges. By putting equality and diversity at the heart
  of our mission, and supporting interdisciplinarity and knowledge exchange, we have
  developed world-leading and world-changing research. Through our strengths in Lifestyle
  Diseases, Space and the Environment, and Heritage and Society, we are improving lives.




                                                                                           Page 16
