Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Institution: Queen Mary University of London

 1. Context and mission


 Queen Mary University of London (QM) aspires to achieve the highest standards of world-leading
 research, combined with a distinctive educational provision. The University is located in East
 London and has a research profile geared towards tackling the most challenging local and global
 research problems, by drawing on disciplinary strengths and interdisciplinary approaches across
 three Faculties (Humanities and Social Sciences, Medicine and Dentistry, and Science and
 Engineering). QM’s distinctiveness derives in part from being a research-intensive university that
 is proud to attract students typically under-represented at similar universities: 70% of our home
 student population are BAME, over 50% are the first in their household to attend university, and
 one-quarter of undergraduate students come from households with taxable annual incomes below
 £10k. Over 160 nationalities are represented in our student and staff communities: QM is a truly
 diverse university and its inclusive vision is central to its academic mission. With its roots in four
 historic colleges in London, dating back to 1785 when the London Hospital Medical College was
 founded, the University has a long tradition of commitment to research addressing continually
 changing local and global challenges. In REF2014, QM was ranked 5th among multi-faculty
 institutions for the proportion of world leading and internationally excellent research outputs and
 9th on overall GPA. This outcome resulted from sustained investment in research excellence and
 infrastructure which built upon the results of RAE2008 (ranked 13th overall). QM has therefore
 become a leading global research-intensive university, joining the Russell Group in 2012.

 The University’s aim in relation to research is to be “recognised for our distinctive, world-leading
 curiosity driven and applied research, and [to] … continually build our research capacity for social,
 cultural and economic impact”. QM’s mission, which builds upon the University’s origins in one of
 the most deprived areas of the United Kingdom and its commitment to social justice and widening
 opportunity, is “to create a truly inclusive environment, building on our cherished cultural diversity,
 where students and staff flourish, reach their full potential and are proud to be part of the
 University”. Dedicated to the public good, the University aims to “generate new knowledge,
 challenge existing knowledge, and engage locally, nationally and internationally to create a better
 world.”

 QM is submitting to 20 Units of Assessment in REF2021, reflecting similar disciplinary areas
 returned to REF2014, except for Film which is returned for the first time as an independent
 submission. With 19,232 undergraduate and 5,995 taught postgraduate students, 1893 registered
 PhD researchers, and 1,041 (FTE) REF-submitted staff, the University also contributes to and co-
 ordinates eleven externally funded Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs) and Centres for
 Doctoral Training (CDTs). The number of doctoral awards per annum has grown from 261 to 335
 between 2013/14 and 2019/20, and HESA-returned research income has grown from £87M to
 £115M per annum. Around one-fifth of the University’s total income of over £500M was derived
 from research activity in 2019/20.




                                                                                                 Page 1
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 2. Strategy


 QM is committed to the pursuit of world-leading research that draws on its historical strengths in
 social justice, public engagement and innovation to create a distinctive research mission focused
 on high-quality research and impact on local communities and national and global challenges. The
 University’s research strategy (refreshed as part of the institutional 2030 Strategy) is underpinned
 by five key principles:

       Attract the best researchers from around the world, and develop staff and research
        students to become world-leaders in disciplinary and interdisciplinary research and
        innovation.
       Significantly increase external research funding from multiple national and international
        sources.
       Provide a world-class virtual and physical research infrastructure, available to all
        researchers, supported by internal and significant external funding.
       Produce world-leading research outputs as assessed by our peers, with a focus on global
        and local economic and societal impact.
       Regularly assess how we support, review and undertake research to foster diversity and
        inclusion and ensure that research practice is of the highest quality in terms of research
        ethics and integrity.

 These aims have enabled a significant expansion of research activity over the REF2021 period,
 with the University achieving a 32% growth in research income to £115M (2019/20) and the
 second-most field-weighted citations in the Russell Group (2018/19). Significant strategic
 investment in early career researchers (ECRs) for REF2021 has involved 16 “strategic
 lectureships” in the Humanities and Social Sciences, 15 academic posts in Medicine and Dentistry,
 and the recruitment of 77 new ECRs (over £5M investment) in Science and Engineering. Research
 income growth and research outcomes are associated with significant institutional investment,
 elaborated below in Section 4 including research equipment, doctoral studentships and internal
 funding aligned to support and incentivise success in external research grant applications. These
 successes are based on the development of world-leading disciplinary research activity within the
 three Faculties and a strategy for enhancing interdisciplinary research across them.

 I. Enhancing interdisciplinary research. It has been a strategic objective to promote
 interdisciplinary research in five targeted areas across the University since REF2014, with the aim
 of stronger positioning in relation to both the changing external research funding environment and
 contemporary challenges by building on existing strengths:

 [1] Ground-breaking research in the Life Sciences. Developed from earlier pump-priming
 investment of £1M p.a. from the University and the Wellcome Trust, QM has built on recognised
 strengths in Life Sciences through active partnership with Barts NHS Trust (Barts Life Sciences
 (BLS)) and Genomics England (GeL; hosted on our Charterhouse Square campus). Our strengths
 include:

       high value and unique digital clinical datasets mobilised for research into direct healthcare;


                                                                                               Page 2
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
       unique research access to a diverse local population, with BLS having representation of a
        large proportion of the world’s gene pool on its doorstep (67 languages, 97 nationalities)
        and strong community links through QM and Barts Health Trust, which have enabled
        unique linked life-course health datasets;
       deeper patient characterisation, remote sensing and molecular pathology; and
       bio-medical samples suitable for clinical research studies including multi-omic research.

 QM has invested further in Life Sciences research and innovation over the last 5 years,
 comprising:

       £58M on infrastructure at the Whitechapel campus supporting the commercialisation of
        research and delivering translation into prevention and treatment (£40M to create the QM
        Bioincubator, creating 450 jobs in 4 years).
       £15M to create a Digital Environment Research Institute in 2020 (focused on digital health
        and related industries).
       £3M matched investment to create a University Enterprise Zone.
       £17M driving new knowledge generation in Life Sciences (including £5M contribution on
        projects, studentships and centres, £5M for Life Sciences-focused Alan Turing Institute
        (ATI) activity, contribution towards £5.5M investment from the Wellcome Trust to train 25
        Life Sciences PhDs, and contribution to the £54M Health Data Research UK project).

 [2] Strategic investment in Data Science and Artificial Intelligence research. In 2018, QM
 joined the ATI as a partner and established the mechanisms to co-ordinate world-class research
 activity in Data Science and Artiﬁcial Intelligence across the University and with industrial partners.
 The ATI partnership represents a major five-year £5M committed investment in advancing the
 University’s contribution to Data Science research. There are 46 ATI Fellows across the University
 and 7 ATI PIs. Our membership has already led to new grants totalling £28M arising from
 collaborations with the ATI, including the largest (£9.2M) and most ambitious humanities and Data
 Science research collaboration in the UK (PI, Ruth Ahnert (Department of English)).

 [3] Significant investment in interdisciplinary global challenges research. Recognising the
 complex nature of many of the major international development challenges today, QM facilitates
 outstanding research across a wide spectrum of disciplines and endeavours to deliver maximum
 impact to developing countries, via the Global Policy Institute. Reflecting existing expertise, the
 strategic focus has been on (a) sustainable health and well-being, including harnessing the
 University’s established presence in laboratories and clinics in sub-Saharan Africa, as well as
 involving collaborations across Medicine and Dentistry with Drama and Geography in Brazil and
 Zimbabwe; (b) the Resilient Futures initiative with Indian partners, including British Academy-
 funded research on gender-based violence; and (c) forced displacement and refugee crises, which
 builds upon involvement in the London International Development Centre Migration Leadership
 Team’s formulation of a research strategy on migration and forced displacement for the Economic
 and Social Research Council and Arts and Humanities Research Council. QM researchers have
 already secured multiple Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) awards totalling over £30.8M.




                                                                                                 Page 3
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 [4] Interdisciplinary research across Medicine and Dentistry and Science and Engineering.
 This has focused on four areas:

       Genomic Medicine research involves building closer links with GeL, which the University
        has hosted since 2013 and provided scientific leadership to (Sir Mark Caulfield, Co-
        Director of QM’s William Harvey Research Institute, is Chief Scientist). GeL is transforming
        the application of genomic medicine in healthcare by delivering the 100,000 Genomes
        Project.
       In 2016, with HEFCE funding (£5M), the Centre for Population Genomic Medicine was
        established under QM leadership (partners KCL and UCL). Its major programme is focused
        on the Wellcome Trust-funded (£2.5M; renewed with £4M in 2018) East London Genes &
        Health consortium, one of the world’s largest community-based genetics studies,
        improving health among local East London populations. Genomic Medicine research has
        been integrated with Functional Genomics establishing a group of experts in epigenetics,
        chromatin biology and genome-editing.
       The Materials Research Institute (MRI) is an interdisciplinary institute involving
        collaboration across science and engineering and dentistry fostering research and
        industrial collaborations, including with the Thomas Young Centre, a multi-institutional
        London network for materials modelling. Three MRI Fellows appointed in 2016 have
        attracted over £1M in research income and developed the Engineering and Physical
        Sciences (EPSRC) funded (£2M) CAM-IES network with Cambridge, UCL and Newcastle,
        leading to the award of £11.8M in new, collaborative research income.
       The cross-Faculty Centre for Inflammation and Therapeutic Innovation (CiTI) (established
        2014) has led to two endowed chairs from Versus Arthritis UK, a Wellcome Trust
        investigator award (£1.2M), a doctoral training programme with UCB Pharma, two clinical
        lectureships (£1M) and a partnership with the Centre of Excellence for OA Pathogenesis
        with the Kennedy Institute in Oxford.

 [5] Establishment of an Institute for the Humanities and Social Sciences. This was formed in
 2018 as an interdisciplinary research platform across humanities and social science disciplines to
 support:

       a major investment in 16 new academic positions for leading ECRs with dedicated time for
        interdisciplinary research;
       a Large Grant Seed-corn Fund and an Early Career Workshop Scheme, providing
        competitive support to pump-prime externally funded research applications;
       a longstanding successful Distinguished Visiting Fellowships Scheme promoting visits of
        up to 15 non-stipendiary fellows per year, associated with the award of two prestigious
        British Academy Global Professorships since 2019 (Nicola Piper and Michael Gamer;
        £1.5M); and
       17 interdisciplinary Faculty research centres and initiatives leading engagement with the
        creative economy (e.g. Network – Centre for the Creative and Cultural Economy), global
        development challenges through arts and cultural practice (e.g. Peoples’ Palace Projects),
        and cultural institutions (e.g. Centre for Studies of Home).




                                                                                             Page 4
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 II. Research impact strategy. QM’s long tradition of impact stems from its original commitment
 to social justice and embedding research in our local communities, from becoming in 1785
 England’s first medical school providing healthcare to deprived communities in East London, to its
 19th century origins at Mile End as the People's Palace providing culture, entertainment and
 education to the local population. The University supports, and is a pioneer in, the widest range of
 research impact: public engagement involving local communities and young people (e.g. award
 winning Legal Advice Centre providing free research-based legal advice to local communities, and
 the Centre of the Cell, the first science education centre to be set inside working laboratories),
 informing policy communities in government, civil service and political spheres (Mile End Institute),
 highly successful technology transfer and spin-out activities bringing innovations to market
 (Apatech and Actual Experience plc), and strategic research partnerships with cultural
 organisations, businesses and charities (e.g. the Centre for Studies of Home).

 Since REF2014, significant investment has enhanced support for research impact (section 4).
 Priority areas have been in global and UK policy, public engagement, health, and technology
 innovation. An intellectual property policy, approved in 2014, sets out an incentive-based approach
 to fostering researcher innovation, ensuring that this work is both recognised and facilitated, with
 the benefits flowing directly to the innovators and their School/Institute, as well as the University
 as a whole.

 III. Research integrity. QM is committed to producing world-leading research conducted with the
 highest standards of integrity. The University has adopted the commitments of the UUK’s
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity and the Concordat on Openness on Animal Research,
 and is a signatory to the Animal Research: Reporting of InVivo Experiments guidelines. Research
 integrity is overseen by the Vice-Principal (Research and Innovation). The Ethics of Research
 Committee provides monitoring and approval of research ethics applications, and oversight of
 ethical issues to ensure that appropriate systems are in place and necessary precautions and
 actions are taken to preserve the very highest ethical standards. The University Council’s Audit
 and Risk sub-committee monitors reporting on research integrity and research conduct. The
 University’s Senate has recently reviewed QM’s policy on research misconduct, and the Deputy
 Dean for Research Integrity in Medicine and Dentistry was appointed in 2019 to implement a pro-
 active approach to research integrity training and mentoring for all students and staff.
 Underpinning our commitment to the fair and transparent evaluation of research quality, the
 University became a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment in 2020
 and has embedded its principles in all research and HR processes.

 IV. Open research. The University is fully committed to the principle of open access to its research
 and underlying data. In 2015 the University developed an open access policy and an online
 repository to enable open access to its research outputs and data. The University’s Research Data
 Access and Management Policy (approved 2013) commits researchers to offering such data for
 deposit either in an institutional or appropriate external repository, in accordance with best practice
 and funder/ethical guidelines. The UKRI open access publication block grant is administered via
 a dedicated Library research team. Open data has been a key focus on the University’s
 membership of the Science and Engineering South Consortium (e.g. conference hosted, 2018),




                                                                                                 Page 5
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 and leadership on the development of UK-wide open access policy was provided via membership
 of the Open Research Data Taskforce by a former Vice-Principal (Research).

 V. Future strategy. Building upon these research strengths, QM has recently developed a new
 strategy for research as part of its 2030 Strategy. The priorities are to deepen cross-Faculty
 interdisciplinary research, via the establishment of new University Research Institutes (URIs), to
 work with a wide range of national and international partners to achieve world-changing advances
 with impact, and a range of initiatives seeking to expand the inclusivity of our research agenda.

 The first of the URIs, the Digital Environment Research Institute, was established in 2020 with a
 £15M investment in new facilities. The University is presently developing the second phase of
 these institutes. Each institute will have investment in core staffing and in unique research
 infrastructure and facilities to attract the best research teams from across the University to produce
 paradigm-shifting innovations.

 The University will continue to drive multidisciplinary research across disciplines, also with
 industrial collaborators and with heritage and social enterprises, ensuring recognition for our active
 and leading contributions to regional innovation and place-based research engagement agendas.


 3. People

 The University’s 2030 Strategy commits us to being the most inclusive university of its kind. This
 commitment is embedded in an approach to people in which equality and diversity are at the core
 of everything that we do.

 I. Staffing strategy and support. At the core of QM’s research strategy is recognition of the
 fundamental contribution that world-leading and high-quality research staff provide towards the
 University’s success. Part of the University strategy is to recruit the highest calibre of researchers
 and to support their career development. QM is a signatory of the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers, and is working towards its implementation. The University’s support
 for research staff has been independently recognised (QM has held the HR Excellence in
 Research Award since 2012). In 2018, the University signed the UK Technician Commitment,
 underpinning commitments to career development, visibility and recognition of technician
 communities. Our institutional support for the career development of all researchers involves
 significant investment, success in external fellowship applications, and the implementation of
 mentoring schemes designed to support those moving to an independent research career.
 Funding for ECRs over the REF2021 period has involved 12 British Academy Post-Doctoral
 Fellowships, 29 Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships, 9 ESRC post-doctoral fellows, and 16
 strategic lectureships in Humanities and Social Sciences. The School of Medicine and Dentistry
 has an established ECR investment programme with 14 new staff in 2014 and 15 in 2020 who
 have been mentored through a dedicated programme, along with externally-funded ECRs, and
 raised almost £10M in UKRI and other research grants. A fellowship forum in Science and
 Engineering provides support for more than 60 fellowship holders, including those funded by
 UKRI, ERC, Royal Society, Royal Academy of Engineering and Leverhulme Trust, as does a post-
 doc and fellows network in Medicine and Dentistry. €13M has been received to support 66 Marie
 Skłodowska-Curie fellows across QM over the assessment period. Regarding mid- and later-

                                                                                                Page 6
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 career scholars, the University supports four British Academy research fellowships, and has
 secured two of 30 available British Academy Global Professorships, four UKRI Future Leaders
 Fellowships, one British Heart Foundation professorship, and four ERC Advanced awards.

 II. Supporting equality and diversity. Equality, diversity and inclusion are fully embedded in the
 research environment. The Springboard mentoring programme supports women researchers and
 since 2008 Science and Engineering has been engaged in the WISE (Women in Science and
 Engineering) initiative - a networking platform for female students and academic staff to provide
 career mentoring. Staff at QM are members of the Aurora women’s leadership programme. Other
 initiatives to promote EDI objectives include sponsoring Black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME)
 staff for the Stellar HE Leadership scheme, introducing a Dignity Disclosure Officers scheme,
 establishing a BAME staff network, and supporting an LGBTQ+ staff network. The University has
 also partnered with leading London universities to establish B-MEntor, a mentoring scheme where
 senior academics from four London institutions mentor BAME academics. In addition, discipline-
 specific mentoring programmes are also organised by all three Faculties.

 The diversity of our staff helps us to attract the highest calibre researchers from a wide pool. 20%
 of REF-submitted staff self-identified as BAME, increasing from 17% in 2017/18. The proportion
 of female staff has remained at 35% over the last 4 years. A revised equality, diversity and
 inclusion (EDI) governance structure implemented in 2019 reflects the University’s commitment to
 supporting and enhancing EDI objectives. EDI considerations are embedded throughout
 University structures and processes. EDI governance is led by the Vice-Principal (People, Culture
 and Inclusion), Faculty academic leads and School/Institute EDI committee chairs. An EDI
 steering group chaired by the Vice-Principal provides strategic oversight and monitoring of EDI
 objectives. This governance structure has been enhanced through the development of a Values
 in Action framework setting out expected staff behaviours, and rolling out of Active Bystander and
 unconscious bias training, providing staff with the tools and confidence to intervene if behaviours
 do not align with QM values.

 The diversity of the University’s staff is strongest at mid-career levels (25% BAME and 44% female
 compared to 17% BAME and 31% female at senior level in 2020). Consequently, a key EDI
 objective is to improve the representation of women and BAME academics at senior levels. In
 recognition of this and earlier staff promotion outcomes, an academic promotions review
 undertaken in 2019 led to strengthening the diversity of promotions panels, increasing external
 scrutiny across the Faculties, and monitoring the consideration of EDI issues throughout the
 process, with further changes relating to criteria, transparency and training implemented for
 2020/21 onwards. Positive action, including the use of ‘equal merit’ approaches, is being applied
 to enhance the diversity of senior appointments, alongside enhanced support for leadership
 development and career support across all levels.

 QM holds 12 externally reviewed inclusion and diversity awards – including an institutional Silver
 level Athena SWAN award, 6 bronze and 3 silver Athena SWAN awards at School/Institute level
 – and is a Stonewall Diversity Champion. The University sees accreditation as a means to promote
 further action and not as an end in itself. The University has set an institutional KPI of increasing
 women and BAME representation at senior levels with targets in areas where they are low, such
 as for women in Science and Engineering and for BAME staff in Humanities and Social Sciences.

                                                                                               Page 7
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 QM publishes annual reports on the BAME and gender pay gaps and has established an action
 plan to address gaps. The University’s 2019-20 reporting showed an annual reduction in the
 median gender pay gap to 9.8% and a mean gap of 15.8%. The ethnicity pay gap showed an
 annual reduction in the median to 14.9% and in the mean to 20%. Both pay gaps reflect the over-
 representation of men and white staff in more senior roles. The University is building on earlier
 initiatives through key objectives and KPIs in its People, Culture and Inclusion plan in order to
 address these differences. QM has signed up to the Race Equality Charter as a further mechanism
 to promote change. Staff experiences are captured biennially via the Careers in Research Online
 Survey, and the Principal Investigators and Research Leaders Survey, as well as by the staff
 survey. The most recent (2019) staff survey’s results are being acted on by a task and finish group
 chaired by a member of the Senior Executive Team.

 Reflecting our commitments, the University has fully embedded EDI objectives into REF2021
 preparations, including pro-active encouragement of confidential staff circumstances disclosures,
 recognition of this in setting of staff research expectations, ensuring the diversity of the staff base
 is represented as far as possible in the selection of the strongest research outputs and impact
 case studies, and annual equality monitoring.

 A range of HR policies and programmes support staff development and EDI objectives. Academic
 staff are eligible to apply for sabbatical research leave (one semester in every seven), core hours
 (10am-4pm) working patterns have been established, and workload models reflect the needs of
 different disciplines in the management of staff loads and in achieving sufficient research time.
 Annual appraisals and personal research planning monitor progress, as all academic staff are
 mentored by a senior colleague who discusses research plans, publication and research funding
 strategies, impact and public engagement. Professional development is provided by the
 Researcher Development team in The Queen Mary Academy. This includes a wide range of
 workshops on transferable and core research skills. PhD students who engage with the
 recommended training are also awarded the Queen Mary Diploma of Researcher Development
 (Q-Dip) alongside their PhD. In addition, one-to-one developmental coaching and mentoring
 options are available. Annual research reviews are undertaken in Medicine and Dentistry to
 mentor academics in relation to research grant income and production of outputs of the expected
 quality, and personal research planning processes take place in all Schools.

 III. Support and training for research students. Since 2014 a strategic aim of the University has
 been to achieve further growth in the PhD community and to enhance the research and training
 environment for postgraduate research (PGR) students. Since 2015/16 the number of enrolled
 PGR students has increased by 12% to 1,893 (2019/20). The number of annual PhD awards has
 grown over the REF2021 period by 28% to 335 (2019/20). The training and research environment
 for PGRs has been enhanced to ensure that the space, training and development needs of PGR
 students are met, a major milestone for which was the 2016 opening of the £40.3M Graduate
 Centre, providing a dedicated space to enable cross-institutional interactions for the PGR
 community and a physical home for the Doctoral College (DC).

 QM’s overall diversity is reflected in our PGR community. 37% of the PGR community in 2019/20
 were non-EU international students (42% were UK students, 20% were from the EU), 45% were
 BAME (up from 40% in 2015/16), and 49% were female. This diversity contributes to providing

                                                                                                 Page 8
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 one of the most vibrant and stimulating settings for doctoral training in the UK. The DC provides
 information on fair selection, unconscious bias and EDI as part of the PhD supervisor training and
 directs PhD supervisors to attend fair selection training. All DC and Queen Mary Academy PhD
 training offered is delivered on a variety of days of the week and inside core hours to improve
 accessibility and participation. The University has supported the development of a more diverse
 PGR community, with investment in dedicated BAME MA and PhD studentships in Humanities
 and Social Sciences, and institutional partnerships with the Chinese Scholarship Council and the
 Pakistan Higher Education Commission.

 The research training environment for PGRs is overseen by the Researcher Development team
 and the DC, with each Unit of Assessment responsible for its own discipline-specific provision.
 The DC is led by an academic director working with academic leads (Deputy Deans) from each
 Faculty and a DC Manager. The DC works alongside the Researcher Development team and with
 the University Careers department to provide support regarding PGR careers. The DC supports
 the delivery of three annual interdisciplinary cohort training days, an annual student-led Graduate
 Festival, and supervisor training. In 2018, QM was awarded HEFCE Catalyst Funding to support
 PGR mental health and wellbeing through training and support sessions. The DC also supports
 PGRs via the Postgraduate Research Fund (international conference attendance, research travel,
 networking and research facilities and equipment access) and the Initiative Fund (training activities
 organised by PGRs to enhance the research experience).

 A central pillar of the research and training environment for PGR students is organised via
 participation in and training contributions to eleven UKRI DTPs/CDTs. These involve multi-
 disciplinary collaborations with other universities across London and the UK (e.g. AHRC London
 Arts and Humanities Partnership; BBSRC London Interdisciplinary Biosciences Consortium DTP;
 ESRC London Interdisciplinary Social Sciences DTP; MRC DTP with Southampton), and
 externally-funded (EPSRC) CDT programmes in: “Data-Centric Engineering” at the interface of
 data science, AI and engineering; media, arts and technology; intelligent games; and AI and music.
 All enable external funding of PhD projects and training to the value of £12.8M, supporting almost
 900 PhD students annually across the partnerships. Approximately 220 funded students via the
 DTPs generate a funding pool of £2.3M, with additional students being externally funded through
 international scholarship programmes (e.g. China Scholarship Council), in addition to the £1.4M
 (2019/20) of institutional funding directed at PGR studentships. QM also leads or contributes to
 13 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Initial Training Networks (ITNs) funding a total of 30 students at QM.



 4. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Over the REF2021 period total research income increased by 32% to £115M in 2019/20. The
 University’s 2030 Strategy commits to an additional doubling of research income, alongside
 significant growth in size and shape, and disciplinary expansion. Critical to this has been and will
 continue to be the development of interdisciplinary research areas aligned in part to the changing
 external funding environment and national and global challenges. This will be achieved via the
 establishment of University Research Institutes.




                                                                                               Page 9
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 Since 2013/14 the University has invested £185M in capital infrastructure, which includes major
 investment in research infrastructure, including the £40.3M Graduate Centre, £32M refurbishment
 of Engineering (including new and refurbished laboratories), £18M refurbishment of the
 Mathematical Sciences, and installation of a 15T wide bore magnet and THz antenna
 measurement facilities (additional EPSRC capital equipment grant of £1.5M). Medicine and
 Dentistry has raised £6M for investment in the Charterhouse Square campus, and a £3M
 refurbishment of research facilities in Physics and Astronomy has occurred.

 A Research Capital Infrastructure Fund was introduced in 2016 which has provided £8.4M
 investment in research facilities, supporting cross-Faculty investments, including Advanced
 Molecular Imaging Services in Medicine and Dentistry, and the CRoss-InstitutE Advanced Tissue
 Engineering 3-D Bio-printing Lab, plus a range of research laboratory enhancements.

 Mainstream QR income (£21.6M p.a.) is strategically distributed to School and Institute budgets,
 based on research quality, and therefore directly supports the research environment. Strategic
 grant applications and DTPs are supported by significant institutional matched-funding and
 incentivisation (e.g. internal funding of associated PGR students; strategic distribution of grant
 overheads).

 Research impact and innovation has been supported by an expansion since REF2014 in a core
 Professional Services impact team of 5FTE, providing support for Faculty impact activity. This
 central unit is managed by the Director of Research Services, and academic leadership for impact
 and innovation is provided by the Deputy Vice-Principal Research (Impact), the Deputy Vice-
 Principal Research (Enterprise), and Faculty Deputy Deans. Impact training and support
 mechanisms are provided across the University. 37 staff in central teams provide support for
 business development and innovation activity, including industrial collaborations or research
 partnerships in the UK and globally. Queen Mary Innovation Ltd (QMI) is the University’s wholly-
 owned technology transfer company, responsible for commercialisation of intellectual property and
 the portfolio of spinout companies. Over the last five years, QMI has secured 136 commercial
 licenses with industry to exploit intellectual property, returning over £2.9M of commercial income.
 QMI runs a Proof of Concept (£560k) HEIF-funded scheme, with individual projects often co-
 funded via research council Impact Acceleration Accounts. QMI’s growing portfolio of high-growth
 technology spinouts has attracted in excess of £60M of external venture capital investment. Strong
 performance has been in drug delivery, new bio-materials and algorithm development for
 commercial applications in the creative arts. Queen Mary BioEnterprises (QMB) Innovation Centre
 is the largest dedicated bio-incubator in London, fully occupied with a tenant waiting list, creating
 450 jobs. QM has recently been named one of 24 University Enterprise Zones to enhance
 engagement and impact generation with innovative businesses within East London, focused on
 Life Sciences. £1.5M of funding will allow QMB to provide an additional 1,000m2 of incubation
 space.

 The award-winning Centre for Public Engagement (CPE) and the Global Policy Institute (GPI)
 enhance the dissemination of research. CPE was founded as part of a 2012 RCUK Catalyst award.
 The CPE provides financial support, training and advice. The University’s research-informed
 public engagement has been recognised via the first award within the sector, from the National
 Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement, of a gold Engage Watermark. The GPI draws on

                                                                                              Page 10
Institutional level environment template (REF5a)
 GCRF QR investment to support global policy impact and nine policy fellows. Knowledge
 exchange is enhanced further via the Centre of the Cell, a science education centre based in the
 Blizard Institute. It is one of the first science education centres in the world to be located within
 working biomedical research laboratories and seeks to make a positive impact on the educational,
 career and health choices of children, young people and families by translating medical and life
 sciences research (over 70,000 participants since 2013). In 2016 the Centre received an
 Excellence with Impact commendation from BBSRC.

 In Science and Engineering, the STFC and EPSRC Impact Acceleration Accounts (IAA; £260k
 p.a.) support an annual portfolio of funding to leverage company and government links to deliver
 research. The IAA focuses on supporting research translation for economic or social impact,
 facilitating engagements between researchers and external collaborators, supporting early stage
 commercialisation of EPSRC and STFC research and creating high-value spin-out
 companies. Between August 2013 and July 2020, our IAA programmes (with additional support
 from other institutional funding streams (HEIF) which enhance knowledge exchange and impact),
 have supported 119 projects, resulting in 93 new company collaborations, £800k of cash and in-
 kind contribution, 36 licensing agreements, 7 spinouts, 9 newly developed products, £400k of
 income generation, and £7.2M in commercial R&D funding. IAA impact sandpits have facilitated
 200+ researchers engaging with 70 external collaborators. Examples of spin-out companies
 include Apatech and Actual Experience plc (worth £135M; winner of UK IT industry award 2014,
 PraxisUnico impact award 2014). The success of technology transfer activities was recognised in
 the Entrepreneurial Impact Ranking (https://octopusventures.com/entrepreneurial-impact-
 ranking/) where QM ranked 4th in the UK (2019 and 2020) for production of spinout companies,
 and successful exits, relative to the total funding received.

 Research impact in the Humanities and Social Sciences is supported by three dedicated funding
 streams (£150k p.a.) focused on (a) the development of new strategic impact activities, (b)
 investment on the development of collaborative innovative research partnerships with non-HEIs
 (HEIF-funded), and (c) capturing impact. Collaborative research partnerships funding has
 produced joint research collaborations with almost 40 non-academic partners and almost £400k
 in leveraged funding, much of which has been focused on relatively cash-poor arts and cultural
 organisations. In Medicine and Dentistry, a REF2021 specific impact fund is providing resource to
 a health economist post to enhance the development of submitted impact case studies.

 Key research infrastructure is provided by the Library Services department, including high quality
 research space, academic information resources, and expert support to staff and researchers.
 The number of serial titles available has increased by 46% over the REF2021 period, and total
 spend on all information resources including research monographs and electronic databases has
 increased by over 53%. QM’s archives service achieved accreditation from The National Archives
 in 2018, and hosts internationally important collections (e.g. Leo Baeck Institute London
 collection). Investment in staffing includes an increase in the size of a Library research support
 team from 2 FTE to 9.2 FTE over the REF2021 period.




                                                                                              Page 11
